09-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 pandemic, slowdown hits IIT placements||The economic slowdown due to the pandemic seems to have hit the total number of jobs offered as well as salary packages offered to students at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) this year. It has been a week since the placements at IITs commenced. While the overall pay packages for domestic job roles have witnessed a rise this year, several companies known to offer international job profiles to students every year, have offered either domestic roles or missed out on offering jobs altogether in some IITs compared to 2019-20 placement season.As per the placement report for the first couple of days shared by IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), several companies offered jobs across sectors and the highest annual package of ₹46.41 lakh was offered by Qualcomm. Last year, the highest domestic package received by a student of the institute was ₹32.59 lakhs, by the same company. The highest international package this year was offered by proprietary trading firm Optiver of 1.57 lakh euros per annum (roughly, ₹1.39 crore), slightly lower than the ₹1.54 crore package offered by Microsoft to a student last year.Surprisingly Microsoft, which was known to offer the highest packages and international job offers for three consecutive years, offered only domestic roles to candidates this year.At IIT-Roorkee, 671 students have been offered jobs, both domestic and international, in the first week of placements. The number, however, stood at 747 in the same week last year. As per information shared by the institute, the highest number of jobs were offered by Microsoft India Pvt Ltd, Societe General Global Solution Centre, EXL Service, Goldman Sachs and Oracle India Pvt Ltd. “Higher jobs have been offered in the finance as well as for analytics field this year,” said a spokesperson for IIT-Roorkee.According to a statement shared by IIT-Hyderabad, students of the institute received 222 job offers, including 30 international offers in the first phase of placements which ended on December 6 this year. Last year, the institute had received 36 international job offers in the first phase and 295 jobs overall in the 2019-20 academic year. This year, 116 companies had registered for placements at the institute compared to around 150 in phase one last year. Not a single US-based company registered to offer international posts to students of the institute this time.“We had anticipated a slowdown due to the pandemic and accordingly strengthened our student teams to adapt to the changing scenario. We are glad that the first phase of placements started on this positive note,” said Pradeep Yemula, faculty in-charge (placements) at IIT-Hyderabad.The overall domestic pay packages were on the higher side this year across IITs, especially on the first couple of days. At IIT-Roorkee, the annual package for a domestic role witnessed a rise with a student of the institute being offered Rs 80 lakh per annum, almost 29% higher compared to ₹62.2 lakh offered to a student last year. The number of international job offers, however, witnessed a dip with only three job offers made in the first half of the day compared to 10 and seven that were made last year and the year before last respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-pandemic-slowdown-hits-iit-placements/story-UH2iI0vewfxdSM6392TdGN.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||MCZMA nod to reclaim 21 hectare more for Mumbai coastal road project||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has given its nod to civic body’s proposal for reclaiming additional 21 hectare (ha) area for the coastal road project, allowing the increase in the total length of the road from 9.98km to 10.58km.The proposal was recommended to the Union environment ministry for final clearance after the coastal authority laid down 16 conditions that need compliance by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) while commencing reclamation, as per the minutes of the meeting published on MCZMA’s website on Tuesday. The proposal was presented before MCZMA during a meeting held on October 27 and 28 as directed by the Supreme Court (SC) in October that no additional reclamation could be carried out by BMC until environmental clearance was granted by MCZMA and the environment ministry.“There was a lot of back and forth since the meetings on October 27-28. The final decision to recommend the project was taken on December 2,” said a senior official from the state environment department, requesting anonymity, adding that members took into consideration every aspect (environmental, socio-economic, SC and Bombay high court orders etc.) over a month. “We understood that of the 21 ha proposed reclamation, 14.49 ha is meant for protection measures to build a seawall to curb erosion and reduce intense wave impact while remaining 6.51 ha involves necessary additional reclamation connecting the project along its right of way. Our objective is to ensure the protection of the coastline, and for that it is imperative we have a defence mechanism in the form of this wall. BMC has also been directed to explore how the marine ecosystem can be allowed to propagate in the intertidal area protected by this natural rubble mound wall.”Environmentalist Debi Goenka said, “It is shocking that MCZMA, on the one hand, has quite rightly pointed out that they have no powers to grant post facto clearance in the case of the jetty at Guhagar. Yet, in the case of the coastal road, they have recommended that post facto clearance be granted for the coastal road project.”Among specific recommendations, BMC was directed to prepare an environmental management plan adhering to recommendations by expert bodies in the environmental impact assessment for the project including the protection of corals and safe translocation of the marine organism. BMC had completed coral translocation earlier this month but has sought to translocate any more protected species for further reclamation since they have permission validity from the forest department till December 31, 2020. Other recommendations included protection of the local fishing community’s livelihood from Worli and Haji Ali based on recommendations by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). BMC was also directed to set up an in-house environment management cell with a plan to monitor real-time changes of Mumbai shoreline for the next 15 years to assess erosion and sea-level rise, and also explore the development of an artificial coral reef to conserve marine biodiversity, the minutes read.The coastal road is to be an eight-lane highway connecting Princess Street Flyover in south Mumbai to the southern tip of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link and seeks to reduce travel time between south Mumbai and western suburbs by 70%. The total cost of the project as per the proposal read ₹8,429.44 crore.BMC had received coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance in July 2016 for reclaiming 90 ha of the south Mumbai coastline for the project. Now, BMC intends on reclaiming a total of 111 ha for the project and applied for fresh clearances for the 21 ha before MCZMA. As per the 2016 CRZ clearance, 90 ha included 20 ha for constructing the coastal road and 70 ha to be developed as green spaces used as parks, cycle tracks, promenade, butterfly park, bus depots etc. “We will follow all recommendations and ensure the project is completed by July 2023 without any further delay,” said Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of the project.At Priyadarshini Park, the MCZMA has accepted a submission made by senior advocate BA Desai that a water body (lagoon) should not be reclaimed and that the promenade should be constructed in such a way to allow the water to flow beneath it and carry out anti-sea erosion measures as the location was already facing erosion.‘SUBMISSIONS BY ORIGINAL PETITIONERS NOT CONSIDERED’On October 8, SC had directed the BMC not to undertake any reclamation beyond the 90-ha area for the project as mandated by the 2016 CRZ clearance. The SC bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was hearing multiple applications by environment groups challenging the ongoing reclamation alleging that BMC had reclaimed far beyond what was required for the road. The SC allowed BMC to seek CRZ clearance from MCZMA and also directed original writ petitioners (before the Bombay High Court) to raise their concerns. While MCZMA’s minutes had a paragraph each from counsels and environmentalists, petitioners said their written submissions were not dealt with at all. “The MCZMA has not dealt with any of the written representations and the written submissions submitted by the petitioners. They have only dealt with the oral submissions made by us. The written submissions made by us after the meeting were in response to the PowerPoint presentation made by BMC, and even these were not considered,” said Goenka. Representations from petitioners such as Goenka, Nitesh Patil, Shweta Wagh, Stalin D, counsel Zaman Ali, Rishita Tanish, and many others pointed out the reasons why the fresh CRZ clearance should not be issued, that the coastal zone was high risk (a cyclone-prone area), the livelihood of fishers, inadequate traffic studies, and marine biodiversity conservation etc. “BMC has successfully managed to divert the main focus of destruction to this issue of extra 21 ha, which was deliberately introduced to confuse and mislead the judiciary proceedings before the SC,” said Stalin D. Concerning the Priyadarshini Park decision, Goenka said, “This is the same point that we had made about the coastal road itself – there is no need to reclaim the land between the coastal road and the existing roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mczma-nod-to-reclaim-21-hectare-more-for-mumbai-coastal-road-project/story-ic5erYBzqNKBYrybVRVYtM.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government names rural development scheme after NCP chief Sharad Pawar||To commemorate the 80th birthday of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, the state government has decided to name a rural development scheme after him. ‘Sharad Pawar Gram Samruddhi Yojana’ will be implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNRES). The proposal to name the scheme after Pawar was cleared by the state cabinet on Wednesday. Pawar is considered a guiding force of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress. Forming a three-party government was also his brainchild.The works to be undertaken under this scheme will include constructing pakka sheds for cattle, goats and poultry farming. The benefit of the scheme can also be used for nadep composting, a method of organic composting used as alternative farmyard manure, said an official from employment guarantee scheme (EGS) department. The central funds under MGNRES will be utilised through the scheme.“The idea is to create job opportunities for those who are unemployed in rural areas and develop permanent assets for gram panchayats and allied villages. The assets to be developed can be of personal and public use. The scheme will also help in stopping migration from villages due to unemployment,” said another official from the EGS department.“The state government also wants to double the income of farmers by 2022, and the initiative is a step forward to achieve that target,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-names-rural-development-scheme-after-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar/story-WLJ59Dk3jZ99rpv4M99jPI.html
09-12-2020||City||2 property dealers shot dead in north Delhi’s Kamal Vihar||New Delhi: Two men were shot dead by a group of bike-borne men in Kamal Vihar area of north Delhi on Wednesday evening. Police said they had detained one suspect late by Wednesday night. The victims were property dealers and the police suspect the murder was the fallout of enmity over a property dispute.The deceased were identified as Anuj (26) and Anand (27), both residents of Mukundpur. Police said the duo worked as property dealers and also dealt in disputed properties.According to the police, the incident took place around 8pm when both Anand and Anuj were standing close to their house. Witnesses told the police that around 4-5 men arrived there on motorcycles and opened fire on the two men. “As the duo tried to escape, they ran in different directions but were chased and shot dead. Both the men received multiple bullet injuries. As they collapsed, bleeding profusely, the attackers fled the spot on two-wheelers,” said a senior police officer, who wished not to be named.Locals then called the police and reported the matter. Both the men were rushed to a hospital. While Anuj died at the spot, Anand succumbed to his fatal wounds on his way to the hospital.Initial probe revealed that the two men who were attacked worked as property dealers and police suspect that the murder took place following enmity over a property deal. A crime and forensics team was called on the spot for inspection.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said by late evening his teams had detained one of the murder suspects. “A case of murder has been registered at Burari police station. Three separate teams have been formed to track and arrest the suspects. CCTV footages are being checked and the mater id being probed from all the possible angles,” he said.Police are also looking into the recent property deals that the two men were involved in. Their family and friends are also being questioned to find out more about any property dispute the two men were involved in, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-property-dealers-shot-dead-in-north-delhi-s-kamal-vihar/story-IctX086GdvQApY6vFBaxBN.html
09-12-2020||City||In farm stir that has unified, Udasi songs emerge as anthem||Sangrur Never has a protest movement been as inclusive as the ongoing farmers’ stir in which contrasting beliefs as well as differences of caste and religion were shed to unite in the struggle against the new agricultural laws. Singing and raising slogans they have moved on, and the most sung poet of this resistance is the dalit-revolutionary poet Sant Ram Udasi (1939-1986).Even as many young singers and activists compose songs glorifying Punjab’s history and the unity of its peasantry, Udasi, a school teacher, who emerged as the people’s poet from Malwa village of Raisar, is the most popular with protesting farmers. His songs are being sung with zeal at the Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi. Jasbir Jassi sang this song a decade back and his song is being used in protests by speakers. The song goes as such, Maa dharteye, teri godh nu chann hor bathere Tu magdha rahin ve surja kammian de vehre. (Mother Earth, for your lap, there are million moons; Dear Sun, you should shine on labourers’ abodes.)Singer Ravinder raised the spirits of protesters by singing Udasi’s songs. The lyrics are, Desh hai pyara sanu zindgi pyari nalon, par desh ton pyare ehde log hania, Asi tod deni lahu peeni jok hania (The nation is dearer than life to me, but more than the nation, its people. We will do away with this blood-sucking leech); Jagjit Nikki said, Dilliey dyala dekh, deg ch ubbalda ni, Aje tera dil na thare. (Delhi. Look at Diyala boiling in the cauldron, yet your heart isn’t placated.)“The songs of Udasi are relevant even now. Both old and young respond to them,” says Nikki.Dalit singer Bant Singh, who sang fervent songs of Udasi at the start of farmers’ march at Joga near Mansa, says: “In this movement, there is no Sikh or Hindu, no Jat or Dalit. All Punjabis are in it together and we will fight for our rights.” Commenting on the all-inclusive nature of the protest, Jalandhar-based dalit writer Des Raj Kali adds, “The farmers’ struggle has seen the revolutionary dreams of Udasi’s poetry come alive. It is heartening that all Dalit activist groups from Punjab are a part of it.”Amolak Singh of Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch (PLS Manch) says, “Udasi’s writings are pro-people and he never glorified communalism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-farm-stir-that-has-unified-udasi-songs-emerge-as-anthem/story-mfT5q4LlRdTraOEMyZHpNO.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Local bodies dept puts hiring on hold for JEs, SDOs of Ludhiana MC||The local bodies department has again put on hold the hiring of sub-divisional officers (SDOs’) and junior engineers (JEs’) who were to be recruited on contract basis by the municipal corporation. The move has been taken after a case was filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the hiring of SDOs and JEs through third party agencies.In a letter dated December 7, the local bodies department said the orders issued earlier, for hiring of staff on contract basis have been withdrawn with immediate effect. On September 28, the MC had issued in-principle approval for hiring officials for various branches of the civic body. The approval was given during a house meeting. On being contacted, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he was visiting the local bodies department on Thursday to discuss the matter with the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/local-bodies-dept-puts-hiring-on-hold-for-jes-sdos-of-ludhiana-mc/story-KSgzQibZnWmf6CRaXAlenO.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||No takers for Ludhiana Improvement Trust complex, committee formed to reduce reserve price further||With the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) failing to auction its complex on Rani Jhansi road even after four attempts, authorities have decided to form a price fixation committee to decide on further reduction of the property’s reserve price.The complex worth crores is located on 2.2 acres of prime land but has turned out to be a white elephant for the LIT as they failed to bring it to any use even after 13 years of its completion. The project was completed in 2007 at a cost of around ₹15 crore.The complex was initially put on auction for ₹197 crore in 2009 and 2013, but in the last two auctions, the reserve price was reduced to ₹157 crore. But despite that, it failed to attract any bidders.The local bodies department has directed the LIT to involve deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma in deciding the new reserve price so that it is not reduced to less than the market value of the property. An LIT official requesting anonymity said the idea to auction the complex as one unit has turned out to be a bad decision. There are two basements for parking, restaurant, coffee shop, bank spaces, 10 showrooms, 38 offices among other facilities in the complex and these should have been auctioned separately, the official added.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said, “The complex has turned out to be a white elephant due to misgovernance and maladministration of the SAD-BJP government. The local bodies department and LIT is making efforts to sell off the property and now a decision has been taken to form a price fixation committee under the chairmanship of the DC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-takers-for-ludhiana-improvement-trust-complex-committee-formed-to-reduce-reserve-price-further/story-P9G1joAMTWwj7gMMWYl7mL.html
09-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: 1 dead, 60 infected with Covid-19 in district||One woman died while 60 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Wednesday, taking the cumulative count of cases to 23,667. The district currently has 834 active cases.The deceased is an 82-year-old resident of Kochar market, who succumbed at Deep Hospital in the city.The total number of deaths in the district has now reached 923.As many as 21,907 patients have recovered till now.2 govt school teachers test positivePanic gripped Government High School, Kailash Nagar, after two more teachers tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Both teachers have been sent into home isolation as per the instructions from health department. Earlier on December 3, a Hindi teacher was tested positive after which the health department took the samples of the rest of the teachers of the school. The school has 13 teachers, of which 12 had given samples on December 4. Headmistress Balwinder Kaur confirmed the information and stated that 10 students preparing for National Talent Search Examination attempted the second mock test today and they will be asking the health department to take their samples also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-1-dead-60-infected-with-covid-19-in-district/story-qiUfLdaIE3HrOb2cOKnbUJ.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||NTSE mock test: Day on, students attempt leaked question paper||A day after the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) inadvertently put the questions and answer key for the National Talent Search Examination mock test online, the same question paper was given to Class 10 students attempting the test at 232 government schools on Wednesday.Teachers said that most students managed to attempt the paper in one hour. They added that the council must send a new question paper for practice, as conducting the mock test with the leaked question paper will not benefit students.A principal, requesting anonymity, said, “I was shocked to find out that the leaked question paper was given to students for practice. Subject teachers have been conducting online coaching classes and holding tests regularly so that maximum students can clear the NTSE. But, this mock test will not benefit students, as they were already aware of the questions. We have prepared the results and many students who scored 70% earlier got more than 85% marks in the test held today. ”NTSE nodal officer Balwinder Kaur, said, “We sent the question papers to school principals and received no such complaint. The mentors are preparing the results and I expect that all students appeared for the mock exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ntse-mock-test-day-on-students-attempt-leaked-question-paper/story-M8yYrsDRFlwDqo4XjRkGPP.html
09-12-2020||City||Patients reporting back with depression, anxiety post Covid recovery, finds DMCH study||Recovering from the virus seems to be first of the many battles that Covid-19 patients have to fight. A study conducted by the department of psychiatry of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) has revealed that at least 30% of the patients who recovered from the virus reported back with depression while 40% developed symptoms of anxiety. While fighting the virus is a task in itself, many patients had to put up with societal stigma that ended in job losses and alienation, even after they recovered. Prof (Dr) Rupesh Chaudhary of the department of psychiatry said, “Every day, we come across at least two cases of depression that are directly caused due to job loss. Patients report that they were thrown out by their employers on suspicion that they may still end up infecting others.” He added that brain fog, which causes forgetfulness, confusion, impaired attention and memory, is also a common after-effect of Covid-19. “Due to this people are unable to resume their work and hence face a financial crisis which becomes another risk factor for impending psychiatric disorders,” said Dr Chaudhary. Fake news, social media adding to woes While stressing on the judicious use of social media, Dr Chaudhary said that fake news and excess use of social media are also adding to stress and anxiety levels among patients. “If not Covid, fake news about Covid is doing more harm to patients. A lot of patients suffering from sleep disorders due to excessive worry. We have come across cases where people take baths repeatedly, change their clothes four times a day and clean locks and door handles frequently due to fear of catching the infection again. A lot of this stress is caused by the long time they spent in isolation,” said Chaudhary. “These psychological symptoms can trigger the onset of psychiatric disorders such as obsessive-compulsive disorders, phobias, anger problems, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, alcohol abuse, and behavioural changes such as avoiding crowded places and frequent hand washing,” he said. “This in turn can lead to a substantial increase in loneliness, domestic violence, child abuse among other problems,” Dr Chaudhary added. Dr Pankaj Kumar, assistant professor, department of psychiatry, DMCH says, “We are experiencing an upsurge in the cases of anxiety, depression and PTSD among Covid survivors. Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) has become markedly noticeable as people become obsessed with fear of contamination, excessive worries and apprehensions of being re-infected or becoming a source of spread of infection among their loved ones.” “Stigma against healthcare workers and survivors of the Covid-19 infection has resulted in harassment, discrimination and social isolation. Stigmatised individuals may experience emotional disturbance, anxiety and depression,” he added. Mediation, yoga proving remedial pills Dr Chaudhary said, “Covid-19 pandemic has significantly changed our lifestyles and outlook towards life. We have a tough challenge to prove our survival both in terms of physical and mental wellbeing in this crisis situation, and even after the pandemic is curtailed.” “Some of the essentials for good mental health includes keeping calm, doing yoga and meditation, following the precautions diligently, maintaining social distancing, developing a positive attitude, avoiding excessive screen time and Covid news watching, having a balanced diet and a good sleep, doing some physical activity, not drinking or smoking, maintaining digital connections with friends, trying to get back to routine life and keeping yourself busy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-reporting-back-with-depression-anxiety-post-covid-recovery-finds-dmch-study/story-0JvGaYdthsu4S9oOEigYWO.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Delhi-Noida side at Chilla border opened||People protesting the Centre’s new farm laws on Wednesday evening opened Delhi-Noida road at Chilla border. The farmers said this was done after police assured them that the farmers will not be stopped from coming to Noida from western UP.The Chilla border protest began on December 1 when the protesters blocked Noida-to-Delhi road. On December 5, the protesters blocked Delhi-to-Noida route as well when they came to know that some farmers were stopped at Jewar toll plaza. The Noida-Delhi route remains closed from December 1 till today. For Delhi bound commuters, Noida Police advised them to take the DND Flyway route or Kalindi Kunj route to commute between the two national capital region (NCR) cities. The number of protesters at the Chilla border and the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal in Noida has decreased significantly. Only about 20 protesters were seen at the Dalit Prerna Sthal and 40 at the Chilla border. Dr SK Giri, general secretary and spokesperson for BKU (Lok Shakti), said, “We have been protesting for 10 days against the farm laws. We had dispatched most of the protesters to their respective home districts for the nationwide protest on December 8.” At the protest site, the farmers addressed the gathering and vowed to continue their struggle till the demands are met. The farmers also organised a game of tug-of-war with one end supposed to be the government and the other, the protesters. The protesters “won” that game.A group of Samajwadi Party workers on Wednesday marched from GT Road in Dadri and they were arrested and brought to Surajpur police line. Veer Singh Yadav, president Samajwadi Party Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the government had adopted an oppressive means to quell the farmers’ protest. “We have the right to peaceful protest but the government and police are not allowing us. On Wednesday, a group of SP workers organised a peaceful march but the police team arrived and bundled us in three buses and brought to Surajpur police line,” he said. Vishal Pandey, addl DCP Greater Noida, said that prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the criminal procedure code was in force in the district, which banned a gathering of more than four persons. “Protest or any such gathering is not allowed. The police first advised the Samajwadi Party workers not to protest. But when they refused, police arrested 80 workers and booked them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC. They were later released on personal bond,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-noida-side-at-chilla-border-opened/story-OTHbiYk0hSnYEcwKrH7gEM.html
09-12-2020||City||Assembly panel asks civic bodies to submit plan on reducing height of Ghazipur, Bhalswa landfills||New Delhi: Senior AAP leader and chairperson of Delhi Assembly’s environment committee Atishi on Wednesday asked the North and East Delhi municipal corporations to submit detailed plans and timelines to reduce the height of the Ghazipur and Bhalswa landfills.“The height of the two landfills has not been reduced over the years. Besides, frequent fires have been contributing to high air pollution levels in Delhi. The corporations must list out what steps they have taken to reduce the height of the landfills and control the fires raging there,” said Atishi in a statement.The environment committee had summoned the municipal commissioners of the two corporations after a fire broke out at the Ghazipur landfill on November 25. Three days later, another fire was reported from the Bhalswa landfill site.While the two commissioners are infected with Covid-19, they were represented by Brijesh Singh, additional commissioner, EDMC; Pradeep Khandelwal, chief engineer, EDMC and Nourang Singh, chief engineer, North corporation during the meeting. “At the rate the work is going on at present, it will take 25 years to tackle the Ghazipur landfill alone,” said Atishi.The committee has asked the civic officials to submit plans with timelines to bring landfills to ground level by Monday. “You said the garbage dumps are self-combustible. Give timelines and plans to confirm when you can reduce the height of the existing landfill sites to zero,” she said.Also, the committee has asked them to submit a report on the action taken against the engineers on duty, when the fires occurred, over the last five years. Besides, the civic bodies have also been asked to give a report on the expenses in the last five years on waste management, the bidding process, and the name of these agencies involved.The two landfills, rising beyond the permissible limit of 20 metres, have exhausted their lifespan years ago.A senior East Corporation official, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will be submitting our plans by next week.” Despite repeated attempts, officials in the North corporation could not be reached for a comment. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that BJP is not opposed to formation and abeyance to time line for solving issues but the way Delhi Assembly’s Environment Committee head Atishi has started handling MCDs landfill sites cases smacks of political vendetta.“Atishi and her party comrades are unable to digest how East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir and EDMC’s efforts to reduce height of Ghazipur landfill site are showing positive results. The sudden activism by Atishi is politically intended just to divert EDMC attention from ground level performance to replying to her queries and BJP strongly condemns this,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assembly-panel-asks-civic-bodies-to-submit-plan-on-reducing-height-of-ghazipur-bhalswa-landfills/story-qXI8Fi6PUL7BJtGKgQsdsM.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||School uniform stores in Ludhiana struggling to stay afloat||Even though private schools reopened 50 days ago for students of Classes 9 to 12, the sale of school uniforms is yet to pick up pace. Some uniform sellers said that 90% of their business comes from students of nursery to Class 8. But, as schools are closed for these classes, they have been unable to clear even the old stock from last winter.Amid the Covid pandemic and subsequent lockdown, uniform dealers faced a cash crunch in 2020, and said that this was the worst year for them financially. Many of them said that if this continues, it will become difficult for them to pay for fixed costs, including rent and salaries for employees. Vipin Aggarwal, owner of Evershine School Uniform, Mall road, said, “Reopening of schools has not helped uniform dealers revive their business. Before the lockdown, I had 14 employees in my shop, and now there are only three.”The shops are stocked with winter uniforms, and shelves laden with sweaters, shirts, trousers, coats, ties and belts of different schools, but customers are not turning up. “Our sales are down by 90%. This year, we have placed no new orders, as unsold stock has piled up. I had 600 employees before lockdown, and during the peak season, it reaches 1,000. But, due to the pandemic, we just have 20 people now,” said Nilesh Aggarwal of Dressco School Uniform, Mali Ganj, the oldest uniform manufacturer in the district. Aggarwal’s family has been in the business since 1973.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-uniform-stores-in-ludhiana-struggling-to-stay-afloat/story-gcLbFkG9IdVqtJJalGSQnI.html
09-12-2020||Noida||With little help from health department, ailing farmers relying on volunteers||With a pandemic raging and the winter in full swing, protesters against the central government’s farm laws at UP Gate have only volunteers to rely on for their medical requirements. While the Ghaziabad health department says it does not have enough doctors to handle the situation, the district administration said it has done its bit: it has sent two ambulances, an officials who is not a doctor and it has supplied the agitation leaders with emergency phone numbers.On the ground, protesters say the government’s efforts to take care of their health was a poor joke.“For the last five days, we received about 50 patients every day who come with various complications like gastric issues, body pain along with cold and cough,” said Gursimran Singh who brought in private ambulance to the site with antibiotics, cough syrups and antipyretics, among others.Tthe central government had requested that senior citizens, women and children protesters return home. The protesters, however, rejected it.“The Ghaziabad health department has not sent any doctors or medicines or Covid-19. People are having to sleep in open, which affects their health,” said Sukhpal Singh who came along with Gursimran Singh. UP Gate is some distance away from any residential or commercial areas and is an open area adjacent to Ghazipur landfill site. Ghaziabad authorities had arranged for drinking water and mobile toilets at the site and say that they also sanitize the area regularly. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other neighbouring states had been protesting at the site since November 28. “We get up early morning and bathe in open with cold water from the tankers despite the water not suiting us. Some also bathe with bottled water that we get as donations. There are plenty of mosquitoes and mobile toilets are completely choked. Over the 11 days of protest here, the conditions have become unhygienic,” said Gurlal Singh, a protesting farmer from Shamli in UP. “There is lot of air pollution here which is also affecting people who are in the open. In Bijnor, we don’t have any pollution,” said Dinesh Singh, another farmer. Charanjeet Singh, a farmer from Bilaspur, said that he had been suffering a burning sensation in his chest for the last few days. “I had come here four or five days ago. think that the change of water has affected me,” he said. Dr. Soban Chaudhary is running a free medical camp under the aegis of Delhi gurdwara. “Our camp has been functioning here since November 29 and we are checking about 100-120 patients a day. Most of them suffer loose motions, cough and cold and even body ache. Almost all farmers here sleep in open amid winter chill that hit them,” he said.The district health department officials said that they had stationed two ambulances at the site and an official to deal with emergency situation. “Most of our doctors are engaged in Covid-19 duty. Besides, we have only one physician in the government setup. But we do send our doctors to the protest site,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named. Municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said that he will look into the issues of sanitation and cleanliness. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “Anyone needing medical help can also contact police and sub-divisional magistrates deployed on duty. We have given our health department contact numbers to farmers’ leaders and they can get medical help whenever needed.”Volunteers, however, are not enough to deal with possible health crisis, say doctors.“In case the health department is short of resources, the administration can always seek help of private hospitals. From there, junior doctors or MBBS-level doctors can go to the site and help people,” said Dr. Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association - Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-little-help-from-health-department-ailing-farmers-relying-on-volunteers/story-AlsLO7GAxAGxt5SlTByFTL.html
09-12-2020||City||7-month-old boy dies after car rams into auto||A seven-month-old boy was killed while his parents were critically injured after a speeding Hyundai i-10 car hit their auto-rickshaw near Bharat Nagar Chowk in the wee hours of Wednesday. The three-wheeler driver also suffered injuries in the mishap. Onlookers rushed them to the civil hospital, where the infant, identified as Aarav, was declared dead on arrival. His father, Manoj Burman, 38, and mother, Neelu Burman, 35, have been referred to a private hospital in Model Town. The three-wheeler driver, Sandeep Kumar, who is recuperating at the civil hospital, said that due to low visibility, he was driving slowly but the car driver was speeding, which led to the collision. Division Number 8 station house officer, inspector Jarnail Singh said Manoj Burman, who works as a graphic designer in the city, was returning from his hometown in Madhya Pradesh with his family. Their train had reached the city around 3am following which they had boarded an auto to take them to their rented accommodation on Pakhowal road. The cop said that impact of the collision was so strong that all occupants of the auto fell down on road and sustained injuries. The car driver, meanwhile, fled the spot, leaving the car behind. Police have seized the vehicle and registered a case against the unidentified driver, the cop said. ‘Child born after seven years of marriage… fate played a cruel joke on us’Sitting on his hospital bed, Manoj Burman cannot stop sobbing. “Fate has played a cruel joke on us. Aarav was born seven years after our marriage. We had consulted several doctors and prayed at many temples before we were finally blessed with a child. And now, he been snatched away from our lives so brutally,” said the grief-stricken father. “My wife is still unconscious. I don’t know how I will give her the news, when she gains consciousness and asks about Aarav,” he adds.Burman wife and son had been living in Jabalpur until now. On December 2, he had gone back to his native place to bring them to Ludhiana. “I had been staying away from them due to work. I was hoping that once they start living here, I will get to spend more time with my child,” he sobbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-month-old-boy-dies-after-car-rams-into-auto/story-svCn7Y1Oeak4KcsIMt3SeO.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Antibiotic resistance: WHO awards research project to Ludhiana vet varsity||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has awarded a research project on antibiotic resistance to the school of public health and zoonoses, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.It was awarded by WHO’s regional office for the south-east Asian region. The project will be headed by Randhir Singh, professor, school of public health and zoonoses, and his team.The school has been working actively in the area of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) for many years and has several national and international collaborations in the area.Randhir Singh said AMR is one of the major global health problems and their indiscriminate use in human and animal health sectors is mainly to blame for this. He added that if this problem is not addressed immediately, then as per some projections, 10 million people annually are going to lose their life globally by 2050, and the losses will be higher in low or middle income countries.JPS Gill, director research of the university, said that scientists of the university will carry out the situation analysis of the antibiotic use in animal production and agriculture sector and its impact on food safety and AMR for south-east Asia Region.Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU, lauded the efforts of the scientists. He said that the issue of antibiotic resistance is a big economic burden. He added that it is important to continuously monitor this problem, especially in the animal production and agricultural sector.Dr RS Aulakh, director, school of public health and zoonoses, said that food animals and foods of animal origin are one of the important contributors of antibiotic resistant organisms. Growing population and increased food demand is further going to escalate the problem, he added.What is antimicrobial resistance?AMR occurs when bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites change over time, and no longer respond to medicines. This makes infections harder to treat and increases risk of disease spread, severe illness and death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/antibiotic-resistance-who-awards-research-project-to-ludhiana-vet-varsity/story-ODbPR6UjrFHNoOuYCQETCP.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Facing odds, elderly and women not ready to leave farmers’ protest midway||Despite the central government’s requests to the protesters to request the elderly and children among them to go back home, many at UP Gate have not heeded that call.Sixty-year-old Suresh Chand is on “maun vrat (oath of silence)” and has fastened a mask around his mouth that read “Gandhi Ji ke pad chinnh, bhook hartaal par (On foot-steps of Gandhiji, on hunger strike”). He showed a handwritten note with a list of demands that included the complete repeal of the new farm laws.People around him said Chand had been fasting since December 6. Satnam Singh, 63, from Meerut, is also on protest -- sitting on the highway during the day and sleeping on the roadside at night. He is dressed in white kurta-pyjama and traditional Punjabi Jutti as shoes, with a staff in hand. “There is no question of going back from here till government accepts our demands. We elected the government and they should pay heed to our demands. In fact, if these demands are met, the Prime Minister will be lauded by all and will get a lot of appreciation,” he said. “We sleep on road with blankets that are drenched due to the mist. Still, we stay strong.”Pilibhit resident Vikramjeet Singh, 19, was supposed to go to Australia to attend university. “Since the pandemic hit, I decided stay here and when the protests hit, I decided to join them,” he said. “I will not go back till the farmers’ demands are met. I am sleeping on tractor-trolleys with other farmers. Jashandeep Singh, a class 12 student has also come from Pilibhit. “We have small farmland back home and my father has opened a small pesticide shop. So, in away, our fortunes are tied to the farmers. We sleep on roads with a blanket ever since I came here. I will not be leaving the protest midway,” he said. Below the UP Gate flyover is a group of women from Amroha. “We left our children and cattle back home and came for this important protest and just not to leave it midway. There is no one to look after our farms there anyway. So, we will be here till demands get accepted by the government,” said Poonam Kumari. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he has also made appeals to protesters to go back. “We have made number of appeals to them to leave for home but they are not ready. We also asked them to at least send home children, women and elderly and have also made similar appeals to their leaders as the weather conditions are harsh and not favourable. It seems they are not ready,” he said. The protests at the UP Gate are likely to continue and extend further. The farmers have occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of National Highway-9 which is now blocked for any traffic. The farmer unions on Wednesday also rejected a proposal sent by the Centre to end the impasse over farm laws. The farmers protesting near national capital Delhi said that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12 and hold protest demonstrations in many parts of the country on December 14. They are protesting and demanding that the government rollback the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/facing-odds-elderly-and-women-not-ready-to-leave-farmers-protest-midway/story-Sz0io18o8mrwW5FTjd9LKJ.html
09-12-2020||Noida||NIAL submits master plan of Jewar airport project to Airports Authority of India for technical examination||NOIDA: The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) on Wednesday said that it has submitted master plan of the proposed international airport at Jewar to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for technical examination. Officials of NIAL said that Zurich International AG, the Swiss company selected for developing the Jewar airport, would be asked to start work on the project only after AAI approves the master plan.“The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is a competent authority to make sure that all norms related with the project are complied with. AAI will give its approvals in the next 15-20 days and then we will ask Zurich to start work at the ground,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of NIAL and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), the two agencies appointed by the UP government to monitor the airport project.AAI is a statutory body working under the ministry of civil aviation, and is responsible for creating, upgrading, maintaining and managing civil aviation infrastructure in India.“It was necessary because NIAL does not have the expertise to examine the technical aspects of the project. Once the master plan is approved, the work will begin at the site,” said Singh.According to the officials, the master plan contains the details about terminal building, commercial space, hotels, offices, training centre, cargo facility and parking, among others, on the premises of the airport. The proposed airport will also have the facility of maintenance, repair and overhauling services of aircraft.Once the master plan gets approval from AAI, it will be approved in the board meeting of NIAL, the officials said.The UP government has already acquired 1,334 hectares of land for the first phase of the airport. The project has four phases and the first phase has to become operational by 2023-24. In total, the state government has to acquire 5,000 hectares of land for the ambitious project.Recently, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, head of project monitoring and implementation committee (PMIC), the apex committee monitoring the Jewar international airport, approved five runways for the project at Jewar. The PMIC also said that the land acquisition can start at the site for second phase whenever the required funds are available.Yeida has already sought permission from the state government that the land acquisition for the second phase of the airport should be started.Zurich International will invest Rs 30,000 crore in the project and it gets 40 years to fully develop this project. Under PPP model, Zurich will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to government after 40 years. The airport will start with two runways by 2023-24 under phase-I and it will have five runways on completion to full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nial-submits-master-plan-of-jewar-airport-project-to-airports-authority-of-india-for-technical-examination/story-oUD84HTh41cOEXQGk0IW8I.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Air quality in poor zone as haze clears up||The air quality in the city improved on Wednesday, with Gurugram recording an air quality index (AQI) of 296 (poor), an improvement from the AQI of 347 (very poor) on Tuesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin.Gurugram was the least polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR) as the AQI in neighbouring Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad stayed in the very poor and severe categories. Experts attributed the relatively better air quality to lesser haze.“The air quality in Gurugram is relatively better in comparison to other cities due to lesser haze. The haze disappeared around 11am whereas, in Delhi, the haze build-up lasted for a longer time,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. Panwar said that the air quality would deteriorate in the morning hours on Thursday due to fog but might recover during the latter part of the day.The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 304.8 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally and remain in the very poor category on Thursday. The air quality is likely to improve from Friday evening and reach the lower-end of the very poor category. The air quality is expected to improve significantly during the weekend on account of light rain, due to a new western disturbance.Gurugram’s minimum temperature settled at 12.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory, which, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s minimum temperature on Wednesday. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 25.4 degrees Celsius.As per the weekly IMD forecast, moderate fog is expected on Thursday while the temperature is expected to stay in a similar range. Scattered rain is likely during the weekend. Mahesh Palawat, director at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency, said that a dip in temperature could be expected around December 15. He said that temperatures were higher due to an increased frequency of western disturbances and the current wind direction being easterly. “Until November, there was a gap of 8-10 days between western disturbances. However, the frequency and intensity of western disturbance have increased in December. They are approaching one after another and when a series of western disturbances approach, the flow of northerly winds gets obstructed due to formation of an induced cyclonic circulation over northern plains and the temperature increases. The easterly winds are also warmer in nature,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-in-poor-zone-as-haze-clears-up/story-swz77GFRGedhtiyf7gsUeJ.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Fake call centre busted, used to dupe US citizens by impersonating e-commerce platform||Police on Wednesday busted a fake call centre, which had been operating out of a basement of a residential property in Sector 45 since January. The employees had been allegedly duping US citizens by posing as security support service executives of an e-commerce giant and charged money through e-gift cards, said police. According to the police, the call centre was duping people of hundreds of dollars. The police said that at least 2,000 US citizens are suspected to have been targeted by the call centre. The executives used to tell their victims that their membership to the website has been cancelled or that the payments made by them are not reflecting in their accounts, or claimed product delivery updates.The suspects were identified as Praveen Kumar (32), of Bawal in Rewari and Manish Kumar (32), of Buxar in Bihar. The call centre was operated from the basement of their shared residence, the police said.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that the suspects had registered as a company — Squad Company — but had no legal permission to operate a call centre. “We received information that an illegal call centre was operational from a residential area in Sector 45. We formed teams, including cyber crime officials, and raided the house. Telecallers were found making calls and two of the owners were present there. We released the telecallers after questioning them,” he said. Goel said they have recovered 13 computers and two mobile phones from their possession. The police said the confiscated hardware will be sent to a laboratory in Madhuban in Karnal for forensic examination. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that they have started cracking down on illegal call centres operating across the city. “We received specific inputs that a fake call centre had cheated several US nationals on the pretext of being security support service provider in Sector 45 area. The people employed at the call centre operated without a registered licence issued by the department of telecommunications (DoT),” he said.A case was registered on Wednesday at the Cyber police station under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act, after which two of the owners of the call centre were arrested from the spot. The police said the exact number of victims and the total amount of money siphoned may be higher than their estimates. “We are also getting a forensic audit of the seized property to know the exact details of the victims who have been duped. The illegal call centres are using same modus operandi to dupe people and, have already arrested 66 people this year and busted nearly 44 call centres,” Rao said, adding that the suspects had duped around 2,000 victims.The suspects used to provide pick and drop facilities to all the employees and were paying Rs 25,000 monthly salary, and nearly Rs 30,000 in incentives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fake-call-centre-busted-used-to-dupe-us-citizens-by-impersonating-e-commerce-platform/story-m5JNgmo7LXGJwgGr5T57RK.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||State extends provisional affiliation with pvt schools for another year||In a relief to unrecognised private schools, the state government has extended their provisional affiliation with the Board of School Education, Haryana, for one year, giving them more time to fulfil the norms for recognition. These are schools whose cases of recognition have not been finalised by the department so far and hold temporary recognition, which is renewed every year. Keeping in view the representations received from private school associations for the extension of provisional/temporary affiliation and in the interest of students studying in such schools, the state government had set up a committee for reviewing the affiliation norms. The committee suggested simplified norms for affiliation and the amendment in rules was in consideration at the government level. Because of these circumstances, the department has granted provisional recognition to these private schools for another year. “The state government has decided to grant provisional affiliation to schools, whose cases of recognition have not been finalised by the department, for another academic session — 2020-21 with the condition that schools are able to produce the proof of temporary recognition/affiliation by the department during the last session—2019-20,” said the director of secondary education in a written statement on Tuesday. An official from the education department, requesting anonymity, said, “These schools hold temporary affiliation from the Haryana board. Last year, the government had said that it would no longer renew the affiliation of these schools and they would need to fulfil the norms for recognition. However, the government has now given them relaxation for another year. Without the renewal of temporary affiliation, children in these schools cannot sit for the board exam.”Yashpal Yadav, state president of the Haryana Shikshan Sansthan Sangathan — a union of private schools in the state —said that there are 1,334 private schools in the state with temporary affiliation. “Recognition norms were modified by the state government in 2003. Schools that held temporary affiliation back then benefited from the extension of provisional affiliation,” said Yadav. He said there are around 3,200 private unrecognised schools in the state and the union had been advocating for permanent recognition of all these schools. Despite attempts, district education official Indu Boken couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-extends-provisional-affiliation-with-pvt-schools-for-another-year/story-csb0ItsQOA4kTC8SpVdrwN.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Mayor tells officials to fast-track development work or face action||During a review meeting with officials and councillors working under zones 1 and 3 of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), mayor Madhu Azad told them that any negligence or deliberate delay in executing development works would be reported to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and would invite action — stated a release issued by the civic body on Wednesday.Azad further said that Khattar had issued these directions to her and all MCG councillors during their last meeting with him. “If any official is negligent or keeps development work pending without any reason, then their name will be forwarded to the CM for action. The CM had himself said the same during the last meeting with councillors. Officials have been further directed to not keep files of minor works pending with them and clear them at the earliest so that development projects can be fast-tracked,” said Azad.During the meeting, MCG officials and councillors also agreed in principle that the civic body should not club tenders of various wards for cleaning sewers and rather issue the same on a ward-to-ward basis.“There have been several cases where the MCG has given a contractor the task of cleaning three wards together. In some cases, the work executed by the contractor may be satisfactory for two wards while for another, it may be either incomplete or unsatisfactory. Despite this, a contractor gets the total payment for all three wards from the MCG, after receiving “work satisfactory” certificate from just one councillor,” said an MCG official, who attended the meeting.In 2019, the MCG had introduced a policy that civic officials can transfer funds to contractors only after the local ward councillor of the area issues a “work satisfactory” certificate. Even if a single councillor issues this certificate, a contractor can get paid for executing the work that may have been carried out under the ambit of various councillors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mayor-tells-councillors-to-fast-track-development-work-or-face-action/story-kUFY6OxaiuzhAla1u00wpK.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Schools told to get symptomatic cases tested when classes resume||The district health department on Wednesday directed all its primary and community health centres to test symptomatic teachers or students of government schools for Covid-19 whenever schools reopen. Although there have been no clear directions regarding the resumption of schools, which are shut till December 10, the director general of health services on Tuesday advised the education department to adopt preventive measures if schools resume soon. In Haryana, schools were shut in November, after over 300 students tested positive for Covid-19 across the state. Schools were earlier shut till November 30 and this was further extended to December 10 by home minister Anil Vij, after considering the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Vij said that schools will be provided with necessary Covid-19 guidelines before reopening.On Tuesday, the director general of health services shared the measures, to be taken for the safety of students and teachers attending school, with the director of school education. As per their suggestion, similar to the Union ministry of home affairs’ guidelines, classes are to be held in a staggered manner to ensure adequate social distancing. All students and teachers coming to schools have to be screened for Covid-19 and only those who are asymptomatic will be allowed to attend the class. Also, the education department will have to coordinate with health facilities for Covid-19 testing of the symptomatic cases. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Primary and community health centres have been told to test teachers and students, if symptomatic. Health centres will coordinate with nearby schools once there is clarity on the reopening of schools.” District education officer Indu Boken did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on the resumption of schools. School principals said that they are yet to receive a new directive in this regard. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said, “So far, we have not been told if schools will open from December 11 or if the closure is getting extended further. The department has not shared any written directive so far. We are continuing with online classes till there is clarity on the reopening of schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/schools-told-to-get-symptomatic-cases-tested-when-classes-resume/story-qZGUAWIn1dW9AUOxdQ49UK.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 tests to cost Rs 700 in Gurugram||The Haryana health department on Wednesday revised the price of Covid-19 tests for the fifth time since March, capping the rate for RT-PCR tests at private labs, hospitals and designated collection centre at Rs 700.Sample collection from residences would continue to cost Rs 900, which has been in effect since October 29, according to the order issued by Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, on the revised testing rates on Wednesday.On Wednesday, at least 5,005 tests were administered, of which 4,342 were RT-PCR and 663 were rapid antigen tests. As many as 436 new Covid-19 infections and three Covid-related deaths were recorded on the day. The Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) is considered the gold standard test for detecting Covid-19. The costs of other tests to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the body, such as antigen test (Rs 500) antibody test (Rs 250), TrueNat (Rs 1250) and CBNAAT (Rs 2,400) continue to remain the same.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The proposal for the separate testing charges for home collection and samples taken at labs and hospitals was discussed with private labs a long time ago. In hospitals, Covid-19 tests for inpatient department (IPD) and outpatient department (OPD) will cost Rs 700.”According to him, the state is continuing with Rs 900 for home collection as it will cover the cost of kits, consumables and manpower, among other charges.Over time, private labs have raised the issue that reduced testing price fails to cover the overall cost incurred in administering the Covid-19 test. However, officials of the health department reiterated that testing charges are reduced based on the rates of the RT-PCR kits, which has been consistently declining.Dr Rishabh Rajput, director – Covid-19, Modern Diagnostics, said, “Every day, the number of home collection of samples is limited, while the footfall of people at the lab remains high. The revised charges will not affect the current operations of the lab.”The state health department for the first time slashed the RT-PCR testing charge on June 16. From Rs 4,500, which was the upper limit of the RT-PCR charges fixed by the Indian Council of Medical Research in March, the testing cost was brought down to Rs 2,400 in June. It was reduced to Rs 1,600 on August 29, then to Rs 1,200 on October 2 and further to Rs 900 on October 29.“Currently, the state has the lowest Covid-19 testing cost in Delhi-NCR. It will motivate people to come forward for testing due to affordability,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-tests-to-cost-rs-700-in-gurugram/story-SjjZU18td5ae3OoN0ofLQM.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi jail inmates found selling phones inside premises||An ongoing police investigation into the smuggling of mobile phones in Bhondsi Jail has revealed that a group of inmates have been selling phones to fellow inmates at considerably higher prices. In one such instance, an inmate said that he had bought a phone, having a market value of ₹26,000, for ₹85,000. Jail officials also said that the gang was providing call facilities to other inmates and used to charge ₹10 per one minute from them. At least eight such complaints have been received and cases registered since August this year, officials familiar with the matter said. The matter came to light in August when Dharambir Chautala, the former deputy superintendent of the jail, was arrested for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards and mobile phones to inmates. Gururgam police in the last two years have registered more than 200 cases, where mobiles have been recovered from jail inmates, said the police. Harinder Singh, jail superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said they have started conducting surprise checks in the barracks, and on Monday evening, around 4.30pm, they recovered one mobile phone from an inmate named Rahul Khan, who was lodged in Block -3. “During questioning, he revealed that he had bought the phone from one Sahun, another inmate, for ₹85,000 one-and-a-half months ago. He said the mobile was used by five inmates and they used to charge other inmates to make calls,” he said. The payment was made by Khan’s family to Sahun’s relative in Nuh, Singh said.The mobile phone was used by the five inmates who allowed others to make calls in lieu of money. They told officials that they wanted to earn quick money through the mobile and had, therefore, invested in the phone, said the police. Singh said strict warnings have been issued to all the officials to ensure that no illegal activity is allowed inside the premises. “We are also investigating as to how the mobile phone was smuggled inside the jail premises,” Singh added. Khan is lodged in Bhondsi jail since September 2019 and is involved in 44 cases of theft, snatching and attempt to murder. He belongs to Nuh and was operating along with his close aides, who are also lodged in the same barrack. During questioning, it was also revealed that mobile phones were smuggled a few months ago and were hidden in the barracks. Since the arrest of Chautala, the inmates have become cautious. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they are investigating the case and will take the call detail records of the mobile number to get the exact details of the calls made from inside the jail. “We will scan the call details and since when the phone was operational following which action will be taken against the inmates under Prisoners Act,” he said. Jail authorities said earlier an inmate identified as Ravi used to help Chautala to crack deals with inmates who wanted to buy mobile phones and drugs. He became the middleman and started taking orders from inmates and later delivered mobile phones and drugs to them with the consent of Chautala. However, after his arrest, the supply of drugs and mobile phones had stopped. “We are keeping a close watch on all the staff inside the jail premises and have given warnings to all. Strict action will be taken against any person found indulging in any illegal activity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-jail-inmates-found-selling-phones-inside-premises/story-6z5B08l2VQNSfE1ZC8nTjM.html
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad Police bust gang involved in insurance fraud; two held||The Faridabad Police busted a gang of four, who had allegedly duped people of more than ₹5 crore on the pretext of reviving their lapsed insurance policies. The 23-year-old alleged kingpin of the gang and his aide were arrested from Moti Nagar in Delhi on Tuesday. Investigators said the probe revealed that they had allegedly been running a call centre and had hired 10 female executives to make calls and get details of policy holders. The police said the gang members had allegedly recruited people who had lost jobs during lockdown. The police said they arrested two of the suspects from Delhi on Tuesday. One of them was identified as Mohammad Iqbal of Muzzafarpur in Bihar, who lived in a rented accommodation in Rani Bagh, and the other one was identified as Vinod Kumar of Badshahpur in Bihar, who lived in Uttam Nagar in Delhi. Kumar was the alleged mastermind behind the gang. They were produced before the court and were taken on four days of police remand, said the police. The remaining two suspects are at large and teams are conducting raids to arrest them. Arpit Jain, deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said that they had received a complaint from one Yashpal Singh, a Faridabad resident, who was duped of ₹22.63 lakh on the pretext of having his expired insurance policy revived. “Singh shared all the details of his policies and the amount was transferred to six different bank accounts. Victim kept calling them for updates but the suspects misled him and gave excuses that during lockdown the process was taking time. Later, they stopped taking his calls. When he contacted the insurance company, he realised he was duped and took the help of the police,” he said. Jain said the suspects were using same set of mobile numbers and used to target people across the county. “We started investigating and, based on technical surveillance, we reached the suspects and arrested two of them,” he said. The police said that during questioning, the suspects revealed that they used to buy the data through insurance agents and executives, and used the data to make calls to victims. OP Singh, commissioner of the Faridabad police, said at least 30 victims have been identified by analysing their bank transactions, which also showed the gang’s bank accounts have allegedly received ₹5 crore. “We have recovered ₹14 lakh and 21 mobile phone from their possession, which were used in the crime,” he said. Singh said the gang operated in an organised manner and had different members performing different tasks such as making calls, creating bank accounts with a forged documentation and withdrawing cash. The police said the crime team had been on the trail of this gang ever since they received a complaint from Singh. Singh said the investigators began by analysing the bank accounts in which the victim had deposited the money and the phone numbers from which he received calls from suspects posing as different government officials, including income tax officers. On Tuesday night, the police finally nabbed two suspects while they were allegedly making calls to victims from their call centre. Singh said during questioning, they allegedly revealed that four friends had formed the gang two years ago and started a call centre in Delhi’s Moti Nagar after hiring nearly 10 call centre executives to make calls. “The gang used to hire women executives to gain trust of victims and had worked for insurance process in various BPOs. They had the data of lapsed insurance policies,” he said. So far, the police have unearthed 10 fake bank accounts in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar that were allegedly used to receive money from the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-police-bust-gang-involved-in-insurance-fraud-two-held/story-6TnUQxhP18bpQLf5hmxyYJ.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Three held for abducting 17-year-old for ₹1 cr ransom||Greater Noida Police on Wednesday said they had rescued a 17-year-old boy and arrested three men for kidnapping him from Jewar eyeing a ₹1 crore ransom. The boy’s family based in Jewar had recently received ₹10 crore for their land that the Uttar Pradesh government had acquired for a project in connection with the upcoming Noida international airport. Police said the suspects decided to kidnap the boy when they came to know about this.The boy was reported missing to the police on December 6. His father complained that his son had gone to their farm the previous day but did not return.“We launched a search when he did not return home at night. Next day, we filed a missing person complaint at the Jewar police station,” said the father. On December 7, Giridhar, a person who worked on the family’s farm, received the ransom call. The caller was using the victim’s phone.“Giridhar told us about the call and we immediately informed police,” said the father. Vishal Pandey, Greater Noida additional DCP, said they put the victim’s number on surveillance. “While tracking the mobile phone number, we realised that the kidnappers were moving a lot, even going as far as Faridabad in Haryana,” he said. But on Wednesday morning, they detected that the phone was in Greater Noida.“We put up barricades at strategic locations and checked vehicles. At Jhuppa Banda cut police checked a Wagon-R car and found the three suspects and the victim with his hands and legs tied in the back seat,” he said, adding that the suspects were arrested with little resistance.Police seized the vehicle, a countrymade gun, two live cartridges, two knives and victim’s mobile phone from their possession. The mastermind of the crime was allegedly 38-year-old Joginder Singh, Giridhar’s cousin and a resident of Jewar. His accomplices were identified by police as 32-year-old Balbeer Singh, a resident of Sohna in Haryana, and 28-year-old Sudhir Jaat, a resident of Faridabad. “Joginder got to know that the boy’s family had received huge compensation recently in lieu of their land,” said Pandey. Narrating his ordeal, the boy said he had come home in March after the Covid-19 induced lockdown was imposed. He was a student at a private boarding school in Kosi Kalan in Mathura.”Joginder and I knew each other and I suspect he knew about the ₹10 crore compensation too,” he said. “I was at my family’s farm on December 5 around 5pm when a Wagon-R arrived and blocked the exit from the farm. I went up to them when suddenly the three overpowered me and pushed me inside the car, held a knife to me and drove away.”The family said they found his motorcycle at the farm when they searched for him. The victim said the men blindfolded him, tied his limbs and drove into a forested area that people didn’t frequent. “They kept me there the whole night, snatched my phone and threatened to kill me if I didn’t co-operate. Next day, they took me to Faridabad and locked me in a small room,” the boy said. Police said they suspects may have believed that the best way to keep police off their trail would be to keep moving and on Wednesday morning, they came to Greater Noida. At around 1am, they were caught.Addl DCP Pandey said that the suspects had planned to kill the victim and dump the body in the Yamuna after they got the ransom. A case under Section 364-A (kidnapping for ransom) of IPC was registered against the suspects and a court and sent them to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-held-for-abducting-17-year-old-for-1-cr-ransom/story-KXoaInU414PpaodTOLD21N.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara have highest Covid-19 caseload in December||Ghaziabad: Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara have emerged as the top three localities having a high Covid-19 caseload in the recent mapping conducted by the Ghaziabad health department from December 1 to 8. Officials said that they are concerned with rising number of cases, but focussed testing and surveillance is continuing to break the chain of infection.According to the latest mapping in December, Indirapuram has topped the list with 232 Covid-19 cases, while Vaishali and Vasundhara are on second and third spot with 126 cases each. Out of a total 1,258 Covid-19 cases that the district witnessed from December 1 to 8, share of the three localities is about 38.47%. During the period from March to November, Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara had 2,819, 1,355 and 1,318 cases, respectively, according to the health department data. Their contribution to overall 23,060 Covid-19 cases during the period was about 23.81% in the district. The Indirapuram locality is the worst affected as it topped the list of most cases during the period March to November and also running on the top of the monthly case list in September, October and November, the data showed. “We are taking extra efforts to bring down the number of cases and trying to break the chain of infection. We have deputed additional teams to these areas and taking up focussed testing along with surveillance. Due to this, the cases are seemingly on rise but we expected them to decline once the chain of infection gets broken and positive persons are isolated,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The three localities are located adjacent to each other and house an estimated population of about 6-7 lakh, the officials said. The localities also comprise major working-class population which travels to Delhi and other NCR cities like Noida and Gurugram on daily basis, they said. “These areas have been high on number of cases for past several months and it is time that focussed testing is increased and carried out in each of the residential pockets in these areas. If there is shortage of staff, then more resources can be hired with the help of contingency funds sent by the government,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “Increased testing is the only option to find out cases of infection and to isolate them at the earliest,” he added. In November, the district health department had been conducting an average of about 4,058 tests per day but the testing has fallen to an average of about 3,750 tests per day in first eight days of December so far. “There are number of our healthcare staff members who have contracted infection of late. These include our staff from the integrated disease surveillance program laboratory. So, several activities have got hampered as a result. In areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara, we have deployed more teams for testing,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named. According to official figures, 44 healthcare staff members of the district health department contracted Covid-19 infection in November while the figure was 19, 16 and 13 in the months of October, September and August, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/indirapuram-vaishali-and-vasundhara-have-highest-covid-19-caseload-in-december/story-afoURjBdVr0xRLRXIWKRTJ.html
09-12-2020||Noida||‘Very poor’ is the best air quality Noida sees in past six days||Noida: The air quality of Noida improved to ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday, making it the cleanest air that the city has seen in the past six days. Noida had been suffering ‘severe’ air quality since December 4, while the city’s air has not improved beyond ‘very poor’ levels this month so far. However, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida continued being under ‘severe’ air on Wednesday, with Ghaziabad for the six days in row and Greater Noida for the third day. According to weather analysts, low wind speed, high humidity, and low temperatures are some of the major reasons that the local emissions could not be ventilated enough to make a significant positive effect on the air quality of the three cities. The pollution monitoring agencies stated that the intrusion of stubble burning smoke from neighbouring Punjab and Haryana is still negligible. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while the weather conditions, such as humidity and temperatures, were almost same as a day earlier, a slight increase in the wind speed let some improvement in the air quality. However, with weather conditions largely in favour of the pollution levels, the winds are not strong enough to ventilate the pollutants, IMD said. “The wind speed on Wednesday was recorded at 8kmph. However, it was negligible during early morning and night hours. So whatever ventilation happened, it did so during the afternoon time. On Tuesday, the maximum wind speed was 5kmph. There are possibilities of rain between December 11 and 12 which may improve the air quality by washing the pollutants. However, prior to that the weather conditions will remain almost the same and not very strong to make a significant reduction of the pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 394 against 407 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s air quality on Wednesday was 404 against 405 on Tuesday, while Ghaziabad also saw slight improvement with an AQI of 418 against 424 a day earlier, showed the CPCB data. AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. Though the fine particles or PM2.5 levels dropped, they still remained at least four times the safe standards. The average PM2.5 level for past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 259.5 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³), against 270.52 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 278.07 µg/m³ against 269.46 on Tuesday. The average PM2.5 level also lowered in Ghaziabad that was recorded at 291.12 µg/m³ on Wednesday against 314.33 µg/m³ on Tuesday. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI is likely to deteriorate due to calm winds on Thursday. “Calm surface winds are forecasted for tomorrow and AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate towards the high end of the very poor category. Thereafter, under the influence of fresh Western Disturbance, isolated to scattered rainfall is expected on 11th and 12th December, and AQI is likely to improve to the lower end of the very poor category by December 11,” said the SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/very-poor-is-the-best-air-quality-noida-sees-in-past-six-days/story-MAf1JehJHABigHGQ7Ni0oN.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Woman, Nigerian associate arrested with 10.5kg of drugs at Delhi railway station||A 25-year-old woman from Tamil Nadu and her 40-year-old Nigerian associate were arrested on Tuesday from New Delhi railway station with 10.5 kilograms of narcotic drug amphetamine, popularly known as “Ice” or “Speed”, the police said.They added that the consignment was meant to be distributed at new year rave parties in Bengaluru, Karnataka.The two were caught around 8.45pm while boarding the Bengaluru Rajdhani express train from the New Delhi railway station. The two were booked in a case registered under sections 22 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act at the New Delhi railway police station. The estimated value of the seized psychotropic substance is nearly Rs10 crore, said deputy commissioner of police (railway unit) Harendra Kumar Singh.Also Read: Delhi Police arrest two drug smugglers, bust international cartel“This is one of the biggest recoveries of amphetamine in the city. The contraband was meant to be supplied in Bengaluru for rave parties on the eve of the coming new year,” said DCP Singh.On Tuesday evening, the DCP said, the police team was patrolling platform numbers 4 and 5, to surveil passengers and maintain law and order. Around 8.45pm, the team spotted a man of African origin and a woman boarding the Bengaluru Rajdhani express train at platform 4.Finding them suspicious, the team enquired about their plan and the luggage they were carrying. The duo could not give a satisfactory reply, the police said. Both of them had separate travel tickets, although their seats were in the same compartment, said Singh.“Their bags were checked and small polythene bags containing white crystal material were found. The material was checked with a narcotics testing kit and it turned out to be amphetamine, a psychotropic substance. The contraband was seized and weighed at 10.5kg. The duo was arrested. They were identified as Srimathi and her Nigerian associate Chima Vitalis,” the DCP added.During the interrogation, the police said, Vitalis said that he had first come to India eight years ago on a business visa and stayed in different cities while being involved in a garment export business. Around four years ago,he met the woman who was working in an export house in Bengaluru. Vitalis included her in the narcotic drugs supply business, said DCP Singh.“The woman travelled with the Nigerian man to provide him with cover. The two confessed to have supplied one kilogram of the contraband in Bengaluru before Diwali. The two frequented Delhi and Bengaluru. We are now looking for the members of the network through which the duo had obtained the contraband,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-nigerian-associate-arrested-with-10-5kg-of-drugs-at-delhi-railway-station/story-AUn9CtWN6bGFysWJmg3o1L.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Yeida reduces max speed limit for vehicles plying on Yamuna expressway due to low visibility||GREATER NOIDA: In view of very low visibility due to dense fog, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Wednesday said it has reduced the maximum speed limit for vehicles running on the expressway. “We have reduced the speed limit from 100km per hour (kph) to 80 kph for light vehicles and from 80kph to 60kph for heavy vehicles in view of foggy weather conditions that can cause accidents. In the past couple of days, there has been almost zero visibility on the expressway causing some accidents,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.Yeida has also decided to arrange tea for the commuters at toll plazas so that the drivers stay alert and do not fall asleep in the early morning hours.“As per the past records, accidents do take place during wee hours because the drivers fall asleep. If they halt at toll plazas and have tea, then it will help reducing accidents,” said Singh.Yeida’s move to reduce the speed limit comes after some accidents took place in the past week amid foggy weather. Four persons were killed and one injured in a road accident when a car rammed into a state transport bus from behind on the Yamuna Expressway last Saturday, the police had said. The collision that took place at 6.45 am was of such intensity that it left the front portion of the car completely flattened.The data provided by Yeida shows that 45% of accidents are a result of drivers falling asleep at the wheel. Also, speeding and violation of traffic rules account for 19% and 11% accidents, respectively, on the expressway, the data shows. The stationary vehicles on the expressway have also been found as a major cause of accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yeida-reduces-max-speed-limit-for-vehicles-plying-on-yamuna-expressway-due-to-low-visibility/story-qLuASZi0LSimfJMz2rSs1L.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Visibility may drop to 200 metres in morning hours, says IMD||Noida: Visibility is likely to drop to around 200 metres in the city on Thursday and Friday morning hours due to fog, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). While the next two days could see shallow to moderate fog, the visibility would be further hit with very dense fog by the weekend, IMD said. The region currently has several parameters supporting moderate fog in the morning hours. The areas that could be affected include highways, roads along agriculture land, waterbodies and expressways. “There will be shallow fog on Thursday and Friday morning that will bring down the visibility to around 200 metres or less. The current humidity levels are high especially during the morning hours and the wind speed would also be less, leading to the fog between 5 am and 8.30 am,” said an official at IMD. The moderate fog brings down the visibility to 200 metres, he added. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 11.8 degrees Celsius, while the average minimum for the NCR was 9.6 degrees Celsius. The humidity oscillated between 97 and 61%, while the winds during the morning hours were calm that led to humidity in the morning. “There are chances of rains on the night of December 11 and 12 that could lead to dense fog in the morning hours. However, till Saturday the region will see shallow fog. The region is already seeing high humidity, low winds and low temperatures that leads to fog. However, the humidity will rise further and temperatures will drop by December 12, leading to very dense fog,” said Mahesh Palawat, head of Skymet, a private weather foresting agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/visibility-may-drop-to-200-metres-in-morning-hours-says-imd/story-8xJAjvZVdPeEoDlNzf902I.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Noida: 38% work on Kondli underpass completed||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Wednesday said that it has completed 38% work on the Kondli underpass, which will run between sectors 148 and 150, on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The authority plans to finish the construction work on the 840-metre long underpass at the earliest, officials said, adding that once ready, the facility will be used by at least 30,000 motorists easing traffic congestion in the area.“We have put the work of this underpass on fast track for the past couple of months. As a result, we have completed 38% work so far and we aim to finish the remaining work at the earliest,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager, Noida authority.The four lane underpass is being built at a budget of Rs 44.51 crore. The authority started construction of this project on June 1 this year with a completion deadline of November 30, 2021. However, the officials said that the work has been expedited to complete this project before the deadline.“We aim to finish the work on this underpass even before the deadline,” said Tyagi.The underpass is being built at a distance of 19.4km from zero point at Mahamaya flyover in Noida. The project will immensely benefit thousands of motorists, who travel between sectors 150 and 148 located on two sides of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.Sector 150 is home to newly built group housing complexes and dozens of new condominiums are being built in Sector 151. In the next four years, at least 3.5 lakh new families would be shifted into newly built flats in sectors 150 and 151. The authority wants to build this underpass well in advance so that the motorists using this stretch do not face traffic congestion in future, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-38-work-on-kondli-underpass-completed/story-mRi08FXqG7guZbPHSzPLOP.html
09-12-2020||City||Get a glimpse of white tigress Diya’s three cubs as Chhatbir zoo reopens its gates today||Off bounds for the public for the past nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, will reopen its gates on Thursday. Amid strict safety protocols, visitors will get the opportunity to see tiger cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor, born to white tigress Diya on November 17 last year. The two male and one female cubs have an orange coat unlike their mother.Also, an Indian fox with her newborn pups will be on public display for the first time. Having remained closed since March 16, the zoo, which houses over 1,500 animals and birds, is introducing several new facilities and amenities, such as a mother and child care room, free wi-fi hotspots, a coffee booth, a selfie points, a rest room and hassle-free parking.Touchfree hand wash and sanitiser dispensers have been arranged for the safety of visitors. The zoo will be open for six days a week (Monday closed), with entry timings limited to 9.30am to 4.30pm. Tickets for zoo entry, parking and battery-operated carts can be booked online at “www.chhatbirzoo.gov.in”. Apart from this, cashless payment facility will also be available at the zoo’s ticket counter.The zoo will allow staggered entry to only 2,700 visitors a day to avoid crowding. Adults above 65 years of age and children below five have been requested not to visit the zoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/get-a-glimpse-of-white-tigress-diya-s-three-cubs-as-chhatbir-zoo-reopens-its-gates-today/story-GuRCX61jax66VcTzEEIsDK.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Once a Covid-19 hotspot, Dharavi records just 1 new case||Dharavi, once a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot in Mumbai, has shown signs of drastic improvement. On Wednesday, the slum-dominated area recorded just one case of the infection. With this, Dharavi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 3,736.Of the total number of Covid-19 patients, 3,410 have already recovered while there are 15 active cases.The area had reported a single new case on December 4 too.Spread over 2.5 square kilometres, Dharavi is considered to be the largest slum in Asia with a population over 6.5 lakh.The first Covid-19 case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, nearly 20 days after the first such case was detected in Mumbai.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 716 new cases of Covid-19 and 15 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 2,87,891 and death toll to 10,935, the city’s civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday.The number of patients, who recovered from the infection increased to 2,64,228, which is about 92 per cent of the total, as 874 of them got discharge from hospitals during the day, the BMC data said.The average doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai is 293 days, while the average growth rate is 0.24 per cent, the BMC said.So far, 20.30 lakh tests have been conducted in the city, it said.There are 453 containment zones and 5,373 sealed buildings in the metropolis at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/once-a-covid-19-hotspot-dharavi-records-just-1-new-case/story-88Koob5AcUh3qaqjdHaBdI.html
09-12-2020||City||Delhi riots: Accused gets interim bail to attend sister’s wedding||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday granted interim bail to an accused in two cases related to the communal riots in north east Delhi on “humanitarian grounds” to attend his sister’s wedding. The court said the fact that he (the accused) was the “sole brother” of four sisters and one of them was getting married was weighing heavily on his (judge’s) mind.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav granted interim bail to him from December 10 to December 12 on furnishing a bond of Rs 50,000 with one surety of like amount each in both the cases.Shubham was arrested in the cases related to the murder of two local persons during the communal violence in Dayalpur area in February.The court granted the interim relief after his counsel gave an undertaking that the accused would not seek extension of his interim bail on any ground whatsoever and would surrender before the jail authorities on December 12.“The fact that applicant (Shubham) is the “sole brother” of four sisters and one of his sisters is getting married is weighing heavily on my mind. The counsel for the applicant has undertaken that the applicant shall not seek extension of interim bail on any ground whatsoever and he shall duly surrender before the jail authorities after availing the interim bail.“As such, purely on humanitarian grounds, the applicant is admitted to interim bail in the matter from December 10, 2020 to December 12,2020…” the judge said in his order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-accused-gets-interim-bail-to-attend-sister-s-wedding/story-ypprAbI4Bw3LGnmxRet6dL.html
09-12-2020||City||J&K logs 6 deaths, 369 fresh virus infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded six deaths and 369 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the tally of positive cases in the Union territory to 1,14,407 and death toll to 1,767.Officials said 179 people tested positive in Kashmir and 190 in Jammu. Three persons died each in Kashmir and Jammu division. They said the overall recoveries touched 1,07,624 after 342 more patients were cured. There are 5,016 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 32.43 lakh.A total of 1,136 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 631 in Jammu. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 86 more people tested positive followed by 19 cases each at Budgam and Baramulla. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 89 followed by 27 in Udhampur district. Till date, 8.15 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 22,212 in home quarantine, 5,016 in isolation, and 27,733 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.59 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-logs-6-deaths-369-fresh-virus-infections/story-mZRHBPiZOojRDxKpL7XoBL.html
09-12-2020||City||Roshni land scam: Ex-MLA Pathania’s late father, grandfather on list of beneficiaries||Amid a review petition by Jammu and Kashmir administration before the high court seeking amendments to October 9 judgment of a division bench into the multi-crore Roshni land scam, former BJP MLA RS Pathania’s late father and grandfather have figured among beneficiaries of the state land. The administration has been uploading the names of beneficiaries and encroachers of state land under the scam. At serial number 229 is the name of Pathania’s late father Bhupinder Singh and grandfather Jagdev Singh, who were shown as beneficiaries of state land measuring nine Kanals and 14 Marlas at a cost of ₹970 under the “unconstitutional” Roshni Act. The land is located at Kehal village in Majalta area of Ramnagar in Udhampur district. However, Pathania said that no member of his family was beneficiary of the state land under the Act. “My political opponents and some disgruntled revenue officials have projected me as beneficiary of Roshni Act. My mother, my brother, my sister and I do not have even an inch of land mutated under Roshni Act in our names,” he said. Pathania said an attempt is being made to stoke a controversy and make an issue amid the DDC elections. “I am going to file a ₹50 lakh defamation case against them including revenue officials. I request people to beware of fake news,” he added. Pathania, who had won Ramnagar assembly seat for the BJP in 2014 elections, claimed that during his tenure as MLA, he did not purchase even an inch of land. “An attempt is being made to malign my image,” he added. Panthers Party president and former MLA Balwant Singh Mankotia said, “Politicians and influential people took maximum benefit of Roshni Act. Since his name (RS Pathania) has also figured in the list put out by the government, I want to know what action will the BJP initiate against him.” Mankotia said as soon as names of politicians from their party cropped up, the BJP filed a review petition before the high court. He said though many politicians and influential people benefitted from the Roshni Act, Panthers Party will not allow poor and landless farmers to suffer. “We will not allow government to snatch small land holdings of poor people. We may start a mass agitation,” he added. In a U-turn, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has sought a review of October 9 high court judgment that had declared the 2001 J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership to Occupants) Act (Roshni Act) null and void. In its October 9 order, the high court had also ordered a CBI probe and directed the government to cancel all mutations of state lands under the Act, and work out modalities to evict encroachers from such land and retrieve it within six months. Following the order, the administration has been uploading the names of “encroachers” on government website. These names included those of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, party vice-president Omar Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti, PDP leader and former finance minister Haseeb Drabu, and Congress leaders. On December 4, the administration, through special secretary (revenue) Nazir Ahmad Thakur, filed a review petition before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roshni-land-scam-ex-mla-pathania-s-late-father-grandfather-on-list-of-beneficiaries/story-cWQyv7PWCBiA4YQOWSB16I.html
09-12-2020||City||J&K tourism department begins winter sports activities at Gulmarg||With ample snowfall since November, the Jammu and Kashmir tourism department has started winter sports activities at the famous Gulmarg ski resort.Early snowfall this winter has brought cheers to those affiliated with the tourism industry and officials hope that the snow could attract tourists to the picturesque location and increase footfall in the area.“Early snow has come as a blessing and we are ready to host tourists and winter enthusiasts in Kashmir Valley, especially Gulmarg. The ski resort is ready and many more events will be organised in coming days,” director, tourism, Kashmir, Nisar Ahmad Wani said.He said this season, a number of ski courses for youth are slated to be organised for which large number of applications have already been received. “Initially, four groups from J&K and two groups from outside the UT will undergo ski courses in coming weeks. Two groups are exclusively for girls. Youth services and sports department is also organising ski courses.”The Gulmarg bowl is presently covered with two feet of snow and a large number of young enthusiasts can be seen engaged in Alpine skiing, snow cycling, sledging and All Terrain Vehicle (ATV) race.“Though the footfall hasn’t increased but the arrivals has gone up. Even locals are visiting this place daily,” said Khursheed Ahmad, a local tourist guide. People affiliated with tourism say that despite Covid-19, the number of enquires have gone up this year. Gulmarg Gondola, one of Asia’s largest and highest cable cars, was opened for tourists in September after it remained closed for six months due to the pandemic.Officials said tourists have started trickling in small numbers amid proper Covid-19 protocols. Every person has to under go a rapid Covid test before being allowed into Gulmarg. The tourism department has also started campaigns to woo tourists. Tourism had nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on movement of people for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-tourism-department-begins-winter-sports-activities-at-gulmarg/story-gm1b8DpDlQGetPgARZMszJ.html
09-12-2020||City||IIT Mandi researchers propose technique to generate electricity from floor tiles||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mandi have proposed a technique to enhance the power output of piezoelectric materials which can be used in floor tiles to generate electricity from human walking, or on roads, where the weight from the vehicles can power road lights and signals.IIT Mandi researchers have numerically studied piezoelectric materials – materials that interconvert mechanical energy and electrical energy – and have proposed a new arrangement to enhance the electrical output of these materials when subjected to stress. The results of their work have been published in the journal Engineering Reports. The research paper has been co-authored by researcher scholars Raj Kiran, Sourav Sharma along with Anuruddh Kumar, IIT Mandi alumnus currently working at Hanyang University, North Korea, under the supervision of Rajeev Kumar and Rahul Vaish, associate professors, School of Engineering, IITMandi.Rajeev Kumar said piezoelectric materials can generate electrical energy when a force is applied on them and are thus extremely useful. “Such materials can, for example, be used in floor tiles to generate electrical energy from walking or on roads where the weight from the vehicles can power road lights and signals. However, currently, the electrical energy produced by these materials is very low, which limits their applications in real life situations,” he said.Meanwhile, Rahul Vaish said, “We have developed a technique known as graded poling to enhance the power output of piezoelectric materials by more than 100 times.” The researchers have used numerical techniques to utilise multiple mechanical stresses – bending, compressive and tensile stresses at the top and bottom of thepiezoelectric cantilever beams and shear stresses in the mid-section – in order to significantly improve the electrical output.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-mandi-researchers-propose-technique-to-generate-electricity-from-floor-tiles/story-ajBtC1fSpO5yWFsy3H6GyL.html
09-12-2020||City||Coronavirus claims 12 more lives in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 12 fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll in the state to 755, officials said.Of the fatalities, six were reported in Shimla, two in Chamba and one each in Hamirpur, Mandi, Kullu and Kangra.Also, 729 more people have tested positive and the tally of infections now stands at 46,930. The overall recoveries have reached 38,656 after 600 more patients were cured. There are 7,475 active cases in the state.Of the new cases, 162 were reported in Kangra, 114 in Solan, 109 in Shimla, 83 in Mandi, 59 in Sirmaur, 48 in Una, 39 in Chamba, 36 in Kullu, 31 in Hamirpur, 24 in Kinnaur, 13 in Bilaspur and 11 in Lahaul-Spiti.With 8,752 cases, Shimla is the worst-hit district followed by Mandi where 7,676 people have tested positive till date. As many as 6,352 cases have been reported in Kangra, 5,631 in Solan, 3,947 in Kullu, 2,804 in Sirmaur; 2,396 in Bilaspur, 2,369 in Una, 2,372 in Hamirpur; 2,350 in Chamba; 1,147 in Lahaul-Spiti and 1,134 in Kinnaur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-claims-five-more-lives-in-himachal/story-ocGr2h6O5FoudzojZy2EUP.html
09-12-2020||City||Senior photojournalist among four die of Covid-19 in Mohali||A 59-year-old senior photojournalist was among the four people who succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali on Wednesday.Health officials said Samuel N Dass had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 3 after developing high fever and stayed under home quarantine. He was rushed to the Kharar civil hospital on Tuesday night after he had difficulty breathing. But, he died around 1pm on Wednesday.Dass had worked with various English dailies for over three decades. He leaves behind his wife, a son and a daughter.“He was cremated as per safety protocols,” said Dr Manohar Singh, senior medical officer (SMO), civil hospital, Kharar.With the latest fatalities, Mohali’s Covid toll rose to 303, even as 125 people also tested positive, taking the case count to 16,667. Among the 125 cases, 104 were from Mohali city, 11 from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli, four from Kharar and one from Kurali. Also, nine persons recovered from the virus, bringing down the number of active cases to 2,340. Till now, 14,024 patients have been cured. 83 new cases in UT, one deadChandigarh reported one death and 83 new cases, pushing the total deaths and cases to 297 and 18,322, respectively.The deceased was a 70-year-old woman from Dhanas.While 897 cases are active, 17,128 persons have recovered so far. As many as 1,55,643 tests have been conducted till date, of which 1,247 samples were taken in the last 24 hours.40 test positive in PanchkulaThere was no casualty in Panchkula for the second consecutive day. However, 40 people tested positive, taking the total to 9,276.Except one case from Bhainsa Tibba, all cases were reported from Panchkula city. A total of 540 patients are still infected in the district, while 8,601 have recovered and 135 have died.The authorities have conducted 1,21,502 tests in all, of which 613 were done on Wednesday. State BJP president tests positiveChandigarh BJP president and councillor Arun Sood was found positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, with high fever that had surfaced four days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-photojournalist-among-four-die-of-covid-19-in-mohali/story-kRhhnpjTW5ZeJm7i7REzPJ.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Submit report of metro extension routes: Pumta||Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (Pumta) has instructed the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to prepare detailed plans for various metro extension routes in Pune region.Saurabh Rao, head, Pumta, and divisional commissioner, on Wednesday, held a meeting with the members and discussed various transport-related projects.Rao instructed them to submit the report for metro extension between Chandani chowk and Hinjewadi, Wagholi to Hinjewadi, Hinjewadi to Chakan and Chandani chowk to Wagholi, said, civic officials.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar; Pimpri-Chinchwad commissioner Shravan Hardikar; Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) managing director Rajendra Jagtap; Smart City’s chief executive officer Sanjay Kolte and Maha-Metro’s director Ramnath Subramaniam were present for the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/submit-report-of-metro-extension-routes-pumta/story-gstkljR587h7NlLMdK2OyH.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 784 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||The Pune district, on Wednesday, reported 784 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths in 24 hours, according to the state health department.The district has so far reported 3.59 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.36 lakh have recovered, 7,623 have been reported dead and 15,616 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune city reported 352 new cases taking the total tally to 1,83,359 and four deaths taking the death toll to 4,334. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 164 new cases taking the final count to 90,313 and two deaths took the total to 1,268.Pune rural reported 268 new cases taking the final count to 86,057 and zero deaths. The total death toll here is now 1,986, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 5,111 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count to over 17.42 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 93.45%. Also, 4,981 new cases in the state were reported on Wednesday taking the total to over 18.64 lakh. In addition, 75 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 48,991. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Out of 1,14,47,723 laboratory samples, 18,64,348 have been tested positive (16.29%) for Covid-19 until December 9. Currently, 5,43,091 people are in home quarantine and 5,105 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-784-fresh-covid-19-cases-6-deaths/story-Y6qUInX9sRjOunvAgIH4VO.html
09-12-2020||City||58k women to manage rural community toilets in UP||Lucknow: The state government’s rural development and panchayati raj department has decided to employ 58,000 women for management of toilets in as many gram panchayats across the state.The government has set aside a budget of Rs 9,000 per month for the maintenance of each community toilet in the gram panchayats.This move comes as regular cleaning of toilets will keep them maintained, promote their use and dissuade people from going for open defecation.Coupled with the 58,000 Banking Correspondent Sakhis (BC Sakhis) who have already been appointed to address the banking problems that villagers face, the department has created 1.16 lakh jobs for women in the state.“The state has 58,000 gram panchayats. By March 2021, all these 58,000 gram panchayats will have community toilets. A woman each drawn from the panchayat’s women self-help groups will be employed to take care of the toilets. We have already employed 6,000 in as many gram panchayats where the toilets have been built. The government will pay Rs 6,000 per month each to the women who will be community toilets caretakers,” said additional chief secretary, rural development and panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh.As part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the state government is constructing 58,000 toilets in the gram panchayats. A sum of Rs 3 lakh is being given for the construction of a community toilet under the Swachh Bharat Mission Rural-2.Women working in these toilets will be given sanitation kits, gloves, and toilet cleaners twice a year.“While 6,000 women toilet caretakers have been appointed, more would be appointed gradually as and when community toilets will be built in the remaining 52,000 gram panchayats. We are also doing a third party verification of toilets which have been completed and quality of construction,” said Manoj Kumar Singh.The women caretakers will do the cleaning at least twice a day. Apart from the salary of Rs 6,000 each, the department will pay Rs 500 per month for the repair of electricity fitment, plumbing, taps and for cleaning equipment like brooms, brushes, wipers, sponges, clothes, mop, bucket, mug etc. Rs 1,000 per month will be given to cover utility charges — water supply, electricity, solid waste management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58k-women-to-manage-rural-community-toilets-in-up/story-gC5aSZjm9QKfE1pOLflybO.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||94 animals, birds rescued during a raid in Mumbai||The Thane wing of the Maharashtra forest department carried out a raid based on a tip-off that led to the interception of a truck carrying 94 caged animals and birds, which were rescued and the truck driver was arrested on early Wednesday morning.The forest department said they were assisted by animal welfare group Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA) during the raid.According to forest officials, 62 Indian rose-ringed parakeets, 12 plum headed parakeets, seven Indian palm squirrels, and 13 albino rabbits, were being delivered to south Mumbai as the truck was on route to Crawford Market. The truck was intercepted for inspection at Anand Nagar toll naka, Thane along the Eastern Express Highway. Some of the animals are protected under various Schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.“We had received a tip-off about this truck on Tuesday itself, and from 4.30 am onwards our team of forest officers and WWA were at a Dhaba keeping an eye on the truck. We spotted the vehicle around 6am. On further inquiry we found the animals and birds kept hidden at the back of the truck and arrested the driver,” said Narendra Muthe, range forest officer (Thane).The accused was identified as Shakil Ahmed Ansari, who was taken into forest custody. “A case was filed against Ansari. He was produced before a local district court but was granted bail later on Wednesday. However, further investigations into the source of these animals and birds is underway,” said Muthe.The animals and birds are in the custody of the department and their health is being monitored. They would be soon released based on the court’s order, added Muthe. This is the second instance of such a large raid this year after 88 wild animals rescued on October 30 with two persons arrested from a go-down cum apartment in Lalbaug by the same investigation teams.The Bombay high court in June 2017 had directed the Maharashtra government to shut down all illegal pet shops at Crawford market terming it a “black market” for wildlife trade but according to forest officials and wildlife activists, traders were quiet for a few years but a spike in trade was observed in 2020.WWA said the idea was to break the chain of supply of this illegal wildlife trade. “We are trying to intercept the origin of this trade. Crawford and Kurla markets continue to operate in full swing despite repeated raids this year across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region,” said Aditya Patil, president, WWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/94-animals-birds-rescued-during-a-raid-in-mumbai/story-0v0xr83DTfOE8OV6zNWWzJ.html
09-12-2020||City||Kanpur emerges as key centre for vaccine trials||The industrial city of Kanpur has emerged as a key centre for the trials of Covid-19 vaccines that different companies are manufacturing.After the successful human trials of two vaccines, one developed by Bharat Biotech and the other Russian Sputnik, the third vaccine Zydus Cadilla’s vaccine ZyCov-D would be given to a set of healthy volunteers in Kanpur.About 40 healthy volunteers would be given doses of the vaccine at Prakhar Hospital, where 197 people have already been given shots of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.The third trial would be carried out under the supervision of Dr VN Tripathi, the state’s former director general, medical education.“A separate lab has been set up in the hospital. Work on listing the volunteers has begun from Monday,” he said.The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) earlier had shortlisted Prakhar Hospital as one of two centres for human trials.According to the health department, Zydus had done trials on 20 people in Kanpur last month and the details were not shared.But the process has been kept transparent for the third phase. Dr Tripathi, the chief guide for the trial, said the drug controller had given the approval and the vaccine stock would reach Kanpur soon.Fifty-seven more people were given Covaxin in the third trial in Kanpur. The volunteers included the doctors and engineers who were examined by an ICMR team, which is staying in Kanpur during this phase.Dr JS Kushwaha, the head of Prakhar Hospital, said none of the volunteers given this vaccine had complained of any side- effects so far.Only 13 volunteers went for doses at the Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College, where the trial of Sputnik vaccine was going on. Seven others refused. They developed cold feet after learning that a Haryana minister tested positive for Covid-19 even after he was given one dose of a vaccine.Prof Richa Giri, vice principal of the medical college, said people should come forward to participate.“There is no reason for them to be apprehensive. I think their fear stems from the social media posts on this issue. They need to realise vaccine is the only way we can defeat corona and they should be mentally prepared,” Prof Giri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanpur-emerges-as-key-centre-for-vaccine-trials/story-EldkEcT3xqLuiuyMhOcmGK.html
09-12-2020||City||Woman murdered inSonbhadra village,kin allege rape too||VARANASI A 21-year-old woman was allegedly raped and murdered on the outskirts of a village under the Jugail police station limits in Sonbhadra district on Monday-Tuesday night, her family said, according to the first information report (FIR) filed in the matter. The woman’s body was found on Tuesday, the police said on Wednesday. A police officer said the victim’s kin filed a complaint alleging that an unidentified person raped the woman. A case was registered against the unidentified person on Wednesday, the police added. Circle officer, Obra, Bhaskar Verma said, “A case has been registered against an unidentified person under Sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) on the basis of complaint filed by the kin of the deceased. Further investigation is on.”Superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amrendra Prasad Singh said, “A panel of three doctors, including a lady doctor, performed the post-mortem. Videography of the post mortem has also been done. The post-mortem report has been received. According to post mortem report, cause of death is asphyxia due to strangulation. Injury marks were there around the neck as well as on the face. But no injury mark was found on the private parts of the woman. Swab slide has been prepared for confirmation of the rape.”Teams had been formed to work out the case, Singh said.A police officer said that the woman was married but was living with her parents. She went to participate in a marriage ceremony in her village on Monday evening. When she did not return till Tuesday morning, her family launched a search. Her body was found around 300 metres from the village. The officer said that the family members informed the police. Thereafter, a police team led by circle officer Bhashkar Verma reached the spot and inspected it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-allegedly-raped-murdered-near-sonbhadra-village/story-MQVEVC7LtAcNBTkMTq2cUK.html
09-12-2020||City||UP to have 35k Covid vaccine storage centres under CCTV watch: Yogi||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the state would set up 35,000 centres for the Covid vaccine and all of them would be put under CCTV (closed circuit television) camera vigil. Besides, all vaccine carrier vehicles will have GPS (global positioning system) trackers.He tasked the health and home departments with preparing a foolproof work plan for secure storage and cold chain for prospective Covid vaccines, eliminating any possibility of misuse of the vaccine. In his third dedicated meeting on the vaccine, he also said: “The vaccine is likely to come in the near future. Considering this, the home department and the health department together should make a foolproof work plan for the safe, secure storage of the vaccine and maintenance of cold-chain. Make sure that under any circumstances, there’s no misuse of the vaccine.”“Use the previous experience of rubella and measles vaccination programmes carried out in the state,” he said.Reminding them of the deadline, the chief minister asked the officials concerned to put in place safe storage facilities by December 15, putting all of them under CCTV camera vigil.A press statement by the state government also said the central government conducted a training for master trainers for the vaccination and chief minister Yogi Adityanath observed it virtually.Yogi said that the state government was working in all seriousness for Covid vaccine storage as the government was committed towards saving people from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-have-35k-covid-vaccine-storage-centres-under-cctv-watch-yogi/story-AYkQDjdHZuk5kvSLds0i5N.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC rejects plea against pvt schools, call petition a ‘publicity’ litigation||The Delhi high court on Wednesday imposed a cost of ₹20,000 on a public interest petitioner while dismissing their plea seeking action against the private schools that have allegedly been overcharging and denying online classes to students during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court said that this was a publicity” interest litigation and the petitioner had not done any homework before filing the plea.The court was hearing a plea by the Anti-Corruption Council of India Trust, through advocate Ashok Kumar Singh, claiming that according to news reports, several schools are allegedly collecting fee under various heads, other than tuition fee, and are denying access to online classes to those students who are unable to pay the fee.It contended that such actions are in violation of the Delhi government’s directions to schools to not charge anything more than tuition fee during the pandemic when all schools are shut .A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said the petitioner has not given any information regarding a particular school or how much fee was being charged in excess as alleged. It said that the whole plea was a “bogus matter” wherein vague terms have been used by the petitioner and no details have been given about the schools denying online classes to students. “The petition claims that ‘proper’ online classes are not being held…What is the meaning of proper?... It is such a vague term. Anything can be termed as not being proper,” the bench said.“Without doing any homework, this petition has been filed. No details have been given. It appears that this is a publicity interest litigation and not a public interest litigation (PIL),” it added.The bench said the litigation cost f ₹20,000 must be deposited within four weeks and would be used for access to justice programmes.It had claimed that according to the Delhi Parents Association there are 76 private schools which are in violation of the Delhi government direction.During the hearing, advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told the court that the government has issued two circulars --- on April 18 and August 28 -- where the directions were given to schools on the collection of fees while asking them only to charge tuition fee. He said that the orders are still in force till the end of the pandemic.“Schools are finding it impossible to manage their expenses with the meagre tuition fee being paid by a few, and on top of that, there are those having nothing to do with education, wanting some publicity. This culture of making schools the soft target and expecting everything for free will very soon spell doom for education in the city,” said advocate Kamal Gupta, counsel for the Action Committee for 400 Private schools. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-against-pvt-schools-call-petition-a-publicity-litigation/story-MgWBNZNGsNDNdYm6FxkwSI.html
09-12-2020||City||Crowding onlookers made bison rescue all but impossible to be safe||PUNE A male gaur (Indian bison) lost its way and wandered into Mahatma society in Kothrud at 8 am. The bison weighed 700kg to 800kg, was 5.5 feet in height and was around three-four-years old. According to forest officials, the gaur is listed as Schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and is tagged as ‘vulnerable’ on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List.Despite the forest department succeeding in rescuing the animal from the urban area of Kothrud, the bison died later in captivity.“The bison was rescued on the second attempt, as the first attempt in Mahatma Society failed when despite residents being informed to stay indoors, they crowded to see the bison. We used nets and a tranquiliser gun, but the bison jumped and ran. He kept on running from humans and the fast approaching vehicles, for 12km, until the forest officials finally managed to capture him, with crowds on all sides,” said Anil Khaire, head of the rehabilitation and rescue centre, Katraj.“While treating him, the bison breathed his last. It was suffering from high pressure and myopathy , which is often a fatal, exertion- or stress-induced muscle degenerative condition affecting captured wild animals. The myopathy referred to relates to the muscle damage and weakness observed after a strenuous event,” said Rahul Patil, divisional forest official.The officials feel the biggest hurdle in capturing and rescuing the bison was the crowd of people, and trying to get a closer look of the bison.Retired forest official Sanjay Marne said, “When it comes to rescue or capture of wild animals, we have often maintained a good team of rescue workers and are equipped with enough tranquiliser guns and protection nets to cordon off the animal from running away. Here too, the officials had all their equipment, but the public is a major nuisance and causes lots of hurdles to a quiet rescue. It is a wild animal has not seen so many humans, hence, it tends to jump and run scared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crowding-onlookers-made-bison-rescue-all-but-impossible-to-be-safe/story-I6bmMFS9kMKtQXMzrLFcSM.html
09-12-2020||City||Purandar airport likely to get delayed as admin identifies fresh strip of land to be taken over||PUNE The existing site for the proposed airport at Purandar in Pune district is likely to get relocated in the same area, though it may delay the entire project as the government will have to take fresh permissions from various authorities.The new site for the airport, according to the administration, is 15 kilometres away from the existing one, where farmers are opposing acquisition of their land. There are 60 farmers from a single village who may have to lose their land, with the local MLA Suresh Jagtap also demanding shifting of the airport site, an issue that was discussed during Tuesday’s meeting between NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, in Delhi. During the meeting, Rajnath Singh asked government officials to submit the proposal for the same on an urgent basis, said Jagtap, a Congress MLA who was present during the meeting. “Met defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Defense secretary and civil aviation secretary in New Delhi to discuss the proposed international airport at Purandar. The Maharashtra government has proposed to set up a new international airport in order to reduce the heavy air traffic load at Pune International airport. I insisted on the need to expedite work of the airport,” Pawar tweeted after the meeting Besides Jagtap, former Air chief marshal (retd) Bhushan Gokhale was also present at the meeting on Tuesday.The existing site was chosen in 2015 by the then Devendra Fadnavis government, as the previously selected area in Khed tehsil of Pune district received opposition from locals. After shifting the site to Purandar, the Fadnavis government expedited the process for all necessary approvals with the state government. However, with the new site being considered, state government will have to seek permissions from Air force, civil aviation and environment ministry, which may consume further time. As per the existing plan, the 2,832 hectares of land had been reserved for the Purandar Airport which would be named the Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje Pune International Airport. A total of seven villages were affected due to existing site and farmers from these villages - Pargaon, Rajewadi, Munjewadi, Vanpuri, Kumbalvalan, Ekhatpur and Udachi Wadi - were the use of land.According to Jagtap, he suggested shifting of site around 15 kms away from existing site. “At the new site, maximum land is owned by the government and only one village is getting affected,” said Jagtap, who gave a presentation for the new site in the presence of Pawar. “As the existing site will require more land acquisition to be done, the defense minister gave clear instructions to consider the suggestion for new site. Defence minister also instructed both civil aviation and defense secretary to make comparative proposals for the existing site and the proposed site urgently,” said Jagtap. Despite repeated attempts Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao did not respond to calls and messages. Rao had recently hinted that authorities are thinking about two to three sites in the same tehsil.The proposed airport had been planned on 2,000 hectares. Central and state governments had given all the necessary permissions but the actual land acquisition did not start. Total land acquisition cost is expected to be Rs4,000 crore for the existing site. If the new site gets approved, land acquisition cost will come down, said administrative sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/purandar-airport-likely-to-get-delayed-as-admin-identifies-fresh-strip-of-land-to-be-taken-over/story-iFSwXfxT8Qlti5zJsVUHkL.html
09-12-2020||City||Jai Ram lays foundation stones of development projects worth ₹197 crore in Seraj||With elections to Panchayati Raj Institutions round the corner in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday virtually inaugurated various development projects and laid foundation stones for new schemes estimated at ₹197 crore in Seraj assembly segment. In Thunag area, the CM laid foundation stones of ₹95 lakh double storey building of type–II quarter of HPSEB, ₹1.12 crore augmentation of 33/22KV Electric Sub Station, ₹3.18 crore Silk Seed Production Centre building, ₹5.50 crore sewerage scheme, construction of buildings of government senior secondary schools, Bharari, Shikawari and Bagsiad at ₹2.51 crore, ₹3.85 crore and ₹4.24 crore respectively, ₹8.35 crore Science laboratory cum multipurpose hall at Government Degree College, Lambathach. He also laid foundation stones of ₹2.11 crore community centre building, ₹6.33 crore Thunag-Lambasafar road under PMGSY, ₹6.58 crore Rille Chendi Kahwali road under NABARD, ₹2.16 crore additional accommodation at rest house Bagsiad and ₹10.62 crore work of Bagsaid Rahidhar Kathyali Dhanwar Shikari Mata road. For Janjehli area, the CM laid foundation stones of 11 developmental projects worth ₹58 crore which includes ₹1.41 crore 19.75 metre span single lane bridge at Keolinal in GP Dheem Kataroo, ₹22.63 crore improvement and upgradation of Janjehli Magrugala Billagad Chhatri road under PMGSY, ₹13.78 crore improvement and upgradation of Janjehli Raigarh Shikari Mata road under PMGSY, ₹6.80 crore sewerage scheme to Janjehli and its surrounding areas, ₹1.16 crore building of Government Senior Secondary School, Shankar Dehra, ₹10.22 crore combined office building at Janjehli, ₹50 lakh building of Government Sericulture Centre at Deem Kataru, ₹43 lakh flow irrigation scheme for Janjehli (Bhekhali) cluster under HP Horticulture Development Project, ₹26.35 lakh flow irrigation scheme for Riyada-2 cluster under HP Horticulture Development Project, ₹50 lakh additional accommodation in forest rest house Baila. In Chhatri, the CM virtually performed foundation stones laying ceremonies of nine developmental projects worth ₹46 crore which include ₹3.17 crore and ₹3.46 crore buildings of Government Senior Secondary Schools, Brayogi and Mehridhar respectively, ₹4.15 crore sub-tehsil office building, ₹14.59 crore ITI building, ₹3.17 crore bridge over Suketi khad on Kohlugad Rutatan road, ₹37 lakh junior engineer cum residence of PWD, ₹7.94 crore improvement and upgradation of Chhatri Gadagussaini Tapnali road under PMGSY, ₹1.45 crore flow irrigation scheme Chhatri khad to Kandhi Choug and Basagkhad to Kathol and ₹6.89 crore 33/22 KV sub-station at Chhatri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-lays-foundation-stones-of-development-projects-worth-197-crore-in-seraj/story-U0bB83gX46rMlB44bkEmJN.html
09-12-2020||City||Resolve fee issue within 15 days: HP govt to private schools in Shimla||Taking action on the complaints of parents who have alleged that private schools in Shimla are charging arbitrary fee during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh government has directed all principals to resolve the issue within 15 days with Parent Teachers Association (PTA) and file a report to the office of directorate of education. The authorities have also been directed not to send warning messages or emails to parents who have not paid the fee.Recently, a meeting was held between director of higher education and principals of 21 private schools in which discussions on tuition fee was conducted.Director, directorate of higher education Amarjeet Kumar Sharma has asked the private school authorities to share the information about what reliefs in fee and funds have been provided to parents and students ever since regular schools have been closed due to Covid-19.During the meeting, representatives of private schools claimed that parents who can afford to pay fee are not doing so and are citing coronavirus as the reason for it. However, the authorities have assured that discounts in fee will be given or total fee will be waived off for genuine cases.Chattra Abhimaniyou Manch, a student parent forum, has alleged that private schools have been charging arbitrary fees during the pandemic and are harassing parents by sending messages to deposit the fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resolve-fee-issue-within-15-days-hp-govt-to-private-schools-in-shimla/story-gQ8gUWqnJoFnY2O9qQuFAO.html
09-12-2020||City||On Human Rights Day - Graffiti effort to sensitise adolescent girls about early marriage||Lucknow: Ahead of the International Human Rights Day (December 10), a group of Arts College students took to streets with graffiti, to sensitise adolescent girls to speak out if their family pressures them to marry at an early age against their wishes. ‘Bano Nai Soch’ and ‘Marzi bina shaadi nahi’ is the message the students are spreading. College of Arts and Craft second year BFA student Shivalika Yadav, along with five other students joined hands with Dastak Manch and Oxfam India to encourage women to speak up (Bol) against forced marriage (Marzi bina shaadi nahi).“We made graffiti on the flyover pillars near the New High Court building as many people commute along that stretch of the road. There is a traffic signal and people stop there. We felt our creativity will get eyeballs and will be helpful in sensitising the public,” said Yadav.She was joined by Bareeza Nazim, Hamna Fatima, Pragya Pal, Priyanshi Srivastav and Anshay Upmanyu. Together they have done four paintings, all themed on women’s empowerment. The students accomplished the task in four hours. More such graffiti is to be done in the days to come, she said.These students said they know about the consequences of early marriage and how it badly impacts married life. The event was part of the ongoing 16-day campaign ‘Stree - Paksh’ launched by Dastak Manch and Oxfam on November 25 with the lighting of 16 diyas - a symbolic representation of the endeavour to highlight gender-based issues through various informational and communicational programmes throughout the 16 days.Social activist Deepak Kabir said because of financial constraints and rising unemployment incidents of domestic violence /violence against women, rape cases and molestations have risen. Amidst such circumstances it was imperative to highlight these issues. Representatives from Oxfam and Sheroes Hangout are also supporting the cause. Veena, Sangita and Sanhita from Dastak Manch stood by Arts College students in this pursuit.‘Bol’ is a series of photo - poetry - poster exhibitions, portraying women’s voices through, poetry, photos, illustrations and posters and features prominent names such as Ranu Uniyal, Arshi Alvi, Sangita Jaiswal, Anupriya and Malvika Hariom. Nand Kishor of Oxfam stressed on the need to increase the awareness and impact of ‘Bano Nai Soch’ and ‘Marzi bina shaadi nahi’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-human-rights-day-graffiti-effort-to-sensitise-adolescent-girls-about-early-marriage/story-06Yo96G6yBxtiXJio6wkKN.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab minister Ashu set to head state badminton body||Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is all set to become the president of the Punjab Badminton Association (PBA). Confirming the development, the Punjab’s food and supply minister said, “I am contesting for the post of the PBA president.” Most likely, it will be unanimous elections, as the incumbent president Ashok Gupta, a retired Punjab bureaucrat, has decided not to contest the polls and it has been learnt that some of the members of the group in power have met the Punjab minister in Ludhiana and offered their unconditional support to him. “I can only comment about myself that I am not contesting in the elections,” said Gupta. On the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the state sports department is holding the elections of the state badminton unit on December 13. The filing of the nomination is on Wednesday (December 9), while the withdrawal is December 10. The sports department has formed a three-member committee, comprising deputy commissioners of Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, to conduct the elections. Acting on a petition filed in 2018 by Rajesh Tandon in the high court against PBA for non-adoption of the national sports code on the lines of the parent body, Badminton Association of India (BAI), the court issued directions to the state sports ministry to sort out the matter. As per the BAI’s constitution and national sports code, each of the 19 affiliated district units have two votes each, making the electoral college of 38 votes. “Sixteen district units have openly announced their support in favor of Bharat Bhushan Ashu, so most likely it will be a unanimous election,” says former national-level badminton player Ritin Khanna, who is part of Jalandhar district’s executive body. Hurdles ahead Rajinder Kalsi, who is currently the honorary general secretary of PBA, claims that he has not been kept in the loop, while announcing the elections. “The current elections are not held as per the PBA constitution, which was revised in August 2019 and approved by the general house. As per the current PBA constitution, the electoral college is of 51 votes, which includes two votes each of the 19 district units and 13 votes of executive members,” says Kalsi. “As per my knowledge, the BAI is not sending an observer, which is mandatory for holding the state unit elections.” After the elections on December 13, the main challenge for the newly elected body of PBA will be to get the national body’s approval. “Nobody is challenging the current elections, as the state machinery is involved. But getting affiliation from BAI will be a challenge. And someone might approach the BAI or the court challenging the elections,” said an official in the PBA’s incumbent body, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-minister-ashu-set-to-head-state-badminton-body/story-VOeJhPp8pQCZm4UIPrtV0H.html
09-12-2020||City||Andhra ‘mystery’ illness: Latest tests disclose presence of pesticide residues in drinking water||As Andhra Pradesh health department looks into the source of heavy metals like lead and nickel in the blood samples of people in Eluru town who suffered from a mysterious disease in the past three days, latest tests revealed the presence of high residues of pesticides in drinking water samples. The disease left one dead and over 500 people with symptoms ranging from giddiness and convulsions to epilepsy.Reports of water samples tested by a Vijayawada-based private laboratory at the instance of Eluru Municipal Corporation (which were seen by Hindustan Times) indicated that the drinking water supplied to areas like Gandhi Colony, Ramachandra Rao Peta, Pension Line Area and JP Colony contained high quantities of various pesticide residues, thousands of times more than the permissible limits. Drinking water sample obtained from Gandhi Colony contained 14.21 milligrams per litre (mg/lit) of a pesticide OP-DDD (Ortho-Para Dichloro-Diphenyl Dichloroethane) and 15.23 mg/lit of another pesticide PP-DDD. Another sample collected from Ramachandra Rao Pet contained 10.89 mg/lit of pesticide Alachlor and 13.37 mg/lit of OP-DDE. Water samples collected from other areas also contained high quantity of Alachlor, DDE, DDD and DDT pesticides. The samples were sent to the laboratory for testing on Sunday and the reports were submitted to the state health department on Tuesday night. “Test results of another 15 samples have come on Wednesday,” a senior official in the food safety division of Eluru municipal corporation told HT on condition of anonymity. According to the official, parts of Eluru town get water supply from Godavari river and Krishna river through canals. Water samples from these canals were also tested and they were found to have residues of Alachlor and Methoxychlor to the extent of 10.88 mg/litre to as high as 17.64 mg/litre. “The maximum permissible limit of these pesticide residues in all these water samples is <0.001 mg/litre,” the official quoted above said. More water samples of various other localities were also sent to another private laboratory and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) in Hyderabad for corroboration. Interestingly, the laboratory tests of these drinking water samples have shown only minute traces of heavy metals like lead and nickel which were within permissible limits, but strangely, the blood samples of the affected patients tested by All India Institute of Medical Sciences showed high incidence of these metals. “It is a strange phenomenon. But we suspect that the high presence of heavy metals in the blood samples of patients could be due to a process called biomagnification – accumulation in blood over a period of time and it will lead to symptoms of neuro-toxicity,” the official said. Eluru government hospital superintendent AVR Mohan, who explained the latest developments to chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in a video conference, said apart from heavy metals like lead, presence of pesticides also was also responsible for the mysterious disease. “But there is nothing to worry. The incidence of the disease is getting reduced,” he said. Ever since the mysterious disease surfaced in Eluru town on Saturday night, the municipal corporation authorities have been making efforts to find out the source of contamination of water. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the trouble could have started after the heavy rains and floods in October and November. “There were flash floods to Tammileru river near Eluru, resulting in the breach of bund and flooding of crops and aquaculture ponds. While there is a heavy usage of pesticides in these crops and bromine in aquaculture, the run-off water could have entered the municipal water storage tank at Denduluru on the outskirts of Eluru town,” the municipal corporation official quoted above said. Incidentally, the places which were affected in the town are those which are close to that municipal water tank. They receive water first, so they must have been affected first, he said. In the past 48 hours, the authorities have been supplying mineral water to the people in the affected areas, instead of municipal water. “Now, the cases of mysterious disease are coming down,” the official said. As of now, only 76 people are undergoing treatment and they would also be discharged shortly, the hospital authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/andhra-mystery-illness-latest-tests-disclose-presence-of-pesticide-residues-in-drinking-water/story-0ijMz4H1sUZ1hVCEKiQEdL.html
09-12-2020||City||Amid spike in Kangra, plan to make ayurvedic college, private hospitals Covid treatment facilities||With Kangra seeing a spike in Covid-19 infections, the district authorities are considering taking over the Dr Rajiv Gandhi Government Post Graduate Ayurvedic College at Paprola and some private hospitals to create Covid treatment facilities if the situation gets worse. With 6,190 infections recorded in the district till date, Kangra is at third position in terms of the number of cases after Shimla and Mandi. At present, there are 1,370 active cases in the district. “If the situation worsens, we are considering to take over the Paprola college building and some private hospitals to create additional Covid treatment facilities for patients needing intensive care,” said Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. He said that Kangra has facility to treat 150 severe Covid-19 patients, including 100 at the Zonal Hospital in Dharamshala and 50 at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda. An additional facility with the capacity of treating 66 patients is coming up at Tanda, he said, adding the takeover will happen if infections continue to rise. The district administration has also directed all private hospitals and practising doctors and chemists to report details of patients having influenza like illness symptoms treated by them on a daily basis. An order to the effect was issued on Tuesday under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act. The district drug controller has been made the nodal officer and will ensure proper reporting and inform the chief medical officer and District Disaster Management Authority through e-mail. Any obstruction, resistance or refusal by any officer, official or any other person to comply with the directions shall render them liable to prosecution. Since November 1, Kangra’s Covid-19 tally has swelled by 3,109 infections, taking it to 6,190 from 3,081, a rise of over 100%. About 800 cases have been added to the tally this month. For the past week, the district is seeing about 100 new infections daily. Besides, 150 people have died of the contagion in Kangra and the district has the highest death rate of 2.4% in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-spike-in-kangra-plan-to-make-ayurvedic-college-private-hospitals-covid-treatment-facilities/story-eXYgaW0pI5OcJFodhyrTnM.html
09-12-2020||City||Goa restaurateur, accused of allegedly molesting dyslexic minor girl, granted bail||The Bombay high court at Goa has granted bail to Varun Nayyar, a prominent restaurateur who was accused of allegedly raping a minor mentally challenged girl in a hotel room back in August. Although the complaint was filed against unknown persons, Nayyar, 30, was arrested after eyewitnesses told the police that he was seen in the hotel along with the 13-year-old girl. The girl’s mother filed a police complaint after her daughter narrated her ordeal, stating that an unknown person came in a car, picked her up from the road, took her to a hotel, and molested her in the room. When she raised an alarm, he let go of her and then dropped her back from where he had picked her.Nayyar, through his lawyers, argued that it was a case of mistaken identity and pointed out that neither the victim nor the so-called star witnesses, who are said to have seen the her in his company, could identify him in the test identification parade. The prosecution however, opposed his bail alleging that the case involves a minor girl, who suffers from dyslexia. Therefore, the applicant cannot take advantage of the fact that she could not recognise him. However, the court decided in favour of the accused, pointing to the prima facie flimsy evidence against him. “Three alleged eye witnesses, who are said to have seen the victim in the (accused’s) company have failed to identify [him] in the test identification parade. Even the victim’s testimony and the medical evidence--I stress,only prima facie--have not been conclusive for us to draw any inference that there has been any rape or molestation,” the high court bench of justice Dama Seshadri Naidu, said. “When the victim girl resisted the applicant’s alleged attempt, he is said to have allowed her to get dressed and dropped her at the place from where he had picked her up. In this case, the investigation has been completed and a charge sheet filed. The perpetrator’s identity remains unascertainable. A pre-trial bail cannot be treated as exoneration of the applicant from the crime.In the meanwhile, it is inequitable to let the applicant suffer pre-trial incarceration only based on the gravity of the offence, without anything more on the record to link him with the crime,” the high court said. Nayyar has been asked to cooperate with the investigation, not influence or intimidate witnesses, to keep the police informed of his whereabouts, and make himself available as and when called for.Nayyar, who owns the popular Delhi Darbar chain of restaurants in Goa, has been incarcerated since his arrest in mid-August and his previous bail applications by the sessions court were rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-restaurateur-accused-of-allegedly-molesting-dyslexic-minor-girl-granted-bail/story-6jGmTkr8oOv1Pu3b31TYjO.html
09-12-2020||City||Rohtang Pass closed for traffic due to snowfall in Kullu||Atal Tunnel that cuts across Rohtang Pass has been closed for traffic due to fresh snowfall in the higher reaches of Kullu district. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said that the road beyond Solang to Atal Tunnel’s North Portal has been blocked due to the snowfall and efforts are on to clear it. “Only 4x4 vehicles can travel through the tunnel,” he said, advising people to avoid travelling to this area until the snow is cleared. Keylong gets 6cm snow, rain in Manali The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh witnessed light snowfall and rainfall on Wednesday. Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti, received 6cm of snowfall, while Gondla village in the district got 4.4cm of snow. Light rain has been forecast in Manali, Dalhousie, Bhuntar and Chamba. The state meteorological department has issued a yellow warning on December 12 for isolated places in the higher and middle hills, resulting in heavy snowfall and rainfall. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall and rainfall are likely to occur in the lower and middle hills on December 10. Snowfall and rainfall will occur throughout the state on December 11 and 12 and in the higher and middle hills on December 13. “Another fresh western disturbance is likely to affect north-west India from December 11,” he said. Mercury above normal as precipitation up Light precipitation was witnessed in isolated places of the state since Tuesday evening. The minimum temperatures were three to four degrees above normal, while the maximum temperatures in the state were also one to two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature in state capital, Shimla, was 10.4°C, while the nearby tourist resort of Kufri recorded a low of 7.3°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 6°C, 8.2°C and 5.4°C, respectively. The minimum temperature in Una was 9.7°C, while Solan recorded 6.6°C, Bilaspur 9°C, Hamirpur 9.3°C, Nahan 11.7°C, Mandi 7.1°C and Kalpa 2°C. Keylong was the coldest in the state at minus 1.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtang-pass-closed-for-traffic-due-to-snowfall-in-kullu/story-cENHmS18gnY1cQvWHpwusK.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Review order reserving 80% ICU beds in private hospitals for Covid-19: High court tells Delhi government||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to review its order of reserving 80 % ICU beds in 33 private hospitals of the city for Covid-19.Justice Navin Chawla turned down the request of the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, who had sought that the matter be listed after 10 days for better review of the situation. He told the court that the government would review the order in a meeting scheduled for December 17 and hence, the matter be listed after that.However, the court asked the government to review the order and file its stand by December 14 while posting the matter for further hearing on December 15.Through an order on September 12, the Delhi government had asked 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the high court on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers.Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9. The Supreme Court refused to interfere with the HC order, staying the AAP government’s instruction to private hospitals.Also read | Right to privacy: Delhi high court seeks Centre’s stand on PIL against surveillance systemsOn November 12, a division bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad had vacated the stay considering the increase in the number of cases in the city. On Wednesday, additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose told the court that a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the health minister on December 7 to review the current situation of Covid-19 in Delhi. Ghose said that the order to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 hospitals would be reviewed on December 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/review-order-reserving-80-icu-beds-in-private-hospitals-for-covid-19-high-court-tells-delhi-government/story-W7jsYmXoMkJbTA30Eb8ggO.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Indian bison strays into residential area in Pune; dies due to exhaustion||A Gaur (Indian bison) strayed into Kothrud’s Mahatma Society on Wednesday morning. By noon, the gaur had been tranquillised by forest officials, who took him for medical examination. During the tranquillization, the guar sustained injuries as the animal tried to escape. However, the gaur died while being taken to the forest. The officials said that after running non-stop for five hours, the animal died due to exhaustion. Rahul Patil, divisional forest officer, Maharashtra Forest Department (Pune Circle), said, “Primary cause of the gaur’s death is high stress due to exertion and increase in the body temperature.” Some locals spotted the bison, listed as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red list since 1986, at Mahatma society, which is surrounded by hills. The animal was frightened and probably hurt by stray dogs in the early morning hours, according to resident witnesses.A team of forest personnel rushed to the spot at 8am and police personnel were also deployed in the area to control the crowd which came out to see the animal. Prima facie, the animal is suspected to have ventured into the residential society from the Mulshi forest area located nearby, said Rahul Patil.“The forest department sent a team of forest officials who tranquillised him after five hours,” said Patil. Patil said, “It is surprising for us too to see a gaur so far away from the forest.” Following the spotting of the animal, large number of locals rushed to the spot. Disturbed by the crowd, the animal damaged a few vehicles, including two cars along with entrance gate of a housing society. Prashant Deshpande, a resident of Mahatma Society and the first one to call the rescue and rehabilitation centre, Katraj, said, “I was woken up by a sound of something crashing in the adjoining open plot at 6.30 am. From my terrace, I saw this tall, large bull, jumping off a wooden plank off the Mahatma Society compound wall and then moving around until he settled under a tree. I immediately called the rescue team and was waiting for them to arrive. Meanwhile, morning walkers had already begun to speculate about the bull and realized that it was an Indian bison.”Anil Khaire, head of the rescue and rehabilitation centre, Katraj was first on the spot, said, “The bison was hurt and was scared of seeing so many people. When we first approached it with a tranquillizer gun and a protection net to cordon off his run, he jumped over the net and ran into the street. There he ran for almost 12km non-stop and then we captured him by casting a protective net formation and the forest officials took him to Bavdhan transit centre for treatment before transporting him to the jungle near the city.” However, all this running caused the bison to die due to exhaustion. According to Patil, “We were readying the bison to be taken to Tamhini jungle, when he died due to high pressure, and temperature. People did not cooperate and crowded a lot to see the large bovine, which is one of the vulnerable species. It is an unfortunate incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/indian-bison-strays-into-residential-area-in-pune-dies-due-to-cardiac-arrest-during-rescue-ops/story-swJIEkce4E781KIkQXfxDP.html
09-12-2020||City||PMC’s Covid vaccine storage plan: 55 ice-laced refrigerators, 35 deep freezers||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) does not have a cold storage unit of its own and is dependent on state and divisional cold storage units. Although the city has a state storage in its jurisdiction, the civic body will rely on the state health department’s walk-in storage facility and its own deep freezers to store the Covid-19 vaccine.Dr Ashish Bharti, civic health chief said, “The PMC does not have its own walk-in cold storage facility, but we have 55 ice-laced refrigerators and 35 deep freezers. They can maintain a temperature of about 2-8 degrees Celsius and can store about 3-5 lakh doses at a time. Given that we currently have only 44,000 healthcare workers who have registered with us, we won’t need a lot of storage capacity. Most private hospitals have not registered their staff with us and so they won’t be eligible for the same.”Currently, the state storage unit is located at the state’s family planning and welfare department located near Naidu hospital, which will also work as storage for Pune city’s vaccine needs.A senior civic staffer assigned with the vaccination drive, but speaking on condition of anonymity said, “We are yet to get guidelines for the vaccination drive, but during a morning video conference call on Tuesday we were told that we have to set up vaccination booths like election booths; which will have three rooms; waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. We will send an e-certificate once a person completes the two-dose course which happens in a 28-day timeframe. We will get a detailed guidelines on the same soon and the staff will also undergo training on the same.” While the civic body is preparing for storage and registration of the vaccine beneficiaries, there are still no guidelines on whether antibody tests would be necessary before a person is vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-covid-vaccine-storage-plan-55-ice-laced-refrigerators-35-deep-freezers/story-40uPmWxbIynz0hZLaSIChJ.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||SHO suspended after illegal liquor factory unearthed in Punjab’s Rajpura||Patiala A day after an illegal liquor factory was unearthed in Patiala district’s Rajpura town, the station house officer was on Wednesday placed under suspension and show-cause notices were issued to the superintendent of police, detective, the deputy superintendent of police, detective, and the crime investigation agency (CIA) in-charge. Taking a serious note of the police laxity, Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vikram Jeet Duggal said there was a zero-tolerance policy towards spurious liquor and no police officer would be spared in Patiala district for showing leniency in dealing with crime control in the district. FACTORY WAS RUNNING FOR OVER A WEEK The role of the town’s police is under question as the DSP said that the factory was running for a week, while financial commissioner, taxation, A Venu Parsad confirmed that the unit was in place for a month-and-a-half. Despite the police intelligence wing’s alert of large-scale liquor smuggling in the area, the police failed to make any arrest. Excise officials, however, unearthed another liquor factory.Venu, who visited the spot with excise commissioner Rajat Aggarwal, said “Our investigation shows that the factory was running for the past one-and-a-half months. The ENA was pilfered with help of drivers. As we have installed GPRS in trucks carrying Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) movement, the basic raw material, the accused chose a site near the highway. The printed material was procured from Delhi, while ENA was blended with water to make liquor.” He said that police will investigate further. KEY ACCUSED WAS KINGPIN OF SHAMBU RACKET The SSP said that based on the information provided by excise officials, a case was registered under Sections 420, 465, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Excise Act against Dipesh Grover of Rajpura and Karaj Singh of Shamaspur village of Rajpura. Grover was the kingpin of an illegal liquor factory busted at Shambu in Patiala district. “We are concerned as Dipesh has again indulged in illegal sale of liquor, after coming out of bail in similar case. I have asked officials to nab his links, who were supplying ENA. We are also investigating as to who was selling the packed liquor,” the SSP said, adding action had taken against erring officials. AAP PROTESTS Seeking action against local Congress MLAs for the illegal trade, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a massive protest in Rajpura Town and burnt the effigy of Captain Amarinder Singh and local MLA Hardial Kamboj. “Patiala has not seen any major project over the past four years, but it has became a hub of illicit liquor. All this is mushrooming under the patronage of Congress leaders. Dipesh is a close aide of two Congress MLAs and the case should be shifted to any other agency to bring out role of politicians,” said Harchand Barsat and Neena Mittal, senior AAP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sho-suspended-after-illegal-liquor-factory-unearthed-in-punjab-s-rajpura-town/story-smTkavNHI62mBzOqbfzXqM.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC convicts HIV positive man of rape, acquits him of attempt to murder||Sexual activity by a person infected by HIV will not attract the offence of attempt to murder, observed the Delhi High Court which upheld the conviction of an HIV positive man for raping his minor step daughter but acquitted him of the offence of attempting to murder the victim.The trial court had said that the act of the accused amounted to attempt to murder as he had the knowledge that being HIV positive his crime could have resulted in transmitting the potentially lethal disease causing death. However, the high court which noted that there was no intention to kill the victim, said there was no material furnished along with the charge sheet to establish that the victim was infected with AIDS or was HIV positive and even her tests for HIV had yielded a negative result.The high court did not agree with the trial court’s reasoning that since the man was aware that his acts could result in transmitting the potentially lethal disease, he had knowingly committed an act, which if resulted in transmitting of HIV and the victim’s death from it would amount to murder. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said the high court does not concur with the trial court’s view that the appellant man was guilty of the offence of attempt to murder.“The import of holding so would also mean that any sexual activity by a person infected by HIV is punishable under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC, notwithstanding that his or her partner has consented to such sexual activity. “This is because the culpable act under Section 307 of the IPC does not cease to be one if the victim of such an act has also consented to the same,” the high court said.It further said “if the reasoning adopted by the trial court is extended further, it would also mean that a healthy person, who willingly engages in unprotected sexual intercourse with an HIV positive partner and as a result acquires the disease that eventually proves fatal, would have committed suicide.“And the HIV positive partner would be guilty of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of the IPC if not guilty of committing murder,” it said.The high court was deciding the appeal filed by the man who was held guilty by the trial court of the offence of raping his step daughter, who was around 15-year-old at the time of offence in 2015, and since he was infected with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), he was also convicted for the offence of attempt to murder.Besides rape and attempt to murder, the trial court in 2012, had also convicted the man for the offence of causing miscarriage without woman’s consent and was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment.Though the man has been acquitted of the offence of causing miscarriage of the woman by the high court, he would have to spend 10 years in jail for the offence of rape.The high court noted that the man had not raped the victim with an intention of causing her death.According to the prosecution, the man was lonely after the death of his wife, who was also HIV positive, and he had sexually preyed on his step daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-convicts-hiv-positive-man-of-rape-acquits-him-of-attempt-to-murder/story-4EZ5sAA5NeLoiZStYMLlMN.html
09-12-2020||Patna||Jewellery worth Rs 10 crore looted in Bihar’s Darbhanga, 20 rounds fired in air||About a dozen armed men decamped with diamond and gold ornaments worth around Rs 10 crore from a well-known jewellery shop in Bihar’s Darbhanga, in a daring daylight robbery on Wednesday, said police.The robbers also fired more than 20 rounds in the air to intimidate the general public before fleeing with the booty.Police said it was one of the biggest jewellery shop heists in the state in recent memory. The incident took place at Lath Market, situated in Bada Bazar area, barely 800 metres from the Town police station. Police said six robbers entered the shop at around 10.30 am, posing as customers, while others took positions outside the shop. There were no other customers and only employees were present at the shop.“Posing as customers, robbers entered our shop and asked us to show diamond necklaces. We did not notice anything wrong in their behaviour. All of them were in their mid-30s and were speaking in both Hindi and Bhojpuri,” said an employee of the shop. One of the eyewitnesses, Santosh Kumar Lath, said the armed bandits fired two rounds inside the shop and asked the staff to hand over all gold ornaments and not attempt to raise an alarm. When the shop owners resisted their attempt, they hit them with pistol butts.“They further threatened to kill the staff and owners if they did not cooperate,” said Lath. “We were scared and could not dare to raise an alarm as the goons were holding their guns at us. We had to allow them to take away whatever we had and handed them the safe keys. They stuffed all the ornaments inside their bags,” said another employee. Also Read: NIA arrest arms syndicate member in AK47 stealing and trade caseAccording to local residents, the men escaped from the spot with guns held in the air to scare the crowd. As soon as the dacoits left, some passerby informed the police. A large police team led by SSP Babu Ram soon arrived at the spot.Police officials said the accused had likely done a recce of the area including the shop before carrying out the heist.The police were scanning the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the market, while other police teams were conducting searches. Forensic experts and a dog squad have also been pressed into service. A special investigation team (SIT) headed by the senior superintendent of police has been formed to crack the case. More than ten police officers have been included in the SIT, which is conducting raids in and around the state capital, said additional director general (ADG), (headquarters), Jitendra Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/jewellery-worth-rs-10-crore-looted-in-bihar-s-darbhanga-20-rounds-fired-in-air/story-IPXLS2DLPOeiePadITq4AN.html
09-12-2020||Ranchi||Trapped for 30 hrs, special divers could be only hope for 2 Jharkhand miners||A team of professional divers from Odisha’s Cuttack was pressed in to rescue two miners trapped in a flooded underground coal mine for the last 30 hours in Jharkhand’s Mugma colliery area of Eastern Coalfield Limited (ECL) on Wednesday morning.Mugma area general manager (GM) of ECL Sanctoria (Burdman district of West Bengal) Vibhash Chandra Singh told media persons that besides National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams from Ranchi and Asansol, a six-member squad of Odisha divers has been pressed in to rescue the two miners.“We have also installed four pumps for pumping out water from the seam of underground coal mines so that trapped miners could be brought out as soon as possible,” he said.Officials said pump operator Basiya Manjhi (56) and his assistant Manik Bauri (52) were found missing when all of a sudden water flooded the SP seam of underground mine at around 4am on Tuesday. Total four miners were engaged in dewatering MS seam of mines at that time.On December 8, wee hours, the four miners were pumping out water from the seam when it got flooded. While two of them came out, Basiya Manjhi and Manik Bauri were still missing, said officials.Also Read: Jharkhand man chased for Rs 3.5cr GST fraud turns out to be a daily wage workerRescue teams from Mugma ( Dhanbad) and Sitarampur (West Bengal) were the first to be deployed for the search of the missing miners. When they failed, colliery management sought help from Professional Diving Services, Cuttack.AD Mishra, director, Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS), the country’s mines monitoring body, also reached on the spot with his team. “Our first priority is to bring out missing miners from the underground mine. Thereafter a probe would be started,” he said.Samir Tudu, one of the four miners, who came out safely, said all of a sudden a heavy storm with massive water flow flooded the spot where they were working. He along with Vikash Bhuian managed to come out of the mine in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/trapped-for-30-hrs-special-divers-could-be-only-hope-for-2-jharkhand-miners/story-OKtUSTUYtgn5Dlfa63qYgI.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Covishield vaccine trial: Six out of 249 volunteers drop out ahead of second dose in Mumbai||Six volunteers who were participating in the clinical trial of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine for Covid-19, Covishield, at the King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital in Parel, Mumbai, have dropped out. However, at the BYL Nair Hospital, which is another centre, all volunteers have participated in the trial.At KEM Hospital, a total of 101 people had participated in the trial which began on September 26 in Mumbai. The hospitals started administering the dosage in the latter half of October. But when called for the second dose that was to be administered 28 days later, only 95 returned. “It is a voluntary process, we cannot force them if they don’t want to come,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, hospital dean.Recently, a 40-year-old man from Chennai who had participated in the trial, complained of developing cognitive issues after taking the vaccine. However, the hospital had no information on why these six volunteers dropped out. Dr Deshmukh said, “We don’t know why they dropped out of the trial. It is a personal choice.”Also read | Covid-19: More than 60 envoys in Hyderabad to visit vaccine facilitiesAt Nair hospital, 148 volunteers have participated in the clinical trial of the same vaccine. “At our hospital, all volunteers have completed both the dosages,” said dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal.Both the hospitals have completed administering the two doses last week, and are now monitoring the immune responses and health of the participants. So far, no one has reported of any adverse effect. The trial duration is 180 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covishield-vaccine-trial-six-out-of-249-volunteers-drop-out-ahead-of-second-dose-in-mumbai/story-CBbk2zkj2nVfGumM5EOAwK.html
09-12-2020||Lucknow||UP may soon allow private institutes to use 14 airstrips for training pilots, technicians||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has approved, in principle, the proposed policy for utilising fourteen civil aviation airstrips in the state for training by private flying institutions.The proposed policy envisages facilitation of running courses for training pilots, aviation engineers, technicians, flight dispatchers, and cabin crew personnel. “While giving the approval, the chief minister asked the officers concerned to study similar policies of other states,” said a state government press statement after a presentation made before Yogi on the proposed policy.Chief minister’s additional chief secretary, SP Goel, and special secretary, civil aviation department, Surendra Singh made the presentation at a meeting at the chief minister’s residence.“The state has an immense potential for civil aviation and the state has made significant stride in the direction. Development work on Kushinagar airport is over and the licencing process is on. There has been an approval for five airstrips for Noida airport,” he said at the meeting. Yogi also said that several airstrips in the state were being scaled up into airports. Infrastructure development in the sphere of civil aviation would consolidate connectivity, he said. During the presentation, the CM was told that the state has seven functional airports, one more is ready, and twelve airports are in the development stage. Apart from this, UP also has eight airstrips. And for creating skilled manpower for the civil aviation area, the state had made a policy in 2007. In these 13 years, there have been many changes in civil aviation sector and hence, a new policy is being made.After the CM’s approval, the draft policy would go to the Cabinet for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-may-soon-allow-private-institutes-to-use-14-airstrips-for-training-pilots-technicians/story-SfM7AZDhbBWNEdMfuMfquO.html
09-12-2020||Education||DU societies: Perform, record, send your clip to be campus cool virtually||Hey, fresher! Attended online classes and digital orientation? Now give your best shot to make it to the hip societies of your college. And needless to say, this is happening online, too!Arvada, president of Adhrita: The Indian Dance Society of Hindu College, says, “We are conducting online auditions in two rounds. Round one will have students, who are interested, send a two-minute video of them performing any dance form, and for round two, we will be conducting an online workshop with a choreographer, who will judge the ability of these students to learn within a stipulated time.” And Stephanians aren’t behind when it comes to hand picking the best talent for their ECA societies! “Of course every society wants the best talent to join in so that competitions and fests can be real fun,” says Hamza Matto, vice president of Bazm-e-Adab, Urdu Literary Society at St Stephen’s College. He adds, “The USP of our society is qawwali night and Eid lunch, but those can’t happen digitally... We recently organised an online orientation for the students, where everyone recited poetry live, and the old society members were introduced to the freshers. It was a very different feeling to e-meet, but we all enjoyed ourselves.” Most society presidents say they would prefer conducting offline auditions, but freshers have been responding so enthusiastically to even online activities that they don’t mind changing their mindset for the time duration of the pandemic. “All this is difficult for us, however we have to do this for the time being. We started with orientation, and introduced our society digitally to the freshers,” says Fatima Naz Jamali, president of Moksh, The Dramatics Society of Sri Aurobindo College, sharing that since semester began later this year, exams are round the corner, and they need time to prepare. “Auditions we’ll host digitally in the next few months; we are all hoping the campus might reopen then. For now we are forming WhatsApp groups, and updating videos of our society’s performances from previous years, so that the freshers can join and understand how #DramSoc works in our college. The freshers are really excited; we have been receiving endless calls from aspiring freshers about what happens in the dramatics society. In auditions, we might ask the students to act impromptu. Later, we’ll have online sessions where scriptwriting, storytelling and dramatic society’s games will be taught,” adds Jamali. Speaking about the good response from freshers, Arvada adds, “Students have been enthusiastic and excited uptill now. They are reaching out to us to get an idea of what kind of videos they have to shoot. They are also trying to get an idea about how extra curricular activities add another aspect to their college life. We are used to teaching new dance forms physically, so it’s really difficult for us to teach any new folk dance form digitally. But we are planning to host online workout sessions every week, and teach choreographies through small workshops.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-societies-what-s-the-buzz-in-eca/story-blczxmpKgWQwAziqExwGRI.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Rape a heinous crime, there can be no leniency in conviction: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Tuesday enhanced punishment of a rape convict from three to seven years imprisonment, observing that rape is a heinous crime which cannot be viewed with any leniency.“A rape victim is left with a feeling of degradation, humiliation and guilt for the rest of her life,” said the division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NJ Jamadar. “Once the court finds the evidence of victim to be trustworthy, conviction would follow, and the conviction should be followed by a sentence proportionate to the gravity of the offence,” the bench insisted.The court said that the Supreme Court, in a catena of judgements, has held that the society cannot look upon a woman with derision, depravity, contempt and as an object of desire. “Rape amounts to a serious blow to the supreme honour and dignity of a woman. She is forced to live with indignation throughout her life,” said HC, while disapproving the lenient approach of the Mumbai sessions court in sentencing a hotelier’s son convicted for raping and impregnating a minor who worked at his house as a maid.The court was irked to note that though the trial court convicted the man, it handed him only three-year imprisonment -- less than the minimum sentence provided for the offence -- without assigning any special reasons.In August 1992, the survivor approached Gamdevi police station, complaining that during the period, man ravished her a number of times and his mother later took her to a hospital for abortion.After the doctor refused to medically terminate the pregnancy, the minor was allegedly taken to a rescue home, with a stern warning from the mother of the accused to surrender the child there.The survivor then delivered a child at the state-run JJ Hospital. The child was, however, allegedly taken away after she was discharged from the hospital and thereafter, she was kept confined in the house. The minor managed to escape and reached JJ Hospital, where a nurse helped her.In August 1992, the survivor lodged complaint with Gamdevi police station. Both, the man and his mother were prosecuted for various offences, but on June 15, 2006, an additional sessions judge acquitted the mother while convicting the man for rape and sentenced him to three years’ rigorous imprisonment. The convict then moved the high court, challenging his conviction, whereas the state government too filed an appeal for enhancement of sentence handed down to him.The court on Tuesday dismissed the appeal, upheld his conviction, and observed that the survivor’s testimony was duly corroborated by the other evidence on record.The court also enhanced the sentence to seven years’ imprisonment, directing the convict, who was out on bail during pendency of the appeal, to surrender on January 4, 2021, for serving the remainder term.“It needs to be painfully observed that despite there being material evidence against the accused No. 2 (mother), the learned Sessions Court has recorded acquittal,” said the bench. “It was incumbent upon the State to file an appeal against acquittal, in view of the fact that the victim was subjected to harassment, she was brutally assaulted, she was forced to abandon her child, which in fact is an offence punishable under section 317 of the Indian Penal Code.”HC also expressed anguish over the fact that the survivor had given birth to a child who lived with her hardly for six days and thereafter, the child was brutally snatched away by the mother of the accused, who abandoned the child, which eventually died. “It is unfortunate that she was not even informed about the demise of her child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rape-a-heinous-crime-there-can-be-no-leniency-in-conviction-bombay-hc/story-E6tdJ7G5r8ot2i199m3XrI.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||BKU (Ugrahan) alleges cold shoulder by farmer unions, says not invited for talks||The Left-backed Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), which has a significant following in south Punjab, on Wednesday alleged that it had not been called for talks by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, comprising 30 other farm organisations, at Singhu border to decide on the stand to be taken after the Centre shares its draft proposal. Though the sixth round of talks between agitating farmers and the Centre scheduled on Wednesday has been cancelled, a meeting of farmer union leaders will be held to decide on the course of action on the draft proposal. BKU Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the Morcha had agreed for talks with Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday night without taking his faction on board. Also read: Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leaderFourteen leaders from various farmer unions met Shah but the government did not invite the Ugrahan faction. “The Morcha did not contact us either for today’s meeting at Singhu on the Haryana-Delhi border to decide on the future course,” he said. GOVT TRYING TO DIVIDE FARM UNIONS: UGRAHAN The government is trying to divide the unions and the Morcha leaders should be aware of the Centre’s design to derail the mass movement against the three farm laws, he said. “We will take a decision on the future course after consulting other unions but the Morcha should have insisted that the Centre hold talks in the presence of representatives of all farmer unions participating in the agitation,” he said. “It is good to know that the delegation did not agree to an offer of amendments as the farming community demands the rollback of the three laws and two ordinances back,” Ugrahan added. THIRD INCIDENT OF DIFFERENCE WITH OTHERS In the past two weeks, Ugrahan has differed thrice with 30 other farm unions of Punjab on the course of the agitation. On November 26, all farmer unions, barring the BKU (Ugrahan), undertook the Dilli Chalo protest, forcibly entering Haryana from Punjab after breaking barricades. The next day, the Ugrahan faction blamed the joint forum for breaching the understanding reached by national farmer unions that activists will undertake indefinite dharnas, wherever the authorities stop them. On November 25, Ugrahan had criticised the two-month-long rail blockade by farmer organisations, saying it was wrong as it had hit the industrial and agricultural interests of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bku-ugrahan-alleges-cold-shoulder-by-farmer-unions-says-not-invited-for-talks/story-W9mxmmQvSTFFU5mlZrC9JJ.html
09-12-2020||Jaipur||22 held for BJP-Congress street fight in Rajasthan that left 2 dead||Around two dozen people were detained early Wednesday morning in Rajasthan’s Sikar after a father-son duo was killed and at least ten persons were injured during an alleged physical scuffle between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress workers during celebrations of a BJP panchayat election candidate’s victory. “The incident was reported from Balod Badi village of Fatehpur town. Around 6pm on Tuesday evening, when BJP candidate Rubina Khan, who had won from Panchayat Samiti Fatehpur Ward No 19 and was taking out a winning procession, some persons from the crowd caught a young person and started assaulting him,” said a police official from Sikar district. He added that soon after the supporters of the Congress candidate also came out, resulting in a fight between the two groups. “People clashed with each other with sticks in their hands. Some started stone pelting houses of the locals. On receiving the information, police reached the spot and controlled the situation. However, in the meantime, 35-year-old Kanhaiyalal and his 57-year-old father Pyarelal got seriously injured in the attack.Also Read: BJP leads Congress in Rajasthan panchayat polls, dubs it verdict on Gehlot govt10 more people were injured, who were immediately rushed to a local hospital, the official said. While Kanhiyalal died before reaching the hospital, his father died while undergoing treatment for the serious injuries received on the head. “We have detained 22 people so far in this case. We are probing the entire matter and collecting the evidence,” said Gagandeep Singla, superintendent of police, Sikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/22-held-for-bjp-congress-street-fight-in-rajasthan-that-left-2-dead/story-ovfhnJU2AmxFkzBtL2qI7J.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains heavy around Delhi borders||With farmers continuing their protests, traffic continued to remain heavy around Delhi borders on Wednesday, with a cascading effect being witnessed in several arterial roads during the rush hour. Apart from the Delhi-Meerut expressway, seven borders that remain completely closed on Wednesday due to the farmers’ protest are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border.Delhi Traffic Police tweeted in the morning that Jhatikara border will remain open only for two wheelers and pedestrians. The police also issued an advisory that the traffic was being diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal road. In one of its tweets, it said, “Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders - Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.”“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road , GTK road, NH-44,” it said in another tweet.Apart from the borders, traffic remained heavy at ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Palam flyover, IIT-Delhi crossing, Rajouri Garden and near Sarai Kale Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-remains-heavy-around-delhi-borders/story-az2YCJawxs5P0AvURUfAzJ.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drug case: NCB arrests 2 key suppliers, seizes drugs worth Rs2.5 crore||In a major crackdown on the drug syndicate supplying narcotics to those associated with Bollywood, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested two key drug suppliers and seized drugs worth nearly Rs2.5 crore early on Wednesday morning. Based on specific inputs, a team of NCB officials led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede arrested Rigel Mahakala from Andheri (West) and seized hashish, ecstasy pills and Rs16 lakh in cash. “Rigel supplied drugs to Anuj Keshwani who was earlier arrested by NCB,” said Wankhede. In September, following Kaizan Ibrahim’s interrogation, NCB had raided Keshwani’s Khar residence and seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 grams of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, Rs185,200 in cash and 5,000 in Indonesian currency. Ibrahim was among the peddlers who allegedly supplied marijuana to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, said NCB officials. Wankhede added, “The operation is currently on and we have also arrested a big supplier of drugs. He supplied drugs to Rigel and to other peddlers who move around in the Bollywood industry. We will share his details once the legal process of arrest is completed.” NCB, which has been investigating the drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has till now arrested over 20 persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drug-case-ncb-arrests-2-key-suppliers-seizes-drugs-worth-rs2-5-crore/story-MWTSrSMNQMEjbyAp1hT21N.html
09-12-2020||City||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s active case tally continues to drop||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra dropped to be lowest in the past five months on Tuesday. On the day, there were 73,374 active cases, which is a gradual fall from 301,752 cases on September 17, the highest that the state has reported. The daily caseload has stabilised over the past few weeks with around 5,000 daily cases. The number of recovered patients over the past eight days is at the daily average of 6,495 which is more than fresh infections, according to the state health department statement. This has helped the authorities in reducing the number of patients admitted to the Covid-19 facilities. Maharashtra reported its highest daily caseload of 24,619 on September 17 with highest active cases on the same day. Since then, the number of daily infections and active cases has seen a gradual drop. The state had reported 73,298 active cases -- almost the same as the current level -- on June 29, after which the number kept rising. On November 7, the number dropped below 100,000 cases. Also read | 32,080 new cases push India’s Covid-19 tally over 9.73 mn; recoveries above 9.21 mnHigh population density districts like Mumbai, Pune, and Thane account for the highest number of active patients. Currently, Pune has 15,344 active cases followed by 14,039 in Thane and 12,231 in Mumbai. The drop in the number of active cases has been reported when the state authorities are still expecting the potential second wave in January after a drop in the winter temperature. “We have been augmenting our health infrastructure to be prepared to take up additional burden of the cases in case of a spike. The current dip in the active cases has helped us ease the burden on the health machinery,” said an official from the health department. Meanwhile, 10% of the active cases in the state are reported to be critical. As on December 2, as many as 9,937 cases were critical with the number of active cases being 90,557 on the day. “It is a good sign that the daily caseload has dropped below 5,000 from around 24,000 cases mid-September. But the state authorities need to go for aggressive tracing of the suspected contacts...that’s where the machinery is lagging, according to our observations. These contacts keep spreading the virus to others rapidly. Tracing and testing should not be compromised even though the number of cases has been witnessing a fall,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president, Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-maharashtra-s-active-case-tally-continues-to-drop/story-qzIJv8XPqxtPw2JZ9AgJ1I.html
09-12-2020||Patna||Crackdown on Bihar police officers for inefficient liquor ban, 3 suspended||Cracking down on errant police officers who have failed to impose the prohibition law effectively even five years after the law came into force in Bihar, the police headquarter has suspended three station house officers (SHOs) and sought explanation from the Sasaram and Mohania SDPOs.The police headquarters has also announced departmental proceedings against these officers and said that they will not be given posting as station in-charge for the next ten years.The police crackdown has taken place on SHOs of Muffasil police station Rakesh Kumar Singh (Rohtas), Kudra (Kaimur) SHO Shakti Kumar Singh and Prabhat Kumar Sharan of Raushanganj police station in Gaya.“All of them were suspended with immediate effect and the department has initiated a high-level inquiry to find out other irregularities done by them in the past,” said ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar.The ADG said that the decision to suspend the officers was taken on the basis of an investigation into implementation of prohibition by the Bihar Police.Huge caches of liquor and storage facilities were unearthed on December 2 from areas under the jurisdiction of Muffasil police station in Rohtas, headed by Rakesh Kumar Singh.Also Read: Cold winds enter Bihar region, likely to bring dense fog, dip in mercuryShakti Kumar Singh, SHO of Kudra in Kaimur district, was found to have been unable to act against makeshift country-made liquor facilities.Raushanganj SHO Prabhat Kumar Sharan has been suspended on the charges of patronizing the liquor mafia.The PHQ had recently suspended four SHOs and sought explanation from SDPO Hajipur, SDPO Sadar (Patna) and DSP (Town) of Muzaffarpur.A liquor ban is one of the most crucial decisions taken by the Nitish Kumar government and opposition parties had put question marks over its the execution in the run-up to the recently held assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/crackdown-on-bihar-police-officers-for-inefficient-liquor-ban-3-suspended/story-WkwcAfoLfrnDiA0xxgvScM.html
09-12-2020||Patna||Cold winds enter Bihar region, likely to bring dense fog, dip in mercury||Several places in Bihar including central and southern parts of the state along with capital Patna are likely to experience dense fog and fall in mercury from Wednesday, said officials of Patna meteorological centre.As per the 5-day forecast, minimum temperature in the state is predicted to hover around 13 to 14 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is likely to be around 24 degrees Celsius.On Tuesday, Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 15.4 degrees Celsius, which was four notches below the normal while maximum temperature stood at 26.8 degrees Celsius. Gaya remained the coldest in the state with the lowest minimum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius.Officials at Patna meteorological centre said that moderate fog is likely to prevail in the eastern parts and shallow fog at other parts for the next two days.“Significant change in weather conditions can be felt from today. Cold north-westerly winds entered the Bihar region on Tuesday which is expected to bring day and night temperature down from Wednesday onwards. Even during daytime, sunlight has low heat. The winter condition is likely to become colder due to the fall in day and night temperature, if the speed of wind intensifies in coming days,” said Sudhanshu, a meteorologist.“Dense fog is likely over places situated near water bodies while moderate fog is likely at other places for the next two days. Fog is favourable for Rabi crops but it obstructs flight services due to poor visibility”, he added.Also Read: Intense western disturbance to bring rain to plains, heavy snowfall to Western HimalayasExplaining the fog formation, meteorologist SK Patel said, “A cyclonic circulation extending up to 1.5 km above mean sea level is lying over Rajasthan and neighbourhood. Due to formation of cyclonic circulation, humid condition prevails at lower-level of atmosphere. Pollutant particles rise in the atmosphere in the presence of humidity and wind which leads to formation of fog.” According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, Patna’s 24-hour AQI based on six air monitoring stations was 315 with PM2.5 and PM10 prominent pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/cold-winds-enter-bihar-region-likely-to-bring-dense-fog-dip-in-mercury/story-em9PgESLY4DHtzrjVtdHhM.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Moderate fog today as well; Delhi’s AQI in poor category||The fog spell that has been enveloping the city for the past two days is likely to continue on Wednesday, with lesser intensity, according to the India Meteorological Department. Scientists said that even though moderate fog is expected on Wednesday, the air quality remained in the very poor zone. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that at 6am, the average air quality index of Delhi was 355.The average air quality index (AQI) was 383 in the very poor zone on Tuesday. It was 400, almost touching the severe mark on Monday. On a scale of 0-500, an AQI value between 301-400 is considered very poor while 401-500 is severe. At least 10 of the 35 monitoring stations, including hot spots, however, continued to be in the severe category.“The high moisture content, which was an impact of the easterly winds, started to reduce on Tuesday and hence the intensity of fog cover was less. We expect moderate fog in Delhi over the next three to four days. Though moisture has reduced, the wind speed did not pick up much, therefore, no significant improvement was seen in the air quality,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that no major variation is expected in the air quality over the coming week. The average wind speed on Tuesday was 5-6 kmph, not favourable for dispersion of pollutants. “The wind speed is likely to remain around 10 kmph over the next three days. Also, Delhi may see very light rain or drizzle on December 11 on account of a Western Disturbance that will affect the whole of northwest India, including Delhi. Till at least December 12, there will be no significant change in the morning and night temperatures,” said Srivastava.On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 9.5 degrees C, a notch above normal. The maximum settled at 28.3 degrees C, four notches above normal.As per System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels was negligible. “The major factors influencing Delhi’s air quality at present include reduced ventilation index and fog formation. Air quality is likely to remain in very poor category over the next two days,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/moderate-fog-today-as-well-delhi-s-aqi-in-poor-category/story-4U13SAd13kVAlPakTR2uUN.html
09-12-2020||City||TMC MP Mahua Moitra draws flak, media boycott for ‘2 paisa’||Days after referring to the media as a “two paisa” entity, Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra was boycotted by two prominent Bengali news channels on Tuesday evening and strongly criticised by journalists across the state. On Sunday, while attending a party meeting at Gayeshpur in Nadia district from where she is elected, Moitra lost her temper on seeing some local reporters. What she said thereafter was recorded by someone who shared it on social media. “Who has invited this two-paisa press here? A meeting is on and everybody is eager to see their faces in papers and television….,” Moitra can be heard saying in the short video clip that has gone viral. HT has seen the video. The Kolkata Press Club, the first institution of its kind set up in the country in 1945, condemned her remark and demanded an apology. Journalists across Bengal used the image of an old two paisa coin as their avatars on social media pages. Many of them wrote sharp posts against the TMC. On Monday, Moitra, who did not take calls from journalists, tweeted a meme featuring the image of a two paisa coin and a message that said “I apologize for the mean hurtful accurate things I said.” “My meme-editing skills are improving!” she wrote in the tweet. While this drew more flak, the TMC leadership on Tuesday distanced itself from the young MP. “What she said is her statement, not the party’s opinion. Mamata Banerjee believes in the media and shares information with the press. We maintain a cordial relationship with the media even if you write against us,” panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said at a press conference at the TMC headquarters on Tuesday afternoon. Also Read: ‘Armed men in rally killed BJP worker’Education minister and TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee also described the incident as an unfortunate one and said his party respects the media. An online magazine on Monday also reported that Moitra told it that standards of Kolkata Press Club members have fallen abysmally. Moitra even shared this report on Twitter. Also Read: Court in Bengal orders second autopsy of BJP workers killed in SiliguriReacting to this, Snehasis Sur, a veteran journalist and president of the Kolkata Press Club, said, “We don’t need to hear from Moitra how this institution has contributed to journalism during Independence, the Bangladesh war or the Emergency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-mp-mahua-moita-draws-flak-media-boycott-for-2-paisa/story-6o964yu5wy3gGFX7fu9QkI.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC pulls up jail officials for denying eyeglasses to Gautam Navlakha||The Bombay high court on Tuesday criticised authorities at Mumbai’s Taloja jail for refusing to give activist Gautam Navlakha, who is currently in jail in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, a pair of spectacles and called for workshops for jail officials.The court’s comments came a day after Navlakha’s partner Sahba Hussain alleged that the 70-year-old activist, who is facing charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, found that his spectacles had been stolen inside jail, and that prison authorities didn’t permit a replacement.“We gather from news reports that Navlakha has lost his spectacles in jail and when his family took him a new pair, the jail authorities refused to accept them,” said the bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik. “Can this (spectacles) be denied,” the bench asked. “These are human considerations. Humanity is most important, everything else will follow subsequently,” the judges added.The court was hearing separate petitions filed by Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe -- two other activists also arrested in the same case -- questioning their arrest.Navlakha has been in Taloja jail since his arrest on October 1, 2018.On Monday, Hussain said, “He [Navlakha] is allowed to speak to me only once a week. On November 30, he told me that his spectacles were stolen and that he was under stress. My question is how can spectacles be stolen inside the jail? Particularly, because he removes them only when he goes to sleep.”She added that Navlakha’s spectacles were stolen on November 27 and that “It was an emergency, for he is close to being blind without his glasses. Yet, he was not permitted to call home for a replacement until three days later, but even that call proved futile.”A senior jail official, requesting anonymity, said, “When Navlakha informed us about his spectacles being stolen, we told him that he has to look after his belongings. But we told him to give us his prescription...and we also asked him to inform his family to deliver it. We did not receive any response from him after that. Later, we received a courier which we do not accept because of security reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-pulls-up-jail-officials-for-denying-eyeglasses-to-gautam-navlakha/story-pkcVDCqcw7k7QHyPpt3clL.html
09-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Armed men in rally killed BJP worker’||West Bengal police said on Tuesday that a 50-year-old man who died during a pitched battle between the police and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in Silguri had succumbed to injuries caused by shotguns that local law enforcement agencies do not use.”Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms,” the police said in a tweet at around 10.30 am, terming the incident “unprecedented”. An autopsy was performed on Monday night on the man, Ulen Roy, who died in the clash between BJP activists and the police in north Bengal’s Siliguri earlier in the day. The BJP had alleged that he had been beaten to death by the police. The police used tear gas and water cannon to stop two BJP processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat building in north Bengal. “The deceased received pellet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest program. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programs and inciting them to fire is unheard of,” said the state police. “There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms. CID {Criminal Investigation Department} West Bengal has been asked to investigate. Truth will come out and strong action will be taken against all those who planned and executed the heinous crime,” the police said in a third tweet. The BJP refused to accept the statement of the police and demanded a probe by the Criminal Bureau of investigation (CBI). The party also demanded a second autopsy and moved the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Jalpaiguri, which allowed it and said the autopsy has to be done by November 11. “The first autopsy report confirmed our allegation that the police used firearms and Roy was shot by them. The allegation being made against us is ridiculous because Rai was shot in the chest while approaching the police barricades. Had someone in the procession shot him, the injuries would have been found on his back,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who is stationed in Siliguri. “We will not stop till the truth is revealed. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has come down to killing our workers because the ruling party knows that its days are numbered,” said Basu, referring to assembly polls due in about five months. The BJP won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the north Bengal region in 2019. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee defended the state police while addressing an administrative meeting at Ranigunj in West Burdwan district on Tuesday afternoon. “BJP is killing its own people with pellets and blaming the police. Police do not use these (shotguns). The media should not encourage this,” she said. State panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee alleged that BJP workers were carrying several shotguns. “One of these killed the man. He was carrying a shotgun too. The police never lost patience. They only chased away the troublemakers. The CID will find out the truth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/armed-men-in-rally-killed-bjp-worker/story-Hk7sn9AAvtt6BGM1HjMKiJ.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: 3,188 cases, positivity rate stays below 5% for sixth day||With a high number of tests being conducted and fewer new cases reported, the average positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive for Covid-19—remained below 5% for the sixth day in a row on Tuesday. On December 2, Delhi had recorded a positivity rate of 5%. Of the 75,409 tests conducted, 31,098 (41%) were done using the RT-PCR method — the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging. With 22,310 active cases in the city as on Tuesday, there were 6,357 containment zones in the capital, according to the government bulletin. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 3,188 new cases, taking the total tally of infections in the city to 597,000 so far. There were 57 deaths recorded on the day, with the total death toll of Covid-19 reaching 9,763. The cumulative case fatality ratio (CFR) — the proportion of people who died of the disease compared to those who were tested positive for it — stood at 1.64%. The cumulative CFR has consistently reduced since recording a high 4.11% on June 16 to 1.56% in mid-November, when it started increasing during the third wave of cases in Delhi. The highest number of deaths recorded in a day during the third wave was 131 deaths on November 18. “Number of deaths in Delhi are on a decline. Lowest deaths since 5th Nov. Our frontline warriors like doctors and nurses are working round the clock to save each and every life. I Request you all to observe all precautions for this trend to decline further,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. The number of new cases reported had peaked at 8,593 on November 10 and the positivity rate (during Delhi’s third wave of infections) at 15.33% on November 15, according to the government data. Experts say that the number of deaths usually peaks a little after the number of cases do because patients are admitted to hospitals for some time before succumbing to the infection. Jain had earlier said that a majority of deaths in Delhi hospitals took place 10 days after a patient’s admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-in-delhi-3-188-cases-positivity-rate-stays-below-5-for-sixth-day/story-YezVtRFaCCSsGAgR9ICl8O.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The winged companion||She likes guavas, which is pretty conventional for somebody like her. She is a parrot.“Her name is Katto, call her by her name,” says fruit-seller Zakir a bit sternly. His tone instantly softens as he starts talking to the parro... oops, as he starts talking to Katto.“How are you, my Katto? I love you so much. Do you know that?”But Katto’s claws are perched on a stack of oranges, and her gaze is constantly shifting towards the adjacent stack of tempting guavas. The young Zakir’s fruit cart is parked on a pavement in Old Delhi’s Matia Mahal bazaar. His home is nearby. He acquired Katto just last week. “I got her for ₹300 from Meena Bazaar,” he explains, referring to a nearby market where you can shop for all sorts of miscellaneous stuff from artificial jewellery, mobile phone battery chargers, wedding lehengas, wall clocks, fruit juice mixers to caged birds.But Katto isn’t in a cage.“She can’t leave me,” Zakir says. Katto’s wings are tied to her feet on either sides by a rubber band.Katto has already acquired some sort of stardom in the area. Passers-by are stopping by, and calling out to her affectionately. Everyone seems to know her name. Not all non-human creatures are so well-known in the locality. The lane is teeming with dogs and cats, but nobody is stopping to pat these anonymous strays, though they do look well-fed, thanks to the scraps of meat that the kind butchers throw at them—many small meat shops here. The local sky over the neighbourhood remains crowded throughout the day with bands of pigeons, though those pigeons are just blurs in the air when seen from the street, with no individuality. Unlike Katto. But then, Katto cannot fly.Now a man arrives. Katto seems to know him. She eagerly jumps on his finger tip. The man kisses Katto on her beak. He then carefully places her on the top of a guava. Katto starts tapping on the fruit with her beak, as if knocking at a friend’s door. Meanwhile Zakir gets restless, asking the onlookers to disperse if they aren’t planning to buy his fruits. He and Katto are left alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-winged-companion/story-G53gqh5GWKT7qEM33QCqgI.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||AAP says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest; BJP, police refute claim||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that Delhi Police kept chief minister Arvind Kejriwal “virtually” under house arrest since he returned after meeting protesting farmers camped at the Singhu border on Monday afternoon. Police denied the contention, saying there was only “general deployment” outside the CM’s residence, and his movement was not barred in any way.AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said on Tuesday morning that no one, not even domestic help, had been allowed to leave or enter the CM’s official residence since Monday, and Kejriwal had to cancel all scheduled meetings on Tuesday. This, he alleged, was being done on directions from the Union home ministry to stop the chief minister from standing with the farmers in their call for a Bharat Bandh to oppose three contentious farm laws that they want repealed.“On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar (volunteer), the central government got scared. It’s like how they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” he said.Also Read: ‘This is not LoC,’ AAP tweets after Delhi Police clarify Kejriwal not under ‘house arrest’He also said that a protest by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) municipal corporation mayors and other leaders in front of the CM’s residence on Tuesday morning was a ploy to keep Kejriwal confined.Soon after Bhardwaj’s media briefing, special commissioner of police (law and order) Satish Golcha termed AAP’s claims “totally baseless and unfounded”. “There’s absolutely no restriction. The CM has been making usual engagements and he has been moving out of his residence for any engagement whatsoever,” Golcha said.The issue snowballed at around the time deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and AAP Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann were on a sit-in outside the CM’s residence after dramatically trying to get through the barricades and enter Kejriwal’s house along with several party workers. The police stopped them, saying only Sisodia and elected representatives would be allowed on the grounds that entry to the CM’s residence is based on prior appointment, except for public hearing hours, which last for about an hour every day. The AAP leaders, however, demanded entry for all. As the sit-in protest in front of the CM’s residence continued, police allowed all party workers to enter the premises at around 5.30pm. Kejriwal addressed the gathering shortly afterwards, saying he was barred from joining the protesting farmers. “I congratulate the farmers and the people of the country who made this Bharat Bandh successful. Just like I went to Singhu border yesterday, I had planned to go to the border as a sewadar today as well, to peacefully sit with the farmers. But I guess they (the Central government) understood my planning, and consequently did not allow me to go,” he said.Kejriwal added that Union home minister Amit Shah was meeting farmers later on Tuesday, with another meeting scheduled on Wednesday. “I hope the Central government finally accepts the valid demands of the farmers,” he said.When contacted, police said they cordoned off a small portion in front of the CM’s residence for security reasons as mayors and councillors of the three BJP-ruled corporations continued to be on a sit-in protest for the second consecutive day over alleged unpaid dues to the MCDs. On Tuesday, they were joined by more BJP leaders, including MPs Meenakshi Lekhi and Parvesh Verma. Also Read| Bharat Bandh: BJP scared of farmers and Kejriwal, says deputy CM Manish SisodiaPolice said security was beefed up to avoid any clashes between workers of the two parties.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said that the AAP workers accompanying Sisodia were stopped because they had no prior appointment. “Yet, we did not stop anyone from meeting the CM. We were in continuous touch with the CM’s office, and when they were asked to come in, Sisodia and other AAP members were allowed,” he said.The police also released a CCTV video apparently showing Kejriwal visiting a hotel on Monday night, and contended that the CM had attended a wedding there, to back their claim that there was no bar on his movement. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to a query about the footage released by the police.“The proclamation of Kejriwal’s Bharat Bandh failed. So he pretended to be in house arrest while the entry to his house remained open throughout the day. On Monday night, he went to Singhu border and attended weddings. After doing everything, he is now not going out of the house today because he will have to face the leaders of the municipal corporations. CM Kejriwal is not in house arrest, he is resting in the house,” BJP’s Meenakshi Lekhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-put-under-house-arrest-bjp-police-refute-claim/story-hkf0lsf4qicF6PVioviuvN.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Panel summons MCD commissioners||The commissioners of the East and North Delhi Municipal Corporations have been summoned before the Delhi assembly’s environment committee regarding frequent fire incidents at the Ghazipur and Bhalaswa landfill sites in the city. As per the notice issued to the two commissioners on December 7, they have been asked to appear before the committee on December 9. Garbage and waste burning is one of the major contributors to air pollution in the capital. The AAP had earlier accused of the BJP, which is in power in the three civic bodies, of mismanagement of the Ghazipur landfill and demanded a probe by L-G Anil Baijal into the incident. The BJP had termed the accusations “frivolous” Senior AAP leader and committee chairperson Atishi on Tuesday said the two landfill sites have been major contributors to air pollution in Delhi. “The two commissioners have been summoned to ensure that such fire incidents do not occur in the future,” Atishi said in a statement. She added that the meeting has been called to know the reason behind poor waste management of the municipal corporations, which is leading to frequent incidents of garbage burning and a considerable increase in the height of the landfill sites in Delhi. On November 25, a fire at the Ghazipur landfill that raged for over 12 hours had led to a spike in the pollution levels in Delhi with the air quality reaching the severe zone. Three days later, another fire was reported from the Bhalaswa landfill site. “These fire incidents are making all the efforts of the Delhi government redundant and strict action must be taken against the authorities responsible for the fires,” said Atishi. Both EDMC commissioner Dilraj Kaur and Gyanesh Bharti, who is SDMC commissioner, and is handling North MCD as additional charge have been been infected by Covid and could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/panel-summons-mcd-commissioners/story-77eDY1YNXkFJ07PfWXOUtM.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of liquor: Dushyant asks for e-receipts at all vends||In a bid to prevent illegal sale of liquor, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday directed the excise and taxation officials to ensure that sales receipts are provided electronically at liquor vends in all districts by January 15. Chautala said this while presiding over a review meeting with all district deputy excise and taxation commissioners through videoconferencing regarding licence. The minister also directed the officers to conduct raids to prevent illegal sale of liquor and impose penalty in cases of delay in recovery. In cases where recovery is outstanding and property is attached, take appropriate actions to get recovery done through that property, he added. He said the excise officials should ensure that liquor is not served in hotels, restaurants and banquet halls which have not paid the licence fee. He also directed to examine the licence given for one day and to take action against those who serve liquor without licence. Chautala said that there has been a significant increase in revenue due to prevention of illegal sale of liquor. He said that in the first six months of the current year, the excise department collected Rs 660 crore additional revenue than the previous year. It is believed that the excise department will not only meet the target of raising revenue of Rs 7,500 crore mentioned in the new policy 2020-21, but this time about 20% more revenue can be generated, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-sale-of-liquor-dushyant-asks-for-e-receipts-at-all-vends/story-BwFWuLZtUFFcBSoO4duHKI.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Rahul Nanda’s aide held in Topsgrup case||Topsgrup chairman Rahul Nanda’s aide and the security service firm’s senior employee M Shashidharan was arrested by Enforcement Directorate officers on Monday night in the money laundering case. The accused was produced in the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court and was remanded in ED’s custody till Friday. Nanda had denied all allegations against him previously.According to ED sources, Shashidharan is suspected of helping Nanda to carry out several fund transfers. While staying abroad, Nanda got money transfers done through his company executives, including Shashidharan.The arrested accused is suspected of participating in a Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) deal involving money laundering, with Nanda. Shashidharan was allegedly working on the instructions of Nanda to carry out the money transactions, ED sources said.Shashidharan, behalf of Nanda, had earlier filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police against Topsgrup’s former vice-president Ramesh Iyer (the complainant in ED’s case) and others for financial irregularities through cheating and forgery. The Mumbai economic offences wing (EOW) is now investigating the case.This is the second arrest by ED in the Topsgrup case. Amit Chandole, a business associate of Shiv Sena member of legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik was arrested last month. On Monday the Bombay high court (HC) permitted ED to extend its custody of Chandole after the same had earlier been denied by a lower court.Sources said that ED officers may confront Chandole and Shashidharan and interrogate them together in connection with suspicious funds transfers linking to MMRDA security service contracts, as well as the roles played by Nanda and Sarnaik.Topsgrup had obtained a contract to provide security guards for MMRDA projects in alleged collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means by a “well-thought-out strategy”, ED had claimed.The agency claimed that these illegal manoeuvres aimed to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed at the cost of MMRDA, and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. The legislator had denied the allegations. Against this “active role and criminal conspiracy”, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract and sometimes, the money used to be transferred to the account of a third person, said ED. Chandole accepted the receipt of cash from Topsgrup for the MMRDA projects, ED claimed. Therefore, part of the amount received by Topsgrup from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime, said ED. Iyer’s complaint with ED says that it was Nanda and the arrested accused Shashidharan who instructed Niraj Bijlani, ex-CEO of Topsgrup, to pay the alleged illegal gratification related to MMRDA contracts to Chandole. The duo allegedly asked Bijlani to deliver the said amount every month at a café at Mallet Bunder. From May 2017 to June 2020, ₹90 lakh was given through Bijlani, Iyer alleged in his original complaint to Mumbai Police.ED’s money laundering probe is based on a first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police on October 28 on the direction of 16th metropolitan magistrate court against Nanda and his family members. The criminal case was recently transferred to the Mumbai EOW for further investigation. The complainant filed by Iyer alleged that Nanda and others diverted huge funds from the firm’s accounts to various accounts in India and overseas. He further alleged that these funds were utilised by Nanda and others for their personal purposes such as purchasing property. The security firm was thus defrauded of ₹175 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rahul-nanda-s-aide-held-in-topsgrup-case/story-JrUt4QXB034nGq8BmQDT2H.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||One dead, two missing as boat capsizes in Himachal lake||One person died and two others went missing after the boat ferrying them capsized in Govind Sagar Lake in Una district on Tuesday. However, one person managed to swim to safety.Additional superintendent of police Vinod Dhiman said the rescuers had fished out one body and the victim had been identified as 24-year-old Deepak Kumar of Bangana. Dhiman said a rescue team along with the divers was on the spot and a rescue operation was on.Those still missing are Aman Kumar, 23, of Chulhari village and Karnail Singh, 38, from Thanakalan. Jeevan Kumar, 40, managed to escape. The reason behind the mishap is yet to be ascertained. The police have started the investigation and the body has been sent for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-dead-two-missing-as-boat-capsizes-in-himachal-lake/story-D9bM9BtpfxkPC58FwAl6UP.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Truck plunges into rivulet in Ramban, 4 rescued||A truck plunged into the Bisleri Nullah (rivulet) near Nachlana in Ramban on Monday, the four occupants of the truck were rescued by the army. “Around 3.05am, two goods trucks moving from Srinagar to Jammu collided resulting in one of them careening off the highway and plunging into a rivulet,” said a defence spokesperson. Army teams from Nachlana, including a medical officer, immediately swung into action. The soldiers had to rappel around 80m to reach the truck, which had overturned. The four injured persons were successfully evacuated, he said, adding that the injured were shifted to a medical facility in the Nachlana army camp before being transferred to a sub-district hospital in Banihal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/truck-plunges-into-rivulet-in-ramban-4-rescued/story-Fgoe7fkU93AF9G8mMnl9mJ.html
09-12-2020||City||Patiala Government Medical College suspends 366 MBBS students for skipping Covid safety sessions||The Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, has suspended 366 MBBS final-year students for not attending two important sessions on the implementation of Covid-19 safety measures on the campus. Now, these aspiring doctors will not be able to attend classes and appear in “send-ups”, the tests that take place every year for internal assessment a month before the final examination, till further orders. There are 225 students each in the part I and II of MBBS final year. Of these, only 67 students from part I and 17 from part II had appeared in the two back-to-back sessions that were organised by college principal Dr Rajan Singla on Monday evening to keep the virus at bay on the campus. The decision to call the sessions was taken after several students at medical colleges in Punjab, including three at GMC, Patiala, tested positive for the coronavirus. In an order, Dr Singla said in view of the pandemic, meetings were organised for the 2016 and 2017 batches of MBBS students in the auditorium hall of the college. “Those who remained absent from the meetings have been suspended from attending classes and the send-up till further orders,” it read. “All students have been informed about the guidelines. I wanted to address them to tell them about the seriousness of these guidelines. Around 40 students of a medical college in Amritsar have been tested positive for the virus and their hostels were vacated. I do not want this to happen to our students,” Dr Singla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-government-medical-college-suspends-366-mbbs-students-for-skipping-covid-safety-sessions/story-PHpUiLBPrZ4YYRQErbf1wK.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||J&K sees 6 deaths, 470 infections||Jammu and Kashmir recorded six deaths and 470 fresh coronavirus infections on Tuesday, taking the total Covid count to 1,14,038 and death toll to 1,761.Officials said 193 people tested positive in Kashmir and 277 in Jammu. Three persons each died in Kashmir and Jammu division. They said 1,07,282 people have recovered in the UT so far. There are 4,995 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 32.18 lakh.A total of 1,133 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 628 in Jammu. In terms of fatalities, December has already recorded 67 deaths. As many as 15,434 infections were reported in November as compared to 19,619 cases in October. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 74 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 43 cases.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 161, followed by 24 in Rajouri district. Srinagar tops the case tally with 23,825 cases and 427 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 21,665 cases and 318 deaths.Till date, 8.11 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 21,954 in home quarantine, 4,995 in isolation, and 28,351 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.54 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-sees-6-deaths-470-infections/story-fpgzB0zyoC2kO3eeBvv9wK.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 504 Covid infections, 14 fatalities||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 504 fresh Covid infections, taking the state’s tally to 46,201 while the death toll mounted to 743 as 14 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 115 were reported in Shimla, 110 in Mandi, 65 in Kangra, 59 in Kinnaur, 40 in Solan, 29 in Chamba, 21 each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, 17 in Bilaspur, 13 in Kullu, 12 in Una and two in Lahaul Spiti. There are 7,593 active cases in the state while 37,837 people have recovered. As many as 808 recoveries were reported on Tuesday. The recovery rate has increased to 81%. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 8,643 cases, followed by Mandi at 7,593 and Kangra at 6,190 cases. Solan has recorded 5,517 cases, Kullu 3,911, Sirmaur 2,745, Bilaspur 2,383, Hamirpur 2,341, Una 2,321, Chamba 2,311, Lahaul-Spiti 1,136 and Kinnaur 1,110 cases. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-504-covid-infections-14-fatalities/story-rvoDrUWBD3L7ylienKdS8I.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Situation normal in Shimla, mixed response to Bharat bandh in other parts of Himachal||The situation across the Bharatiya Janata Party ruled Himachal Pradesh remained peaceful with no major protests during a Bharat Bandh call in protest the government’s latest farm legislations . Things were normal in Shimla even as there was a mixed response in some cities with shops and businesses closed.Though the Congress and the left parties extended support to the farmers’ agitation in the state, there was no major impact of the bandh on the capital. A majority of shops in town, including Lower Bazar and Totu Boileauganj remained open with regular milk and newspaper supplies.Some shops in the vegetable market, however, were closed even as traffic remained normal with private buses on the roads. As precautionary measures the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC), too, suspended bus services on 1,100 routes, mostly inter-district and inter-state. Sit-in at Theog bazaarAmong places that remained closed were Rohru and Theog. A few shops that opened in Rohru bazaar downed shutters at 11 am. Theog, which has become the epicentre of agitations in Shimla district, was closed with Left oriented Kisan Sabha members led by Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator Rakesh Singha staging a sit-in at Theogh Bazar and blocking National Highway 5. Addressing protestors, Singha criticised the National Democratic Alliance government’s farm legislations, saying the government had passed the bills in haste and compromised with the interests of the farmers. Only a few shops remained open at Jubbal and Kotkhai. Markets open in Kullu, KangraIn Kullu, except for Sainj, the sub tehsil headquarters that was closed by traders, all the remaining urban and rural markets of the district were open with traffic running smoothly and the law and order situation under control. In the lower regions of the state, Kangra did not report much of an impact. Most shops remained open as the district Beopar Mandal had decided not to participate in the bandh as had private transporters.Kangra resident Rajesh Kumar said though the traders supported the farmers they could not keep businesses closed as they had suffered huge losses because of Covid-19.Even as many areas were on alert with extra police force deployed to prevent any law and order situation, Congress workers staged demonstrations at various places in the district.In Una, traders kept their shops closed in support of farmers’ protests. Private buses also remained off-road.In the industrial area of Baddi, Youth Congress workers led by its president Nigam Bhandari staged a protest demonstration and also blocked the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/situation-normal-in-shimla-mixed-response-to-bharat-bandh-in-other-parts-of-himachal/story-nLdcQBmfXOgqbLct1r1g4N.html
09-12-2020||City||3 criminals held after brief exchange of fire||In a joint operation, the special task forces (STFs) of Sonepat and Gurugram police arrested a ‘most-wanted’ criminal and his two accomplices after a brief exchange of fire in Sonepat’s Sector 6 on Tuesday.The accused are Sohit alias Rancho, who was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head and his aides Bijender and Rahul alias Kala, all from Rohtak’s Mokhra village. Three pistols and a bike were also recovered from their possession.STF DSP Vipin Kadyan said they had set up a naka near Sector 6 after getting inputs about the movement of criminals at 5.30am.“On seeing cops, the criminals tried to flee from the spot on their bike. They opened fire at us.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ashok Kumar, Sohit and Rahul got injured in the firing. The criminals were sent to civil hospital in Sonepat, from where doctors referred them to Rohtak’s PGIMS. The ASI’s condition is stable. We have registered a case of attempt to murder against them,” the DSP added. Sohit was booked in seven cases, including murder and attempt to murder, at various police stations in Bhiwani, Rohtak and Sonepat districts. Robbers’ gang busted Five members of an interstate robbers’ gang were arrested by Kaithal police for hatching conspiracy to rob a petrol pump.Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the crime investigation agency of the district police had also recovered five countrymade pistols, 51 cartridges and two bikes from their possession.Police officials claimed that the accused were involved in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and snatching registered at various police stations of Haryana and Punjab.With their arrest, two cases of murder and fatal attack have also been solved. The accused are Rajesh alias Raju, Balwinder alias Kaira of Patiala, Virender and Rakesh alias Kaka and Meenu. The police claimed that the accused are said to be from the Binny gang from Kalayat, whose kingpin is already in judicial custody.They were produced in a court which sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-criminals-held-after-brief-exchange-of-fire/story-P7jo8JSBINq6KBavu8EFtJ.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sizzles at 36.4° Celsius on second hottest Dec day in 10 years||The city witnessed its hottest December day in six years and second hottest day for the month over the past decade on Tuesday. The maximum temperature at the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, was 36.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees Celsius above normal. The highest day temperature during December over the past 10 years was recorded on December 1, 2015, at 36.5 degrees Celsius, followed by Tuesday’s maximum, while the third and fourth highest were 36.3 degrees Celsius on December 6, 2012, and 36.2 degrees Celsius on December 5, 2016. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the all-time highest December maximum temperature for Mumbai was recorded on December 4, 1987, at 39.8 degrees Celsius.The weather bureau said a couple of major factors were responsible for the rise in maximum temperature. “Owing to the formation of a weather system over central India, warm and dry easterly winds, termed easterly waves, are moving over the city. While this is already letting temperatures to rise, the sea breeze set in very late on Tuesday allowing the maximum temperature to rise further,” said Bishwambhar Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD Mumbai. “Although the temperatures were high, there was drop in humidity on Tuesday and the heat index (air temperature and relative humidity) was low, indicating the perceived heat to be lower than previous days.”The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 35.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees Celsius above normal. Moisture levels were low, with 71% and 62% humidity in the suburbs and south Mumbai, respectively. The minimum temperature in the suburbs, meanwhile, was 18.2 degrees Celsius and 22.2 degrees Celsius in the suburbs and south Mumbai, both close to the normal mark. “While the minimum and maximum temperature is expected to be in the range of 18 and 34-35 degrees Celsius over the next five days in Mumbai, parts of central Maharashtra and Marathwada could expect a drop in maximum temperatures owing to the western disturbance over northern parts of the country,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), IMD.The hot weather kept air pollution in the moderate category as the city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 173, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research. The city can expect a partly cloudy sky on Wednesday and the AQI is expected to be 166 (moderate).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sizzles-at-36-4-celsius-on-second-hottest-dec-day-in-10-years/story-JSdW3cYojgjtM7FCaj7zUM.html
09-12-2020||City||Toddler among three killed in Sonepat pile-up||Three persons, including a one-year-old boy, were killed and more than 15 injured in a pile-up caused due to low visibility at Sonepat’s Rai on Tuesday morning.The deceased have been identified as Faridabad-based Shikha Bansal, 30, her son Suthirth and Naresh, a driver of another car from Uttar Pradesh.A spokesperson of Sonepat police said the accident took place due to foggy weather conditions when a speeding truck hit a Maruti Swift car being driven by Naresh Kumar. “Then the Swift car rammed into another car in which Shikha Bansal’s family was heading back to Faridabad from Karnal after attending a wedding ceremony,” he added. “In the pile-up, Shikha, her son and four members of her family got injured and were rushed to a private hospital, where Shikha and her son succumbed to the injuries. Her family members are still undergoing treatment. Four members of a Delhi family travelling in Naresh’s car have been admitted to a private hospital in Delhi,” the spokesperson added. The police have registered a case against the truck driver under sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and started investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/toddler-among-three-killed-in-sonepat-pile-up/story-rn4TAxg1Rov8XPi2sBkKZN.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Fruit mandis in Kashmir observe complete shutdown||In support of the farmers’ protests against the contentious farm laws all fruit mandies across Kashmir, including the four big mandies in Sopore, Srinagar, Shopian and Anantnag, observed complete shutdown on Tuesday.Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers-cum-Dealers Union chairperson Bashir Ahmad Basheer, who is also president of the New Kashmir Fruit Association, said the strike was successful. “In support of the protesting farmers, all shops in the Srinagar fruit mandi and other prominent fruit mandis remained suspended.” Business in Asia’s second largest fruit market in Sopore also remained suspended as a group of growers staged a protest demanding revocation of the laws. The growers carried placards in solidarity with the protesting farmers. “Farmers are the backbone of any society. The new agri laws should be revoked and the demands of farmers accepted,” said the Sopore Fruit Mandi president.This is the first time in recent times when fruit growers from Kashmir have extended support to any nationwide strike and observed protest and shutdown.Congress misleading farmers, stoking fear over farm bills: Kavinder  The BJP on Tuesday accused the Congress of misleading farmers and stoking fear among them over farm bills. Addressing election rallies in Chatha area, Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta said, “The Congress and other parties through their fallacious propaganda are misleading the farming community by stoking fear among them.” . Gupta said the Opposition had swayed the farming fraternity by making them believe the government was working against their interests and the hoax will soon be exposed. “It is hypocritical of Congress to protest farm laws as they passed the Contract Farming Act while they were in power. The party has even mentioned introduction of these laws in its manifesto”, he said. Meanwhile, led by former minister Raman Bhalla, Congress activists held protest rallies against the farm laws. Bhalla appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put aside his other engagements and personally address the ‘genuine’ issues of agitating farmers. “The PM should resolve the issues of agitating ‘annadatas’ on top priority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-fruit-mandis-in-kashmir-observe-complete-shutdown/story-Z8xcKPejXfIveDyxJh1uAO.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Crime Branch chargesheets 2 for grabbing prime land in Jammu||The Jammu Crime Branch on Tuesday produced a chargesheet against two people for grabbing one kanal of prime land in Jammu City on Tuesday. The accused are Ram Murti of Gangu Chak village and Shiv Ram of Sarwal Colony. In a written complaint, Sudesh Kumari had said that she had a piece of land at muthi (Udheywala) area measuring one kanal but the revenue authorities and land mafia had sold the said piece of land without her knowledge. She approached the revenue authorities for demarcation of the said land but they refused to entertain her, “ said a crime branch spokesperson, adding that her claims were prima-facie substantiated and accordingly a formal case was registered. The accused have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Ranbir Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/crime-branch-chargesheets-2-for-grabbing-prime-land-in-jammu/story-bdVSEFFHCqHQYtnLSey2tN.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Roshni land scam:File action taken report before December 11: J&K HC to CBI||A division bench of the Jammu and Kashmir high court on Tuesday rapped the UT administration for taking lopsided action in the much-publicised Roshni land scam. The bench, comprising chief justice Gita Mittal and justice Rajesh Bindal, also sought to know the UT’s urgency in seeking hearing of the review petition that was scheduled to be taken up on December 16. “Today the division bench heard a fresh miscellaneous application filed by the UT administration seeking to prepone the date of hearing of the review petition, which had been fixed for December 16, along with the main PIL,” said advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, counsel of the petitioner professor SK Bhalla. “When this preponement application came up for hearing, the division headed by chief justice Gita Mittal put a specific query to additional advocate general (AAG) Aseem Sawhney about its urgency, upon which Sawhney submitted that the CBI had started a probe and had restricted it to those FIRs that were earlier being probed by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), which was creating problems for the officers of the UT administration and if a CBI probe in those cases was allowed to continue it will unsettle things that had already been settled,” said Shakeel. He said the AAG further submitted that the UT administration should be allowed to formulate a policy for segregating the poor people and farmers from the purview of the HC judgment of October 9 and other connected matters. At this, advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmed submitted that since the passing of the judgment, a false narrative contrary to facts and records, was being run by people with vested interests to defeat the very intent and purpose of the court directions. Ahmed submitted, “A particular community was targeted and accused of grabbing ponds, rivers, state land and forest land when there were no such observations or directions in the judgment”,. He further submitted that the judgment was misinterpreted to foster a false narrative to mislead the common masses and to create a wedge between the peace loving people of J&K. Ahmed argued that the divisional administration of Jammu was selectively leaking names of Roshni beneficiaries in the media to target a particular community and to give a wrong impression under the garb of the directions of the division bench. The bench while expressing concern and displeasure in the open court orally observed, “We do not want discrimination of any kind on the basis of culture, region, religion or status.” The bench impressed upon the CBI to investigate the matter fairly and further clarified that its October 9 judgment was never meant to target people unnecessarily and that it was not against any culture, region, religion and status. Ahmed said the bench further remarked, “We do not want lopsided investigation and investigation has to be fair.” It directed the CBI counsel advocate Monika Kohli to file first action taken report (ATR) in a sealed cover before the next date of hearing. Kohli resisted submissions of AAG Aseem Sawhney and submitted that the CBI was investigating the scam squarely as per the directions of the bench and she further divulged that CBI was almost ready with its ATR and the same shall be filed shortly. After hearing the arguments, the bench allowed preponement of the application moved by UT administration and listed the main PIL along with review petition for December 11. The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sought a review of October 9 HC judgment that had declared the 2001 J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership to Occupants) Act (Roshni Act) null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roshni-land-scam-file-action-taken-report-before-december-11-j-k-hc-to-cbi/story-JWMPrw0RsEoMO7dMqNmMBN.html
09-12-2020||City||Mumbai Metro and JVLR works are likely to impact 1,719 trees||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s tree authority has proposed to cut and transplant 1,719 trees to widen the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR) as well as for the construction of Metro-2B (DN Nagar-Mandale) and Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane) corridors.Of the 1,719 trees that would be affected for the projects, BMC has proposed to cut 552 trees, while the remaining 1,166 trees would be transplanted. The BMC has asked citizens to give their suggestions and objections on the issue by Friday. “After receiving the suggestions and objections, the proposal will be tabled in the upcoming tree authority meeting, which will either be held this month or in January,” said a garden department official.According to the proposal drafted by the civic body, 128 trees are to be cut, while 610 more are to be transplanted for the JVLR road-widening work. Currently, the BMC is also in the process of acquiring structures for the road-widening work. For the Metro-2B corridor, the civic body has proposed to cut 417 trees, transplant 388 trees and trim 38 trees at Chembur, Mandale and Kurla. The civic body has suggested to cut seven trees and transplant 169 more in Mulund for the construction of the Wadala-Thane corridor.Bharatiya Janata Party corporator Abhijit Samant, who is a member of the tree authority, said, “We are not against tree-cutting for development, but we must ensure that the trees survive and are maintained after transplantation. This is very important, considering we are developing at the cost of trees.”Earlier this month, the tree authority cleared a proposal to cut and transplant 1,234 trees for various infrastructure projects.Earlier this month, the tree authority cleared a proposal to cut and transplant 1,234 trees for various infrastructure projects, including the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL), the upcoming bridge at Mahalaxmi station and for the construction of Hancock Bridge at Sandhurst Road station.Bharatiya Janata Party corporator Abhijit Samant, who is a member of the tree authority, said, “We are not against tree-cutting for development, but we must ensure that the trees survive and are maintained after their transplantation. This is very important, considering we are developing at the cost of trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-metro-and-jvlr-works-are-likely-to-impact-1-719-trees/story-b1YdLMWaJ75xGKNG2Qz0wM.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Markets remain open in Chandigarh, Panchkula||The call for Bharat Bandh received a mixed response in Chandigarh, while it had no impact in Panchkula. Most of the markets remained open in Chandigarh and Panchkula. Petrol pumps were also functional in both cities. However, buses didn’t ply in Panchkula in support of the farmers. Also, advocates of the District Court striked work.Activists of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) and Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Punjab, organised a protest at the Sector 17 Plaza. But, most shops here conducted normal business. “Around 80% of the shops were closed for half an hour till 2pm, as protesters asked us to symbolically show support. The protesters didn’t misbehave with any shopkeeper and the situation remained peaceful,” said Neeraj Bajaj, president of Business Promotion Council, Sector 17. Meanwhile, in Sectors 48 and 49, all markets, along with vegetable vendors, stayed closed.Some resident associations also showed their support. Federation of Social Welfare Associations, Sectors 39 and 40, organised a rally in front of Delhi Public School, Sector 40. Chief patron SK Khosla spoke against the farm laws.Traffic police were deployed in large numbers across the city. As they had issued an advisory to avoid the Tribune Chowk on Tuesday, no major traffic jams were reported. Congress workers gathered near Hallomajra light point and blocked the national highway there for about three hours. Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chabbra spoke against the government’s anti-farmer policies. Police had set up barricades here to maintain order.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shramik Vikas Sangathan (SVS) also organised a protest near Kiran Cinema in Sector 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-markets-remain-open-in-chandigarh-panchkula/story-fDcMzUwjsZrXvlfAbxxs1H.html
09-12-2020||City||J&K Panch, sarpanch bypolls: 63.08 %, 59.71% voter turnout fourth phase||State election commissioner KK Sharma on Tuesday said that 63.08% and 59.71% voter turnout was recorded on Monday in the fourth phase of vacant panch and sarpanch bypolls. He said that bypolls for panch seats were held in 215 constituencies. Jammu division recorded a 82.29% turnout and Kashmir division recorded 62.31% voter turnout. Similarly, 59.71% voting was registered in vacant sarpanch constituencies in 50 constituencies. Jammu recorded 76.53% polling while 46.23% voting was recorded in Kashmir division. In Jammu division, Kishtwar recorded the highest voter turnout of 97.59% for panch bypolls, followed by Jammu with 84.19% and Doda with 83.73%. Similarly, Budgam district topped with 65.35% voter turnout in Kashmir division followed by Kupwara with 64.87% and Ganderbal with 63.75%. In sarpanch bypolls elections, Ganderbal recorded the highest voter turnout at 67.45% in Kashmir division, followed by Baramulla with 61.76% and Kupwara with 61.13%.Reasi topped the polling percentage at 83.62% in Jammu division, followed by Jammu at 83.35% and Rajouri at 83.16%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-panch-sarpanch-bypolls-63-08-59-71-voter-turnout-fourth-phase/story-RiQ35N6U1QevXhmf5U2IHN.html
09-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Mohali traders observe complete shutdown||Showing solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws, traders across Mohali district observed a complete shutdown.All shops and business establishments, except banks and medical stores, remained closed in Mohali, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi, Lalru and Kharar till 3pm, while petrol pumps closed business till 5pm. Though banks were open, there were no visitors.Police maintained that the situation remained peaceful and tight security was in place to ensure law and order.Protesting farmers blocked all intersections of Airport Road, leaving commuters at the receiving end. Massive traffic jam was also witnessed near Kharar flyover and Zirakpur, where farmers blocked the traffic lights near McDonalds and Azizpur toll plaza. They raised slogans against the central government and demanded the laws be scrapped.Farmers also protested at the Lalru entry point, Kharar bus stand and Landran, causing inconvenience to commuters. They did not allow any person, except those with medical emergency, to pass through.Another protest was organised in Zirakpur, where farmers and social activists held a rally from a local market to Gurdwara Nabha Sahib.The members of Phase-8-A IT Association supported farmers’ agitation in front of the District Administrative and Court Complex in Sector 76.Passengers forced to walk to airportWith farmers blocking all intersections of Airport Road, passengers heading to board flights were a harried lot, as they were not allowed to pass through. Many were seen pleading to be allowed passage, but the farmers did not relent. Protesters said their vehicles will not be allowed to pass through, but they may proceed on foot. Therefore, many hapless passengers were seen walking to the airport, with their children and luggage in tow. Struggle gaining impetus across the world: ChandumajraSenior vice-president of Shiromani Akali Dal and former member of Parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra, led a protest near Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana.Praising the farmers’ peaceful struggle, Chandumajra said it had spread from the state to across the globe.“The strategy of the Union government to drag and exhaust the present struggle will prove to be dangerous for the economy and peace of the country,” he said, addressing the gathering.The Akali leader said the bandh was successful across the country, adding that it was not limited to Punjab and Haryana, but people from all over the country joined the call for shutdown. Stating that the success of “Bharat Bandh” was a great lesson to the central government, Chandumajra said it should now focus on repealing the three laws instead of advocating them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-mohali-traders-observe-complete-shutdown/story-Bm3PKb3NI3WzzGjYdkUAuL.html
09-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: APMCs in Navi Mumbai and Thane remain closed||The call for Bharat Bandh witnessed a mixed response in Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai. At Thane, the station area was put under heavy police bandobast to ensure there was no law-and-order problem. However, there was a tepid response to the bandh in the city. Members of the Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi party participated in the protest. They raised slogans and held posters in hand near the station premises. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) workers gathered outside the Thane district collector’s office and raised slogans in support of farmers on Tuesday morning. Some youth had also gathered at the Majiwada circle in the evening around 3pm with posters to create awareness about the farm laws and why the farmers are protesting. “They are the reason we have food on our plate. So we cannot let them be treated indifferently. We want to create awareness among the younger generation and also show solidarity with the farmers,” said one of the protestors Deep Meher Singh, 24, who is a student. Mumbra, however, wore a deserted look. Shopkeepers and autorickshaw drivers in Mumbra had joined the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday to show solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. “All autos were off the roads and shops remained closed till 5pm to express support with the farmers. We also had a protest outside the party office in Mumbra at noon,” said Shamim Khan from NCP. Around 30 protestors from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were detained by the Mumbra police on Tuesday afternoon. “As the crowd was growing, we had to ensure that peace is maintained. Hence we detained them, but they were released soon after,” said senior inspector Madhukar Kad from Mumbra police station. The neighbouring areas of Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur did not witness any major impact owing to Bharat Bandh in the morning. Although the autorickshaw unions, Konkan Vibhag Rickshaw Taxi Mahasangh in Kalyan and Lal Bauta Rickshaw Union in Dombivli decided to support the bandh, several autos were seen plying on the roads, ferrying commuters. The shops also remained open. However, by afternoon, Shiv Sena and left party workers thronged the streets of Kalyan and Vitthalwadi and asked shopkeepers to shut the shops. The agricultural produce market committee (APMC) in Kalyan was closed completely. At Kolsewadi, many of Congress’s Kalyan unit members were detained by the police, as they had decided to carry out a bike rally in the city. “We wanted to reach out to more people and had planned to do a rally with 150 bikes. However, the police did not allow us and detained around 40-50 of our party workers. We did not have any intention to commit violence,” said Sachin Pote, president, of the unit. At Navi Mumbai, too, the protest call witnessed a mixed response throughout the day. Panvel and Ulwe came to a complete standstill and the five wholesale APMC markets were closed for the entire day, as mathadis and traders supported the farmers’ agitation. Several rallies and protests were organised by social organisations and political parties. However, there was no violence reported. “The farm bills will sound a death knell for the farmers as well as for the mathadis and the APMC traders. We stand strongly with the farmers of the country and hence, all the APMC markets in the state are closed today,” said legislative Council member and mathadi leader Shashikant Shinde. The Congress and the NCP staged protests at Shivaji Chowk in Vashi, holding placards and raising slogans against the Narendra Modi government. “The farm laws have been brought by the Modi government to only benefit some top industrialists. This is going to prove very costly for them as the entire country has united against it,” said Navi Mumbai Congress president Anil Kaushik. Navi Mumbai Gurudwaras and various transport associations undertook a car and bike rally from Panvel Gurudwara Sahib to Mumbai. They had to stop at Mankhurd, after vehicles were halted several times. In the evening, a human chain was formed from Vashi toll Naka to Panvel to register the protest. Panvel witnessed a near complete shutdown, with the Peasants and Workers Party (PWP) along with Congress and other political parties coming out in support of the bandh. Political workers staged a protest at Shivaji Chowk in Panvel. “The way the farmers are being treated by the Modi government reminds us of the British rule. This is dictatorship and Modi and [Union home minister Amit] Shah are agents of industrialists. The bandh today has been very successful in sending them a strong message,” said Congress leader Mahendra Gharat. PWP leader Pritam Mhatre said that the party had organised a march last week too against the laws. “Today the unity among the MVA (Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi) and the traders and business communities shows what the people believe. The farm laws have to be withdrawn by the government,” said Mhatre. Workers’ activist Ulka Mahajan said, “Those who do not follow the constitution or care for the farmers will be thrown out of power by the people.” According to Shiv Sena leader Baban Patil, the party had not organised a rally in the city. “People have spontaneously supported the bandh. The central government should stop being adamant,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-apmcs-in-navi-mumbai-and-thane-remain-closed/story-lycVRizponveWmVwuVeDCJ.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Met predicts heavy snowfall in Himachal on December 12||The state meteorological department on Tuesday issued a yellow warning and predicted snowfall in isolated places in the higher and middle hills of the state on December 12.The yellow alert is the least severe weather warning, which indicates possible travel disruption in some areas. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snowfall and rainfall was also likely to take place in the higher and middle hills of the state on December 9 while the weather will remain clear in plains, lower and middle hills of the state on December 10. It is also expected to rain and snow in the higher and middle hills from December 11 to 13.“Another fresh western disturbance is likely to affect North-West India from December 11,” said Singh.The weather was mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours, while the minimum temperature was three to four degrees above normal while maximum temperature was one to two degrees above normal.The minimum temperature in Shimla was 9.2°C, while Kufri, a popular tourist spot recorded, a minimum temperature of 6.7°C.Prominent tourist destinations including Manali shivered at 4.8°C, while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 9.8°C and 8.6°C minimum temperatures.The minimum temperature in Una was 9.6°C, while Solan recorded 7.5°C, Bilaspur 8°C, Hamirpur 8.3°C, Nahan 12°C, Mandi 7°C and Kalpa recorded 3.5°C. Keylong, the headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest in the state at minus 1.3°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/met-predicts-heavy-snowfall-in-himachal-on-december-12/story-NQ64RFFp1IpUwmHFVFRiEM.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||HP CM lays foundation stones of development projects worth ₹94 crore||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth ₹94 crore in Shimla rural assembly segment through video conferencing on Tuesday. He unveiled 12 projects including the block development office (BDO) at Totu; a science block at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Dhami; the new building of GSSS, Shakrah; primary health centre buildings at Ghanahatti, Sharda and Mandorghat and Basantpur; industrial training institute (ITI) buildings at Dargi, Sunni; bus stand, Sunni; combined office building, Dhami; and Lok Nirman Bhawan, Dhami. Thakur also laid foundation stones of 11 projects major being the lift water supply scheme Basantpur under the Jal Jeevan Mission, lift water supply scheme from Bagharu khad to Talosh gram panchayat, Phase-I and lift water supply scheme Nayaser Khad to Dhar Phase-II, lift water supply scheme from Pandoa Khad to Kail Bagri, Himari and the lift water supply scheme, Taloti Khatnol.He said the state government was ensuring that the pace of development was not halted due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-cm-lays-foundation-stones-of-development-projects-worth-94-crore/story-9g2yYuJW5WBGMTEzghoKbO.html
09-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block NH-44, raise anti-govt slogans in Ambala||The Bharat Bandh called by farmers evoked a positive response in Ambala, as several opposition parties and social activists joined the movement on Tuesday.Led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) district vice-president Gulab Singh and BKU leader Harkesh Singh, the farmers occupied Jagadhri Gate and Polytechnic Chowk for hours after roving around the markets on tractors, bikes and cars, appealing the shopkeepers to close their units.The farmers also blocked the Delhi-Amritsar national highway (NH-44), which connects the national capital with the northern states, near Kingfisher Tourist Resorts by parking their two-wheelers in the middle of the road, disrupting the traffic flow on one side. They only allowed the vehicles of those in emergency services and the farmers going to Delhi border for protest.Due to this, the Ambala police created several diversions along the highway to facilitate the movement of daily commuters.“The black laws must be taken back. This is just a symbolic protest, we are ready for everything,” said Harpal Singh, a member of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, addressing the protesters on the highway.In Ambala Cantonment, opposition leaders from Congress and INLD and activists of Sarva Karamchari Sangh joined the protest march that passed through Bazaza Bazaar, Halwai Bazaar, Cross Roads, Kasera Bazaar, Ram Bagh Road, Grain Market, and several other areas of the Sadar zone.Activists of Northern Railways Men’s Union (NRMU), led by divisional secretary CS Bajwa, staged a dharna at the Ambala Cantt railway station.A mixed response to the bandh was witnessed in Yamunanagar district, where a few shops near ITI, Jagadhri workshop and Kamani Chowk were seen closed during the protest hours.As announced, the farmers had occupied the Milk Majra toll (Gadholi) on the Ambala-Yamunanagar road for nearly five hours by parking their tractor trolleys in a line. Congress workers also protested in both the districts at their respective headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-nh-44-raise-anti-govt-slogans-in-ambala/story-X9XMIeSacNgwhZgGWxjtHP.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar breaks silence, says BJP raked up his 2010 letter seeking reforms to divert attention||Two days after a controversy erupted over a letter written by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in the past seeking amendment to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act to allow private parties in the sector, the veteran leader has broken his silence on the issue. Pawar claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who raked up the issue may have not read the letter properly. He said when he had written it in 2010 as the Union agriculture minister, he had suggested reforms to the APMC Act. However, the three laws brought by the BJP-led Centre do not even mention APMC, he said. Pawar also alleged the BJP is “purposely” raking up the letter to divert attention from the laws, and there is no need to give importance to their claims.“There is no doubt that I had written the letter. But I had sought reforms to the APMC Act. They [BJP] would have understood it if they had read the letter properly. Their legislations don’t even mention APMC. It is a conspiracy to divert attention by taking our name. Thus, there is no need to give [the issue] importance,” Pawar told reporters in Delhi on Tuesday after his meeting with Union defence minister Rajnath Singh. The veteran leader said he had not met Singh to discuss the farm laws, but to get a speedy approval for the proposed airport at Purandar near Pune.As the agriculture minister during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime, Pawar had written to chief ministers to amend the APMC Act in their states to facilitate the private sector to play an important role in the sector. The BJP recently made the letter viral, claiming that Pawar, too, had proposed the same set of changes in the APMC Act.The veteran leader has backed the farmers’ protest against the laws, along with other Opposition parties. However, he refused to comment on the reforms brought into the sector now or in the past, when he had held the agriculture portfolio in Dr Manmohan Singh’s government. Pawar said he wants the collective stand of the opposition parties to reflect on the issue, for which a meeting will be held on Wednesday. Opposition leaders will also meet President Ram Nath Kovind to express their concerns over the three laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. “Tomorrow five-six leaders from different parties are going to discuss and take a collective stand on the matter. So I don’t want to express any opinion as an individual today. We have also sought an appointment with the President tomorrow [Wednesday] to present our collective thoughts before him,” he said.“I don’t want to give any signs from NCP or from myself. I want a collective thinking to reflect on our stand as Opposition,” he said when pressed for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-breaks-silence-says-bjp-raked-up-his-2010-letter-seeking-reforms-to-divert-attention/story-fvO4WGoN4dvI37wQVuGEWN.html
09-12-2020||City||Bandh: Farmers find support from all quarters in Ludhiana||With people from all walks of life, including shopkeepers, industrialists, politicians and bank officials, coming out in support of the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh, Ludhiana witnessed a complete shutdown on Tuesday.Around 11am, over 50 tractors that were lined up near the Old Session Chowk, started heading towards Ghumar Mandi. Youths bearing flags and posters, raised slogans against the Centre and demanded the roll back of the new farm laws. At several points, social distancing and mask norms were seen being openly flouted. The busy Jagraon Bridge became a melting pot of various protesting unions even as the rest of the city wore a deserted look with markets, banks and even government offices, such as the deputy commissioner’s office and municipal corporation, remaining closed. Vikas Kumar Juneja, a leader of the DC office employee union, said, “In support of the farmers, all staff members have gone on a mass casual leave. We will resume work from tomorrow.” Though liquor vends were open, essential services such as fuel stations, chemist shops, hotels and eateries remained shut. The wholesale vegetable market was also closed, though a few retail vendors had opened for business. Darshan Lal Baweja, chairman of the Ludhiana market committee, said the new laws will hit both farmers and arhtiyas. “By snatching our meal, the BJP-led central government wants to feed their capitalist friends. We will not let this happen,” said Baweja.Many hotels and restaurants had put up hoardings, pledging the support to the farmers. Amarvir Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “Amid the pandemic, what was the urgency to introduce farm laws. So we have decided to stand with our farmers.”Pawan Kumar Batra, president of the Ghumar Mandi shopkeepers association, echoed in, “If the one who feeds humanity will sleep on an empty stomach, how will the rest of us survive? This is the reason why we are all supporting the farmers,” said Batra.The federation of association of rural medical officers of Punjab, a body representing 700 doctors serving in rural dispensaries of the state, also extended their support to the farmers.Dr JP Singh Narula and Dr Jagjit Singh Bajwa, both officers of the federation, said once the new laws are implemented, the rural infrastructure will be collapse and leave a detrimental impact on the healthcare in these areas.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office in Chaura Bazar and RSS office near mini-secretariat remained heavily fortified through the day, the opposition parties including Congress, which is the ruling party in the state, and BJP’s former ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) targeted the saffron party.Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) took out motorcycle rallies with the farmer unions while Congress leaders including Rakesh Panday, Sanjay Talwar, Suinder Dawar and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, joined the protest outside the DC office.Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid said, “These laws will ruin the agriculture sector of the state. We will fight tooth and nail with the Centre for the roll back of these laws.” SAD MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali led the protest at Dana Mandi in Dakha while district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, senior leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal and YAD president Gudeep Singh Gosha sat dharna at the Samral Bypass Chowk.Addressing the gathering, former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal said, “We have already snapped ties with the BJP. Our leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Cabinet to register her protest. We will continue to oppose the BJP government till these black laws are not withdrawn.”Hub of hosiery and cycle manufacturing units, 90% of the industry in Ludhiana remained closed on Tuesday as various associations extended their support to the agitating farmers. It was only after 3 pm that the units opened.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president FICO (Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organization), said, “We stand with our ann daata in their protest . Today all trade and industrial units shut their operations and supported the farmers. We also request the Government of India to resolve the issue at the earliest,” he said.Onkar Singh Pahwa, president of All India Cycle Manufacturers Association, said almost all units manufacturing cycle and cycle parts remained closed. Vinod Thapar, president, Knitwear Club, stated that they had given a call for shut down of all the hosiery units and 90% units did not operate today.Police remained on their toes throughout the day though no untoward incident was reported during the Bandh. Around 2, 500 police personnel were pressed into the service to maintain the law and order situation. Police had special security arrangements outside Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s district office, near Clock Tower, and barricaded the approach roads.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchazhian said that cops were present at all major markets and crossroads and several personnel were also conducting foot patrolling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bandh-farmers-find-support-from-all-quarters-in-ludhiana/story-nnLUW8dir16KYn46Jg7IhN.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Delhi couple reunited with 4-year-old son after 17 months as Mumbai court approves adoption||Seventeen months after Abhinav and Rekha Aggarwal lost custody of their son following allegations of illegal child trafficking, the family was reunited when a city civil court declared the Aggarwals legally adoptive parents of four-year-old Yatarth. On December 7, Yatarth was reunited with his parents after spending more than a year in a state-run orphanage. Even as they celebrate, the Aggarwals are keenly aware that Yatarth has borne the brunt of this case. “I accept I had committed a crime, and so did those who offered the baby to me. But the child was not at fault. He [Yatarth] became the victim in this case,” said Delhi-based businessman, Abhinav Aggarwal.On July 5, 2019, the Aggarwals’ lives were turned upside down when Mumbai Police’s crime branch took their three-year-old adopted son Yatarth away and booked Aggarwal, 42, and his wife Rekha, 40, for illegal child trafficking. The shocked Aggarwals were among seven couples charged by Mumbai Police as part of its investigation into a child trafficking racket.In November 2016, Aggarwal happened to see a photo of a nine-day old baby boy. “A relative of mine had planned to adopt the boy. But later they decided to have a baby by in vitro fertilisation (IVF),” said Aggarwal. He and Rekha have a daughter, who was 15 years old at the time, and they decided to adopt the baby boy in the photo. Their relatives introduced them to a social worker named Pawan Sharma. “The social worker told us he would take care of the paperwork and would also give us the baby’s birth certificate, stating the boy was legally ours. We were not aware of the actual procedure and within a few days, we had the child,” said Aggarwal, who has denied buying Yatarth as an infant. “I agreed to give donations to the social worker whenever the need arose. Over three years, I paid Rs 1.5 lakh in donations,” he said.In July 2019, Mumbai Police charged the Aggarwals and six other couples under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sharma was later arrested and booked under the same charges. He is currently out on bail. While the trafficking charges against the couples are yet to be decided in court, on August 16, Bombay high court (HC) allowed visitation rights to all the adoptive parents.The charges led the Aggarwals to discover that Sharma’s paperwork was not legally binding — as a result of which Yatarth was sent to an orphanage in Chembur and the Aggarwals were in judicial custody in July 2019. The Aggarwals got bail 10 days later, but the Child Welfare Committee refused to grant them Yatarth’s custody. “We realised we were not his parents legally and that we had committed a crime under the Juvenile Justice Act,” said Aggarwal. The couple would not be able to see Yatarth for months. “It was around Diwali in 2019 that the court permitted me to see my child,” said Aggarwal, who remained in Mumbai, living in a hotel until March this year, when hotels were forced to shut during the lockdown. Since then, the couple have been in touch with Yatarth over video calls.The Aggarwals have been doggedly pursuing the legal route to reuniting their family. In September 2019, Aggarwal moved HC, seeking the trafficking case be quashed and the Aggarwals be granted Yatarth’s custody. Meanwhile, in November 2019, the Aggarwals’ were directed by the civil court to initiate proceedings to legally adopt Yatarth. On November 27, 2019, the city civil court asked CWC to submit a social investigation report within 45 days, but there were a series of delays and CWC ultimately submitted the report this year, in early October. Finally, on October 8, the civil court allowed the Aggarwals’ adoption petition and directed CWC to hand Yatarth over to the Aggarwals. This decision is unrelated to the ongoing criminal case in HC, which according to the Aggarwals’ legal counsel Raja Thakare, will take its own course. Aggarwal’s mission now is to work towards simplifying the process of adoption in India. “I will fight for all my life for this issue,” he said, adding, “No parent should get trapped in this vicious cycle.” Priti Patkar, co-founder of Prerna, a non-governmental organisation that works with survivors of child trafficking, agreed that the adoption process is cumbersome. However, Patkar stressed that rather than simplification, what is needed is for all parties to know their legal rights, responsibilities and requirements. Patkar also recommended a robust hand-holding system for adoptive parents, so that they get guidance along the way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delhi-couple-reunited-with-4-year-old-son-after-17-months-as-mumbai-court-approves-adoption/story-XjsPdMs4PNxiKPtHPZNUdI.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Parents threaten to protest if school fee grievances not redressed by Maharashtra education department||ankita.bhatkhande@htlive.com Parents from schools across Maharashtra have said that they would protest outside the office of the education director in Pune if the department does not take note of their grievances on the issue of fees of private schools. On Monday, the India Wide Parents Association had said that the state education department had not responded to several complaints made by parents over schools charging indiscriminate fees during the pandemic. “Schools have been hiking fees and overcharging parents even during times like these when parents are struggling to pay them owing to salary cuts and job losses. Despite several complaints, the education department has not acted against schools and the issues raised by parents remain unaddressed. We are thus asking the authorities to look into our concerns or else will begin an indefinite protest,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the India Wide Parents Association. Officials from the department have said that they are working on addressing the grievances raised by parents. In a circular issued by the office of the deputy director on September 16, the department had formed two committees of officials to look into the complaints of parents from different schools. Thereafter, officials from the two committees had also visited schools for audits. However, parents have said that there was no substantial outcome from the steps. “In many schools where parents have complained, the audit is yet to take place. Meanwhile, the lack of action from the department has led to several schools terminating the admissions of students who have not been able to pay fees. The department needs to act against the complaints or else parents will definitely protest,” said Salil Dhani, a parent from Kandivli. A government resolution (GR) released on May 8 had stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-threaten-to-protest-if-school-fee-grievances-not-redressed-by-maharashtra-education-department/story-xY01Vf8PZQo3exbPY7lD9O.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to earmark ₹8 crore for development in wards||Under pressure from its councillors, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to release around ₹8 crore for carrying out specific development works that were earlier stopped due to a paucity of funds.The decision was taken after the issue was raised by councillors in the last meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the MC where they complained that no development work was being carried out in their wards.Confirming the development, MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “In the wake of the last F&CC meeting, the MC has decided to allow for ₹30-lakh development works in all the wards. The funds will be released only for pre-approved works.” Priority list To ensure that funds are utilised only for selected projects, the MC has asked the councillors to submit a list of works that have to be carried out in their wards. “The councillors will be providing the MC with a priority list,” said Yadav.The civic body is facing an acute fund shortage due to a fall in revenue generation during the pandemic. There has also been a cut in the grant-in-aid it receives from the Chandigarh administration because of the expenditure restrictions imposed by the central government.Struggling to pay for its stipulated revenue expenditure like salaries, the MC had decided to cease all capital expenditure including all approved development works.Yadav insisted that the MC would be able to earmark around ₹8 crore for the development works in councillors’ wards.So far, the MC has received the priority lists from less than four councilors. “After receiving the list from all, we will compile a composite list and thereafter, work will start in all the wards,” said an MC official.The works listed by the councillors so far include laying of paver blocks, improvements in parks, new stormwater system, and works in EWS colonies falling in their wards. Meanwhile, there are several projects that are still awaiting the approval of the UT administration.As per a list prepared by the MC, the incomplete works range from construction of community centres, booth markets and underground escalators to road works, underground parking, transfer of properties, bus stops, cleaning of seasonal rivulets, sewage system, green belt, creation of primary health centres, etc. Many of these works are pending for several years now, in some cases for the entire elapsed period of the current MC House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-earmark-8-crore-for-development-in-wards/story-ZgEaupViRRtk5gq0tUsJOK.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Fresh concerns arise over syndicate’s future as term nears end||With the senate polls not having been held so far at Panjab University (PU), fresh concerns are being raised over the future of the syndicate, whose one-year term will end on December 31.After the term of the syndicate, which is the highest executive body of PU, will end, the varsity will be left without a governing body. The members of the syndicate are elected from among the members of the PU senate every year.The term of the senate ended on October 31, but the polls were postponed by the vice-chancellor for the second time on October 15 citing the pandemic.Syndicate member Navdeep Goyal said, “In the absence of the governing bodies of the university, many important decisions will be left pending. Any vacuum in the governance will affect the varsity’s smooth functioning. There are already a lot of issues pending which need to be taken up by the governing bodies of the University.”According to the PU Calendar, the executive government of the university will be vested in the syndicate, which has powers to consider and make recommendations to the senate as it deems fit in the matters that include appointment of officers of Class A, affiliation and disaffiliation of colleges, recommendations of the board of finance relating to annual budget, supplementary grants, and others.The Calendar also grants power to the syndicate to pass orders on various university matters, including those related to colleges, academic council, faculties, and sanction proposals of new expenditure up to a particular limit.‘Unprecedented situation’Calling it an unprecedented situation, syndicate member Rabindra Nath Sharma said, “It is a tragedy for the democratic structure of the Panjab University.”“Again we urge the vice chancellor to do his duties and call the meeting of the syndicate immediately so that the pending issues could be discussed and resolved democratically,” he said.No meeting held after JulyAfter the senate polls were deferred in August, the varsity’s syndicate has not met for the fourth month in a row. The last meeting of the executive body was held in July. As a PU tradition, its executive body meets once in a month.“It is very unfortunate that no senate meeting has been held after December last year and the syndicate has not met since July,” said syndicate member DPS Randhawa.Regarding the senate election he said, “My question is why the chancellor and the vice-chancellor and all other concerned authorities are afraid of having an autonomous body in the institution. Reforms to some extent are fine but this unique system of governance should not be abolished.”PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “The university will take necessary action as per the provisions of the PU Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-fresh-concerns-arise-over-syndicate-s-future-as-term-nears-end/story-Vw7rv7horVlcZKd4Uy85GI.html
09-12-2020||City||Mayoral candidate will be from BJP, reiterates Ambala MLA||A day after Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta announced that the mayoral candidate for the municipal corporation (MC) polls will be from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and not from the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), his ally in Ambala, Aseem Goel, on Tuesday reiterated the statement.Goel said that BJP will contest on the mayoral seat for the upcoming MC polls while JJP in-charge for the polls Ashok Sherwal said that the party had demanded 11 wards along with the mayor seat.Speaking to the Hindustan Times, Goel said, “I say this with full responsibility that the mayoral candidate will be from the BJP itself. As of now, the JJP leaders have not put forward any demand for the mayor seat, but I have received a list of 11 wards where they’re ready to contest.”Goel said that the official announcement on seat-sharing will be done on the day the names of the candidates are declared.JJP meeting conductedSherwal, along with Shahabad MLA Ram Karan Kala, chaired his second meeting with the party workers at Tau Devi Lal Bhawan on Tuesday. He said, “The motive behind contesting together is to win the MC and the party is focused on quality, not quantity.”“We’ve selected a few names at the meeting and will forward it to the high-command. We’ve claimed 11 wards where our candidates are strong and also the mayor seat, in our previous meetings with the BJP leaders. On Wednesday, there will be a final meeting, after which it will be clear which party will have the mayor candidate,” Sherwal, state president of the party’s SC cell, told the HT.Sources in the BJP said that Goel had been leading closed-door meetings for seat-sharing with the JJP at local levels for the last two-three days. The party will declare its candidates from Thursday in three slots, a source had earlier said. A top-placed source in the JJP’s Ambala unit, however, said, “We have been told by our senior leaders that the major candidates from all the three MCs (Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat) will be from the BJP.”This comes at a time when the saffron party is at a backfoot amid farmers’ stir on Delhi borders with many leaders and legislatures from the JJP joining them. The JJP has also demanded cancellation of the cases lodged against the farmers in the state.AAP to support HDFThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has announced that it will support former state minister Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) in the MC polls.The decision was taken after a meeting between AAP’s Haryana in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Gupta and HDF’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara in Delhi.Chitra, while addressing a press conference along with AAP’s district vice-president Gagandeep Kapoor, said, “We’ve mutually discussed the local governance and decentralisation model of the Delhi government. AAP has already decided that they’ll not contest on the party symbol, but their workers can contest on the HDF symbol. We expect some other like-minded parties to support us in the coming days.”The nomination process for the elections will begin on November 11, while voting is scheduled for the 27th and declaration of results on the 30th.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayoral-candidate-will-be-from-bjp-reiterates-ambala-mla/story-BEG5jBVhxNRrNpZrCq08UM.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s JJ and Sion hospitals begin clinical trials for first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin||Sir JJ Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital) have commenced the third phase of clinical trials for Covaxin, the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Till Tuesday, almost 190 volunteers had taken the first dose of the vaccine.The government-run JJ Hospital started the trial on November 30, and so far, 180 people have participated in it. After receiving the vaccine from the Central government on Sunday, Sion hospital started its clinical trial on Monday. Till Tuesday, the hospital has administered the vaccine to around 10 volunteers.“Initially, we are giving the vaccine to five to six people daily, but we will soon increase the number to speed up the process,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital.Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The vaccine received Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval, and the trials commenced across India from July.Recently, the pharmaceutical firm applied to the central drug regulator seeking emergency-use authorisation. It is the third firm after Serum Institute of India and American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, to apply for emergency-use approval.In the last week of October, ICMR selected JJ and Sion hospitals for the pan-India trial of Covaxin. As many as 2,000 volunteers between the age group of 18 and 60 years will be included in the trial. Of this group, 20% of volunteers with co-morbidities will be selected, and another 5% will comprise medical health workers. The hospitals will follow up with the volunteers for 12 months as per ICMR rules.“The third phase will have two stages. After 28 days of the first vaccination, volunteers will be given the second vial,” said Dr Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-jj-and-sion-hospitals-begin-clinical-trials-for-first-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin/story-Fv5QXXbekEuWQi1SALKUMN.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 rules for entry from other states land fliers and Mumbai airport staff in trouble||Ten days on, passengers as well airport officials are still struggling to implement the state government’s new rule that made carrying a recent negative Covid-19 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test report mandatory for travellers from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa. While passengers find it difficult to get the reports on time, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) staff has a tough time stopping those who don’t have the papers. Another complaint is the absence of a price cap on the tests conducted at the airport, similar to that on private laboratories in the state. While the RT-PCR test at the airport costs ₹1,400 per person, the state has capped it at ₹980 for anyone who walks into a laboratory. Citizens are charged ₹1,400 for samples collected from Covid care centres, hospitals or dispensaries, and ₹1,800 if swab is collected from home.Prasad Pandit’s tweet read: ‘Me and my brother had to undergo a mandatory Covid Test at Mumbai Airport as per guidelines of @CMOMaharashtra Tests were conducted by #SuburbanDiagnostics. The testing centre was a chaos with no respect to social distancing. @AAI_Official security was nowhere to be seen. The reports were expected in 24hours and its been more than 36hours. In calling their helpline for an update - they informed my test was never conducted and has been unresponsive since. @OfficeofUT @rajeshtope11 why make tests mandatory if we can’t expect a result.The guideline is from the state government and #SuburbanDiagnostics is appointed by them to conduct these tests. There has to be an accountability. Moreover the passengers are paying full amount for those tests.’ (sic). Another passenger who landed Mumbai on December 2 in his tweet said, “I have done my test on 2nd Dec. at airport by suburban diagnostic, still waiting for reports as on 8th Dec....after login, its showing report not ready for download.” (sic) A query sent to Suburban Diagnostics chief executive officer (CEO) Sushant Kinra did not yield a response till the time of going to print. Despite several attempts, health minister Rajesh Tope was not available for a comment and health secretary Pradeep Vyas did not respond to HT’s text messages on the price slab.An airport official working closely to implement this norm said, “There is additional staff at the airport to guide people. If people find the government-approved rate of ₹1,400 unaffordable, they have the option to carry a negative report along with them. Why don’t they do that?” A CSMIA official said, “We are following all norms and protocols laid down by the state government and are ensuring they are implemented and followed.” HT had earlier reported that passengers had complained of violation of social distancing norms and long queues during the testing. Kinra had then said that they had started to display QR codes more prominently and asked their staffers to allow passengers to fill forms using tablets, apart from the physical forms. Starting Friday, Suburban Diagnostic increased their counters from five to eight. Thirty-two people have been working in three shifts to ensure that sufficient staffers man the counters and help passengers. “Instead of daily passes, we also give weekly airport entry passes now. This will help staffers be at their workstation on time,” Kinra had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-s-covid-19-rules-for-entry-from-other-states-land-fliers-and-mumbai-airport-staff-in-trouble/story-DTNbW64ACAkMGVAu5fwxhO.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||Farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh over Centre’s new laws: Mixed response to stir in Maharashtra||Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh, called by farmers in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, got a mixed response across the state, with the normal life remaining largely unaffected. Shops in some parts of Mumbai downed their shutters, amid tight police security on the streets, after political parties peacefully rallying through the city asked them to support the country-wide bandh. In Maharashtra, the bandh was symbolically supported by 48 trade unions, labour organisations and social organisations under a joint action task force, Jan Andolanachi Sangharsha Samiti. Besides, all three ruling parties – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – supported it. This is the first time the three parties that allied to form the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state joined hands to stage protest over an issue. In Mumbai, NCP and Congress workers were seen rallying together in some places. Many parts of south-central Mumbai, including the busy area of Dadar Terminus, retail and wholesale markets of Dadar East and West, Wadala and Matunga wore a deserted look. The BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) in the evening stated they had run buses to their full capacity. Black-and-yellow taxis, autorickshaws, local and outstation trains also continued to run. While the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) markets at Navi Mumbai remained closed, supply of essential items such as milk and vegetables was not hit. All nationalised and private banks were open, even though bank employees’ unions supported the bandh. Sanjay Pansare, chairperson of fruits and vegetables traders’ association, said, “APMC showed 100% support to the bandh call.” Viren Shah of Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association, said, “Shops in a majority of areas in Mumbai remained open and conducted business smoothly. However, sales were down by 30% to 40% and buyers did not venture out.” Ajit Navale, Maharashtra general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “The bandh received good response in Maharashtra. Road blocks were organised by farmers in various parts of Maharashtra, including Kalvan, Nashik, and closer to Mumbai at Thane, and Palghar. Major fruit and vegetable markets at Ahmednagar, Ale Phata on Pune-Nashik highway and APMC in Navi Mumbai also remained closed.” The Congress staged a statewide agitation, led by Maharashtra revenue minister and Congress state president Balasaheb Thorat. Other Congress leaders, including public works minister Ashok Chavan, energy minister Nitin Raut, animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, minister of state for agriculture Vishwajeet Kadam, state Congress working president Muzaffar Hussain, Mumbai Congress president Eknath Gaikwad, were also present. Sanjay Raut, chief spokesperson of Shiv Sena, said, “It is not a political bandh. It is to show solidarity with farmers who have been protesting for the past 12 days. Participating in the bandh is voluntary, and no one is being forced to support it.” Suyog Yadav, taluka president of NCP Youth Congress, said, “We have been peacefully rallying in south-central Mumbai on Tuesday morning, and requesting shops to be shut. We have done rounds of Wadala, Sewri and Dadar.” Around 50 protesters from the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmers’ union based in Kolhapur, organised a rail roko agitation at Malkapur railway station in Buldhana district at 6.50am. The protesters blocked the railway tracks, but were removed by the railway protection force, government railway police and local police. The joint action task force also plans indefinite sit-in protests at three places in Maharashtra, along the lines of Shaheen Baug protests over the citizenship law in New Delhi. These are to be called Kisan Mazdur Baug, and are being organised at Pune, Nashik and Sangli, until farmers’ demands are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-over-centre-s-new-laws-mixed-response-to-stir-in-maharashtra/story-9OslX0cs6T30zhDhMbOzFI.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||4,026 cases push Maharashtra Covid-19 tally to 1,859,367; state sees 53 deaths||As Maharashtra added 4,026 fresh Covid-19 cases to its count on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the state continued to decline. The active caseload on Tuesday was 73,374, its lowest since June 29 (160 days) when it stood at 73,298. The fresh cases reported on Tuesday took the state’s tally to 1,859,367. It also reported 53 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 47,827.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 585 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 287,182. It also reported seven deaths on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 10,914. The active caseload in the city stood at 12,231.On Tuesday, Maharashtra saw 6,365 patients discharged, that took the tally of total recovered patients to 1,737,080. The recovery rate in the state stood at 93.42%.Since the last nine days, the number of people recovering is more than the number of new cases. Since November 30, Maharashtra added 39,308 new cases, while it has recorded 56,154 recoveries.Mumbai, which has the most number of fresh cases, was followed by Nagpur, Nashik, and Pune cities with 402, 331 and 285 cases, respectively. Nagpur city reported three deaths, while Pune city reported six fatalities, and one death was reported in Nashik city.Satellite towns in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) collectively reported 627 fresh cases, with no fatalities on Tuesday. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 120 new cases, while Thane city reported 110 and Navi Mumbai saw 99 new cases. The state has so far tested 11,377,074 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 16.34%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-026-cases-push-maharashtra-covid-19-tally-to-1-859-367-state-sees-53-deaths/story-H6K08eQ70CN4sehElgecvK.html
09-12-2020||Mumbai||NIA arrests Trombay man in international counterfeit currency racket linked to Dawood gang||National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers arrested history-sheeter Akbar Hussain alias Raju Batla from Trombay for his alleged involvement in an international counterfeit currency racket having links to fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s gang. The accused allegedly provided logistical support to a racket member Javed Ghulamnabi Sheikh, who was caught at the Mumbai airport along with Pakistan-origin high-quality counterfeit currencies worth ₹23.8 lakh in January. Hussain, 47, a resident of Pavlipada, Trombay, has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Sheikh, a Kalwa (West) resident, was arrested by Mumbai crime branch officers at Mumbai airport in January on arriving from Dubai. An examination of his bag had resulted in the recovery of 1,193 high-quality counterfeit notes of ₹2,000 denomination worth ₹23.86 lakh. NIA’s preliminary investigation has revealed that the seized fake currency notes were sent to Dubai from Pakistan and were being brought to Mumbai for Hussain. Sheikh received the notes from a man named Sardar in Dubai who is suspected to be linked to Dawood Ibrahim’s gang, sources added.Hussain has nearly 30 criminal cases registered against him. According to Trombay police, he posed as a social worker and a builder but has previously charged with smuggling, extortion, attempt to murder and murder. “He was nabbed on November 28 from his residence by NIA officers with the assistance of Trombay police in a fake currency case,” said an officer from Trombay police, requesting anonymity. On December 5, he was remanded in judicial custody.“My client has been arrested by NIA based on a previous fake currency note case, claiming he provided logistic support to other accused. But the main accused is Sardar, who is wanted. Hussain has been sent to judicial custody by the court. We will move an application for bail once NIA files a charge sheet in the case,” said Hussain’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh.Hussain had previously contested the assembly elections from Trombay but lost. His wife Khairunissa Hussain is a former civic corporator from the same area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nia-arrests-trombay-man-in-international-counterfeit-currency-racket-linked-to-dawood-gang/story-pBT7cYGU0t7JNcEGc17BPM.html
09-12-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality ‘severe’ for fifth day||The air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the fifth day in row on Tuesday. Though the humidity levels dropped slightly from 100% to 97% on Tuesday, the wind speeds were not enough to pull the air quality out of severe levels, weather analysts said.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 407 on Tuesday against 422 on Monday, showing a marginal improvement. Similarly, Greater Noida recorded an AQI value of 405 against 422 a day earlier. Ghaziabad also saw a slight improvement with an AQI of 424 on Tuesday against 438 on Monday, the CPCB data showed. AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The pollution monitoring agencies stated that while the intrusion of stubble burning smoke from neighbouring Punjab and Haryana is still negligible, it’s the high humid conditions here that trap the locally generated pollutants thereby slowing down the ventilation process. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed and humidity levels both dropped on Tuesday. The air quality of Noida and Greater Noida may be pulled out of ‘severe’ category if the winds pick up on Wednesday, IMD said. “The wind speed on Tuesday dropped to 5kmph against 10kmph on Monday. Wednesday may see almost similar weather conditions. However, the wind speed may increase to 8kmph and the temperatures may also see slight rise by a degree or two. These conditions may not be enough to make significant improvement to the air quality but may slightly improve it,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. Though the fine particles or pollutant PM2.5 levels showed slight improvement, they still remained four times the safe limits. PM2.5 for the past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 270.52 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 293.76 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 269.46 µg/m³ on Tuesday against 298.70 µg/m³ a day earlier. However, the PM2.5 level soared for Ghaziabad, which was recorded at 314.33 µg/m³ on Tuesday against 289.68 µg/m³ a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI is likely to recover slightly on Wednesday. “Surface winds are likely to be picking up slightly and AQI is forecasted to be in the very poor category for the next two days. AQI is likely to improve and stay in the middle-end of the very poor category on 11th December,” said the SAFAR statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-severe-for-fifth-day/story-pA2fZGPNB0lF1M2WqPWapI.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two former Punjab Labour Welfare Board officials held for embezzling over ₹1 crore||The Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) has arrested two former officials of the Punjab Labour Welfare Board posted at the Mohali office for misappropriation of government funds of over Rs 1 crore. The two were booked at the Kharar police station, said an official spokesperson of the state VB.An inquiry found Sucha Singh Bandi, former deputy welfare commissioner of the board and Jagdeep Singh Saini, former deputy controller, finance and accounts, guilty of embezzling funds and causing losses to the exchequer. Earlier, Hina, an accounts assistant with the board, was arrested by the VB for conniving with Bandi and Saini to misappropriate funds amounting to Rs 1.56 crore via internet banking, the official said. Hina, a resident of Manav Enclave in Kharar, transferred the money to her accounts and from there to the accounts of her relatives through internet banking. About 172 transactions were made by her to multiple bank accounts, the official added.VB inquiries revealed that Bandi and Saini had not cross-checked the cash books with the bank transactions, which established that they too had been involved in embezzling the funds. VB has registered a case against the guilty officials under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-punjab-labour-welfare-board-officials-held-for-embezzling-over-1crore/story-tQIRKoOvpkfWQ5oxWAcj0I.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest two drug smugglers, bust international cartel||The Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted an international drug cartel with the arrest of two men, a BBA graduate and a BCom graduate, who would smuggle in narcotic substances from the US through international courier services and supply them in Delhi-NCR and other parts of the country. Police confiscated at least 600 grams of narcotic substances, including marijuana and Tetrahydrocannabinol, from them, senior police officials said.Police identified the two arrested men as Avinash Jain, a BBA graduate, and his friend Shashank Gupta, a BCom graduate, both residents of Delhi. Police said they frisked the men after arresting them and confiscated 450 grams of imported marijuana, 100 grams of a toffee containing Tetrahydrocannabinol, the main psychoactive compound in cannabis that can be consumed by smoking, and 50 grams of hash. The police also confiscated four mobile phones and a Honda City car the men used for procurement and transportation of drugs.Additional commissioner of police, crime, Shibesh Singh said they arrested the men following information that some persons involved in the illegal import of drugs from USA using the dark web, would come to Vasant Kunj to supply drugs to one of their contacts. The police laid a trap and arrested both the men, Singh said.During interrogation, the two men told police that they had imported the confiscated narcotic substances from the USA through the dark web. “They said that as the new year is approaching, the demand for imported contraband is high in Delhi and NCR. They said they paid in advance through cryptocurrency, mainly Bitcoins, through a blockchain wallet. Once the payment is made to the supplier, they dispatch the parcel through an international courier service. A courier agency delivered the parcel to the place of destination after customs clearance,” the additional commissioner said.Singh said that further probe revealed that the accused persons were supplying the drugs to only verified customers. “They fixed all the deals through applications like WhatsApp, Imo, Instagram, Wickr, FaceTime, etc. They sold weed in Delhi for ₹3,000 to ₹5,000 per gram and the toffee containing Tetrahydrocannabinol ₹100-500. They said they sold 50 grams of hash for ₹50,000,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-two-drug-smugglers-bust-international-cartel/story-9BwM0co1F2V6X5FpC4e6iK.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||No new taxes in North MCD budget, focus on loans to fill revenue gaps||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation did not propose any new measure to boost its revenue in the budget proposals for the financial year 2021-22 on Tuesday despite its liabilities going up by over Rs 1,345 crore. The civic body instead pinned its hopes on soft loans and old remunerative projects to fill the huge gap between actual income and deficit. In its 2021-22 budget proposals presented on Tuesday, the north civic body did not propose any new tax or hike in existing property tax slabs. The north corporation presented a total budget for Rs 9,205.96 crore, including Rs 3,445 crore loan.The corporation, however, proposed to increase transfer duty by 1% for change in the title of properties worth more than Rs 25 lakh. This proposal was already passed by the civic body and is awaiting Delhi government’s approval.According to budget estimates, the liabilities have increased to Rs 7,523.97 from Rs 6,176.32 crore from last year.“Due to Covid-19 pandemic situation, the overall recovery in tax collection has been reduced. Our own remunerative projects to make the corporation self-reliant have also been slowed down due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown situations. So, a special alternate arrangement for special grant or interest free long term loan from state or union government be thought of,” additional commissioner Swati Sharma said while presenting the budget. North DMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti has been infected with Covid-19.Civic officials said that the property tax collection of the civic body has gone down due to the coronavirus pandemic. As per the budget estimates, there had been collection of Rs 388.55 crore as property tax till November 25 this year,which is Rs 25.53 crore less than last year during the same period. It stated that Rs 162.88 crore has been collected as transfer duty this year so far.Officials said that due to the pandemic the civic body decided not to levy any new tax on the public and also made no proposal to increase property tax.The municipality has not been able to pay salaries to its employees due to fund crunch. Ministerial staff, teachers and engineers in north corporation have not been paid for last three to four month. Similarly, salaries of doctors, nursing staff and paramedic employees are pending for two-three months.The civic body said it will focus on its old remunerative projects to generate revenue. The remunerative projects which will be expedited to make the north corporation self-reliant include redevelopment of Azadpur and Model Town staff quarters, which is expected to bring revenue of Rs 6,939 crore and Rs 8453 crore by leasing those to government agencies. Another project include Minto Road staff quarters, which the Income Tax department has desired take on lease after redevelopment. The reserve price of this is Rs 3,900 crore (approx).Officials said that the municipality has also decided to expedite the plan to provide parking for 12,915 cars by developing multi-level parkings at 17 locations.To control air pollution, North civic body also proposed to set-up e-charging and battery swap stations for e-vehicles on roads in its jurisdiction at every three kilometres from a charging point. Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said, “In this budget, an effort has been made not to put any additional burden of tax hike or new tax on the common man, who is already troubled due to the coronavirus pandemic. We will bridge the revenue gap by expediting our remunerative projects and through soft loan from the state or union government.”Vikas Goel, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor and leader of opposition in the municipality, termed the budget “disappointing”.“There is nothing new in this budget as no new projects are announced. They have not even produced any progress report of the ongoing projects. There is noting for the public in the budget. They have also not suggested any new measure to enhance revenue and improve financial condition of the civic body,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-new-taxes-in-north-mcd-budget-focus-on-loans-to-fill-revenue-gaps/story-NZCDvdZLUE91mNFvo6vXaO.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Mayors to continue their protest outside Delhi CM’s residence||Mayors and office-bearers of the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations camped outside Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal’s residence at Flagstaff Road for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.Amid high drama outside the CM’s residence — Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders sat on dharna outside the CM’s residence demanding to meet him while alleging that he has been put under house arrest by the Delhi Police — the mayors said that they will not leave until the CM meets them and agrees to release the pending dues.The mayors are demanding that the Delhi government immediately clear dues totalling ₹13,000 crore. The pressure is mounting on the BJP, as sanitation workers and other staff are threatening to go on strike due to non-payment of salaries.Municipal corporation officials alleged that the Delhi government didn’t implement the report of the fourth Delhi Finance Commission. “Approximately ₹13,000 crore is owed to the corporations based on the recommendations of the fourth finance commission,” said an official with the East municipal corporation.Also Read: No new taxes in North MCD budget, focus on loans to fill revenue gapsNorth corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We had called off the protest in October after assurance from the Delhi’s urban development minister that the funds will be released. But the government has not released funds. We have written several letters to them. Our employees are threatening to go on strike. We have no option but to sit here and demand funds. Who will be responsible if they go on strike?”On Tuesday, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, MPs Parvesh Verma and Meenakshi Lekhi and other senior leaders joined the mayors and other office-bearers in their protest outside the CM’s residence. Jai Prakash, South corporation mayor Amanika Singh, East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain and others have been sitting outside the CM’s residence since Monday. They have brought their own quilts and bedsheets to sit outside the CM’s house.Gupta said, “It is unfortunate that the CM doesn’t have the time to even meet the mayors. His party is levelling baseless allegations that he has been put under house arrest. The CM attended three events yesterday and today [Tuesday] was free to go wherever he wanted to. We will continue our protest till we get the funds.”According to an East corporation official who requested anonymity, salaries have been paid to all the employees till September and pensions have been paid till August this year. The North corporation has been the worst-affected, as salaries of staff have been pending for three or four months. In October this year, the three mayors had staged a day-long sit-in protest outside the CM’s residence demanding funds.According to a senior North corporation official who did not wish to be named, the Delhi government is yet to release a total of ₹6,283 crore pending as per recommendations of the third and fifth Delhi Finance Commission. “Besides, in the current financial year, a total of ₹1,200 crore is due. This includes BTA (basic tax assignment) and funds allocated under planned and non-planned heads. So far this year the corporation has received around ₹700 crore including ₹200 crore under the BTA and remaining under different budget heads such as health, education and sanitation among others,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.Also Read: AAP says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest; BJP, police refute claimOfficials in the South corporation said that ₹4,130 crore is pending as per the third and fifth finance commissions while ₹1,600 crore is due in the current financial year. “Under the budget for this financial year, no funds have been released by the government so far,” said a senior official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The East corporation is yet to get a total of ₹2,985 crore, as approved by the state finance commission. “Of the ₹1,100 crore due in the current financial year, the corporation has so far received around ₹400 crore,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.South corporation’s leader of the house Narendra Chawla said, “The salaries are delayed by at least 20-25 days every month. We have also not been able to pay pensions to the retired employees.”The safai karamcharis engaged with the North corporation, who had earlier planned to go on strike from November-end and decided against it after meeting senior corporation leaders, may go on strike if they are not paid by the year-end. “The sanitation workers had met the mayor and senior officials last month threatening to go on strike. However, they were assured their salaries will be disbursed by December. If the civic body fails to pay even now, they may be forced to go on strike,” said Sanjay Gahlot, head, Delhi Safai Karamchari Union.In a statement, AAP said,“Even the mayors of BJP-ruled MCDs know that their protest is only an excuse by their high command to keep CM Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest and prevent him from supporting farmers in today [Tuesday]’s Bharat Bandh. The mayors are well aware that Delhi government has been given all the due funds and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the MCDs are facing financial ruin. Since they have decided to only protest rather than govern, it is best that they resign and let AAP run the MCDs. We will run the MCDs efficiently and within the same budget.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-to-continue-their-protest-outside-delhi-cm-s-residence/story-FTPcyO5t9XmiE0Qe94cbhN.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh largely peaceful in borders, crowd swells at protest sites||The national capital remained largely peaceful during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday though the crowd of protesting farmers swelled at various protest spots across the city. The police tightened the security measures at the border points, while several shops near protest points chose to down shutters on Tuesday. Some of them said they closed their business in “solidarity” with farmers. One of the few roads blocked by protesters on Tuesday was the NH-44. A group of young men, mostly from Delhi and a few from Punjab, blocked the highway a few kilometers before the Singhu border. Rajesh Kalshan, a resident of Swaroop Nagar in Delhi, who was among the protesters there, said, “We had carried out a march in our neighbourhood and then thought of blocking the NH-44 as we wanted the government to take notice of the farmers’ problems.”But senior police officers soon reached the spot and urged the men to make way. In any case, the brief blockade did little to disrupt traffic as motorists were diverted to an adjacent service lane. Also Read: No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollbackAt Singhu border, a few shops remained closed on Tuesday. Ram Niwas, a grocery shop owner, said nobody forced him to close. “We chose to remain closed to show support to farmers. Several of use are from farmer families and want the government to right the injustice done to the farming community,” he said.There was also an increase in the number of protesters. Farmers said about 200 more trucks carrying farmers have reached the Singhu between Monday night and Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh. “We hadn’t anticipated any trouble and there hardly was any disruption,” said a senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified. At the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border, nearly 300 farmers blocked the Delhi-Meerut Expressway part and service lane of NH-24 but facilitated the movement of ambulances and other emergency vehicles. “Our protest is not aimed at creating problems for the public. It is primarily to wake up the government,” said Surjeet Singh, a farmer from Saharanpur.Also Read| Bharat Bandh: Farmers block NH-44, raise anti-govt slogans in AmbalaThe number of farmers protesting at Chilla border was much fewer that what it had been in the last one week. Dharmendra Singh, youth national secretary of BKU (Bhanu unit) said, “Our leaders had asked us to return to our respective cities and villages and participate in the Bharat Bandh at local levels. On Wednesday, we will return to Chilla border to continue our protest.”At the Tikri Border, which has been witnessing protests since November 27, the situation remained as before. Nishan Singh, a farmer from Arnivala village in Fazilka district, said that all markets around the border were shut. “The border has been bandh since so many days. So, we didn’t need to do anything more than raise our voice against the farm bills,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-largely-peaceful-in-borders-crowd-swells-at-protest-sites/story-74q1X9Qzj8TlCnPpcMyycI.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Protesting farmers block Delhi-Meerut Expressway for five hours||Protesting farmers on Tuesday completely blocked the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border connecting Delhi and Ghaziabad for five hours after calling for a nationwide bandh. While the farmers allowed traffic to resume on one carriageway (from Delhi to Ghaziabad) of the highway after five hours, the highway passing through Chilla border, connecting east Delhi and Noida, remained completely blocked for the fourth consecutive day.The blockade caused heavy traffic jams on alternate routes through which the police had to divert commuters. As many as 4,000 traffic policemen were deployed on Delhi’s roads throughout the day to ensure smooth vehicular movement.Apart from the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, seven other borders that remained completely closed on Tuesday due to the farmers’ protest are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh (in the outer and south-western parts of the city) and the Chilla border.Also Read: Bharat Bandh largely peaceful in borders, crowd swells at protest sitesUntil Monday night, only one carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was blocked; the service road of NH-24 at the UP Gate border has been closed for 10 days now. But around 10.50am on Tuesday, farmers at the Ghazipur border blocked the other carriageway as well.This prompted the Delhi Police to divert traffic towards Ghaziabad from Delhi via the Anand Vihar railway station. The traffic on the other carriageway (that is shut since Wednesday last), is being diverted through Apsara border, Bhopra and Anand Vihar.Himanshu Kumar, a resident of Gurugram who was travelling to Ghaziabad with his wife, was stuck on the Delhi-Meerut carriageway as the protesting farmers stopped his motorcycle and forced him to return.“The police on the Delhi side did not stop us as the strike was to start at 11am. The roads were already blocked before 10.54am. I requested the protestors to let us pass, but they paid us no heed. We have no choice but to return and take the alternate route, which must be congested because of the diversion,” said Kumar.Another commuter, Sunil Kumar, who was travelling to Meerut (UP) with his family, said that he had to take detours several times due to the barricading. “It took us an hour or so to reach Ghazipur border from Lakshmi Nagar due to barricades, only to be disappointed as the border was closed. We will now search for another road to enter UP,” he said.The Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway was, however, reopened by the farmers around 2.45pm, restoring vehicular movement to normal. Framers had also kept a passage open for emergency vehicles throughout. A video of the farmers making way for a hearse van and vehicles accompanying the van at Ghazipur border also surfaced on social media.Also Read: No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollbackOne of the few roads blocked by the protesters was NH-44—outside a gurdwara and a few kilometres before the Singhu Border—by a group of young men who included mostly Delhi residents and a few from Punjab. The blockade, however, did little to disrupt traffic as the motorists were diverted to an adjacent service lane by the police.Delhi Police also issued traffic advisories on social media to make the commuters aware of the affected routes and the diversions available. In one of its tweets, Delhi traffic police said, “Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders — Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.”In another tweet, the police said, “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari & Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH-44.”While arterial roads at Delhi’s borders were affected due to the bandh, senior traffic officials said that traffic was lighter than usual on Tuesday within the city too.Officials said that the number of cabs and private vehicles, especially on arterial stretches, was lower than usual on regular weekdays. “On traffic-heavy stretches such as Dhaula Kuan, South Extension, Lajpat Nagar and Moti Bagh, there were fewer vehicles. The peak hour traffic rush was also under control. This was mainly because there were fewer cabs. Worried about being caught in jams, people also preferred to use their private vehicles only if necessary,” said a traffic police officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-protesting-farmers-block-delhi-meerut-expressway-for-five-hours/story-zI0tn1nsjPtVw8EkezdLfN.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Okhla Mandi functions as usual, but other markets affected by bandh||Trade of fruits, vegetables and grains in Delhi markets was affected on Tuesday as a section of traders shut shop in support of the Barath Bandh. While it was business as usual at the Okhla fruit and vegetable market, trade was hit at the Azadpur and Ghazipur markets. The Narela and Najafgarh foodgrain markets remained completely shut in support of the strike on Tuesday. “Azadpur Mandi was almost closed. Many wholesale trader associations had joined the Bharat Bandh. A few trucks loaded with vegetables and fruits arrived at the market, but no major work was done,” said Adil Khan, chairman, Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) of Azadpur Mandi. Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader and member of the Azadpur APMC said otherwise. The market was not “almost shut”, but daily transactions did reduce on Tuesday. The trade of vegetables was down by around 30%, and that of fruits was down by 50%,” he said. Also Read| Bharat Bandh: Protesting farmers block Delhi-Meerut Expressway for five hoursTraders from the Okhla Mandi said their business continued as usual. “All trucks arrived as usual. The number of visitors may have been slightly lower on Tuesday, but traders were open for business,” said Nitin Lal, an onion trader in Okhla Mandi. Supplies to Ghazipur Mandi were severely affected as it shares a border with Uttar Padesh’s Ghaziabad which was completely shut to traffic movement for several days now. “Ghazipur saw the maximum impact of the strike. The turnout of traders was very low and visitors fewer,” said an APMC member of Ghaziabad Mandi who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/okhla-mandi-functions-as-usual-but-other-markets-affected-by-bandh/story-ZNTYV6tEmOVL7ICxtO6ZdI.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Transport services, Metro largely unaffected by nationwide strike||Transport services in Delhi, including auto-rickshaws and cabs, remained largely unaffected by the one-day Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers on Tuesday. The Delhi Transport Corporation buses, cluster buses and the Delhi Metro also operated as usual. Despite several unions of autos, taxis and other public service vehicles announcing their support to the strike, the impact was minimal on the city roads.On the Delhi Metro, entry and exit was shut only at one station -- Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on the Green Line.Ashita Singh, who used an Uber cab to reach her office in Nehru Place from Mayur Vihar Phase 1, said, “I did not face any surge pricing for my ride. The waiting time was also not more than usual.” Lakhbir Kumar, an IT Professional, said he had opted to work from home owing to strike call, “Our office had asked everyone to work from home owing to the farmers protest and the nationwide strike call. In fact, many of my friends in other companies were also asked not to come to office. Many like me, apprehending disruptions, avoided travelling in general,” he said.Also Read: Bharat Bandh largely peaceful in borders, crowd swells at protest sitesA senior Delhi transport official said buses were seen running below capacity as passengers were visibly fewer than usual.The ridership figures for Tuesday was yet to be compiled till this report was filed. Auto and taxi unions which joined the one-day strike claimed that “thousands” of cabs, autos, Gramin Sewas, RTVs, and phat phat Sewa owners kept their vehicles off the roads on Tuesday between 11am and 3pm. Kamaljeet Gill, president of Sarvodaya Driver Association of Delhi, which represents drivers working with cab aggregators, claimed most of its members were on strike. A few members of the striking auto, taxi unions held an ‘Akhand Paath’ at Bangla Sahib Gurdwara praying for the well-being of farmers and drivers, he said.Rajender Soni, general secretary of the Delhi Auto Rickshaw Sangh and Delhi Pradesh Taxi Union said all their autos and taxis operated normally and the strike had no impact at all. “The auto and taxi services were normal even at the airport, bus stations and railway stations,” he said.Due to closure of borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the city’s interstate bus terminals (ISBT) saw fewer buses. The Kashmere Gate ISBTs received only 68 buses from other states as against the usual of over 500 buses. The ISBT did not see a single bus from Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.The Anand Vihar ISBT received 448 buses on Tuesday, but they were all from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, senior government officials said.All markets were also open in the capital, but traders said the footfall on Tuesday was quite low. Also Read: Okhla Mandi functions as usual, but other markets affected by bandhAshwani Marwah, general secretary of the traders association of Lajpat Nagar, said, “We all kept our shops open today. But the crowd was less than half of what it was on Monday. With protests happening at the borders and in various parts of the city, people are not keen to step out.”Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar mandal, said, “The year started with ant-CAA protest, followed by riots and then Covid. It has been an extremely difficult year for businesses in the city. It was only in September that business had finally picked up, even in the face of several restrictions. But for the past week, the situation is back to square one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/transport-services-metro-largely-unaffected-by-nationwide-strike/story-LGJTLdmVO7sEvXVS9rxr2H.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||FIR against Delhi Cong chief, others for violating social distancing during strike||The Delhi Police on Tuesday registered a case against Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) president Anil Chaudhary and other party workers for allegedly violating social distancing norms while participating in the nationwide strike (Bharat Bandh) on Tuesday, the police said. The first information report (FIR) was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and the Epidemic Disease Act against Chaudhary and others at the IP Estate police station, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia.Around noon, as nearly 40 Congress workers led by DPCC president Chaudhary were protesting below the ITO flyover, they were found violating social distancing norms. They were taken to the police station, from where they were later released, DCP Bhatia said.While the DCP said that nobody was arrested in the case, the DPCC president said that he was arrested illegally for protesting in support of the Bharat Bandh, demanding roll back of the three “anti-farmer laws”.Chaudhary said, “Such arm-twisting, and undemocratic actions by the Delhi Police, cannot curb their resolve to support the farmers’ agitation. The farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi, braving the chilling cold and limited living conditions, demanding the rollback of the black Acts (farm laws), else they are prepared for a long haul of protests at the borders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fir-against-delhi-congress-chief-others-for-violating-social-distancing-during-bharat-bandh/story-D4ugXJ2omXrZmDtJDIviuL.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi University sets the ball rolling for appointment of new vice-chancellor||The Delhi University’s (DU) Executive Council (EC) — the highest decision-making body — on Tuesday suggested seven names for the search committee to be constituted for the recruitment of the new vice-chancellor (V-C). The university administration will now select two names out of seven and send them to the University Grants Commission (UGC). The selection committee for the recruitment of V-C consists of three people — two of them will be suggested by the DU administration and one will be recommended by the Union education ministry.JL Gupta, an EC member, confirmed the development and said, “An EC meeting was held on Tuesday and the council has suggested the names of seven people including KK Aggarwal, former V-C of Indraprastha University; Yogesh Narayan, chancellor of HNB Garhwal University; Professor Raj Kumar, V-C of Panjab University and VK Gupta, former chief justice of Uttarakhand high court for the search committee,” he said.DU dean of colleges Balram Pani has been authorised by the EC to pick two names to be sent to the UGC. “The decision will be taken by Wednesday. We will then send the two names to the UGC and it will form a three-member committee by adding one name suggested by the ministry (education),” Pani said.The selection of a new DU V-C is crucial in the backdrop of the suspension of the current V-C Yogesh Tyagi by the union ministry of education in October. The Centre had pointed out several shortcomings in the functioning of the university under Tyagi’s tenure. The suspension was followed by a high voltage drama when a faction led by Tyagi -- who was on medical leave since July and is due to retire in March -- overrode the recommendations of the EC to first appoint a new Registrar and then a new pro-V-C. The President of India had nullified all orders and appointments made by Tyagi.Several teachers and administrators said that the tussle was mainly over influencing the selection of the next vice-chancellor. The university has already published an advertisement seeking applications for the post of V-C. “Now, the three-member committee will select candidates from the applications and proceed with the process of the recruitment of the new V-C,” said Gupta. The President, who is the visitor to DU, will choose the V-C based on the recommendations of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-appointment-of-new-vice-chancellor/story-TevnIE3hH0YFZRZIlGhHvJ.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Bed attached to truck, desi geyser that runs on wood fire: farmers find ways to cope at protest sites||From sofa-cum-beds attached to the exterior of trucks, to portable ‘desi geysers’ that run on wood and cow dung cakes, some creature comforts are at hand for the Punjabi farmers camping at the Singhu border to protest the Centre’s new farm laws. The most visible of these comforts at the Singhu Border were the sofa-cum-beds jutting out of trucks, padded with mattresses. Up to four farmers sat on each on them, some reading newspapers, others holding discussions. Known in Punjab as ‘manja’, this is a foldable iron structure which farmers --mostly in sugarcane producing belts of Punjab -- get installed after purchasing trucks. When not used, they are folded back into the truck wall. “In Punjab, when we take sugarcane to mills, we have to sometimes spend up to two days and nights in our trucks, while waiting in queues. The seats inside are uncomfortable to sleep on, so the bed comes handy,” said Komaldeep Singh Cheema, who brought one such truck from Cheema Kalan village in Jalandhar. About 3.5 feet wide and six feet long, these beds can comfortably allow two adults to sleep in and seat four to five people. They also have arrangements to fix mosquito nets. “In our villages, when a small group of farmers wish to have a meeting, we place three or four trucks in a circle and roll out the manjas. Here, the manjas are providing a break from the monotony of sitting inside the trucks or standing on the road. It actually feels like a luxury during these protests,” said Cheema.“Locally we also refer it to as daftar (office). The more mattresses you add you it, the more comfortable it gets,” said Harenderjeet Singh Sodhi, another farmer from Pindal Majra village of Fatehgarh Sahib district. A three to four foot tall water heating equipment which the farmers call a “desi geyser” is also turning out to be a boon in the Delhi cold. At several points, particularly near langars and bathing spaces, the geyser made of iron or tin is being used to heat water for bathing or washing utensils. “In villages, we prefer the desi geyser to the electric ones. It heats water in five to ten minutes from the wood fire or cow dung cake fire. The advantage is that unlike a stove, it needs little fuel,” said Harmandeep Singh who belongs to Dhindsa village in Ferozpur. The compact cylindrical apparatus pumps out hot water from a pipe when more water is poured from the top. “We asked our families to send it when we realised that we were going to camp here ( Singhu) for long and the weather is it going to get colder,” said Jasveer Singh, a farmer from Sodhi Nagar in Ferozpur.Farmers have brought several trucks filled with cow dung cakes and wood. The actual intent was to use them for cooking once the gas cylinders ran empty, but the fuel is now being used for the geysers. Among the other things associated with farming that are coming in handy are hundreds of plastic fertilizer sacks.“Earlier we would stitch together several such sacks to make floor mats. Now we use them as roofs on our trucks. They get heated during the day and retain the heat to keep our trucks cosy at night,” said Jasvinder Singh, a farmer from Bhalri village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district of Punjab.HT had earlier reported how sofas made of hay are being used to seat farmers at the protest site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bed-attached-to-truck-desi-geyser-that-run-on-wood-fire-farmers-find-ways-to-cope-at-protest-sites/story-x700N7qFi6OCY4VGLYZuCL.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers set up gurdwara at protest site to derive ‘strength’||Under a canopy of orange and white drapes, a few farmers on Tuesday sat quietly in an enclosure similar to several others put up across the five-kilometre-long protest site at Delhi’s Singhu border. This enclosure, however, is different from others as protesting farmers have converted it into a makeshift gurdwara open to all—making it the only religious place on the protest site.Set up on November 27 to “give strength” to the farmers, the gurdwara on Monday started a 48-hour “akhand path” or continuous recitation of the religious texts—a day before the Bharat Bandh. From taking off shoes to covering their heads to not turning their back towards the religious texts, people at the marquee follow all the rules put in place for any gurdwara.Kuljeet Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana who has been at the protest site since it began 13 days ago, said, “We have built a farmers’ movement at a huge scale and need all the strength to sustain it as well as to fight for our rights. This is why a gurdwara was set up here. So that farmers, protesters, sympathisers across religions can come here and seek blessings.”Apart from distributing prasad to devotees, the place also holds regular kirtans, often punctuated with stories of fighting injustice. On Tuesday afternoon, several farmers visited the makeshift gurdwara, kneeling and touching their forehead to the ground in front of a blue private bus housing three Sikhs reciting the “akhand path” which will go on till Wednesday. This will be followed by an “ardas” or prayer for the well-being of all.Balbir Singh, in charge of the management at the gurdwara set up by Shiromani Panth Akali Budha Dal, said, “We have parked a tractor at the entrance of the enclosure to ensure that nobody has their backs to the sacred texts else it would be disrespectful. Everybody is welcome to the gurdwara. We set up this to help our farmer brothers derive strength from the words of Guru Granth Sahib.”There are at least two gurdwaras around the protest spot, but many protesters said they weren’t aware of the locations. Narendra Pal Singh, another farmer from Ludhiana, said that the makeshift gurdwara saw a steady flow of visitors throughout the day. “More people than usual visited the gurdwara on Gurpurab (November 30). People find peace here, and sit and listen to kirtans or pray on their own,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-set-up-gurdwara-at-protest-site-to-derive-strength/story-P4bicd69DYDtPi3YybZCeP.html
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Activists, cops injured in clash during protest against farm laws in Chandigarh||As many as eight police personnel and nearly 10 youths were injured after a protest march by over 600 activists of the Yuva Kisan Ekta turned violent in Sector 34 on Tuesday.The activists had gathered near the Sector-34 gurdwara around 1pm to march towards the BJP office in Sector 33. They had planned to lock its main door as part of their protest against the farm laws.But the police had set up security barricades to stop them. Trying to bulldoze their way through, the protesters broke the barricades with a tractor and jeep, and pelted the cops with stones, forcing the police to use water cannon and mild lathicharge. Amid the melee, some protesters climbed atop the water cannon and damaged the vehicle to turn the water off, while others snatched batons from the policemen. “They wanted to lay siege to the BJP state office Kamalam and were stopped at the barricading in Sector 34, but the protesters became violent,” a police officer said. The clash left eight policemen injured, even as around 10 protesters also sustained injuries on the head, as their turbans came off following use of force by the police. But, braving the lathis and water cannon, the protesters managed to reach the BJP office and raised slogans against the party.They tried to burn an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but were stopped by the police.A dharna followed, until senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal arrived and asked them to leave.Though no one was arrested, a case under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 3 of the Damage to Public Property Act was registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/activists-cops-injured-in-clash-during-protest-against-farm-laws-in-chandigarh/story-ZsCSgfrS0wRh2SbPBsGkbL.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Punjabi community support Bharat Bandh in Pune||Pune: Members of Singh Sabha Gurudwara of Rasta peth, including senior citizens, women and children with some coming from Punjab, participated in the Bharat Bandh strike by protesting at Alka Talkies chowk on Tuesday. Around 100 people of the Punjabi community joined the protest in support of farmers. Mandeep Singh, a farmer from Amritsar, Punjab, who had come to Pune said, “The farmer laws brought by the central government are not necessary and we oppose them. I have come from Amritsar to spread the word of protest and feelings of farmers from Punjab to Punekars.” Another protestor Baljeet Singh, who is from Pune, said, “We all gathered at the gurudwara in the morning and walked towards Alka Talkies chowk to protest and support today’s Bharat Bandh. These new farmer laws will adversely affect farmers, there is no need of privatisation in the agriculture sector which the Modi government wants to bring through these new laws. Soon the time will come when there won’t be farmers remaining in the country due to this law and ultimately no food cultivation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/punjabi-community-support-bharat-bandh-in-pune/story-h0pBpfPXBEYTvFqlp3xsDO.html
09-12-2020||Pune||PMPML to start 12 new bus routes||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) had decided to start 12 new routes from December 12, in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Giving details, Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director said, “To attempt to connect various industrial hubs and urban places along the highway corridor for better connectivity and mobility these 12 new routes are being started. It is an attempt to reach out to newer passengers and areas and connectivity in the city is our goal,” “This started around two months back and has undergone a proper study. We conducted a survey to fix up stages, stops and fares by approval from route rationalization and fare optimisation committee of PMPML on all these 12 new routes. These will be operational for a period of three months to take up response and make amendments accordingly. And we hope to add on new areas and routes newer initiative to bring in ridership and improve revenue post-covid.” he added. PMPML’s 12 new routes 1.Katraj to Sarola 2.Hadapsar to Yawat 3.Deccan Gymkhana to Bhugaon (Tangde Mala) 4.Wagholi to Rahu 5.Wagholi to Ranjangaon 6.Hadapsar – Phursungi – Hadapsar (Round journey) 7.Hadapsar to Ghorpadi 8.Saswad to Jejuri MIDC 9.Chakan to Talegaon Dabhade 10. Pimpri road to Spine Mall 11. Pimpri road to Warje Malwadi 12. Chakan to Shikrapur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-to-start-12-new-bus-routes/story-H6iaxcT4nqRA2wRf6AXs6O.html
09-12-2020||Pune||E-learning school project at Katraj public amenity plot gathers dust due to lack of funds||The construction of e-learning school building, planned at the public amenity space on plot number 18, 19, 20 at Gokulnagar on Katraj-Kondhwa road, is incomplete since it was inaugurated nearly five years ago. The building under construction is in a neglected state and misused by anti-social elements. Some people also use the space for parking vehicles. At a time when the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to lease out public amenity spaces in the city and augment its revenue by Rs 900 crore with residents opposing the move, the neglected school building exposes civic administration’s seriousness regarding utility of spaces. The school project was inaugurated by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on January 26, 2016. According to area corporator Prakash Kadam, the project is incomplete as PMC is yet to sanction adequate funds. When the project was okayed after it was taken up by corporator Bharati Kadam, the ward was under Prabhag 76 before it came under ward number 41 as per the revised ward schedule of the corporation. The school project envisaged construction of a five storied building with two parking facilities at the ground level. Only parking facilities and three stories were readied. As of today, according to PMC officials, only 40 per cent of the construction work is complete during the past five years due to lack of funds. The flooring work, plastering, painting and electricity supply work is yet to be carried out. A visit to the spot revealed the structure in a state of neglect with the basement filled with dirty rainwater. The absence of security guard at the site leaves the space to be used by anti-social elements. Prakash said, “Initially the project came under ward number 76 and work started after funds were sanctioned. Later, the ward was revised and the corporation is yet to release funds to complete the project.” PMC construction department head and executive engineer Shivaji Shankar said, “A number of developmental works are being done by PMC. We take up plans on priority. There is a 40 pc cut in funding of various projects due to the Covid situation. The school project will be completed after adequate funding is made available by the administration.” Sujay Mahale, a resident said, “The e-learning school project will benefit the poor and middle class children of the neighbourhood. The administration should take up this incomplete plan on priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/e-learning-school-project-at-katraj-public-amenity-plot-gathers-dust-due-to-lack-of-funds/story-1elhCVlBizwx8I1ozkiziP.html
09-12-2020||City||Three killed in hit-and-run accidents in Panchkula||Speeding vehicles claimed three lives in two separate hit-and-run accidents in the district on Monday night.Two men were killed after an unknown vehicle hit their motorcycle in Raipur Rani.The victims, Harjit Singh, 25, and his relative, Deepak, 20, used to set up tandoors at wedding events.On Monday night, after wrapping up work at Trilokpur village, they were on their way back to Saidpura, Dera Bassi. As they reached near Manak Tabraan gurdwara in Raipur Rani, a speeding vehicle hit their two-wheeler.They were rushed to civil hospital in Sector 6 with serious injuries, but died during treatment. Acting on the complaint of Harjit’s cousin, Jasbir Singh of Saidpura, Dera Bassi, police booked the unidentified vehicle driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Raipur Rani station.In another accident, a rashly driven JCB excavator mowed down a 40-year-old woman riding pillion on a two-wheeler at Sector 25.Complaint Surender Singh, 55, of Indira Colony, Sector 17, told the police that he, along with his wife, Usha Rani, had visited Bijoli village in Yamunanagar to attend a wedding on Monday.They were returning home on their Honda Activa in the evening. Around 6.45pm, on reaching Panchkula, they crossed the petrol pump of Sector 25, when a speeding JCB excavator hit their scooter. Usha fell on the road and was crushed under the machine’s rear tyre. She was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6, where doctors referred her to PGIMER. But, she was declared brought dead.The JCB driver stopped initially, but drove away on seeing the gathering crowd.He was booked under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-killed-in-hit-and-run-accidents-in-panchkula/story-xkqfAgCkEyDxG0nQ6Eg6QP.html
09-12-2020||Pune||MVA, AAP ensure bandh in Pune sees strong political presence||PUNE: The Maharashtra Vikas Agadi (MVA) and other political parties along with various farmer organisations participated in the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations across the country Maha Vikas Agadi leaders, mainly from the Nationalist Congress party, Congress and Shiv Sena, took part in agitations at the Alka Talkies chowk on Tuesday morning. The MVA planned to carry out a march till Mandai, but police did not allow any movement. Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe, NCP city unit president Chetan Tupe, and Shiv Sena leaders joined the agitation. NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade expressed dismay as the trader unions supported the bandh but did not close down all the shops in the city. The Aam Aadmi Party held an agitation at the District collector’s office. Social leader Baba Adhav also participated in the agitations. Meanwhile, farmer organisations carried out agitations in the rural parts of western Maharashtra with farmer leader Raju Shetty leading the agitation in Kolhapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mva-aap-ensure-bandh-in-pune-sees-strong-political-presence/story-DS7wrVxAer8vo3uTv4iAyO.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Pune civic body’s amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters extended till Jan 26||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation has okayed an extension for the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters, till January 26, 2021.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “We are getting lot of demand to extend the amnesty scheme. PMC got a good response for the scheme which was in place between October 2 and November 30.”Rasne said, “An extension has been given till January 26. Citizens who pay the dues by December 31 will get a benefit of a 75 per cent rebate on the penalty amount. Citizens who pay the tax between January 1 to January 26 will get a 70 per cent rebate on the penalty amount.” Rasne said, “Between October 2 and November 30, PMC had given an 80 per cent rebate on the penalty amount. PMC received around Rs350 crore in the first phase of the amnesty scheme. We are expecting more in the second phase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amnesty-scheme-for-property-tax-defaulters-extended-till-jan-26/story-hNRkXmKrUlIkk46gcIwukO.html
09-12-2020||Pune||PMPML stays on schedule, but fewer passengers about||PUNE The Bharat Bandh, called by political parties in support of farmers on Tuesday, did not affect the city’s transportation. Autorickshaws and private app-based taxi services operated normally, while the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses ran as per schedules. However, because of the strike there was not much crowd at the bus stands and on the roads, for example, prominent ST stands in the city like Swargate, Wakdewadi and the Pune railway station’s ST stands were all largely empty.“I was planning to go back to Solapur today, but as there was a Bharat Bandh I cancelled my plans. Now, I will travel tomorrow by ST bus and accordingly plan my journey,” said Shailesh Kshirsagar.Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director said, “The bus operations remained normal, but due to the Bandh there was fewer passengers travelling. We will get the exact numbers and statistics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-stays-on-schedule-but-fewer-passengers-about/story-9bhstV4CfkkXebWzBDayjO.html
09-12-2020||Pune||PMC standing committee okays e-bike rental scheme for Pune||The Standing Committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has cleared the execution of an electric-vehicles-for-rent project along with a sanction for electric charging stations across the city.Citizens will be able to avail of the e-bike service by paying Rs4 per km. The project will be executed on a pilot basis and contractors will add on e-bikes in phased manner.Standing Committee chairman, Hemant Rasne said, “PMC does not need to bear any financial burden for this project. “The contractor will provide 3,000 to 5,000 e-bikes in phases and 500 spots are identified for bike stations and vehicle charging stations.”Rasne said, “This proposal came through the city improvement committee. “We had sent this proposal to the administration for their suggestions and the response was positive. The project will get rolled out very soon.”The Pune Municipal Corporation standing committee claims that the project will improve the city’s air quality and help to provide a feeder service for the Pune metro lines.Heramb Shelke and Pranit Parekar, co-founders of VTRO, a company contracted for the project, said, “VTRO motors have taken into consideration full damage control, robbery issues of the previously- run cycle project in the city, while launching this project. Under this scheme we are setting up standard and fast-charger points.”“We have now got approval for 2,000 charging points at 500 locations in the city with 25,000 bikes already in the pipeline. “Other corporations are setting up 50,000 charging points with 25 lakh EV bikes across India within 36 months,” the duo claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs4-per-km-pmc-sc-okays-e-bike-rental-scheme-for-pune/story-BXYfYp7UgfoWbCA2Vvm2TL.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Pune is bandh in spirit... but sees mixed response for most of day||PUNE The “Bharat Bandh” called by a cross-section of political groups in support of agitating farmers in the country was a mixed response in Pune city on Tuesday.Some of the major markets in the city, like Market yard, remained closed, but parts of the Laxmi road and Tulshibaug markets were functional. Across the city, traders and shop owners kept their shops closed in the first half of the day, but later, resumed business.The Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP) had extended their support to the bandh, but several shops across the city remained open, claiming already having suffered a lot financially due to the Covid-19 lockdowns.“There was a bit of worry among shop owners on Laxmi road about opening due to the Bharat Bandh. Half of the shop owners preferred to remain shut, but most opened. We have fully supported the protest and the strike called by farmers, but at the same time we cannot keep our shops closed anymore. There are heavy financial losses already due to four months of lockdown and we cannot afford to keep shops closed,” said Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi Road Ganpati Chowk Traders Association. Similarly, vegetable traders at Market Yard kept their daily work on, as a few vegetable trucks arrived at the market.“Usually on weekdays, we get vegetable supply of around 1,000 trucks. Today, 188 trucks arrived at the wholesale market. The attendance of loaders and other workers was also negligible. As vegetables are perishable goods, it cannot be stored for too long. Goods trucks which had already started their journey three days back cannot turn back. We have supported the farmers by keeping our trading open,” said Vilas Bhujbal, leader of the association of traders and commission agents at Market Yard.In other prominent markets like Tulshibaug, Bohri Aali, Raviwar peth market and at Appa Balwant chowk a mixed response was seen during the day. Some remained closed for the first half and later on opened up for routine work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-is-bandh-in-spirit-but-sees-mixed-response-for-most-of-day/story-HS0fqgXViOBsnN2MCzwMjM.html
09-12-2020||Pune||Sant Tukaram Nagar metro station 80% complete, say Pune metro officials||Post the Covid-19 lockdown, the Pune Metro has sped- up construction work on its stations on the Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate, and Vanaz to Ramwadi routes.The Sant Tukaram Nagar metro station is the first station to have reached an 80 per cent work-rate completion, as per Pune Metro officials. Hemant Sonawane, general manager of Pune Metro, said, “Sant Tukaram station is at an advanced stage. The Sant Tukaram station work was started last December. However, due to Covid-19, there was no work for seven months. We have completed the priority section and now we are moving to complete seven stations on the PCMC to Bopodi stretch. It is a 6.6km stretch and we have had a trial run between these two stations.”“At present, we have completed 80 per cent of the work on the Sant Tukaram station; 75 per cent at Phugewadi station; and 50 per cent of the work at five other stations - Bhosari, Kasarwadi, Dapodi and Bopodi and PCMC,” he added.He further said, “To complete all the stations on the PCMC to Bopodi stretch will take more than six months. However, Sant Tukarm station will ready in couple of months. After completing all the stations, we will start metro operations on this stretch. Metro work hampered due to Covid-19, otherwise, PCMC to Bopodi stretch would have been in operational stage”At present, the façade work is in progress at the Sant Tukaram Nagar metro station. On its Reach-1 route, which covers the Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate, and Vanaz to Ramwadi routes, Pune Metro has completed 6.6km of track till date. The metro completed its first trial run on a 2.4-km elevated route in Pimpri on 10 December 10, 2019. Pune Metro has given a theme-based special design to each station; the Deccan station is designed in a Puneri pagdi style. The stations will be built as per the standards of the Indian Green Council which ensures that they are sustainable stations. So, rainwater harvesting systems, solar panels, and bio-digester and water plants will be set up. All stations will be a minimum of two levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sant-tukaram-nagar-metro-station-80-complete/story-5Xq5zsJdEj7LVfhJjNTKeP.html
