10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Managing migratory birds, boating and trekking part of WWF’s Sukhna plan||A plan is being chalked out by the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) for Sukhna Lake, which includes management of migratory birds, fishing and maintenance of the lake and control of boating, trekking and tourist activities, it has been learnt.Apart from this, the WWF rulebook will focus on desiltation and water availability in case of poor rainfall, with a detailed roadmap to be submitted on December 14, sources have said. The man made lake , which has a 26 square kilometre wildlife sanctuary towards the north, often dries up during the summer. Desiltation and pumping of additional water from other sources too have not yielded results. The lake, created by Le Corbusier in 1958, had lost about 66% of its original water holding capacity due to silting. Following this, check dams were built in the catchment area, but even then the water levels have been going down, leaving the lake with a capacity of around 500 hectare-metres against the original capacity of over 1,074 hectare metres. The Punjab and Haryana High Court is also monitoring the protection of the lake, initiating a suo motu petition in 2009 to save the water body. Declared a wetlandThe UT administration in June last year issued a final notification for declaration of 493 acres of the lake as a wetland under Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rule 2017. All activities threatening the lake are prohibited. Encroachment of any kind, setting up of any industry and expansion of existing industries are prohibited, as is conversion of wetland to non-wetland uses. Solid waste dumping, discharge of untreated waste and effluents from industries, cities, towns, villages, and other human settlements into wetlands are also banned. Any construction of a permanent nature except for boat jetties within 50 metres from the mean high-flood level observed in the past ten years is not allowed. The UT had sought help from WWF in November last year to draw up the management plan. It is also a knowledge partner for declaring Sukhna Lake a wetland, and will not charge anything for this exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/managing-migratory-birds-boating-and-trekking-part-of-wwf-s-sukhna-plan/story-qUrdJeO1YTjJkVqHG76TKJ.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Seven-fold increase in drought events, six-fold rise in frequency of extreme flood events in Maharashtra over 50 years: Study||Maharashtra has witnessed a seven-fold increase in drought events and a six-fold rise in frequency of flood events in the last 50 years, according to a first-of-its-kind independent study. Conducted by not-for-profit policy research institute Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), the study assessed patterns through district-level profiling of India’s extreme climate events between 1970 and 2019. CEEW found that in over 80% Maharashtra districts (home to 78.41 million), people were vulnerable to drought or drought-like situations and 10.23 million people were exposed to extreme flood events annually. In the last five decades, Mumbai has recorded a three-fold increase in the frequency of extreme flood events. The study was released on Thursday. Abinash Mohanty, programme lead, CEEW, and the author of the study, said, “For Maharashtra, droughts and floods have become a twin issue among major climate event concerns. Surprisingly, certain districts are witnessing droughts while others are witnessing floods during the same season.”Extreme drought events in Maharashtra rose from 11 during 1970-79 to 14 during 1980-89; 17 during 1990-99; 23 during 2000-2010; and 79 during 2010-2019. Aurangabad, Jalna, Latur, Osmanabad, Pune, Nashik, and Nanded were identified as drought hotspot districts. Mohanty said traditionally drought-prone areas (like Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Pune, and Sangli districts) had shown a shift towards extreme flood events and storm surges over the last decade. The data for extreme flood events in Maharashtra showed a rise from two events during 1970-79 to three during 1980-89; 10 during 1990-99; 11 during 2000-2010; and 12 during 2010-19. The hotspots for floods are Mumbai city, and Thane and Ratnagiri districts, with the island city alone witnessing two flood events per decade from 1980 to 2009. Between 2010 and 2019, flood events shot up to six and the most critical weather event for Mumbai suburban were the July 2005 floods, which claimed 1,094 lives.Mohanty said these extreme climate events were the result of a combination of factors including unplanned urban development, encroachment upon ecosystems like mangroves and weather conditions like the urban heat island effect (warm air getting trapped and unable to circulate out), periods of intense rainfall during monsoon and increased frequency of storm surges. “The impact of extreme climate events has to be understood in the context of Mumbai and other cities along the west coast wherein rising seas potentially threaten their safety. Research studies have suggested that a one-metre rise in sea level can potentially inundate 5,763 km in India,” he said.CEEW also found that some districts, such as Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nashik, Pune, and Thane, were witnessing a micro-climatic shift to a dry summer climate zone, resulting in an increase in cyclonic disturbances. “This has increased the intensity of storm surges, incessant rainfall and flooding,” said Mohanty.WHAT MAHARASHTRA NEEDS TO DO?CEEW has suggested a four-step approach to tackle the climate catastrophe, beginning with a more localised granular assessment of past events at the district level. The findings of such a survey should then be integrated into district disaster plans, and further assimilated into the state’s climate change action plan. “Until the findings are integrated, budget allocation for implementable action cannot be recognised at the district level,” said Mohanty. The next step would be to develop a state specific portal as an integrated emergency service management system for climate surveillance. “Under this government machinery, research bodies and all stakeholders can log in details of past climate hazards and develop a detailed repository to tackle future risk events,” said Mohanty. Finally, restoring natural areas and ecosystems should be restored with a focus on a climate-resilient future.FIRST OF ITS KIND STUDYThe analysis of extreme weather events in India between 1970-2019 in CEEW’s study is based on verified government data from bodies such as the Union agriculture ministry, National Disaster Management Authority, India Meteorological Department, Press Information Bureau, and international bodies such as World Meteorological Organisation and World Health Organisation. While drought events were divided as per the Centre’s classification under meteorological, hydrological and agricultural droughts, flooding events were classified as riverine, coastal, flash, urban, and compounded floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-fold-increase-in-drought-events-six-fold-rise-in-frequency-of-extreme-flood-events-in-maharashtra-over-50-years-study/story-CsrE8ZHQ8Z0bepnKwcYy9M.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government orders probe against jail authorities in Gautam Navlakha spectacles case||Two days after the Bombay high court (HC) criticised authorities at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail for refusing to hand over a pair of spectacles to activist Gautam Navlakha, the Maharashtra government on Thursday ordered a probe into the allegations. State home minister Anil Deshmukh made the announcement saying that such a situation needs to be handled with humanity.The 70-year-old activist is an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case and is facing charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has alleged that till August 2018, Navlakha was a member of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), an outfit banned in the country. He is currently lodged at Taloja jail.Navlakha’s partner Sahba Hussain had alleged that the activist’s spectacles were stolen in jail and that prison authorities didn’t permit a new pair sent by his family.“The Bhima Koregaon case accused Gautam Navlakha was denied spectacles by jail authorities as they refused to accept a parcel sent by his family. I have ordered an inquiry in this matter. I believe this situation should have been handled humanly and such incidents need to be avoided in future,” Deshmukh said.“If the family has sent his spectacles, he should be given those. We need to handle these things more sensitively,” he added.Taking cognizance of the matter, the bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik on Tuesday said, “We gather from news reports that Navlakha has lost his spectacles in jail and when his family took him a new pair, the jail authorities refused to accept them. Can this [spectacles] be denied,” the bench asked. “These are human considerations. Humanity is most important, everything else will follow subsequently,” the judges added.The high court also emphasised on the need to sensitise the prison staff by holding workshops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-orders-probe-against-jail-authorities-in-gautam-navlakha-spectacles-case/story-uAUznMRxEMCUurLqYgDTXL.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹55 lakh extortion allegation against P’kula policemen to be probed||The Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) has set up a special investigation team to look into allegations by a Karnal resident that two men, Sanjeev and Kushbinder Sharma, and some policemen here had extorted Rs 55.50 lakh from him and threatened to falsely implicate him in a case.A police press statement said important leads had been found during investigations in a case registered at the Sector 5 police station here on December 8 under sections 120-B, 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.Sanjeev, Kushwinder Sharma and others were booked on a complaint to the Haryana home minister by Kunal Chopra from Karnal, which was forwarded to the DGP . Chopra told the police that he had spoken to Delhi resident Sanjeev about his plans to buy a house in Panchkula, who had then asked him to speak to Kushwinder Sharma of Panchkula. In his complaint to the police after which the FIR was registered, Chopra said, “I called Kushwinder Sharma, who assured me that he could get me the house of an NRI (non-resident Indian) at half price, but I would have to pay Rs 50 lakh in advance to the caretaker.” On November 26, Chopra said in his complaint that he took Rs 55.50 lakh and reached Hotel Sartaj 2 in Sector 5 here and went to his booked room. Kushwinder Sharma soon came over there with two police constables and five other men who took Chopra’s bag after accusing him of gambling. “When I rushed downstairs after them, I saw them sitting in a Bolero, on which SHO (station house officer), Sector 14 Panchkula was written,” Chopra alleged.He said when he went to the police station he was asked to leave and was allegedly threatened that they (police) would involve him in a false case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-lakh-extortion-allegation-against-p-kula-policemen-to-be-probed/story-M15cH6kHGcEXuuGn5DX4fM.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Lawyers, registered clerks allowed to travel in Mumbai locals in morning too||Lawyers and registered clerks will now be allowed to travel in local trains during the peak hours in the morning. Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) have allowed them to commute by local trains between 8am and 11am.Earlier, lawyers and clerks were allowed to commute by local trains during stipulated timings which did not include peak hours. Previously, they were allowed to travel up to 8am, between 11am and 4pm and post 7pm. The move was taken after the Maharashtra government requested the zonal railways to allow lawyers to travel by trains in the morning.They will, however, not be allowed to travel during peak hours in the evening between 4pm and 7pm. “Lawyers and registered clerks are permitted to travel by suburban trains during the course of the day, every day except the evening peak hours from 4pm to 7pm. It is requested that travellers who have been permitted to travel by suburban trains should follow medical and social protocols as mandated for Covid-19,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. Staff and registered clerks of the Bombay Bar Association, Advocates’ Association of Western India, Bombay Incorporated Law Society, Bombay High Court Law Library and Kirtikar Law Library will also be allowed to commute by local trains. While local train services resumed on July 15, it was earlier operational only for employees working in essential care, differently-abled passengers and cancer patients. Later, women commuters were also permitted to travel by local trains on both CR and WR lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lawyers-registered-clerks-allowed-to-travel-in-mumbai-locals-in-morning-too/story-fU3JxGiq0YVqKji2V89p2J.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai hottest in country on Tuesday, Wednesday||Mumbai was identified as the hottest location in India on Tuesday and Wednesday by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The streak of hot weather continued on Thursday as the night temperature recorded was 5 degrees Celsius above normal, making it the city’s second-highest minimum temperature during December in 10 years.According to IMD, the highest maximum temperature recorded in India on Tuesday was at the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, at 36.4 degrees Celsius, which is almost 4 degrees Celsius above normal, followed by Karwar in Karnataka at 36.1 degrees Celsius and Ratnagiri in Maharashtra at 35.4 degrees Celsius. On Wednesday, Santacruz recorded 36 degrees Celsius respectively, 3.4 degree Celsius above normal, the highest maximum in India followed by Ratnagiri at 35.5 degrees Celsius and Karwar at 34.8 degrees Celsius. The hottest location within Mumbai on Wednesday was Charkop at 36.3 degrees Celsius.The day temperature fell by almost 2 degrees Celsius on Thursday both in the suburbs and south Mumbai. While the Santacruz observatory recorded 33.8 degrees Celsius, 1 degree Celsius above normal, as compared to 36 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, Colaba observatory recorded the temperature at 32.2 degrees Celsius, which fell 0.5 degree Celsius below the normal mark.“A combination of factors such as warm and dry easterly winds from over central India moved over the city as well as the very late setting in of sea breeze on both Tuesday and Wednesday led to the rise in maximum temperature, much beyond any other location in the central Indian plains or the west coast,” said Bishwambhar Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD, Mumbai.Meanwhile, owing to cloudy conditions during early Thursday morning, the Santacruz weather observatory recorded the minimum temperature at 24 degrees Celsius, 5 degrees Celsius above normal. It increased by 4 degrees Celsius from Wednesday’s 20 degrees Celsius. This was the second-highest December minimum temperature in 10 years as the highest was recorded last year on December 5 at 25.3 degrees Celsius. The city had also recorded 25.2 degrees Celsius on December 1, 2008.The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, also recorded a high minimum temperature at 25 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius above normal. Location-specific minimum temperatures across the city were above 20 degrees Celsius or above the normal mark. “Warmer conditions since Thursday morning were due to the effect of a cloudy sky. Cloud cover had formed due to a low pressure weather system over southeast Arabian Sea indicating a significant cloud mass over the sea areas, allowing peripheral weather activity along the west coast. We have issued a forecast for partly cloudy sky with possibility of very light rain or drizzle for Mumbai for Thursday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Parts of the city such as Santacruz, Powai, Goregaon, Mulund and a few other areas witnessed light drizzle late on Wednesday night with traces of rain reported at Santacruz. However, no rain was recorded at the Colaba weather station. While generally cloudy conditions have been predicted for Mumbai till the weekend, a forecast of very light to light rain was issued by IMD for Thane and Palghar for Friday.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) in Mumbai on Thursday was 152 (moderate), marginally higher than Wednesday’s 149 (moderate). It is expected to be 142 (moderate) on Friday.POSSIBILITY OF HAILSTORM IN PARTS OF NORTH MAHARASHTRAThe IMD on Thursday issued a forecast for the probability of rain, thunderstorms, and even hailstorms over parts of north central Maharashtra between Friday and Sunday across areas of Dhule, Nandurbar, Nashik, and Jalgaon. “The likeliness of this is as a result of the low pressure weather system in the southeast Arabian Sea that can activate weather factors leading to such weather activity in the coming days,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-second-hottest-in-country-on-tuesday-wednesday/story-VvNSE4QQElb3gICVYZ2tZK.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Decision on local trains after monitoring Christmas, new year situation, says Mumbai municipal commissioner||A recommendation about permitting the general public to travel by local trains in Mumbai will be made only after monitoring the situation during Christmas and New Year revelry, Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Thursday.He also warned that if people continued to gather in defiance of coronavirus restrictions, the government will be forced to impose a night curfew in the city.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will recommend to the government that railway services resume for all only after monitoring the situation during Christmas and New year celebrations, he told reporters here.“Depending on the situation during Christmas and New Year’s Eve, we can take a decision about restarting local trains,” he said.Currently, only certain categories of persons including those working for essential services are allowed to travel by local trains, Mumbai’s lifeline.He had written to the Maharashtra government seeking a night curfew after seeing that some night clubs were operating overnight, Chahal said.Last week, BMC teams raided two night clubs where a large number of people had gathered without wearing proper masks, the commissioner said, adding that FIRs were registered against these clubs.“The government is not in favour of imposing a night curfew because it creates panic among people. Hence it has decided to wait and watch till December 25,” Chahal said.The daily number of new Covid-19 cases in the city has gone down and is in the range of 600-800 after Diwali, Chahal said, adding that the number of asymptomatic patients was high among new cases.He was speaking to the media after meeting actor Anupam Kher at the BMC headquarters.Kher gifted him a copy of his book “Your Best Day is Today”. The book, based on the actor’s experiences during lockdown, also has a chapter about the BMC’s efforts to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-on-local-trains-after-monitoring-christmas-new-year-situation-says-mumbai-municipal-commissioner/story-zbWGbZAwNLCIbv3ZdaRtEJ.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP holds ward meetings for Panchkula MC polls, Cong yet to finalise selection panel||All parties are getting into battle mode for the Panchkula municipal corporation elections slated for December 27, with the Bharatiya Janata Party setting up an IT cell and holding meetings in all wards, even as the Congress awaits a nod from its state president to hold a selection committee meeting.The party’s senior leadership too has been pitching in for the elections and meeting workers. They include Panchkula MLA and Haryana vidhan sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Yamunanagar mayor Madan Chauhan, former cabinet minister Captain Abhimanyu, who is also the in charge of the MC polls in the city and MP from Kurukshetra Nayab Singh Saini.Gupta said the party had completed two rounds of interactions, with leaders visiting each ward and taking feedback from people in the first round and holding meetings with workers in the second.The Congress party, however, appeared to be taking things slow with Pardeep Chaudhary, Kalka MLA, saying: “We all are working in our own way. Different committees will also be constituted soon. We are just awaiting a nod from our party’s high command Kumari Selja.”Chaudhary, who is also a member of the selection committee, said it would hold a meeting after getting a message from Sejla: “It might come in this evening or by tomorrow, following which names of the candidates for the mayoral post and others will be finalised.”BJP launches media and IT war roomMeanwhile, to keep connected to each ward and for information inflow the BJP has launched a media and IT war room.“It’s main aim will be to keep a check on rumours and fake news against the party,” Gupta said.List of mayoral candidatesMeanwhile, the BJP has issued list of 18 names for the mayor’s post while the Congress has shared the names of nine candidates, including that of former mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia.The 18 BJP candidates include Deepak Sharma, Shyam Lal Bansal, Anil Thapar, RC Taneja, Kulbhushan Goyal, Anjali Bansal, Umesh Sood, RP Malhotra, Vishal Seth, Krishan Dhull, Sanjay Ahuja, BB Singhal, Kamal Awasthi, Sunil Talwar, Praveen Attray, Virender Garg, CB Goel and Dr Rajesh Bindal.The Congress candidates include Ranjeeta Mehta, Sudha Bhardwaj, Manveer Kaur Gill, Ravinder Rawal, Suresh Sharma, Tarsem Garg, Krishan Nanha, Anil Pangotra and Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia.The main mayoral candidate will be finalised by December 12, BJP sources said, adding that the third phase of house to house meetings too will start soon||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-holds-ward-meetings-for-panchkula-mc-polls-cong-yet-to-finalise-selection-panel/story-i0xD1DVys86fpTWrahbERL.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra not witnessing Covid-19 second wave pattern: Health department official||Maharashtra on Thursday continued to clock less than 5,000 new cases for the sixth consecutive day with 3,824 Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, which is anticipating a potential second wave of Covid-19 cases, is not witnessing any signs of a surge so far, said state health department officials. The state’s tally rose to 1,868,172, of which 71,910 are active. Maharashtra also recorded 70 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 47,972. Of the fatalities reported on Thursday, 51 occurred in the past 48 hours and 19 in the past week. The state’s case fatality rate stood at 2.57%.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 798 new cases, taking the city’s caseload to 288,696. Mumbai also reported 13 deaths, taking death toll to 10,942. The city currently has 11,886 active cases.The state, which had anticipated a second wave of Covid-19 infections, has so far not witnessed any signs of it, said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of communicable diseases prevention control and member of the state-appointed technical committee.As per the different project models of the state health department, it was projected that Maharashtra could see a surge in fresh cases by December-end or by January-February next year. The figures over the past week have not suggested any signs of an increase in infection rate or more cases.In the past seven days, Maharashtra has reported 25,585 Covid-19 cases and 373 deaths with a daily average of 3,655 cases and 53 deaths. During the same period, the state tested 370,196 samples. The average number of tests conducted daily was 52,885 while the positivity rate was 6.91%.“These are favourable and positive signs. We had thought that since people had come out in large number before Diwali, it would trigger the second wave. One thing is beyond doubts that we are not seeing a second wave pattern in Maharashtra, especially in Mumbai and Pune. There is a lull. Now, whether this lull is one before the storm or this will result in a positive outcome, we will know in the next three to four weeks,” Salunkhe said.Health department officials, however, are still wary about lax behaviour by people in maintaining Covid-appropriate steps as it could change the pattern in the state.“At this stage, we will not say that the risk is over and that we are out of the woods. I would like to wait for three more weeks, and if the same pattern of either a plateauing or a decline continues then we will be [in a] comfortable [position],” Salunkhe added. He said people will have to continue to not step out, if avoidable and continue masking and sanitisation regularly.Meanwhile, over the past one month, Nagpur and Akola divisions have seen a high percentage growth in fresh cases signalling that the region is now seeing more cases as per the epidemiological cycle. Mumbai and Pune divisions saw the highest number of cases recorded in terms of absolute numbers, but the percentage increase is around 7% in the month.Nagpur division, which covers Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadhchiroli districts, added 22,241 fresh cases between November 10 and December 9, which is an increase of 14.02%. Akola division, covering Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, and Washim districts, added 6,004 new cases during the same period, which is an increase of 11.02%.Mumbai division, covering Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, added 44,990 fresh cases, while Pune division, which covers Pune, Solapur and Satara, added 29,928 cases in the same period. The share of cases for Mumbai division increased by 7.51% while that of Pune increased by 6.88%.Salunkhe said, “These regions (Nagpur and Akola) got the infection little later. The epidemic pattern we saw initially in Mumbai and Pune was that of high transmission. Therefore, Mumbai and Pune are stabilising now. Nagpur and Akola will follow and stabilise in three to four weeks as per the epidemiological cycle.”Thursday also saw 5,008 patients being discharged after treatment, taking the tally of total recovered patients to 1,747,199. The recovery rate improved to 93.52%. So far, Maharashtra has tested 11,502,427 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 16.24%. In the past 24 hours, 54,704 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 6.99%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-not-witnessing-covid-19-second-wave-pattern-health-department-official/story-xllef3wZ5NVxJfhKw9xSEM.html
10-12-2020||City||Baby girl found abandoned in Ludhiana civil hospital||A six-month-old baby girl, wrapped in a cloth, was found abandoned at the mother and child unit of the civil hospital. The child was taken to the emergency ward for a medical check-up and was later shifted to the nursery. SMO Dr Amarjeet Kaur said that the child was healthy. The police and the district administration were informed about the abandoned baby. The CCTV cameras are being checked to identify the mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baby-girl-found-abandoned-in-ludhiana-civil-hospital/story-jqllOEJau4qHlhAT5pIU6H.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Stray dog attacks 15 people in Ludhiana’s BRS Nagar, residents blame MC for inaction||In a shocking incident, a stray dog bit nearly 15 residents of Green Valley Park near Lodhi Road in BRS Nagar on Wednesday. The incident has triggered outrage among the residents. They alleged that the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has taken no measures to curb stray dog menace in the area despite several complaints. Family members of victims said the incident could have been avoided if MC had acted on time. Neeru Sharma, a resident of the area and dog lover, said that the dog bit nearly 15 people, including three children, the youngest of whom was three-year-old Aavya Arora. “I usually offer food to dogs in the area. But on Wednesday, I noticed a change in the behaviour of one of them, as it was attacking the other dogs. I suspected that it had turned rabid and I asked residents to stay alert,” she said. She added that getting in touch with MC staff was an ordeal. “I Googled the number and tried lodging a complaint. After several attempts, I managed to get in touch with Sunil Kapoor, husband of area councillor Seema Kapoor, and asked him for help. He sent a few sweepers to capture the dog, but they failed to do it. Finally, I got the number of medical officer Dr Vipal Malhotra. I urged him to get the dog that was on a biting spree captured, and get the others vaccinated,” Sharma said. She added that after biting the residents of Green Park Valley, the dog entered the housing board colony, J-Block Market in BRS Nagar and residential area of J- Block where it bit other dogs. She said that the MC team arrived at 5pm, and captured the dog by 6.30pm. Another canine that tried to attack the team was also caught. Victims share shocking details Shashikant Goyal, a retired government employee, said that his wife Kiran Goyal, 62, was bitten by the dog while she was coming out of the park at around 5pm. “She was bitten on the hands and legs. The bite marks were so deep that she had to be hospitalised. The treatment will cost Rs 33,000. A domestic help, Dharampal, 18, was also bitten on the hand,” said Goyal. Harmohan Khurana, 72, said he was also bitten on the hand while fending off the attack. Parents of three- year- old Aavya Arora were worried as their daughter had got a fever after the she was bitten on the leg. Rajan Singh, a resident whose father was bitten six times on the legs and arms, said: “My father was attacked when he was going to fetch milk from the market on Wednesday morning,” he said. “Two more children were also attacked in the park along with Aavya. I believe that they have also been hospitalised,” Singh said, adding that he will take up the matter with cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. “Not only mental agony, but the incident has also resulted in unnecessary financial burden for families,” he said. Medical officer Dr Vipal Malhotra said that soon after receiving the information, MC team reached the spot and captured the dog that had bitten the residents. Responding to the allegations of the residents, Dr Malhotra said: “It is not justified to blame us for the delay as we had received no prior information about the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stray-dog-bites-15-people-in-ludhiana-s-brs-nagar-residents-blame-mc-for-inaction/story-LtlQNTKhwfSeVV6rlYCTgI.html
10-12-2020||City||Court discharges Gautam Gambhir in criminal breach of trust case||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday discharged former cricketer and politician Gautam Gambhir of all charges in a case of alleged criminal breach of trust and cheating flat buyers.Following the discharge by additional chief metropolitan magistrate Dharmender Singh, the matter would be now heard by some other judge. The police had filed a supplementary chargesheet in September last year in the case against Gambhir, a BJP MP from east Delhi, and several others under various sections, including 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 34 (criminal act is done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention), of the IPC.The FIR was registered over the complaint of 50 flat buyers, who alleged that they booked flats in a real estate project in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram in 2011 but it did not take off.Advocate Paritosh Budhiraja, counsel for Gambhir, said his client was just the brand ambassador of the company and had nothing to do with the day to day affairs. He also said that he was the additional director in the company for a brief time. He added that the judgment on discharge would be made available tomorrow, Friday only after which he can know about the reasoning given by the court.According to the counsel, no evidence was found against Gambhir after the police investigation in the first charge sheet where he was kept in column 12. He said that no evidence was found against his client even in the supplementary charge sheet.The complaint had alleged that Gambhir was a director and brand ambassador of the joint project of Rudra Buildwell Reality Pvt Ltd and H R Infracity Pvt Ltd, against which a case was lodged in 2016 for allegedly duping people of crores of rupees on the pretext of booking apartments in the housing project.Besides Gambhir and the firm, the charge sheet also included the names of its other promoters -- Mukesh Khurana, Gautam Mehra and Babita Khurana -- as accused. Mukesh is currently lodged in the Noida jail in connection with another cheating case filed by the home buyers.The complainants have alleged that “the project was extensively promoted and advertised and Gambhir, as the brand ambassador, helped in attracting and inviting buyers to invest in the project”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-discharges-gautam-gambhir-in-criminal-breach-of-trust-case/story-h5rGNDGq77Pm38VJtMzQYN.html
10-12-2020||City||Bharat Bhushan Ashu elected as chief of Punjab badminton body||Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has been elected unopposed as the president of the Punjab Badminton Association. Veteran player Anupam Kumaria has been made the general secretary. The 21-member team was elected unopposed. Ward number 82 councillor Sunny Bhalla received the certificate on behalf of Ashu.On the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the state sports department was going to hold the elections of the state badminton unit on December 13. The filing of the nomination was scheduled for December 9 and withdrawal for December 10. However, no election was held, and the body was elected unopposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bhushan-ashu-elected-as-chief-of-punjab-badminton-body/story-hDYcqnJgzcvbpIkB16TXVO.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||On DGP’s directions, Ludhiana traffic wing to get more manpower||Due to ongoing development works in the city, the pressure to maintain smooth flow of traffic on narrow congested roads has increased significantly for traffic police personnel. The grave situation has grabbed the attention of Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, who has asked Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to strengthen the traffic wing. At least 50 more police personnel will be deputed to the traffic wing, which will increase its strength from 250 to 300. Traffic police are also taking help from more volunteers to maintain smooth flow of traffic.Construction of flyovers is currently on at major roads of the city including Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Ladhowal Bypass from South City and Cheema Chowk, where heavy traffic is witnessed at all times. The roads have been narrowed due to the ongoing developement projects, and at many places, vehicles are being diverted to service lanes. “Though the authorities have made diversions on Ferozepur Road, the average speed on the stretch from Bharat Nagar Chowk to Octroi post at Ludhiana-Ferozepur road is just 10 to 15 kilometres per hour. At some points, where traffic is diverted to service lanes, bottlenecks occur,” said Jaspreet Singh, a businessman. At some places, commuters try to break the lane by overtaking, which aggravates the situation. “At some locations, police personnel are not present to manage the flow of the traffic, due to staff crunch. They can do little at other points as flow of traffic is irregular,” said Akshay Bhatia, a teacher. The situation is likely to worsen in the coming day due to foggy conditions and low visibility. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said more manpower will help them manage traffic better. He added that the workload on traffic police has doubled due to development projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/traffic-wing-to-get-more-manpower/story-5y4gGN26VSPCAtaKMAMDvM.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||‘Baseless’: NCP reacts to speculation over Sharad Pawar helming UPA||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday termed as baseless media speculation that its chief Sharad Pawar may head the United Progressive Alliance (UPA).NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said there are unsubstantiated reports in the media regarding Pawar taking over as the chairperson of the UPA.“The Nationalist Congress Party would like to clarify that there is no discussion within UPA partners regarding any such proposal,” Tapase said.“The reports appearing in the media seems to be have planted by vested interests to divert the attention from the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” he added.Shiv Sena, NCP’s ruling ally in Maharashtra, said anything can happen in politics, and expressed confidence that the former Union minister, who turns 80 on December 12, is capable of a bigger national role.Asked about speculation by a section of media that Pawar may replace Congress president Sonia Gandhi as UPA chairperson, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said, “Politics is unpredictable. You never know what will happen next.” Raut said Pawar has “all the capabilities” to lead the country. “Pawar has vast experience, knowledge of the issues before the country and knows “the pulse of the people”, the Rajya Sabha member told reporters here.“The Shiv Sena extends good wishes to him,” Raut said, referring to Pawar’s upcoming birthday.A senior Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister said he had asked around in the party about this speculation. “Nobody has any inkling about this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-terms-as-baseless-speculation-over-sharad-pawar-helming-upa/story-343JIsy7ZVVfjvpPblJhRL.html
10-12-2020||City||Haryana MC polls: BJP to pitch mayor candidates on all three seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) on Thursday decided to contest the municipal corporation (MC) elections jointly and that the saffron party will field its mayor candidates on all three seats in Panchkula, Ambala and Sonepat.Interacting with reporters after a meeting here, BJP state president OP Dhankar said the party will pitch candidates for the mayor post on all three municipal corporation seats.“We will pitch our candidates for the president post of municipal council of Rewari, municipal committee of Sampla (Rohtak) and the JJP will pitch their candidate for president of the Uklana municipal committee. The local units of both the parties will decide about candidate for the president’s post for Dharuhera (Rewari) municipal committee. The local units of the coalition partners will decide about the ward candidates too,” he added.JJP state chief Nishan Singh, general secretary KC Bangar, party’s Rohtak chief Balwan Suhag had attended the coordination committee meeting here.Nomination begins todayThe nomination process will begin on Friday and the casting of votes will be held on December 27. The results will be declared on December 30. The seats of mayor in corporations and presidents in council and committees will be filled up through direct elections.All three MCs have 20 wards each, while the Rewari council has 31 wards, and committees of Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana have 15, 17 and 13 wards each, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-mc-polls-bjp-to-pitch-mayor-candidates-on-all-three-seats/story-Vuz6urjOY2g9cWUsJqSaHM.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Plea challenging 75% quota for locals in private industries in Haryana withdrawn||A petition filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court challenging the Haryana government’s decision to provide 75 percent reservation in private sector industries for persons with state domiciles has been withdrawn. The plea was filed by Industrial Welfare Association, Panchkula, arguing that the state had no right to create a reservation in the private sector. The bill is an infringement on the constitutional rights of the employers and that private sector jobs are based on skills and analytical bent of mind of the employees, it had argued. The Haryana assembly had passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, with the provisions of 75 percent of the reservation to those with state domicile, last month. The Bill provides for 75% employment to local candidates in jobs having a salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various private companies, societies, trusts, etc., operating in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plea-challenging-75-quota-for-locals-in-private-industries-in-haryana-withdrawn/story-19WVHScx3asUBmdZiWuXQO.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 on the wane in Delhi, no city has this many vacant ICU beds: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in the national capital was not over yet, but was “definitely on the wane”.“Cases are falling, and death count in a day is lowest in the last 40 days. The situation has improved, and we can definitely say the third wave of the pandemic here is on the wane. It is not over, but on the wane,” he said.Asked about non-Covid-19 patients needing ICU beds, he said as many as over 13,000 beds were available for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, which is “not there in any city of the country”.Also Read: Know how the novel coronavirus has evolved“We will review the situation. But ICU beds can’t be managed overnight, if cases suddenly increase, so we had to see the trend stabilise first”, he said.“There are 18,800 Covid-19 beds in Delhi of which over 13,000 are vacant. There is no other city in the country that has so many vacant beds. Covid numbers fluctuate, so it is important that trend gets stabilized,” he added.As the positivity rate went down to 3.42% on Wednesday, Jain had tweeted that it was heartening to see that the national capital is “emerging victorious” in the battle against the coronavirus. On Thursday, the positivity rate further went down to 2.46%.Also Read: Covid-19: Delhi records 1,575 new cases; positivity rate dips to 2.46%The tally of active cases dropped to 18,753 from 20,546 the previous day and the total number of cases climbed to 6,01,150. The recovery rate stood at over 95%, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.Delhi recorded 1,575 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the lowest in over three months. These relatively low number of new cases on Thursday came out of 64,069 tests conducted the previous day, the bulletin added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-on-the-wane-in-delhi-no-city-has-this-many-vacant-icu-beds-satyendar-jain/story-sf2EzerIkCg76IHRgheXaP.html
10-12-2020||City||Ludhiana Smart City Limited CEO holds review meeting||Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, municipal corporation commissioner and CEO, Ludhiana Smart City Limited, chaired a meeting held to review the progress of different projects under Smart City Mission at the Zone D- MC office on Thursday.Currently, as many as 10 projects are underway. The main projects include, RoB-RuB across Pakhowal Rail Road Crossing, retrofitting of Sarabha Nagar Market, development of Malhar Road as Smart Road, Sidhwan Canal waterfront (Phase I), carcass utilisation plant, and canal-based water supply project for ABD Area.Apart from this, the letters of award for three projects, namely, Sidhwan Canal waterfront (Phase 2), chain link fencing along Buddha Nullah, and civil works for the installation of compactors at 22 locations across the city, have been issued and, work will commence on all three within this month. The cost of these projects is Rs 32 crore and, they have been undertaken to curb water pollution and improve the sanitation facilities in the city.The letters of award for RGBW lighting under the bridge on southern bypass along Sidhwan canal, façade lighting at Zone D MC office, procurement of machinery for C&D waste, and equipment for firefighting, will be issued shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-smart-city-review-meeting-officials-told-to-speed-up-development-works/story-1hotPkQtVlP9vH9uHzeh7I.html
10-12-2020||City||Wheat scam: Six accused sent to one-day police remand in Sirsa||Police on Thursday produced six people, including four officials of the food and supplies department, before the court in connection with alleged misappropriation of 15,000 quintal wheat supplied through the public distribution system in Haryana’s Sirsa district.Police spokesman Surjeet Singh said the court has sent the accused to one-day police remand. The accused are assistant food and supply officer Jagat Pal Singh, Narendra Sardana, Sanjeev kundu, retired inspector of the department Ashok Kumar; Ravinder Kumar and Mahendra.“The scam had taken place about three years ago when officials involved with the deport holders usurped wheat meant for distribution in the public distribution system. Director food and supplies Ram Niwas had ordered an enquiry into the matter and a case was registered against 58 depot holders and eight officials of the food and supplies department in Sirsa district. We will question them about involvement of others in the scam,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-scam-six-accused-sent-to-one-day-police-remand-in-sirsa/story-dI8X1dg5ayLOeA7pqvGoQP.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Strong winds help clean up Delhi air, AQI now ‘poor’||Strong winds came to the aid of Delhi residents on Thursday, and helped disperse accumulated pollutants with the result that the air quality improved considerably to enter the “poor” category on the air quality index. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said till December 13, air quality in Delhi will continue to improve and may even reach the “moderate” category. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 284, in the poor zone. On Wednesday, the AQI was 358, in the ‘very poor’ category. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said the wind speed started improving from Wednesday night and its impact was seen in the air quality on Thursday. “The wind speed on Thursday was around 10kmph to 12kmph. The winds started picking up from Wednesday and we saw its impact in the drastic improvement in the air quality. Even though the direction of the wind was north-westerly, the contribution of farm fires from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana is zero now,” Soni said. He also said Delhi residents may well be able to breathe clean air at least till December 13. “The AQI will continue to improve and is likely to reach the ”moderate” range by Saturday,” Soni said. “There is a forecast of light rain in Delhi-NCR from Saturday night to Sunday morning, the wind speed will also remain high on those days,” he said. Delhi is also likely to experience a severe winter spell from December 14, IMD scientists said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said after the passing of a western disturbance, the minimum temperature in Delhi is expected to fall by at least three to four degrees. “From December 14, the temperature will start falling again. North-westerly winds from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, which have been receiving a good spell of snowfall, will bring the chill to the plains,” he said. On Thursday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory ( taken as representative for the whole of Delhi) was 10.9 degrees Celsius, two degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 28.3 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/strong-winds-help-clean-up-delhi-air-aqi-now-poor/story-V3lMWVUSWXP50dG0VbeApN.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Number of beggars in Ludhiana brought down from 250 to 74 in a month: Survey||Ever since the police had kick-started an anti-begging drive in November, around 250 beggars seeking alms at 40 places in city including traffic light points, temples and gurdwaras have been on police radar.Over a month since the start of this drive under which beggars are being rehabilitated and the numbers have dropped to 75, reveals a police survey.While minor beggars are being sent to child care homes for treatment and studies, adults are being provided jobs in factories in consultation with different industry associations of Ludhiana.After going through the results, commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Kumar Agrawal has issued fresh orders to make the city completely beggar-free by December 31.“We have managed to bring down the number of beggars to 30% of the initial strength. After December 31, if any beggar is found seeking alms in the city, the station house officer (SHO) of the police station concerned will be held responsible,” Agrawal said.As per the police survey, the maximum number of beggars at any given point of time were found at Dandi Swami Chowk, Mata Rani Chowk, bus stand, Krishna Mandir, Kipps Market, Clock Tower, railway station, Samrala Chowk, Jalandhar Bypass, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Rose Garden, and Raghunath Hospital among other areas.The data shows that there used to be at least 20 beggars at Dandi Swami Chowk between 8am to 10pm; and eight beggars including men, women, children and differently-abled used to beg at Bharat Nagar traffic intersection.Similarly, 8-10 beggars in Kipps Market, five to six at Bhai Bala Chowk, 10-15 at Krishna Mandir were also on police radar.A team of 40 police personnel, including ASI and head constables, are deputed at each identified spot to conduct the anti-begging drive and rehabilitate the beggars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/number-of-beggars-in-ludhiana-brought-down-from-250-to-74-in-a-month-survey/story-r8gBxLuIomBRsyGsG050jI.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||50-year-old held for molesting niece in Ludhiana||A 50-year-old man was arrested for allegedly molesting his 16-year-old niece here on Thursday. The victim lives with her maternal grandparents, who came to her rescue and lodged an FIR at Daresi police station.The FIR was lodged following statement of mother of the accused, who is a resident of Santokh Nagar. The 70-year-old woman said that her granddaughter lives with her. The accused, who is her son, is an acute alcoholic, is facing trial in criminal cases and was imprisoned for 10 years in a murder case.The complainant said that on December 7, she was on first floor of the house while her granddaughter was on the ground floor.She rushed downstairs after hearing screams of the girl and saw her son, in inebriated condition, molesting his niece. She rescued the girl and raised an alarm following which the accused fled the spot. She called the police and lodged a complaint.Sub-inspector (SI) Davinder Singh, SHO at Daresi police station, said police arrested the accused on Thursday when he was trying to escape. A case has been registered against him under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POSCO) Act.The accused had allegedly murdered his wife 15 years ago and was involved in another murder case. In 2019, his daughter had also lodged an FIR against him for sexually assaulting her at Salem Tabri police station, but he was acquitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-year-old-held-for-molesting-niece-in-ludhiana/story-TyxljjT6Ua9KbbeWtnWcFP.html
10-12-2020||City||Fear grips staffers of Ludhiana government schools as teachers test positive||Since the government schools opened on October 19, teachers of at least 10 schools have been tested positive for Covid-19, creating an atmosphere of panic at the institutions. As per sources, two principals, 16 teachers, one clerk and a mid-day meal worker of ten schools tested positive. Following the directions of the health department, school principals have got their premises sanitised and many have even closed the schools as a precautionary measure.After three teachers of Government High School, Kailash Nagar, tested positive on Wednesday, the rest of the staff worked in fear on Thursday. The headmistress stated that they had informed the district education department and health department regarding the same but had not received any instructions to close the school from them. A teacher, requesting anonymity, said, “I was feeling scared to go to the school. The headmistress had asked us to report as no direction was issued by the health department to shut the school. I think there is a need to shut it down for a few days as a preventive measure. I spent the three hours in the school in panic and kept sanitising my hands.”A female teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Bilaspur, Doraha, tested positive on December 7 after which the school authorities closed the school. The health department team took samples of the rest of the 16 staff members and the report is awaited. Principal Rajinder Kaur said, “The teachers who tested positive had been home quarantined and we will decide whether to open the school or not after receiving the reports.” At Government Senior Secondary School, Manak Majra, Khanna, four teachers, and one mid-day meal cook tested positive on December 1. As the school authorities received no instructions to close the school, the principal asked the staff to continue to report while the students were directed to appear in the exams online. Satish Kumar, principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Khanna, was isolated at home after he tested positive for the second time on November 25. Earlier, he had tested positive in August. Kumar said, “We have not closed the school. The teachers are conducting the exams online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fear-grips-staffers-of-ludhiana-government-schools-as-teachers-test-positive/story-pzYVa0udU827b24HnEUwsJ.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman booked for posting morphed pictures of neighbours on social media||The cyber cell of the Ludhiana police commissionerate has lodged an FIR against a woman for allegedly creating a fake account on social media and posting morphed pictures of neighbours with the intent of defaming them.The accused has been identified as Sonu Kaur, of Balliyewal village. The FIR was lodged following the statements of complainants Kuwinder Singh and Balwant Singh, residents of the same village.The complainants said that someone had made a fake account on the social media and uploaded morphed pictures of their son and daughter.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said police initiated investigation and found Sonu’s involvement in the crime.A case was registered against her under Section 509 of the IPC and Section 66D of the Information and Technology Act at Koomkalan police station on Thursday. The exact reason behind uploading these morphed pictures will be ascertained after the arrest of the accused, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-woman-booked-for-posting-morphed-pictures-of-neighbours-on-social-media/story-ryNcwi25zFVYqmh5EQuGtN.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Items worth ₹5 lakh stolen from electronics shop in Ludhiana||A gang of burglars stole items worth Rs 5 lakh from an electronics shop on Daba-Lohara Road in the wee hours of Thursday, police said. The shop is located 100 metres away from the Daba police station.The victim, Daljit Singh, the owner of Daljit Electronics Store, said the shop is located on the ground floor while he lives on the first floor of the same building. On Thursday morning, he received a call from a neighbour, who informed him that the shutter of his shop was broken. He reached and found it ransacked.Daljit added that in the CCTV cameras installed inside and at the entrance of the shop, four burglars have been captured committing the crime. The victim said that two of them went inside and stole all the mobile phone, while the other two kept watch outside. They were inside for just five minutes, he said.ASI Gurbakhshish Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered and police are trying to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/items-worth-5-lakh-stolen-from-electronics-shop/story-PBOUn3c2Bx3wbZeriZto2J.html
10-12-2020||City||Drug smuggling case: STF brings former Ludhiana village sarpanch, aides on production warrant||The special task force (STF) brought Gurdeep Singh Rano, the former sarpanch of Rano village in the Payal area, and his accomplices on production warrant from jail for interrogation in a case of drug peddling.The STF recently came to know that the accused, who they had arrested in November, had purchased 18kg of heroin from smugglers in October, while only 5.4kg was recovered from their possession at the time of the arrest.The STF had approached the court seeking a production warrant of the accused in a case of drug peddling lodged on October 29 at STF police station, SAS Nagar. The court on Thursday sent the accused including Rano, Ravej Singh, and Randeep Singh, for four days of STF custody for questioning regarding where they had disposed of the rest of the contraband.According to inspector Harbans Singh, the STF had arrested Manjit Singh Manna of New Bhagwan Nagar of Jodhewal on November 1 and had recovered 18 kg heroin and 6 kg ice drug from his possession.Following the information provided by the accused, the STF had arrested Vishal alias Vishu, 20, of Dogra Mohalla of Batala of Gurdaspur and Angrej Singh, 40, of Nanak Nagri of Batala on November 3 and had recovered 10 kg heroin from their possession.Later on November 7, the STF had recovered another 3kg of heroin, 2kg of narcotic powder, and other chemicals used for refining heroin, from Rajpura following the information provided by the accused.He added that the STF had received a tip-off from the accused about Gurdeep Singh Rano and his accomplices. On November 10, the STF had arrested Rano, Ravej of Mahavir Colony, Iqbal Singh of Payal area, and Randeep Singh of Khanna and had recovered recovered 5.4 kg heroin, illegal weapons, Rs 21 lakh cash and eight high-end cars. A separate case was lodged against them.The inspector said police, during investigation, found that Rano, Ravej, and Randeep had purchased 18kg heroin from Manjit Singh Manna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-smuggling-case-stf-brings-former-ludhiana-village-sarpanch-aides-on-production-warrant/story-PA5Hy4Ehkrg29grisuuIxM.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Insurance firm staffer dies by suicide in Ludhiana||A 21-year-old female employee of a private insurance company has allegedly ended her life by jumping off the second floor of a building in Rishi Nagar on Wednesday. She was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where the doctors declared her dead.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Amrik Singh, who is investigating the case, said the reason behind this extreme step is yet to be ascertained. The deceased’s family told police that she was under mental stress since past few days.According to the parents, they were at home when the incident took place. They rushed out after hearing some noise outside and were shocked to see their daughter lying unconscious.The ASI added that no suicide note was found on the body. Police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC after recording statement of the deceased’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/insurance-firm-staffer-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana/story-jguKz9qYl8Vn6Lf6DbSr3H.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG takeover of 11 private colonies in the works||The process of the takeover of 11 privately developed plotted colonies by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has finally gained momentum, with the civic body planning to start the process of initiating a deficiency assessment survey in these areas early next year.On Wednesday, the MCG and department of town and country planning (DTCP) held a meeting at the Huda office complex in Sector 14, during which the DTCP submitted the detailed project report (DPR) and service estimates of all the 11 colonies to the MCG.On Monday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed both MCG and DTCP to expedite the transfer process, after he was informed by MCG councillors that there had been no progress in the matter since last year. Last year, in November, former MCG commissioner and current deputy commissioner Amit Khatri had sent a letter to DTCP in Chandigarh for taking over the plotted colonies of Mayfield Garden, Malibu Towne, Vipul World, Sushant Lok-2, Sushant Lok-3, Rosewood City, Greenwood City, Ardee City, Uppal Southend, DLF Phase-4 and DLF-5. Agendas for taking over these 11 colonies have also been approved in the MCG House meetings.The takeover of the 11 privately developed areas is limited to plotted colonies and does not include condominiums or gated societies. Following Wednesday’s meeting, the MCG has decided to initiate steps towards preparing the basic infrastructure deficiency report, for which the process of hiring a private consultant has now started. “The private consultant would compare services listed under DPR and service estimates, based on which plans were approved when the colonies were coming up in the late 1990s and early 2000s, to check if any of the listed services are there on-ground at present, and if their condition is optimum or deteriorating. Based on the report, we would assess the monetary sum required to fix deficiencies in these colonies before the MCG takes them over,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.Sharma said that each private developer would be given the option to either fix the deficiencies themselves and hand over the colony or pay the requisite sum needed to do so, and immediately hand over the colonies to the MCG.The MCG has appointed executive engineer Vishal Garg to finalise the requisite paperwork for appointing a consultant and sent a proposal to MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh for approval. DLF Phase-4 and DLF-5 are located along the Golf Course Road, while the remaining nine colonies are located close to Golf Course Road and Golf Course Extension Road.MCG was scheduled to hold a meeting with DTCP officials at its Sector 34 office on Thursday as well. However, officials decided to discuss their queries over the phone instead.The takeover of 11 colonies is the second phase in the transfer of private colonies to the MCG. In the first phase, the MCG had initiated the takeover of nine private colonies.Since March 2019, the MCG has taken over privately developed colonies of Palam Vihar, Suncity, Sushant Lok-1, Nirvana Country, South City-1 and South City-2. The takeover of DLF Phases 1-3 is pending as the developer had decided to fix civic amenities instead of paying the MCG to do so and transferring the colonies with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-takeover-of-11-private-colonies-in-the-works/story-N7Za9vs1Q93QGT30MFaZhP.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Cops step up vigil to prevent farmers from blocking Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway||The police are likely to resume checking at Gurugram’s borders with Delhi and other districts of Haryana on Friday, after groups of farmers continued to move towards the city, in protest against the new farm laws. The police said that commuters travelling to and from Delhi might face congestion due to the checks. According to the police, the motive is to ensure that protesters do not block the expressway and warned of strict action against those who try to block the highway. The police also plan to check vehicles moving from wholesale markets as they suspect protesters, who had reached the city in private cars on Thursday, to use these vehicles to gather at one of the traffic junctions on the expressway. The farmer leaders rejected a government proposal to amend the new agriculture laws on Wednesday, and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and Delhi-Agra expressways by Saturday, and escalating it to a nationwide protest on December 14. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said that they have diversion plans in place in case the expressway is blocked. “Our force is ready with multiple plans in case the farmers block any of the crossing or expressway,” she said. More than 400 farmers from Rajasthan and Maharashtra, who had marched up to Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh through Bharatpur in Rajasthan on Thursday, were not allowed to enter Gurugram, and have been camping at Palwal and parts of Rajasthan for the last two days, the police said. The superintendent of police, Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, on Thursday, said that a group of farmers were allowed to meet their fellow farmers at the Palwal border. “The remaining farmers were sent back to Rajasthan and were not allowed to enter Nuh to reach Delhi. The situation has been peaceful and the protesters peacefully agreed to our terms,” he said. Nuh Police has deployed nearly 900 personnel at their borders with Palwal, Faridabad, Gurugram and Rajasthan. Gurugram Police had received information that farmers had gathered near Bharatpur and Behror in Rajasthan and were planning to march to the city to block the highway. The police said nearly 2,000 personnel have been deployed at key locations. Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that protesters are planning to walk towards the expressway through Manesar and Kherki Daula toll plaza, but they were diverted to Nuh. “We had set up barricades at all borders and special teams were deployed on the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway but no one has reached so far. We are expecting farmers from other states, who are likely to block the national highway but the teams are deployed and have activated our secret informers. We will not let them disrupt the traffic,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-step-up-vigil-to-prevent-farmers-from-blocking-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-ncVjhLySXvHW87wzcBIShJ.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Fake call centre that duped 400 in the US busted, two arrested||The chief minister’s flying squad on Wednesday night busted a call centre and arrested two suspects from Sector 61. The arrested suspects, investigators said, used to allegedly dupe people, especially those in English-speaking countries like the US, under the garb of providing technical support. Police said the call centre employees used to allegedly send an email to US and UK citizens with fake pop-up error messages stating that a malware had infected their computer systems and if not rectified immediately, their personal and financial data could be compromised. This year the police have busted 45 such bogus call centres and made 68 arrests. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department, said they received a tip-off on Tuesday that an illegal call centre was operating out of the fifth floor of a commercial building in Sector 61. “The suspects had registered a company named MWDN Techtrust Worldwide IT Services Pvt Limited. They had set up the call centre last month and had duped nearly 400 victims so far,” he said. Yadav said they had conducted an internal investigation and their teams raided the office on Wednesday late night. “We will get the recovered hard disks scanned, along with their systems, to know the exact number of people who have been targeted since the call centre began functioning,” he said. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that there were six men and two women working as tele-callers at the call centre. They had more than 20 desktops in the office and 10 laptops. After the raid, we asked the employees to continue taking inbound calls and videographed more than 50 calls to establish the fraud. We questioned all the eight employees who allegedly revealed that they had duped around 400 US citizens in the last one month alone. “The pop-ups would repeatedly show up on a user’s computer screen with warnings such as ‘malicious malware detected’, ‘personal information is not safe’, ‘your computer has been locked’. The victims would panic and contact at the helpline number that comes with the pop-up message to get the issue resolved. Instead, they would end up getting duped by them on the pretext of getting technical support,” he said.” he said. Budhiraja said the owners had no company registration certificate or DoT licence. The employees were given a script to read out and had undergone 10 days voice and accent training before hitting the floor. A case was registered on Thursday at the Cyber police station under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act, after which two of the owners of the fake call centre were arrested from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fake-call-centre-that-duped-400-in-the-us-busted-two-arrested/story-JfEYcAFN8Y7nWlHX271AlJ.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Work on Civil Hospital revamp to start||The state and district administrations have given the go-ahead for demolition of the old Civil Hospital building near Sadar Bazar, which has been pending for the last two years due to land issues between the education and health departments.Senior officials of the administration and health department on Thursday confirmed that the directorate of school education will transfer two acres of its land to the health department for the expansion of the Civil Hospital building, which is currently spread across five acres.The decision has been taken after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on November 29, inspected the premises of Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), from which the land would be transferred for expansion of the adjoining Civil Hospital. He directed the officials to expedite the process.“Planning is underway for the new Civil Hospital building. The demolition of the existing building has been approved and a tender has also been issued,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.The development follows a meeting among the senior officials of the state, director of school education, district administration, health, education and public works department on Wednesday.As suggested by the chief minister, a wall has to be constructed between the school and hospital to start the work on the hospital premises. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “It has been decided that the education department would be giving a no-objection certificate (NoC) in one week, transferring two acres of the health department.”District education officer Indu Bokan said that the transfer of land will not obstruct the functioning of the school. She said that as a part of the school building will be taken over, a few classes will be shifted to the government school at Sukhrali. The demolition of the existing building has been on the cards since 2015, when the public works department (PWD) had prepared a report on the dilapidated condition of the hospital. The same report was submitted to the state in 2017. In 2016, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram also conducted a study, which pointed out structural deficiencies in the building and suggested that the premises be vacated. There have been several incidents of ceiling collapses at the hospital. In 2015, a portion of the ceiling in the maternity ward collapsed thrice and in 2016, a similar incident took place in the intensive care unit.Yadav also said that at the state level, a report on the scope of work on setting up 500-bed hospital has already been submitted. “Work on it will start once it is approved by the state,” said Yadav, who, along with his team, will shift to Sector 38 once the work starts.In 2017 various facilities were shifted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and the Polyclinic in Sector 31, with only the chief medical officer’s office, CT scan and MRI centre, and tuberculosis centre functional in the existing building. The diagnostics and tuberculosis centres will be shifted to Sector 10, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/work-on-civil-hospital-revamp-to-start/story-3ywngqLCmH2iY6InGuFndN.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Govt schools gear up to resume physical sessions, private schools unsure||As the Haryana government allowed resumption of physical classroom sessions for students of 9-12 this month, principals of government schools in the city said they are expecting students to turn up to get their doubts cleared. However, principals of private schools said they will interact with parents to take a call on resuming physical sessions.Schools across the state will reopen from December 14 for students of classes 10 and 12 and from December 21 for classes 9 and 11, nearly a month after the Haryana government decided to shut schools amid a spike in Covid-19 cases among students.Students, this time around, will have to produce a medical well-being certificate and parental consent letter for visiting schools, as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the education department.In a directive shared with all district education officers on Thursday, the directorate of education said that the state government has decided to reopen schools while taking cognisance of the board exams as well as the gravity of the Covid-19 situation. Both government and private schools will be allowed to conduct three-hour sessions between 10am and 3pm for students who are set to appear for board exams, as per the new schedule.Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari said that schools will first reopen for students who are to take the board exams, followed by students of classes 9 and 11, with precautions such as thermal scanning and sanitization in place. “All health precautions and SOPs outlined in the directive need to be followed by schools and students. Students who wish to visit schools with parental consent are free to do so whereas the rest can continue with online classes, as before,” said Kumari.While government schools are expecting students to turn up for physical classroom sessions, private school principals said that they would seek feedback from parents. “We will seek the consent of parents before asking students to visit schools. Since Covid-19 cases are still increasing, consent of the parent community will be crucial. Depending on the feedback that we receive and our examination and winter break schedule, we will take a call,” said Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that the school was expecting students of classes 10 and 12 to show up to at least get their doubts cleared. “Prior to the closure, students had been visiting schools regularly. Since this is a crucial period for students in classes 10 and 12, they might prefer physical visits over online classes, if they get parental consent,” said Sharma.Last month, the state education department had ordered the closure of all government and private schools in Haryana till November 30 as Covid-19 cases among school students started to spike, after physical classroom sessions at government schools for classes 9 to 12 had resumed on October 15. The closure was further extended till December 10.As per the directive shared by the department, students need to get a basic health checkup done and get a health clearance, stating that they do not exhibit any Covid-19 symptoms and are healthy prior to visiting schools. Students need to produce a basic health check clearance letter before visiting the school. This check-up should have been conducted up to 72 hours prior to visiting the school. Along with the health clearance, students need to bring written proof of parental consent, as per the SOP.The department said that free health check-ups at primary health centres (PHCs) and other facilities will be coordinated by the district administration, in consultation with the chief medical officer, to avoid any inconvenience to students. On Wednesday, the district health department had directed all its primary and community health centres to test symptomatic teachers or students of government schools for Covid-19 whenever schools reopen. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, had earlier told HT that primary and community health centres had been told to test teachers and students, if found to be symptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-schools-gear-up-to-resume-physical-sessions-private-schools-unsure/story-zC1r971BSER0YyYyyknrkI.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Active cases down by over 50% since Dec 1||The count of Covid-19 active cases, which was over 6,000 at the start of the month, has reduced to less than half — at 2,715 on Thursday — over the last 10 days, according to the district health bulletin. Senior health officials cite a constant decline in the number of new cases and high recovery rates as factors for the reduction. As many as 398 new infections were reported on Thursday as 390 recovered. The total tally has now reached 53,758 with the toll at 325.The significant drop in active cases started from December 1, when the count was 6,092. It reduced to 5,015 on December 3 and further to 3,386 and 2,709 on December 6 and 9, respectively. It is almost after 47 days of constant spike that the number has come down, as Gurugram last reported around 2,771 active cases on October 24. In over a month, the number had reached the maximum of 6,463, on November 27. “Active cases are impacted by two parameters — new cases recorded every day and recovered cases — which work simultaneously. When new infections decline and the number of recovered patients increase, the overall active case count comes down,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Yadav said, “The department has conducted extensive testing across the district in the last one month to identify asymptomatic positive cases and timely isolating them. This helped in breaking the chain of transmission, the impact of which can now be seen in the gradual decline in daily infections. We are continuing with 5,000 tests a day, whereby, on an average, 416 new cases have been recorded every day since the beginning of December.” From December 1, the district has been recording on an average 416 new cases every day, with 768 recoveries per day. In November, more than 165,000 tests were administered, when 600-700 new infections were confirmed every day. In terms of recovery rate — the ratio of recovered cases to the confirmed cases — there has been an increase too. Until November 12, the recovery rate was almost 83%, which touched 94% on Thursday. Almost 3,000 patients have recovered in the last week alone. “Cases pile up when new cases arise. But after the treatment of 10 to 14 days, the count of recovered patients increases. Cases which were reported in November are now getting recovered,” said Yadav.The count of active cases also accounts for the caseload also declined to nearly 4% on Thursday, after showing a spike of over 13% until November-end. From 14% in the first week of November, it reached almost 16% in mid- November), and declined to almost 13% by the month-end. It was at 12% on December 1.Based on the Covid-19 waves noticed in the past since the outbreak of the pandemic, Yadav said that infection has been coming in phases, with chances of infection set to rise again with a further dip in temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/active-cases-down-by-over-50-since-dec-1/story-hfeoYy7f6tNSeHmMpdeU0M.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Trio held for robbing cabbie of vehicle, Rs 13,000||Three men were arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly robbing and assaulting a cab driver at knifepoint on Jhajjar Road near Farrukhnagar on Sunday night. The police said that the three men tied up the driver, drove him around for a few kilometres and robbed him of Rs 13,000 and his vehicle, dropping him off at an isolated place.According to the police, Dilshad Ahmad, the victim, of Agra in Uttar Pradesh, works with a cab aggregator and had received a booking from Manesar to Chimni village in Jhajjar. Three men boarded the cab from Naurangpur in Manesar and drove towards Farrukhnagar.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that when they reached near Farrukhnagar, one of the suspects asked the driver to stop the car to attend to nature’s call. “One of them got down and took the driver at knifepoint and threatened his life. The two suspects sitting at rear started abusing and assaulting the driver and forced him to get down. They snatched the car keys and left him at an isolated spot,” he said.Sangwan said the suspects had to attend a wedding in Chimni but had little money to pay the fare. They revealed during questioning that they had estimated the fare at around Rs 200 and felt duped when the driver told them it would cost them nearly Rs 500.The police said the suspects had attended the wedding and returned to Manesar on Monday. Following a tip-off, they arrested the suspects from Jhajjar bypass on Wednesday night.The suspects were identified as Prashant Singh (24) of Chimni in Jhajjar, Kuldeep Singh (22) and Krishan Singh (19), of Bhiwani. Police said the suspects used to work at a liquor shop in Manesar area and are currently working with a private company. They have a history of involvement in multiple assault cases, the police said.A case was registered against the trio under sections 392 (robbery), 307 (attempt to murder) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Farukhnagar police station on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/trio-held-for-robbing-cabbie-of-vehicle-rs-13-000/story-Dguw4PldkjE1jKHQkRsTCN.html
10-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to hold review meet at three levels||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to increase the frequency of its review meetings at multiple levels in order to better supervise developmental projects and expedite work wherever required, according to a release issued by the civic body on Thursday. Mayor Madhu Azad, who was chairing MCG’s review meeting with officials and councillors of zones 2 and 4 at the civic body’s main office in Sector 34, decided to conduct a review meeting on a monthly basis, with another review meeting chaired by the MCG joint commissioners every 15 days, while executive engineers would hold review meetings within their respective jurisdictions on a weekly basis. Each of these meetings, she said, would also be attended by the councillors concerned. “There are two main reasons behind this move. The first is to ensure that councillors do not bring up localised issues during the House meeting. The purpose of the House meeting is to discuss citywide issues and other important matters. Secondly, by conducting review meetings regularly and at different tiers, there would be greater scrutiny in the working of MCG and an increase in the level of accountability,” said Azad.Azad also directed councillors that prior to issuing work satisfactory certificates to MCG contractors, they should ensure that relevant details, such as the total project cost, the type of work, the percentage of funds that need to be allotted to the contractor and the name of the MCG official supervising the project are mentioned in the certificate.MCG issues payments to contractors only after a councillor issues a work satisfactory certificate.During the meeting, Azad also reiterated that unexplained delays and negligence in working would lead to complaints against the officials concerned being forwarded to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for action. On Wednesday, during a review meeting with officials and councillors of zones 1 and 3, Azad had issued similar directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-hold-review-meet-at-three-levels/story-vKiFQHBEBQH29gHx2ShSXJ.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to conduct soil test before giving nod to Jainpur Sports Park project||After getting a green signal from the technical team of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNE), the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) is all set to conduct soil sturdiness test from a third party before giving nod to the final detail project report (DPR) of the Rs 50-cr Jainpur Sports Park project, which is stated to be the pet project of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said a technical committee meeting was conducted at the Zone-D office of MC in Sarabha Nagar to discuss modalities of the sports park project.Besides discussing the issue of soil strengthening test, suggestions shared by Ashu and sports associations during a meeting conducted at Bachat Bhawan on December 5 were also taken up.Superintendent engineer (B&R) Zone-D, Rahul Gagneja, said plan to build a new 800-m long approach road from Ladhowal bypass to Jainpur Sports Park was also discussed.Gagneja said soil strengthening test of the land is required as the site was earlier being used as a garbage dump.“It presents the land as a smooth flat but we do not know what lies beneath. So soil strengthening tests are important. The tests will be done at multiple locations of the proposed area for the sports park,” Gagneja added.Soil strengthening tests are being conducted to evaluate how deep the area has to be dug up to give a solid foundation to the structures that are proposed to be constructed on it.During the meeting, a detailed discussion was held on the suggestions received regarding construction of the sports park in Jainpur, 1.5km from Ayali Khurd Bridge on Sidhwan Canal. The park is being established over a 32-acre area at a cost of around Rs 50 crore.The sports park will have grounds for cricket, football and hockey, an astroturf, Olympics-sized swimming pool, Olympics-sized football ground, a synthetic athletics track, four acrylic basketball courts, four lawn tennis astroturf courts, three Olympics-sized volleyball courts, a four-lane outdoor archery range, a 50m indoor shooting range, six badminton courts, two squash courts, two boxing rings, four table tennis tables, two wrestling rings, and a weightlifting complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-conduct-soil-test-before-giving-nod-to-jainpur-sports-park-project/story-JLqy5WlXhXQRQr9k5lYwuL.html
10-12-2020||City||Hooda asks govt to accept demands of agitating farmers soon||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the government should refrain from adopting confrontationist attitude and accept the demands of agitating farmers at the earliest.While addressing a press conference here, Hooda said the new laws are not in the favour of farmers without the guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. “The BJP is misleading the public by suggesting that the three farm laws have been recommended by a committee headed by me during the UPA regime. The committee of chief ministers, formed under my leadership, had recommended the extension of mandis, rather than abolishing them. “During my regime, the mandis were expanded to ensure that there was a big farm produce market at every 8-10 km radius in the state. Our government also gave additional land to mandis which were falling short of space, government procurement centres were built in large numbers and agriculture malls were established,” he added.Hooda said his committee had recommended the farmers to rate their crop under the C2 formula of the Swaminathan Commission. “However, forget about the C2 formula, there is no mention of MSP in the new laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooda-asks-govt-to-accept-demands-of-agitating-farmers-soon/story-DTGyVUkLj4dICSP8yFnT5J.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Anarchy at its peak in West Bengal’: JP Nadda after attack on his convoy||After his convoy was attacked in West Bengal on Thursday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Amit Shah said that people of the state will respond to the lawlessness and prevailing anarchy in the upcoming elections. “Mamata ji always tries to hide the truth. Anarchy is at its peak in West Bengal. There is lawlessness in the State and the administration has crumbled. It is all with the blessings of Mamata ji,’ he told ANI, adding that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is “frustrated” that she has lost ground in the state.“People of West Bengal are aware, they know how to answer in elections. Mamata ji is frustrated as she has lost ground in the State. We will fight it democratically,” he said. Earlier in the day, he had said that he was confident that the “lotus would bloom”.Also Read: BJP men instigated people to create unrest: Bengal minister after attack on JP Nadda’s convoy“I can say with confidence that Bharatiya Janata Party will form the next government in West Bengal in 2021, lotus will bloom,” Nadda said.Nadda’s convoy was attacked when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district from Kolkata. “On our way to Diamond Harbour, TMC supporters blocked the road and pelted Naddaji’s vehicle and other cars in the convoy with stones. This only shows the true colour of the TMC,” West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh told news agency PTI.Expressing shock and concern over the attack, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar tweeted, “Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy & lawlessness. Mamata Banerjee indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP president convoy & political police. WB Police in support...I share my shame with you as it’s on account of your acts of omission & commission.”Union ministers Amit Shah and Piyush Goyal also condemned the attack. While Goyal called the attack “deplorable”, Shah said the government was taking it very seriously.Also Read: ‘Deplorable’: Amit Shah, Piyush Goyal condemn attack on JP Nadda’s convoy“Today, the National President of BJP in Bengal @JPNadda was attacked. The attack is condemnable. The central government is taking this attack very seriously. The Bengal government will have to answer to the peace loving people of the state for this sponsored violence,” Amit Shah wrote on Twitter. “Bengal has gone into an era of tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule. The manner in which political violence has been institutionalized and brought to the extreme within West Bengal under TMC rule is sad and worrying for all those who believe in democratic values,” he tweeted.Later in the day, Centre sought report from the state government over the alleged security lapses during Nadda’s visit to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/anarchy-at-its-peak-in-west-bengal-jp-nadda-after-attack-on-his-convoy/story-F1ix8CG1S10Yj0YaVVQz3N.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Jasbinder Kaur new director-principal of GMCH-32||The Chandigarh administration has appointed Dr Jasbinder Kaur as director-principal of GMCH, Sector 32. She is the first woman to get the charge.The post was left vacant after the demise of incumbent Dr BS Chavan on December 4. Dr Kaur, in-charge, academics-cum-head of department of biochemistry, joined the department as a reader on November 28, 1996, and was promoted as professor and head of department on March 17, 2004. She became the in-charge of academics on March 17, 2018.Having done her MBBS in 1983, Dr Kaur got a diploma in obstetrics and gynaecology from Nagpur University in 1986 and an MD in biochemistry from MDU, Rohtak, in 1990.In addition to director-principal, Dr Kaur has also been appointed as director of medical education and research, UT; GRIID and Mental Health Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dr-jasbinder-kaur-new-director-principal-of-gmch-32/story-pbqoAuIoB1NFxW4n9I1LWP.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Leader of ‘Thak-Thak’ gang, wanted in 27 cases of theft arrested||Police on Thursday said they had arrested the kingpin of a “Thak-Thak” gang( he moniker by which attention diversion robbers are known in Delhi), who was wanted in 27 cases of theft and carried a reward of ₹20,000 on his arrest. The arrested person was identified as Danish alias Munna, a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh.Additional commissioner of police (crime) Shibesh Singh said Danish was arrested following an investigation into a theft case registered in March at the Kotwali police station on the complaint of one Chetan Sharma.Sharma had told the police that he was travelling in an auto-rickshaw in Chandni Chowk area and when the auto stopped, a man came near the vehicle and began arguing with the driver saying the auto had run over his foot. As Sharma’s attention was diverted by the argument, another man came from the other side of the auto, lifted his bag containing his cellphone, cash and other items, and fled, said the additional CP.“Sharma chased the man and caught him with the bag. He was identified as Wasim. The other man fled. Wasim was handed over to the police and he disclosed that his associate was Danish, who was the kingpin of a Thak-Thak gang and had committed many such thefts in Old Delhi,” Singh said.A crime branch team was formed to nab Danish. The team members collected details about his possible hideouts in Delhi and Meerut and searched them. He was finally caught from Jama Masjid area earlier this week, the police said.“Danish admitted to his involvement in 27 such crimes. The list of stolen phones and the IMEI numbers of more than 100 cellphones were found in Danish’s mobile phone. He carried a reward of ₹20,000 on his arrest,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/leader-of-thak-thak-gang-wanted-in-27-cases-of-theft-arrested/story-BLGv9y0bek15f2vTNYPVxH.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||New system at Chandigarh Airport cuts down baggage handling time||Passenger experience at Chandigarh International Airport just got better with an in-line screening system that will cut down baggage handling time by half. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan inaugurated the system on Thursday.The stand-alone system does not require passengers to queue up for baggage screening and can handle 1,500 bags in an hour. Expected to aid hassle free check-in and save on an average five to 10 minutes time per passenger, the system costs Rs 15.8 crore and has been integrated with the existing baggage handling system.After the inauguration, Mahajan held a meeting with airport officials to discuss airport development plans.The chief secretary also reviewed the incentive scheme for airlines to connect new /unserved routes from the airport, currently the only one in the country to offer such incentives for domestic air travel.Airlines meeting the criteria get Rs 125 per embarking passenger up to 125 nautical miles and Rs 300 above the said distance, excluding GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-system-at-chandigarh-airport-cuts-down-baggage-handling-time/story-klHuxycqvAnza9rQqSq9yN.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Final draw for allotment of EWS flats in Maloya held||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Thursday held the fourth and last computerised draw for allotment of 487 flats at Maloya-1 under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme. Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said the UT administration had decided to relocate the residents of prefabricated shelters in Sectors 52 and 56 to the EWS flats at Maloya-1. “The allotment letters and possession slips will be issued to the allottees on December 14, and physical possession of flats will be handed over from December 16 in a staggered manner to ensure compliance of social distancing norms,” Garg said. The water and electricity connections will be released on the day of the physical possession itself, he added. The draw was streamed live on YouTube from the site of prefabricated shelters through a display van.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/final-draw-for-allotment-of-ews-flats-in-maloya-held/story-fkr94U7EuOrLl0gdEufk1I.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||Mamata compares BJP leadership to Hitler, Mussolini||West Bengal Chief Minister hit out at the BJP on Thursday comparing its leadership to dictators Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini and claimed that the party is indulging in false propaganda.Banerjee, who is among the vocal critics of the saffron party, said it has a “prepared script” to break the movements against it and is trying to do so with the farmers’ movement.The TMC supremo criticised BJP national president J P Nadda’s outreach programme in her constituency Bhawanipore in the city on Wednesday and said it was poorly attended.Also Read: Trend to bulldoze democracy, crush fundamental rights: Mamata on Human Rights DayLikening the BJP leadership with dictators Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini and Nicolae Ceausescu, Banerjee told a protest rally by the party’s farmers’ wing here that “Narendra Modi’s party (BJP) is indulging in false propaganda to further its agenda”.She that the BJP has a “prepared script” to divert the attention of people, break the movements against it and is trying to do so with the ongoing farmers’ movement too.“The Narendra Modi government is not abiding by the principles of democracy or the federal structure or the Constitution and is encroaching upon the jurisdiction of a state government,” she said.Banerjee claimed that former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi had not “dared” to do such things though he had the support of 400 MPs. “But BJP with around 300 MPs is enforcing whatever laws it wishes to and is hurting the interests of the common man”. Attacking the BJP-led government at the Centre for seeking accounts of the relief fund given to the state after the Amphan cyclone, she said “We first want to know what happened to the PM Cares Fund”.Claiming that she has inputs about “many happenings”, the chief minister said that she does not indulge in personal attacks.“If anyone in my family commits any wrong, he will be punished. I am for upholding of law, peace and against any kind of violence,” Banerjee said.Describing the laying of the foundation stone for a new Parliament building by the prime minister on Thursday as a “stunt”, she said that the money allotted for this could have been given to farmers for their benefit.“The present Sansad Bhavan can suffice for now,” she added.Demanding withdrawal of the contentious agri laws by the Centre, Banerjee said that the legislations will hurt the interests of farmers and result in disastrous effect on prices of food items.Also Read: 10 years of Mamata regime: TMC to release report card todayClaiming that the rights of the farmers have been taken away by the new farm laws, Banerjee said that their produce will be “bought by force” by corporates and people will have to buy food items at high prices. “People must unite for protection of the interests of farmers,” she said at the rally held in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue here.Potatoes, onions and edible oil must remain within the ambit of the Essential Commodities Act so that prices of these food items can be regulated for the benefit of the common man, the chief minister said.Referring to Nadda’s programme, she said “I heard that he has said today that the Centre gives rice and the TMC eats away everything. Ask them (BJP) who takes away the money from the states and does not give back its dues.” The chief minister said that the Centre takes away money from the states collected as income tax, customs duties, GST, but does not give back their dues, which is only 40 per cent of total collected amount.The TMC supremo claimed that the BJP is not a party of Bengal but that of Delhi and “more that of Gujarat”.Alleging that the BJP is bringing strongmen from outside and sending them to West Bengal villages, she asked her party members to challenge them and file FIRs at local police stations when they come across any such persons.Claiming that Kolkata is the safest city in the country, Banerjee said “Bengal is such a nice place and they (BJP) are indulging in false claims against it.” The chief minister said that political murders from May 2001 to May 2011 in the state during the Left Front rule numbered 663, while from June 2011 to June 2019, the number stood at 153.She claimed that during the TMC rule, all religious programmes were held peacefully, including Durga Puja, Bakri Eid and Kali Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-compares-bjp-leadership-to-hitler-mussolini/story-vO850nvvh5yCBM6VZaqCiN.html
10-12-2020||City||Robber’s murder in Mohali: Police still groping in dark||A day after a robbery suspect was found shot dead near Sector 86, police have yet to identify the shooters.Jaspreet Singh, alias Billa, a resident of Manimajra, was found dead in his car on the Nanumajra village road with two bullet marks on his head.His body was found hours after he, along with two accomplices, fired shots at a goldsmith at his shop in Sector 23 in an attempt to snatch his cash. So far, police suspect he was murdered by his accomplices during a scuffle.“We are investigating the matter thoroughly. The suspects will be nabbed soon as we formed multiple teams to crack this case,” said inspector Daljit Singh, station house officer, Sohana police station.Meanwhile, an autopsy was conducted at the civil hospital in Phase 6 on Thursday and Jaspreet’s body was handed over to his family members. Following their failed robbery attempt at the goldsmith’s shop, Jaspreet and his two accomplices had escaped in their Hyundai Verna. Two of the accused were captured in the CCTV footage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robber-s-murder-in-mohali-police-still-groping-in-dark/story-FvZkR9rD5PAST2e7jXyD3L.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Man stabs wife to death in Pune||PUNE: A man is on the run after stabbing his wife to death in Kothrud area of Pune on Thursday afternoon. The woman was 43-year-old while her husband was identified as Ravikumar Pote (50), according to the police.“She was a receptionist at a hospital in Kothrud. He came to her workplace, stabbed her and fled. The staff took her to a nearby hospital for treatment. They hospital authorities declared her dead,” said senior inspector Sayaji Gaware of Alankar police station.The couple lived in Dahanukar colony and the woman’s office is near Kothrud depot, according to the police. A domestic issue is suspected by the police to be the reason for the murder. The police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code at Alankar police station against the absconding accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-stabs-wife-to-death-in-pune/story-7wGzcAn3mwZ8T2BBfjnV5J.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi records 1,575 new cases; positivity rate dips to 2.46%||The national capital recorded 1,575 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the lowest in over three months, even as the positivity rate dipped to below 3 per cent, authorities said.The positivity rate on December 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 had successively dipped to 4.96 per cent, 4.78 per cent, 4.2 per cent, 3.68 per cent and 3.15 per cent respectively. However, on December 8, it had risen again to 4.23 per cent, falling again to 3.42 per cent on December 9.These relatively low number of new cases on Thursday came out of 64,069 tests conducted the previous day, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.Sixty-one fatalities were recorded, pushing the toll in the national capital to 9,874 while the positivity rate dropped to 2.46 per cent, the bulletin said, adding that the average death rate of the past ten days stood at 2.27 per cent.The fall in daily cases here is significant, as it is the lowest since August 31, when 1,358 fresh incidences were recorded.The tally of active cases on Thursday dropped to 18,753 from 20,546 the previous day.The bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 6,01,150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-records-1-575-new-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-2-46/story-56w2ykEJcTNUIWyAscD5ZN.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Man shot dead by friend over a financial dispute||A 37-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by another man following an altercation over a financial dispute between their friends during a wedding ceremony in east Delhi’s GTB Enclave area on Wednesday night, police said. The attacker fired three bullets, one in the air and two at the man, identified as Mohammad Sajid. One bullet hit Sajid’s chest, killing him on the spot, the police said.A case of murder was registered at the GTB Enclave police station. The suspect was identified by his first name Mahesh. He was not arrested till late Thursday night. Multiple teams have been conducting raids to nab Mahesh, said a senior police officer associated with the probe.Police said that Sajid worked as an agent in Ghazipur Mandi and lived with his family in northeast Delhi’s Sundar Nagri near Nand Nagri. He is survived by his mother, wife, three children and two brothers.According to the police, Sajid’s family members told them that on Wednesday evening, Sajid returned home from work and was resting after dinner, when his friend Kake called him on his cellphone. Kake asked him to accompany him to his relative’s wedding in GTB Nagar. At first Sajid refused, but when Kake told him that their other friends were also coming, he agreed.The officer said that Sajid and Kake were joined by two more friends Mahesh and Ajit at the venue. Around 11.30pm, Mahesh asked Sajid why his (Sajid’s) friend was not returning his (Mahesh’s) friend’s money. An altercation broke out between them, the officer said.During the altercation, the officer said, Mahesh whipped out a pistol and fired a bullet in the air to threaten Sajid. “Then he pointed the gun at Sajid and fired two bullets, one of which hit his chest. Sajid collapsed and Mahesh fled with Ajit. Sajid was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-shot-dead-by-friend-over-a-financial-dispute/story-lZgR5ZR9EIErPMpUruzN8M.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Two nabbed for Burari double murders, police say professional rivalry led to crime||Police on Thursday arrested a 44-year-old property dealer, and his accomplice, and claimed to have cracked the double murders that took place in north Delhi’s West Kamal Vihar, near Burari, a day before.The arrested property dealer, investigators said, has 23 cases of murder, dacoity, robbery, extortion, and snatching registered against him.Although the property dealer was not physically present at the murder spot or was involved in the firing, he has been arrested for allegedly conspiring the double murders, senior police officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said the double murder was a result of a fallout between two property dealers, both allegedly involved in land grabbing and other crimes in Burari. The arrested suspects were identified as Anil Kumar alias Swami, who is also registered as habitual offender at the Shalimar Bagh police station. His associate was identified as Arman Ali, 22. Ali was among the group of men who had shot dead the duo in West Kamal Vihar, Alphonse said.The other killer, Saddam Hasan 26, and his brother, Sai Hasan, who was also present at the crime spot, are still absconding. While one countrymade pistol has been recovered from the arrested suspects, the other firearm used in the double murder is yet to be traced, the police said.The victims, Anand Bhardwaj alias Brahmin, 20, and 22-year-old Anuj (single name), were associates of property dealer, Mukesh alias Bona, who had recently come out of jail, said DCP Alphonse.The double murder took place around 5.30pm at West Kamal Vihar and the police were informed about it through a call made by an associate of the dead men. A police team reached the spot and met the caller who told them that he along with Anand Bhardwaj, Anuj and Rohit were present near Janta Vihar Nala (drain) in Burari when they were targeted.“Bhardwaj was telling them that Saddam Hasan and his brother Sai Hasan were trying to establish their supremacy in the Burari area. While the four men were discussing about teaching a lesson to the two brothers, Bhardwaj received a call from Saddam and they had a heated argument over the phone. Bhardwaj dared Saddam and his brother to come near Janta Vihar Nala,” said the DCP.Half-an-hour later, the two brothers along with Arman Ali arrived and a fight broke out between the two groups. Initially, Bhardwaj and Anuj allegedly started assaulting the other group members with sticks, while Rohit and the other man (caller) tried to pacify them. But later, Saddam and Arman whipped out a gun each and fired at Anand and Anuj, said DCP Alphonse.“The attackers fled and the injured men were rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital, where they were declared brought dead. A murder case was registered,” added the DCP.Senior officials said that three teams probed the case and spoke to the two eyewitnesses (the caller and Rohit), who alleged that the murders were conspired and executed on the behest of Anil Kumar alias Swami. They said Anuj and Bhardwaj had a quarrel with Saddam on Tuesday as well.“Our teams conducted raids and arrested Swami and Arman Ali,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-nabbed-for-burari-double-murders-police-say-professional-rivalry-led-to-crime/story-rir99pEDs1U7Ta21vALcJO.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Two held for gunning down man in Rohini last week; police say gang rivalry was motive||Six days after a group of four-five assailants shot dead a 25-year-old man in Rohini’s Sector 24 and injured another -- the crime was captured by a CCTV camera -- the police on Thursday said the murder was the result of the longstanding rivalry between two jailed gangsters, Jitender alias Gogi and Sunil aka Tillu. Two members of Tillu gang were arrested for allegedly killing Bharat Solanki alias Yovin, who was working for the Gogi gang, the police said.The CCTV footage of the murder had surfaced on social media on Sunday and in that, Solanki’s woman friend could be seen helping him and chasing away the attackers. The firing was also caught on camera, even though the faces of the attackers, the victim and his friend were not visible in the footage. As many as seven bullets were fired and five of them hit Solanki, killing him on the spot. Solanki had a criminal background and was involved in three to four cases, including those of extortion and robbery, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra had said.The duo arrested by the crime branch for Solanki’s murder was identified as Paramjeet alias Sinna, 20, and Vishal aka Ghaisal,19, both from Haryana’s Rohtak. Two firearms and as many motorcycles, which were used in the crime, were recovered from them. The two were also found involved in other cases, including those of murder, firing at a food chain outlet, and firing at an MCD inspector in Alipur area, said additional commissioner of police (crime) BK Singh.On December 4, Solanki and his woman friend had gone to a grocery shop in Sector 24. Around 6.30pm, Solanki was walking to his car while his friend remained at the shop. Four to five assailants, who were lying in wait, opened fire at him. When a local resident, Sachin tried to intervene, the assailants shot and injured him as well. The CCTV footage shows that as Solanki fell, his woman came running and started chasing the attackers, before giving up and running to help Solanki.The crime branch team recently received information that Gogi’s associates Paramjeet and Vishal, who were involved in Solanki’s murder, would come near Raja Harish Chandra Hospital in Narela on Wednesday. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the two were caught, said the additional commissioner of police.During interrogation, the arrested duo allegedly disclosed that their gang leader Tillu suspected Solanki of providing information to their rival Gogi gang. “Tillu engaged Rahul Tyagi, Vivek, Paramjeet and Vishal to eliminate Solanki. They executed the murder on December 4. Information about Solanki’s whereabouts was provided by Tillu’s relative Himmat alias Chiku. Efforts are on to nab the remaining suspects,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-held-for-gunning-down-man-in-rohini-last-week-police-say-gang-rivalry-was-motive/story-RdrRQziQPL8POngFT5jORP.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court seeks directions from HC to resume graft trial against former DSP Raka Ghira||A special CBI court has forwarded an application moved by the investigating agency to the Punjab and Haryana high court regarding resuming the graft trial against former Mohali deputy superintendent of police Raka Ghira.In 2011, CBI had arrested Ghira from her Sector-15 house for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. However, the case has been on stay since 2018.Last month, the agency had filed an application to resume the trial in the wake of the Supreme Court (SC) order directing magistrates all over the country to resume trials in cases on stay for over six months.In response, Ghira’s counsel pointed out that proceedings in the case were pending in high court and had been adjourned on the account of the Covid-19 pandemic vide an order dated August 27, 2020.On Thursday, the CBI court sent the application to the HC to take notice of details of the case and pass further order on whether to vacate the stay or not in view of the SC order.The high court will hear the case next on January 8, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-court-writes-to-hc-to-resume-graft-trial-against-former-dsp-raka-ghira/story-Bp7mZNZJx2FIkbYd1o1FKM.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Security guard arrested for molesting 6-year-old girl in Pune||PUNE: A security guard of a building in Pune was remanded to one day in custody of Pune police on Thursday for molesting a minor girl.The man was identified as Umashankar Ulfat Singh Parihar (34) of Mohammadwadi road in Hadapsar, according to the police. He is a native of Madhya Pradesh and has been working for the past three-four months.“The incident happened on December 7. The child is scared after going through the ordeal. She was cycling and got tired and stopped for a minute. He called her and made her sit on his lap and sexually harassed her. On December 9, her mother was sitting with her friends and the child when the watchman was roaming near them. That is when she told her mother,” said sub-inspector Visshnu Wadkar of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case.A complaint was lodged by the mother of the six-year-old girl. A case under Sections 354, 354(a) of Indian Penal Code and relevant Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/security-guard-arrested-for-molesting-6-year-old-girl-in-pune/story-Z7WCxZ59heCYCHLADVYl2J.html
10-12-2020||Pune||ATM card-cloning: Two arrested from Nashik; 350 duplicate cards recovered||PUNE: Two men were remanded to police custody till December 14 by a local court after they were found with over 350 cloned ATM cards and other devices, according to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.The two were identified as Mohammad Akhil Adil Bhorniya (37) and Mohammad Faizal Farukh Chatriwala (37) of Dongri in Mumbai.The police were investigating two cases registered in Pune city - one at Lashkar police station and another at cyber police station.The police have recovered 359 duplicate cards of various banks, 13 ATM skimmers, 12 digital micro cameras, 2 walkie talkies, 2 chargers, 2 headphones, 15 micro batteries, 50 data cables, 4 laptop chargers, 4 mobile chargers, 11 CDs, 11 small batteries, 1 mobile phones, 1 power bank, 4 electronics circuits, 1 colour printer, M-Seal sealant, tape, soldering paste and gun.Chatriwala has two previous cases against him - one each at Mumbra and Kalwa police stations and is suspected to have been involved in cases in other parts of Mumbai, Thane, Himachal Pradesh, Hyderabad and Gujarat.Before 2019, Chatriwala had committed crimes and fled to Dubai through Nepal, according to the police. He returned to India in December 2019 and was found by Pune cyber crime police in Nashik.A team of cyber station officials went to Nashik and teamed up with local citizens of Nashik to arrest the two.Nigerian citizen arrested in cloning caseA Nigerian national called Lucas William (31) of Handewadi, Pune was arrested by cyber police station officials. The man was found to have been illegally living in the country for the past six years. The police officials have recovered two mobile phones, ATM card mount, pinhole camera, duplicate debit cards, according to the police.The man allegedly tried to install skimmers in 6 ATMs, but failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/atm-card-cloning-two-arrested-from-nashik-350-duplicate-cards-recovered/story-tDzvmY5t85FfNfAnDIlnRM.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Man arrested for stalking women through online dating sites in Pune||PUNE: A 28-year-old man was arrested by the Pune police crime branch for threatening and trying to dupe women by approaching them through online dating sites.The man was identified as Sandeep Jagannath Dharmak of Thergaon in Pimpri, Pune, according to a statement issued by Unit 2 of crime branch.The police were investigating two cases of online stalking and harassment against him. However, after the arrest, he has allegedly confessed to have tried duping at least 10 women.“There were two previous cases on record and two new cases. However, he confessed to duping 10-12 women. Not all of them have registered complaints. Only one of them had paid him Rs 3,000, but the others blocked him, he said,” said senior inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2.Dharmak has studied till Class 12 and works at a mobile repair shop, according to the police. He told the women he met online that he worked as a manager at a massage parlour and initiated conversation with them.He used pictures of foreigner men and used names such as Nirman and Ryan. Once he had garnered the women’s trust, he would ask for their pictures and leveraged the chats and pictures to ask for money, according to the police.A case under Sections 354(d) (stalking), 507, 509 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 67 of Information Technology Act is registered against him at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. Another case under similar sections of IPC and IT Act is registered at Vimantal police station. There is also a similar case registered against him at the cyber police station in 2020 and another registered at Lashkar police station in 2015.He will be produced in court on Friday and remanded to further custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-for-stalking-women-through-online-dating-sites-in-pune/story-7uNxTdDikHqujuLTPP0LIK.html
10-12-2020||City||Cloakroom facility for pilgrims, tourists at Magh Mela-2021||PRAYAGRAJ: Pilgrims and tourists coming to Magh Mela-2021 for a dip, a short religious ceremony or even sightseeing of up to two to three days would get paid cloakroom facilities this time. The 57-day annual fair will start with Makar Sankranti bathing on January 14 and conclude with Maha Shivratri bathing on March 11, 2021. The Prayagraj Mela Authority has decided to introduce this facility for the annual fair on the lines of paid service provided during Kumbh-2019. Pilgrims would be able to keep their handbags and backpacks in safekeeping for Rs 20 for 24 hours, Rs 40 for 48 hours and Rs 60 for 72 hours while storing bigger luggage items would cost them Rs 40 for 24 hours, Rs 80 for 48 hours and Rs 120 for 72 hours, informed officials. For this, the fair would have cloakrooms of up to 600 sq feet at each of the 22 well-spaced out designated parking lots to thwart Coivid-19. The would be in uniform with their identity cards on display. The parking lots would have boom barriers and parking tickets would be issued using digital handheld ticketing machines, they add. The request for proposal (RFP) for this has been issued by the Prayagraj Mela Authority, inviting e-bids from interested parties with the technical bids scheduled to be opened on December 14. The agency entrusted with the task of setting up and managing the parking sites will operate these cloakrooms as well, freeing the pilgrims from the need of carrying luggage to bathing ghats and sites of religious ceremonies , said Vivek Chaturvedi, Mela Adhikari, Magh Mela-2021. Each cloakroom would be set up as directed in the layout and have basic required infrastructure like power supply, lockers, boundary etc along with waterproof material for safe storage of luggage. Size of the cloakroom shall not exceed 600 square feet each with their number not exceeding one per every 5000 car spaces, he explained. The sites identified for parking lots include Sugar Mill (2,00,640 sqm), Mahuabagh (32,330 sqm), Triveni Puram (70,000 sqm), Navprayagam (2,00,000 sqm), Agriculture Institute (1,31,000 sqm), Deaf and Dumb School (14,000 sqm), Devrakh (2,50,000 sqm), CMP College (20,000 sqm), CAV College (15,000 sqm), GIC (14,000 sqm), Women’s Polytechnic (14,000 sqm), Bada Bhagara (2,00,000 sqm), Colonel Ganj College (7,350 sqm), MNNIT (27,000 sqm), Scout and Guide School (10,600 sqm) and Hindu Hostel (5,200 sqm) among others. Parking lots would also be set up at KP College, Government Press and Khusro Bagh, shared officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cloakroom-facility-for-pilgrims-tourists-at-magh-mela-2021/story-H0bwh43IumKkafHS38EptJ.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||BMC wants a night curfew to rein in Mumbai clubs; Maharashtra govt reluctant||The Maharashtra government has denied Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) request to impose night curfew between 11pm and 6am in the city, after it found many night clubs violating the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, and operating till 4am on weekends, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Wednesday. During several raids, BMC found over 2,000 people gathered in small spaces of less than 4,000 square metres, not wearing masks, and not maintaining social distancing.The letter with this request was written earlier this week. However, Chahal said, “The government is not in favour of imposing a curfew as it creates panic among citizens, and has decided to wait and watch till December 25. If citizens continue to violate the Epidemic Act, are careless about Covid-19 guidelines, and the establishments continue to operate overnight, the government will be forced to impose a curfew.”Also Read: Maharashtra reports fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a rowAccording to the Epidemic Act, more than 50 people are not allowed to gather at a location at a time. On Saturday last week, BMC raided three night clubs in the city in the Bandra and Lower Parel area, after receiving a tip that they were operating overnight on Friday. Subsequently, atleast a 1,000 people were asked to leave by BMC officers during the raid, and many others left voluntarily, Chahal said. “BMC fined everyone who was not wearing a masks at this time. FIRs have been lodged against the owners of the night clubs. A decision on whether to cancel their licenses to operate has not been taken. An FIR is more serious than cancellation of licences,” he added. All assistant commissioners of the 24 wards in Mumbai have now been asked to randomly raid night clubs in the city on weekends starting this week. Presently, restaurants, eateries, bars and pubs in the city are open till 11.30pm, according to BMC’s unlock plans. Section 144 is still imposed in the city—it was first imposed at the start of lockdown in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-denies-request-mumbai-corporation-request-to-impose-night-curfew-in-the-city/story-JeKebS2QnxrdCBP8KX0stM.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP men instigated people to create unrest: Bengal minister after attack on JP Nadda’s convoy||Hours after BJP national president J P Nadda’s convoy came under attack in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas, the TMC on Thursday claimed that his party has information that saffron camp activists had “instigated” people to create unrest.Senior TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee sought to know if it was an attempt by the BJP to divert attention from “the historic launch” of the ruling party’s report card.“Mr J P Nadda has alleged that he was attacked. But we have information that provocation came from him, his own party men... It is necessary to find out if the whole episode was planned by the BJP,” the state panchayat minister told reporters at Trinamool Bhavan.Urging TMC activists to “avoid stepping into their (BJP’s) trap despite provocation, Mukherjee said, “We would like to ask our men to keep distance from them.” “Was the alleged attack planned to overshadow today’s event, arranged to highlight the achievements of the Mamata Banerjee government?” he said.Stones were hurled at Nadda’s convoy on Thursday morning, when he was on his way to Diamond Harbour from here, with the saffron party claiming that TMC supporters carried out the attack.Several BJP leaders including its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya sustained injuries, sources in the saffron party said.The West Bengal Police, in a tweet, insisted that the situation was peaceful.“Shri JP Nadda, National President, BJP reached safely at the venue, Diamond Harbour, South 24 Pgs. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, Diamond Harbour PD, sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy.“Everyone is safe and situation is peaceful. Matter is being investigated to find out actual happenings,” the tweet added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-men-instigated-people-to-create-unrest-bengal-minister-after-attack-on-jp-nadda-s-convoy/story-0HAGojzerNMMKGrkgKf0xO.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row||Maharashtra reported fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day, taking the state’s tally to 1,864,348, with 4,981 fresh infections recorded on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the state dropped to 73,166, which is 3.92% of the total infections. The state also reported 75 fatalities, pushing up its toll to 47,902. However, of the 75 deaths, 63 were from the past 48 hours and 12 from last week, according to the state health department.The state authorities had expected a surge in Covid-19 cases after Diwali, but the number of daily infections hasn’t witnessed a massive spike. Between December 1 and 9, the state reported 42,202 cases against 42,393 cases during the same period in November, while the fatalities reduced to 751 in the first nine days of this month, from 1,000 during the corresponding period last month. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said Maharashtra has hit the plateau [of Covid-19 infections] and the situation will be much better by March if the trend continues. He, however, said it is essential for citizens to follow “Covid-appropriate behaviour”.“Crowding at public places during Diwali led to a rise in fresh infections, but it was not as high as witnessed in north India, especially in Delhi, and definitely not as intense as seen in Europe and the US. This is a very positive sign and if the plateau continues and cases decline by January, we will head towards a positive epidemiological situation. By March, we will be in a much better position then,” Salunkhe said.However, officials aren’t being complacent and the state has already directed local authorities to be vigilant and prepared for a possible second wave outbreak in January.Salunkhe said people “should not lower their guards” as the possibility of a surge in January can’t be ruled out. “Although it doesn’t seem to be happening based on the current trend, the possibility of a surge in January can’t be ruled out. People must follow all health protocols rigorously,” he said.Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to record the maximum cases in Maharashtra, with 716 infections reported on Wednesday. The city’s tally stands at 287,898, of which 12,168 are active cases. Mumbai’s toll rose to 10,929, with 15 deaths reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-fewer-than-5-000-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-day-in-a-row/story-gPRdpX6Eb9xpbFlWuM5i7L.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Human rights situation grim in Tibet, says government-in-exile||The tireless efforts of the Dalai Lama have ushered in a more peaceful world and garnered global support for the cause of Tibet, where the human rights situation under Chinese rule is a matter of concern, the Tibetan government-in-exile has said. Observing the 31st anniversary of the conferment of the Nobel Peace Prize on the spiritual leader on Thursday, a kashag (cabinet) statement of the government-in-exile issued here said: “Today is also Human Rights Day. In the case of Tibet, the repressive policies of the Chinese government continue to trample upon the Tibetan people’s fundamental rights.” Since 2009, 154 Tibetans have given up their lives by self immolation for fundamental freedom in Tibet, read the release.Then in June this year, Tibetan singer Lhundrup Drakpa was sentenced to six years in prison for singing Black Hat, in which he compared the sufferings of the Tibetan people to a “hell on earth.” “Despite the Chinese government’s blatant attack on the fundamental rights and identity... Tibetans in Tibet continue to resist through non-violent protests. The struggle of the Tibetan people, which is a struggle for truth, justice and freedom, continue to receive world-wide support,” read the statement.The kashag drew attention to the UN Third Committee general debate held in October at the UN headquarters in New York, when 39 countries called on China to respect the human rights in Tibet, East Turkestan and Hong Kong. “The Chinese government must realise that it cannot continue casting a blind eye on the sentiments and aspirations of the Tibetan people in Tibet. The genuine solution for Tibet can only be met by dialogue through the Middle Way Approach,” it said.Blames China for pandemicThe kashag also blamed China’s “old tactics of crackdown on the freedom of speech through repressive censorship during the initial stage of Covid-19 for contributing to the global pandemic”.A survey by US-based Pew Research Centre indicated that China’s initial mishandling of the Covid-19 had intensified distrust against China.For China to win back this trust and to reinstate its position as a global leader, it must make timely progression towards democracy, freedom and the international rule of law, added the kashag statement.Taking the opportunity to thank governments, parliamentarians, leaders, organisations and individuals who continued to champion the cause of Tibet, the kashag prayed for the long and healthy life of the Dalai Lama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/human-rights-situation-grim-in-tibet-says-government-in-exile/story-ySMtKJpbwNyi9Xrm6UcQiM.html
10-12-2020||Environment||Maharashtra appoints panel to phase out unsustainable fishing||The Maharashtra government has formed a 12-member committee of experts to assess the extent of unsustainable fishing practices beyond territorial waters, control overfishing, and understand the impact of marine pollution on aquatic biodiversity.In a government order published by the department of animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries on Monday, the names of the members of the expert committee were announced. The committee was directed to constitute guidelines based on their findings on the impact on fingerlings (juvenile fish species) to safeguard their population from fishing practices using purse seine nets—large circular nets used to catch fish in bulk—beyond 12 nautical miles along the 720km coastline of Maharashtra. Purse seine nets can stretch from 500 metres up to a kilometre, and as much as 3km if two or three nets are attached to each other. They pull out a large proportion of fish as these nets have a mesh spanning from 25mm to 35mm, blocking juvenile fish and fish eggs from falling back into the ocean, thereby stopping them from multiplying.Also Read: Maharashtra: Four-acre mangrove patch destroyed near proposed eco park in UranIn 2014-15, a similar state-appointed expert committee, chaired by former director general of the Fishery Survey of India Dr VS Somwanshi, had submitted a report against purse seine fishing, detailing its impact along the coastal environment of Maharashtra, and suggested measures to phase out the use of purse seine nets. In February 2016, the state government implemented the submissions by banning the use of purse seine nets within territorial waters and brought down permits from 494 to 182, stopped issuing new licenses, and allowed the use of such nets only between September and December in certain areas along the coast.Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner (fisheries), said, “After a gap of five years, we have constituted another expert committee, which will now tell us how we will actually reduce the number of permits already issued for using purse seine nets, whether to continue not issuing new licenses, and the extent of boats using them in the Indian Exclusive Economic Zone. There has been a major delay in constituting this committee due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but we hope its reports will be beneficial in improving fishing practices.”Jadhav added that committee would also submit reports on how pelagic fish (fish inhabiting neither the bottom nor the shore of open oceans and lakes) were being caught and the overall impact of bulk fish capture using trawlers and mechanised boats not just by Maharashtra but other states as well (for comparison), and the extent of pelagic fish being exported. “We are also calling for details on overfishing, level of pollution in the marine environment due to oil exploration and other factors, and detailed guidelines on sustainable fishing,” he said, adding, “The aim is to also ensure the traditional fishing community that uses much smaller nets in shallow waters benefits. The decisions will increase fish catch and protect the fish population.”Also Read: MCZMA nod to reclaim 21 hectare more for Mumbai coastal road projectThe committee is chaired by Dr Gopal Krishna, director and vice-chancellor of the Indian Agriculture Research Council (ICAR) Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE), Mumbai, and the regional deputy commissioner (fisheries), Maharashtra, as member secretary. Along with the state chief secretary (animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries) and fisheries commissioner, the expert body includes representatives from all major national institutes involved in fishery education and research such as Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Fishery Survey of India, and Central Institute of Fisheries Technology.Ganesh Nakhawa, chairman of the National Purse Seine Fishermen Welfare Association, said it was shocking that not a single member of the fishing community or fisher leaders from Maharashtra was included in the expert committee. “The Maharashtra government continues to focus only on purse seine fishing while there are other environmentally damaging methods which use dols, bags and trawl nets by over 9,000 boats, scraping the surface of the ocean to catch rare and protected marine species. The committee’s decisions would affect the livelihood of the fishing community, but no representative (from the fishers) has been selected by government officials to express such issues. We have been calling for uniform law along the west coast because by curtailing only Maharashtra fishers, environmentally damaging methods would still continue for other states,” said Nakhawa.Jadhav countered that the committee was purely a government body but final decisions would not be taken without consulting the fishing community. “Suggestions and objections will be taken into account at the district level when this committee collects on-field data. At the same time, we will be studying not only purse seine but dol and other trawling practices too. The title of the order only pertains to purse seine but it will include a wide ambit of fisheries,” he said.Maharashtra fisheries There are 456 fishing villages in seven districts—Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Last year, Maharashtra witnessed its lowest annual fish catch in 45 years at 2.01 lakh tonnes with a rapid decline in all major fish species being caught, according to the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). CMFRI said that environmental factors such as extreme weather events (heavy rain and five tropical cyclones) along with juvenile overfishing led to a 36% drop in number of fishing days in 2019. According to a 2018 study by CMFRI, purse seining was introduced in India between 1954 and 1958 across Kerala and Goa on an experimental basis. However, commercial purse seining was picked up by Karnataka fishers around 1975, followed by Kerala and Goa. It was not up till the late 1980s that the practice was introduced in Maharashtra across Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, mostly for catching oil sardines and mackerel. From 1998, a lot of trawl fishers were seen shifting to purse seining for higher profits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/maharashtra-appoints-panel-to-phase-out-unsustainable-fishing/story-BodeIkLjx0eKJl950qT7NL.html
10-12-2020||Pune||NFAI acquires rare footage of MCCIA’s past||Pune: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has acquired a rare 16-mm footage from the city-based industry body, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) depicting the latter’s history. Prashant Girbane, director general, MCCIA handed over the reel to Prakash Magdum, director, NFAI. The rare footage is about 1,200ft with a duration of 35 minutes. It chronicles major events in MCCIA’s organisational history from the late 1940s to 1960s. Predominantly black and white, the footage also features some parts in colour. The major highlights of the footage are snippets from the events such as the silver jubilee ceremony, the inauguration of MCCIA’s building at Tilak road in Pune, MCCIA’s monthly magazine Sampada (launched in 1947), “Parishada ani Charcha – Sabha” with felicitation of Shantanurao Kirloskar, and several other excerpts from varied events. Veteran freedom fighter and leader C Rajagopalachari is also seen participating in one of the functions at MCCIA. The footage also covers prominent institutes like Bank of Maharashtra and Pune Division Productivity Council and follows the industrial development in Pune area and MCCIA’s programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nfai-acquires-rare-footage-of-mccia-s-past/story-3ucG0WvlmJgIeU1sMjykwL.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Nine months of Covid: Post Covid care emerging challenge for Pune||The state health department along with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and private doctors have come a long way since the first positive case of coronavirus (Covid-19) infection had been reported in Maharashtra nine months ago. However, even with the vaccines showing promises of development, the post-Covid care still is an emerging challenge for the authorities. After the city reported its first case on March 9, the virus progressed rapidly with Pune emerging as one of the hotspots of the infection. Later, the Covid-19 infection slowed down in Pune. Till July 9, Pune had seen a total of 33,394 cases and 986 deaths. By October, the cases went up to 3,08,434 and death toll touched 6,073. Till Tuesday (December 9), Pune district has reported 3,59,729 total positive cases with 7,588 deaths while the state reported 47,902 fatalities due to the virus. Speaking about the journey of the pandemic so far, Dr Sanjeev Wavare, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) assistant health chief, said that the post-Covid care in cases can be handled at medical clinics. “There is very less awareness among patients about post Covid care. We have acted very promptly while managing cases of Covid-19. We established Covid care centres and got ventilators for patients who need intensive care units (ICU). We have done all of this in the past nine months and so, today we see that there are regular flow of patients at hospitals and proper management of Covid patients,” said Dr Wavare. He further added that despite the infrastructure, the need for skilled manpower was another aspect which was challenging for the health department. “We were able to manage the infrastructure and Covid care centres for patients. However, skilled manpower was a major challenge. And for the future, having human resources that can manage important instruments like ventilators are in need,” said Dr Wavare. Sharing similar views, Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent at PMC-run Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital, said that post Covid care for patients is important. “However, social distancing and wearing masks should not be neglected by the general public. There are enough private clinics which can help in providing post Covid care to patients. However, good habits like washing hands frequently should be followed by everyone,” said Dr Patsute. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Maharashtra Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that it is very important that patients are aware about post Covid care and also the government makes treatment easier for them. “We have seen that many patients post Covid have fatigue and various other conditions that deters their health. In such cases, the patient should have a dedicated clinic to visit that tackles all similar cases. However, so far from the government’s end, there has been no concrete steps. This has to change in the near future soon otherwise we might see more challenging days for Covid patients,” said Bhondwe. He further emphasised that practices like wearing masks, social distancing and hand washing should be continued to keep the numbers low. Pune Covid-19 cases*Month--Positive-- active-- death -- Recovered*March 9--5--5--0--0*April 9--209---155--24--30*May 9--2537-910--141-1486*June 9--9739---9040-437--259*July 9--33394--17229--986--15179*August 9--114703--40278--2771--71654*September 9--218502--69456--4634--144412*October 9--308434--57926--6073--244434*November 9--339450--16003--7086--315428*December 9--359729--15616--7588--336490*Source: state health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-months-of-covid-post-covid-care-emerging-challenge-for-pune/story-en2pt0Qy1yPeSYmEzaUokK.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||INLD’s Abhay Chautala, Haryana agriculture minister in war of words||The war of words between Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala turned ugly on Thursday when they accused each other of being involved in corrupt activities. Chautala hit out at Dalal during a press briefing at Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on Wednesday evening, saying, “JP Dalal is not a farmer. He was a junior engineer in the Haryana irrigation department. He was suspended as he was involved in a water theft case. He used to create problems for farmers and has a long history of providing canal water to farmers after taking bribes.” Also read: With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbersReacting to Chautala’s allegations, Dalal took to Twitter and wrote, “Everyone in Haryana knows who is the aide of robbers, thieves, criminals and a jail convict.” Chautala, the INLD Ellenabad MLA, has been targeting Dalal since he termed farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws Khalistani and accused the opposition of being behind the agitation. Dalal dividing farmers: Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry Tosham Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry also attacked Dalal for his remarks against the farmers. “Instead of addressing their grievances, Dalal has been calling them Khalistani and asking the state’s farmers to raise the issue of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal before the Centre. The BJP government has been ruling at the centre and in the state but their leaders have failed to reach an amicable solution despite the Supreme Court verdict in Haryana’s favour. Dalal is making such statements to divide farmers on the basis of states after failing to divide them on the basis of caste and religion,” she said. Dalal was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inld-s-abhay-chautala-haryana-agriculture-minister-in-war-of-words/story-ELmGgG3hRFq3CFnlIQ20nJ.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Astad Deboo dies; artistes say India has lost a cultural treasure||Astad Deboo, pioneer of modern dance in India, died in Mumbai on Thursday, aged 73. He had been diagnosed with cancer in November.Deboo was an exponent of Kathak and Kathakali, but was best known and loved for promoting fusion dance that broke barriers of style, culture and nationality. He was one of the first Indians to do so.The dancer is survived by his sisters, Kamal Deboo and Gulshan Deboo.“He left us in the early hours of December 10… after a brief illness, bravely borne. He leaves behind a formidable legacy of unforgettable performances combined with an unswerving dedication to his art, matched only by his huge, loving heart that gained him thousands of friends and a vast, number of admirers,” his family said in a statement released online. Astad Deboo was always ahead of his time, friend and Bharatanatyam luminary Leela Samson said, speaking to HT on Thursday. “Going back 50 years, I would say he was a shy person. He carved for himself a very personal and also a very lonely journey because he was first among the contemporary dancers in the country. Even there he didn’t follow any Western norms. He went about his work in his own way. Whether it was in his costumes or his Sufi dervishes, he used his body in a way that was very much himself.”He was the kind of person who always kept in touch, she added. “We had a lot in common. He was a Bombay boy. I was a Bombay girl. And we were not from traditional families of dancers. When we spoke a week ago, he sounded very much in control. He was in a positive state of mind until the very end.”Born on July13, 1947 in Navsari, Gujarat, Deboo studied Kathak under Prahlad Das and later Kathakali under EK Pannicker. In his 20s he studied the Martha Graham dance technique in London and Jose Limon’s technique in New York.He is said to have performed in over 70 countries, in solo, group and collaborative performances. His is a legacy filled with remarkable moments — a chance performance with Pink Floyd in London in 1969, a commission by Pierre Cardin, being asked to choreograph a piece for Maya Plisetskaya, prima ballerina of the Bolshoi ballet company. He performed at the Great Wall of China, the Guruvayur temple in Kerala and the National Gallery of Modern Art in Delhi. “He didn’t live in a bubble. He was a person who was concerned about others. He lived with honesty and conviction,” acclaimed Bharatanatyam exponent Malavika Sarukkai said, referring to his work with deaf children. He founded The Astad Deboo Dance Foundation in 2002 to provide opportunity and creative training to marginalised street children and provide artistic development to deaf dancers. Deboo received the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 1995, for his contribution to contemporary creative dance. He received the Padma Shri in 2007. He choreographed for films a few times, including for Vishal Bhardwaj’s Omkara (2006) and the legendary painter MF Hussain’s 2004 movie, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities.“His support for young artistes was remarkable. He would frequently come to the NCPA to watch senior and junior performers, attend workshops and discussions,” said Swapnokalpa Dasgupta, head of dance programming at the National Centre for the Performing Arts, Mumbai. Sarukkai recalled an incident from many years ago, a testimony to Deboo’s warmth. “I was performing in London and my light designer hadn’t got his visa. The performance was in the South Bank and it was an important premiere,” she said. “And Astad was there. He came in and saw my rehearsal, took furious notes on a little piece of paper. And he told me, ‘You don’t worry Malavika, you go ahead I will do whatever I can for the lights’. And it was quite unforgettable, because he was there for me. He always stood by his friends.”Dasgupta describes him as “a senior so affectionate and unbiased, a loving soul so giving and sensitive”. “My prayers for his family and friends,” Dasgupta said. “As for our dance community, this loss is irreparable.”According to Padma Alva, a longtime friend of Deboo and a former PTI journalist, his funeral was a private affair due to the COVID-19 restrictions. “The funeral was held at Worli here at 11 am. It was a private funeral because of COVID restrictions. So only immediate family members were present,” Alva said.Deboo is noted for creating a modern dance vocabulary that was uniquely Indian. He once said there was a time when most Indians saw his style as “too western” while westerners found that it was “not Indian enough”.His innovative style of Indian dance may have raised some eyebrows in the 1970s and 80s, but the 1990s saw people embrace this new idiom. Recalling their bond of over four decades, Alva said she has lost a a “friend of a lifetime.””Astad called me a few days ago to say it was goodbye.We were in touch every day till Monday when he went under, never to come up again. Have lost a friend of 45 years, a friend of a lifetime,” Alva said.Actor Anupam Kher took to Twitter to pay tributes to the dance icon and wrote Deboo’s art would be missed.“World of modern dance has lost a pioneer and India has lost a cultural treasure. Dearest #AstadDeboo it was a privilege to know you. Will miss your art, warm persona and your infectious smile! Rest in peace my friend!!#OmShanti,” Kher said.Filmmaker Nandita Das said Deboo had a lot of dance still left in him. “Just too sad. Knew him and admired him since I was a child. You still had so much to offer #AstadDeboo I have lost too many loved ones this year,” Das wrote.Describing Deboo as a “powerhouse of talent”,music composer Ehsaan Noorani tweeted that the dancer was a man “who pushed the dimensions of dance.”Casting director Tess Joseph said Deboo was not only a generous person but a “visionary and stunning dancer.” “When Astad danced, time did stand still,” Joseph said.(With input from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/astad-deboo-dies-artistes-say-india-lost-cultural-treasure/story-lDfs2K52V08DTLYSvgRHBP.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s condition better but still critical||The condition of former West Bengal chief minister and CPI(M) stalwart Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, improved on Thursday, although doctors at the private hospital in south Kolkata, where he is admitted, said at noon that he was still critical. Bhattacharjee was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state on Wednesday afternoon. He was suffering from an acute breathing problem. Bhattacharjee is a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for more than a decade. The medical board said in a statement that Bhattacharjee will remain on mechanical ventilation on Thursday and the process of gradual withdrawal of ventilatory support was being planned. Doctors stopped giving him sedatives in the morning as a trial after his condition improved. Administration of sedatives will however be continued to assist effective ventilation. Also Read: JP Nadda’s cavalcade stoned in Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency in BengalPreliminary investigation did not show any significant abnormality and Bhattacharjee’s carbon dioxide and oxygen levels in blood had improved, the hospital said in a statement. Pulse, blood pressure, oxygen saturation and cardiac condition were stable till Thursday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-s-condition-better-but-still-critical/story-gVggGGXPmisa7dm41j5IqK.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC agrees to examine constitutionality of ‘power to arrest’ under CGST Act||The Delhi High Court has agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the provisions conferring authorities the power to arrest under the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Act, 2017.The division bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula on Wednesday issued a notice on the petition and agreed to examine the vires of the constitutionality of Section 69 of the CGST Act, which pertains to the power to arrest conferred to GST authorities under the law.The High Court was hearing a petition filed by Arun Gupta, who is accused of issuing fake invoices without supplying goods and allegedly committed offences under the CGST Act to the tune of approximately Rs 13 crores, challenging the vires of various sections of the CGST Act.Advocates Vijay Aggarwal, Yugant Sharma and Nagesh Behl, appearing on behalf of Arun Gupta, showed the court a video clip wherein it was seen that the officials of the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence, New Delhi allegedly slapping and manhandling the employee of the petitioner. An audio recording of a call was also played during the hearing.The bench asked the department concerned to file a counter-affidavit, replying to the video and audio, played in the court regarding using of violence against the employee of the petitioner.The High Court further directed that no coercive action be taken against the petitioner in connection with the subject matter till the next date of hearing, and added that the house and the godown of the petitioner shall also be unsealed by the department.The plea also challenged the investigation on grounds that the same was conducted by the GST officers, in what it said was a gross non-compliance of the procedure established by the law as contemplated under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, claiming the same to be in violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.“The vires of Sections 69 and 132 of the CGST Act were also challenged on the ground that an arrest cannot be made under the said Act, as there is no constitutional backing to the same. Article 246-A was inserted with effect from September 16, 2016, whereby the Union and the State Legislatures were empowered to levy a tax on GST,” the plea said.“Prior thereto, the power to levy different taxes like central excise, service excise duty, service tax, VAT etc, was enumerated in the different entries of Schedule VII read with Article 246,” it added.The lawyers argued that offence under the GST is only punishable with imprisonment for five years and as per the Supreme Court of India, an arrest should not be made for an offence punishable up to seven years.As the offence is compoundable and appeal can be filed on payment of 10 per cent of the alleged amount therefore in view of the same no one should be arrested, they submitted.The lawyers said that post-arrest statement of an arrestee will be hit by Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India, right against self-incrimination, so it is in the interest of the department not to arrest people.Having the ‘power to arrest’ and “need to arrest” are two different things, they argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-agrees-to-examine-constitutionality-of-power-to-arrest-under-cgst-act/story-vLv0mJzRoOu9lCM3x9RLfK.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Celebrity hairstylist Suraj Godambe arrested with cocaine, NCB crackdown continues||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Suraj Godambe, a celebrity hairstylist, along with an alleged drug peddler, with cocaine on Thursday. Godambe is known for his work in some of the biggest blockbuster films in recent years.NCB officials confirmed the development and said the two were arrested near Meera Tower, Oshiwara, Andheri West and 16 packets of cocaine, along with drug proceeds amounting to Rs 56,000, were seized from them. Later, when the packets were opened, net weight of cocaine in all the 16 packets was found to be 11 grams. The operation was carried out under the supervision of NCB joint director Sameer Wankhede.Both have been booked under relevant sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the court granted their custody to the NCB till December 16, 2020.. The two have been arrested in a separate case and not the one linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput case. NCB officials haven’t yet spelled out the charges levelled against Godambe. The officials are checking if he was involved in providing drugs to any celebrity or any other person.Over the last two days, NCB has conducted a major crackdown on syndicates supplying drugs to those associated with Bollywood and arrested two key drug suppliers, Jitendra Jain alias Jeet alias Rigel Mahakal, who is a DJ by profession, and Mohammad Azam Jumman Shaikh. The NCB also seized Malana Cream Hashish, ecstasy pills and cash worth nearly Rs 2.63 crore from their possession.Also Read: NCB to produce drug kingpin Azam Sheikh in court today in its probe related to Sushant Singh Rajput death caseNCB, which has been investigating the drug angle into late actor Rajput’s death, has till now arrested 28 people including Bollywood celebs including comedienne Bharti Singh, her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa and brother of Arjun Rampal’s partner Agisilaos Demetriades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/celebrity-hairstylist-suraj-godambe-arrested-with-cocaine-ncb-crackdown-continues/story-cX8bhIZdXbqt7cjykzcJeM.html
10-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau traps own officer taking bribe||On International anti-corruption day, Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested its own officer after he was caught taking a bribe of Rs 80,000 as a monthly instalment. Along with him, a district transport officer was also arrested for giving the bribe. The anti-graft body acted on information that their own officer, identified as Bherulal Meena, incharge of Sawai Madhopur unit of the ACB, was taking monthly bribes from various government departments. In order to verify the information, a special team from ACB headquarters was set up under the supervision of ACB director general (DG) BL Soni and additional director general Dinesh MN. “After receiving solid information, the team laid a trap and Meena was arrested from his office (while) taking a monthly bribe of Rs 80,000 from district transport officer Mahesh Chand. This money was given on a regular basis by the DTO to evade action against self and his department,” said Soni. The DG ACB said that different teams are raiding Meena’s properties.”Both taking and giving of a bribe is a crime. However, the identity of the complainant is kept secret and after raid, their identity is kept confidential,” he said. Also Read: Top Rajasthan officer in trouble after PA walks into anti-corruption bureau’s trapIn February this year, more than two dozen officials of the transport department, who were part of an extortion racket, were busted by the bureau. The anti-graft body carried out multiple operations and raids at locations linked to seven transport officers and eight agents from whom an amount of Rs 1.20 crore in cash and documents of multiple properties, worth crores, were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-anti-corruption-bureau-traps-own-officer-taking-bribe/story-GmvaFDApByUVRC9aRM97AN.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy snow forecast in Himachal Pradesh, rain in Punjab and Haryana on December 11, 12||Atal Tunnel across Rohtang Pass remained closed for traffic as the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh received snow and rain for the second consecutive day on Thursday. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said that the road beyond Solang was closed for traffic due to fresh snowfall and only 4x4 vehicles were allowed to ply on the route. “The road is being cleared and we urge people not to venture these areas until roads are cleared,” he said. Also read: Snowfall expected over Western Himalayas todayKeylong, the headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, received 15cm of snowfall, while Manali recorded 8mm of rainfall, Dalhousie 7mm, Dharamshala 6.4mm, Kangra 3.1mm and Chamba 2mm of rain. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that the weather is likely to remain clear at most places in the state on Thursday but heavy snowfall and rainfall is forecast across the state on December 11 and 12. The weather will remain clear from December 14 onwards. MINIMUM TEMPERATURES ABOVE NORMAL Light precipitation has been witnessed in isolated places of the state since Wednesday. The minimum temperatures were three to four degrees above normal, while the maximum temperatures in the state decreased by one to two degrees. The minimum temperature in the state capital of Shimla was 7.9°C, while prominent tourist destinations, including Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 5°C, 6.4°C and 5.4°C, respectively. The minimum temperature in Una is 9.4°C, while Solan recorded 6.5°C, Bilaspur 9°C, Hamirpur 9.2°C, Nahan 12.2°C, Mandi 7°C and Kalpa shivered at 1.3°C. Keylong was the coldest in the state at minus 1.4°C. TEMPERATURES TO DIP IN PUNJAB, HARYANA FROM FRIDAY The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light rain in Punjab and Haryana on Friday and Saturday. “Due to a western disturbance, light rain is expected in the region. The intensity will be more on Friday with chances of moderate rainfall up to 40mm in isolated parts. Light rain of up to 20mm is predicted on Saturday. After the rain, chances of shallow to moderate fog will increase from Sunday. A drop in temperature can also be expected afterwards,” an IMD official said in Chandigarh. The temperature stayed on the higher side in the plains. In Punjab, Ludhiana recorded a minimum of 12.4 degrees, followed by Amritsar at 11.3 degrees and Patiala at 11.2 degrees. In Haryana, Narnaul had a minimum temperature of 10 degrees followed by Bhiwani at 9.6 degrees and Ambala at 9.2 degrees. In Chandigarh, the minimum temperature stayed at 10.8 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heavy-snow-forecast-in-himachal-pradesh-rain-in-punjab-and-haryana-on-december-11-12/story-M5RJKrAJWoVJB2d1NWGRGO.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Traffic restrictions continue on Delhi borders as farmers carry on with protest||Traffic restrictions continued on Delhi’s borders on Thursday as farmers carried on with their protest.Traffic police said that commuters travelling to and from Haryana can use single carriageway in Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Thursday morning that Jhatikara border will remain open only for two wheelers and pedestrians. They also issued an advisory saying that traffic was being diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal road.Also Read| ‘Surgical strike’: Sanjay Raut’s retort to claim of ‘Pak-China hand’ behind farmers’ stirIn another tweet, the police said, “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road , GTK road, NH-44.”Apart from the borders, on Thursday morning, traffic remained heavy at ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Palam flyover, IIT-Delhi crossing, Rajouri Garden and near Sarai Kale Khan.Also Watch: Vikram Chandra on farmers rejecting Centre’s proposal, & other stories Farmer unions have also warned that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur highway from December 12 if their demands are not met by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-curbs-continue-on-delhi-borders/story-JOop7gyzyTUNiDZCYANXwM.html
10-12-2020||Lucknow||Forget murder bid, can’t even prove mango theft, says court, acquits UP man||A defendant’s patience and faith in justice finally bore fruit, albeit after a long wait of 12 years when additional sessions judge PC Kushwaha absolved one Farid Pindari of the charges of theft of mangoes and attempt to murder. In the judgment delivered here earlier this week, Kushwaha stated that the prosecution had failed to prove beyond doubt that Farid Pindari had forcibly stolen mangoes from the complainant Rashid Ali Beg’s orchard on June 7, 2008, and had tried to kill him. Rashid Ali Beg had lodged an FIR (first information report) at Malihabad police station in June 2008 alleging Farid Pindari and Hafiz Abdul Rais (both defendants) forcibly plucked mangoes from his orchard in Malihabad at around 9 pm on June 7, 2008. When Beg tried to confront them, Farid Pindari provoked Hafiz Abdul Rais to kill him (Beg), the complainant had alleged. On being incited, Hafiz Abdul fired at Beg from a country made gun, but he missed the target, the complainant further claimed. In the FIR, attempt to murder charges under Section 307 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) were levelled against Farid Pindari and Hafiz Abdul Rais. During the course of investigation and legal battle, Hafiz Abdul Rais died. Thereafter, the case against him was closed. Also Read: Consent of even estranged wife must for adoption of child, rules Allahabad high court“During the prolonged legal battle, the prosecution was not able to prove that Farid Pindari had tried to kill Rashid Ali Beg. Even the charge of stealing mangoes could not be proved against him,” said lawyers KK Mishra and Waqar Husain, who represented Farid Pindari and Hafiz Abdul Rais in court. “The investigating officer’s (sub-inspector) report also pointed out that no gun shot was fired and no mangoes were stolen. Due to personal enmity, false allegations were levelled on Farid and Hafiz,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/forget-murder-bid-can-t-even-prove-mango-theft-says-court-acquits-up-man/story-ITlUQAylkboHBMPCTEVSNI.html
10-12-2020||City||Consent of even estranged wife must for adoption of child, rules Allahabad high court||The Allahabad high court has held that a married Hindu man will need the consent of his wife, even if she not living with him but is not divorced, for adoption of a child under Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act.Justice JJ Munir passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by one Bhanu Pratap Singh of Mau in which he had requested for appointment on compassionate grounds in the forest department of the state after the death of his uncle Rajendra Singh.According to the petitioner, in 2001, he was adopted by his uncle who was alienated from his wife, Phulmati, and had no child from the marriage. Therefore, he was entitled to the job as per the provisions of The Uttar Pradesh Recruitment of Dependents of Government Servants Dying-in-Harness Rules, 1974, because he was the sole heir and dependant of his adopter who was an employee of the forest department at the time of his death.Also read | 2006 Mumbai serial train blasts case: 2 convicts appeal against their conviction before HC On December 17, 2016, the forest department rejected Singh’s plea for an appointment on compassionate grounds. This rejection was challenged in high court.The court declined to interfere in the rejection order passed by the forest department while holding that adoption was not in accordance with law. It said the late government official’s wife had not been divorced till his death and she was still his wife, though estranged and living separately, so her consent was necessary for the late government official to adopt the petitioner.“The provisions make it imperative for a Hindu male to secure his wife’s consent to an adoption that he makes, unless she has completely and finally renounced the world, or has ceased to be a Hindu, or has been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind,” the court said. “There is no doubt that Phulmati was a wife living until the death of late Rajendra Singh. The two were never divorced, howsoever, estranged they might have been,” the court said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/consent-of-even-estranged-wife-must-for-adoption-of-child-rules-allahabad-high-court/story-nHxpe4xAKsyhEOcyYIvOAK.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Tikri and Dhansa borders remain closed||Amid the continuing stalemate between farmers and the Centre over the new agricultural laws, the Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday took to Twitter to inform commuters about routes closed for traffic in view of thousands of protesters camping at the national capital’s borders. The police also advised people to take alternative routes to avoid inconvenience.Tikri and Dhansa borders are still closed for traffic movement, while Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement, it said.Those travelling to Haryana can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, the police said in a tweet.The closure of borders has also resulted in heavy traffic on alternative routes.The farmer leaders rejected a government proposal to amend the new agriculture laws on Wednesday, and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways by Saturday, and escalating it to a nationwide protest on December 14.This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.The farmer leaders have been adamant on their demand to scrap the laws, which they say will lead to dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and mandis that ensure earning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-tikri-and-dhansa-borders-remain-closed/story-p66VMgR46n88xAVkz7ePZN.html
10-12-2020||Jaipur||Top Rajasthan officer in trouble after PA walks into anti-corruption bureau’s trap||Baran district collector Indra Singh has been put on awaited posting order (APO) after his personal assistant was caught red-handed allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh on Singh’s behalf.Director General (DG) of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Bhagwan Lal Soni said that a trap was laid after a complaint was filed against Mahaveer Nagar, Singh’s PA, for demanding a bribe of Rs 2.40 lakhs in lieu of giving a no-objection certificate (NOC) for establishing a petrol pump dealership. Acting on the complaint, a special team was formed under the supervision of additional DG Dinesh MN, which was led by additional superintendent, Kota, ACB, Thakur Chandrasheel. “After verifying the complaint, a trap was laid and Nagar was caught taking bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh cash,” said Soni. He added that during preliminary questioning, the accused confessed that he was demanding a bribe on behalf of Singh. “Nagar confessed that out of Rs 1.40 lakhs recovered, he was supposed to give Rs one lakh to the Baran collector and the rest was his share,” said Bhagwan Lal Soni. The ACB is raiding the house and office of the PA to collect more evidence, said Dinesh MN. Kota ASP Chandrasheel said that the police are also questioning Singh and collecting evidence against him too. “During surveillance of Nagar, we found that Singh gave a silent nod to the deal which Nagar was settling with the complainant. He is being quizzed too,” he said. When contacted for a reaction, Singh didn’t respond. Also Read: BJP wins in Rajasthan local body polls, Cong suffers setbackIn another significant development on Wednesday afternoon, the ACB had trapped its own officer while accepting a bribe of Rs 80,000. A district transport officer was also arrested for offering the bribe. The trap was laid after the anti-graft body received information that its own officer, identified as Bherulal Meena, incharge of ACB’s Sawai Madhopur unit was taking monthly bribes from various departments. “After receiving solid information, the team laid a trap and Meena was arrested from his office, taking the monthly bribe of Rs 80,000 from district transport officer Mahesh Chand. This money was given on a regular basis by the DTO to evade action against himself and his department,” said Soni. Different ACB teams are raiding Meena’s properties. Earlier in February, more than two dozen officials of the transport department, who were part of an extortion ring, were busted by the bureau. Multiple operations and raids were carried out at locations of seven transport officers and eight agents, from whom, an amount of Rs 1.20 crore in cash and documents for multiple properties worth crores of rupees have been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/top-rajasthan-officer-in-trouble-after-pa-walks-into-anti-corruption-bureau-s-trap/story-OYCoplKjjc7OkFo7NIihAI.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||10 years of Mamata regime: TMC to release report card today||With an eye on the crucial assembly polls in 2021, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal which also completes 10 years of its rule, would be releasing its report card on Thursday. Armed with the report card that would highlight the developmental activities taken up by the Mamata Banerjee administration since the party came to power in 2011, TMC leaders and workers would reach out to around 10 million households in the next few days as a part of one of the biggest outreach programmes launched by the TMC. “The TMC’s primary weapon for the 2021 polls would be the developmental activities taken up by the government in the past ten years. Each department of the government would come up with its own ledger on what it has done in these years, projects launched and promises kept. The report card would highlight more than a dozen programmes of the government,” said a senior TMC minister.Also read | Nadda slams Mamata, vows to oust TMCThe ruling TMC has launched Bongodhhoni (Sound of Bengal), one of its biggest outreach programmes ahead of the polls. The state government too has launched a massive outreach program titled Duare Sarkar (government at doorstep) to highlight its developmental activities. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would be camping at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas, the constituency of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is also the chief minister’s nephew and heir apparent. The BJP’s national president, JP Nadda, is on a two-day visit to the state. On Wednesday, he held a party outreach programme at Bhowanipore in south Kolkata, Mamata Banerjee’s home turf and a TMC bastion. “Nadda would hold at least two rallies at Diamond Harbour today. While the first one would be with BJP workers, the second one would be with members of the fishermen community,” said a party leader. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 election, in which the BJP won 18 out of the state’s 42 parliamentary seats, the party is now hoping to replicate the performance in the 2021 West Bengal assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/10-years-of-mamata-regime-tmc-to-release-report-card-today/story-TLkfaK9lUkaKg60ut8dqgJ.html
10-12-2020||Patna||Delay in nomination for house panels obstructing Bihar assembly, RJD reminded||Bihar Assembly Speaker has sent a reminder to the principle opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to send names of MLAs for setting up various committees of the state legislature. In the letter to the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said that the newly constituted 17th Bihar Vidhan Sabha required to form various committees but the process could not take-off for want of recommendations from the RJD. A senior officer of the assembly said that the Speaker had again requested Yadav to send the names as his earlier letter had failed to elicit any response.“The leader of opposition has been asked to submit the list of MLAs from the RJD in the next two days to start forming various committees. The delay in formation of committees is hampering functioning of the Vidhan Sabha. The members face financial loss if the committees are not constituted,” said the officer. Also Read: Nitish Kumar reviews law and order for second time in 10 days as crime spikesThe House committees examine the bills and help in informed debates in the Assembly, besides examining budgetary allocations for various departments and other policies of the government. Since these committees consist of members from different parties, they provide a platform for building consensus on various issues. As present, the RJD does not have any special representative in the assembly other than the leader of opposition. Former chief whip of RJD, Lalit Yadav, said the party would soon send the list of leaders for nominations to various posts in the assembly and including for the committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/delay-in-nomination-for-house-panels-obstructing-bihar-assembly-rjd-reminded/story-IPBDS5O1AjOdooaNOMU8ZK.html
10-12-2020||Jaipur||10 injured in under-construction-flyover collapse in Rajasthan’s Kota, probe ordered||Ten workers were injured when a part of a flyover under construction on Kota-Jhalawar National Highway in Rajasthan’s Kota collapsed during casting of slabs on Wednesday night. The government has ordered a probe in the collapse.The injured workers were admitted to a private hospital for treatment. Kota city police and administrative officials were carrying out relief and rescue operations.Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) and M/S Bansal Constructions were carrying out the construction work.UIT is a government body set up under Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act 1959 and is responsible for the overall development of Kota City. It is headed by the public chairman as well as the district collector and consists of government officials and nominated public persons as trustees.UIT secretary Rajesh Joshi said: “Slab casting was being done on the under construction flyover tonight when slabs collapsed over shuttering leading to injuries to 10 workers at the site.”Also Read: CM Gehlot dismayed over results of local bodies polls in 21 districtsHe said that State’s urban development and housing minister, Shanti Dhariwal, has asked for a probe in the incident and advised strict action against the guilty.“UDH minister Dhariwal has asked UDH secretary Bhawani Singh Detha for a probe and formed a 3-member committee of officials in the case,” he said.The 685 meters long flyover is being built at a cost of Rs 45 crores.In 2009, an under construction bridge over the Chambal river collapsed in Kota, killing 48 workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/10-injured-in-under-construction-flyover-collapse-in-rajasthan-s-kota-probe-ordered/story-ILXFhHK82Pu7jzRGTlZVEP.html
10-12-2020||City||Pipeline burst in Thane restored||A pipeline burst in Thane’s Uthalsar area was restored after water supply was hit for a few hours on Thursday. Water supply to Uthalsar, Khopat and nearby areas was affected as repair work went on.“We received an alert around 2.30am of a pipeline burst. Local authorities were alerted and the repair work was initiated,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, Regional Disaster Management Cell, Thane.Lakhs of litres of water was wasted as the pipeline burst in Uthalsar. As the pipeline was near a nullah, the water flowed into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pipeline-burst-affects-water-supply-in-thane/story-1G1Ba5oN4nA3RNXdGUFoXL.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University financial board to take up budget estimates for 2021-22||Panjab University’s Board of Finance (BoF) will take up the budget estimates of 2021-22 financial year in their next meeting scheduled for December 15.The BoF will also discuss the revised estimates for 2020-21. Last year, the meeting was held in August and the budget was approved by the PU senate in December.According to the estimates prepared by PU which will be tabled in the next meeting of BoF, an increase in revenue expenditure has been proposed at ₹599.74 crore for 2021-22 as compared to the ₹556.07 crore in the revised estimates of 2020-21.Also, the total income of the university, including the annual maintenance grants and the supplementary grant under the post matric scholarship (PMS) scheme, has been estimated at ₹599.74 crores for 2021-22.Revenue estimatesDue to the pandemic, varsity’s income from the fees of examinations dipped to ₹135 crore which was estimated at ₹157.5 crore in the budget estimates of 2020-21. According to the proposed estimates, an income of ₹150.5 crore has been estimated for 2021-22 from the fee of examinations.According to the estimates, the total internal income of the varsity has been estimated at ₹291.97 crore in 2021-22, which is higher than the revised estimates of 2020-21.The grant from the University Grants Commission (UGC) is slated at ₹262.34 crore and the grant from the Punjab government has been proposed at ₹34 crore for 2021-22. The income from the partially self-financed departments has been estimated at ₹62 crore and ₹14.75 crore income has been estimated from traditional teaching departments of the university for 2021-22.Dip in income from hostels in 2020-21As per the revised estimates of 2020-21 financial year, the income from hostels declined to ₹2 crore which was earlier estimated at ₹11 crore. However, according to the budget estimates of 2021-22, the income from hostels is estimated at ₹11.5 crore.Estimated expenditureThe expenditure on the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff has been proposed at ₹366.37 crore in 2021-22, while it has been pegged at ₹350.76 crore in the revised estimate for 2020-21 financial year.The retirement benefits have been estimated at ₹27.81 crore in 2021-22, which is pegged at ₹22.48 crore in the revised estimate of 2020-21. Moreover, the expenditure on the conduct of examinations is estimated at ₹34.33 crore in 2021-22 as compared to ₹26.73 crore in the revised estimate of 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-financial-board-to-take-up-budget-estimates-for-2021-22/story-Ozu2k2cz8JcCeDWf2z07sO.html
10-12-2020||City||Punjab jails minister chairs meeting of district grievances redressal committee||A meeting of the District Grievances Redressal Committee was held on Wednesday under the chairmanship of Punjab minister of cooperation and jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa at District Administrative Complex in Sector 76.Randhawa said more than 60% issues flagged in the previous meeting had been resolved and the delay in resolution of others was due to the pandemic.The case for finances required for construction of a boundary wall at a government school in Gharuan had been forwarded to the finance department, Randhawa added. The minister said he would personally take up the issue of construction of a sewage treatment plant(STP) at Nayagaon with the local bodies minister and the delay in construction of the trauma centre on Kurali highway with the health department.Directing all department heads to resolve public grievances on priority basis, the minister said that it was understandable that the pandemic had affected work, but it was important now to strike a balance between Covid management and resolution of public grievances. A special action committee under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner was constituted on the spot by the minister for a time-bound grievance redressal of urgent issues flagged in the meeting.Cabinet minister informed that most of the issues raised in the meeting were related to cleaning of rural ponds, sewage water disposal, pruning of trees, road patchwork, stray dogs, maintenance of parks and industrial pollution.The meeting was attended by Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, SSP Satinder Singh, chairman market committee, Kharar, Harkesh Chand Sharma and other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-jails-minister-chairs-meeting-of-district-grievances-redressal-committee/story-IC1V82Bn2K1jGz2OVtKNII.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI in very poor category; may improve with rainfall in next two days, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that Delhi and the neighbouring towns are likely to receive rainfall on December 11 and December 12. This is also likely to improve the air quality of the city which was 317 at 7am on Thursday, in the very poor category. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that Delhi and the neighbouring satellite towns are likely to receive light rainfall between December 11 and December 12, as a result of a Western Disturbance passing over the Himalayas. After the passing of this Western Disturbance, the minimum temperature in Delhi is expected to fall by at least three to four degrees Celsius. “From December 14, temperatures will start falling again. North-westerly winds from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, which have been receiving a good spell of snowfall, will be carrying cold winds. This will bring down the temperature here,” said Srivastava. He said that in the second week of November, the minimum temperature had fallen to 6.3 degree Celsius, but it rose again because of a few Western Disturbances that passed over Delhi-NCR in the last week of the month and the first week of December. He said that the frequent change in the wind direction to easterly had also caused the temperature to remain on the higher end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-in-very-poor-category-may-improve-with-rainfall-in-next-two-days-says-imd/story-tIIRYQz9uEBO2ctf47DadO.html
10-12-2020||City||Former Kharar MLA against ‘indiscriminate’ cutting of trees at Mohali health centre||Former deputy speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha and former Kharar MLA Bir Devinder Singh has taken a strong objection to the indiscriminate cutting of 35-year-old trees at Primary Health Centre in Phase 3B1, Mohali, under the pretext of upgrading the health facilities.Singh has urged the National Green Tribunal to intervene and take cognizance of the callousness of the health department. He said, “The green cover of the satellite town was being mercilessly destroyed without rationale. Unfortunately, old trees are being cut under broad daylight without any tangible justification.”Singh pointed out that the trees were over 35-year-old and were planted during the inauguration of the PHC in 1986. He sought clarification from the concerned authorities whether they had obtained formal approval or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-kharar-mla-against-indiscriminate-cutting-of-trees-at-mohali-health-centre/story-4WhMyfe8Xn5eAGrgtVMfqJ.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor launches 3 e-governance services||Mayor Raj Bala Malik on Wednesday launched three new e-governance services—National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM), property tax and Right to Information (RTI)—under the e-governance project.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said under the property tax service, city residents could view outstanding property tax, previous payments paid, details of the property and pay property tax online. The MC officials can see the defaulters of the property tax and view area/sector-wise property tax details of the entire city.Under the NULM application, residents or NGOs could raise online applications for the schemes and programmes of the ministry of housing and urban affairs like the self employment programme (SEP), social mobilisation and institutional development (SMID) etc. Street vendors can also get themselves registered using this service. Also, departmental employees will have the privilege for online application approval, online NGO and shelter home registration etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-launches-3-e-governance-services/story-kEDDiQXJU3ppnJOSyaaGPM.html
10-12-2020||Pune||CJI’s mother duped of Rs 2.5cr, family property caretaker held||One person has been arrested for allegedly duping the mother of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore, officials in Nagpur said on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Tapas Ghosh, the officials said.According to Sitabuldi police, CJI’s mother Mukta Bobde (95) engaged Ghosh as the caretaker of the banquet hall Seasons Lawn, owned by her, near the Akashwani Square here.Ghosh had been managing the property and looking after its finances for the last 10 years, Sitabuldi police Inspector Atul Sabnis said.Taking advantage of Mukta Bobde’s advanced age and frail health, Ghosh and his wife allegedly forged payment receipts of the lawn and duped her to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore, officials said. The fraud came to light when several bookings were cancelled during the coronavirus disease-induced lockdown but the customers could not get refund of the booking amount from Ghosh, the officials said.Mukta Bobde then filed an FIR under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, and the accused was booked on Tuesday night, Sabnis said. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) is looking into the matter under the supervision of DCP Vinita Sahu, said Nagpur commissioner of police (CP) Amitesh Kumar.Ghosh, who was questioned by the SIT earlier, was subsequently placed under arrest, Sabnis said. “The inquiry prima facie revealed that around ₹2.50 crore was siphoned off by Ghosh. We are inquiring into the matter. If the complicity of Ghosh’s wife is established during the probe, we will arrest her too,” Sabnis said. Ghosh had also not paid bills for solar system installation and some fabrication work, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cji-s-mother-duped-of-rs-2-5cr-family-property-caretaker-held/story-CV9wKLBG7LmNWrJI2mBDQM.html
10-12-2020||City||Four major promises of city fulfilled: Ambala city MLA Aseem Goel||Ambala city MLA Aseem Goel while addressing the gathering after inaugurating the BJP election office on Wednesday said that since he took over the responsibility, four major promises of the city had been fulfilled.“When I took over as an MLA, the landowners were about to sell the place for a shopping complex, but we managed to build a large bus stand named after Sushma Swaraj. The condition of the roads was pathetic, though it is an ongoing process, we built the best roads in the city. Ambala city’s geophysical location makes it difficult for the rainwater to drain properly, but we also made a proper drainage and also started door-to-door garbage collection in 2015 for the first time in Haryana. Some tender issues arose, but now the garbage collection is going on smoothly,” Goel said.He further said that the party will take these issues in the public and ask for votes. The event at the cloth market near Agrasen Chowk was a show of strength that also witnessed a jugalbandi of party leaders with the JJP leaders, state mahamantri Surjit Singh Sounda, Ambala (urban) chief Harpal Singh Kamboj and Ambala (rural) chief Dalbir Punia, who were seen for the first time sharing a stage before the elections. Subhash Barala, former state BJP chief and in-charge for the MC polls, said that despite rumours against the BJP, the party had managed to win every election in the recent past. Ambala and Kurukshetra MPs Rattan Lal Kataria and Naib Saini and Karnal mayor Renu Bala Gupta were also present. HDF declares four more candidatesMeanwhile, former minister Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) declared four more candidates for the wards, taking the total number of declared names to 14.The front has fielded Malkit Singh from ward 1 (Scheduled Castes), Nitin Dhiman from ward 10 (general), Neeraj Bala from ward 17 (women) and Nikunj Chwala from ward 20 (W). Nirmal Singh chaired a meeting of the workers at the party office and said, “We have to work on person-to-person contact to ensure victory of HDF candidates in every ward. Soon a campaign and a high-power committee will be constituted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-major-promises-of-city-fulfilled-ambala-city-mla-aseem-goel/story-QwEkLxdUSXiJoHMZKZ2bPK.html
10-12-2020||Jaipur||BJP wins in Rajasthan local body polls, Cong suffers setback||The Congress suffered a setback in the Rajasthan rural body elections on Wednesday as the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) surged ahead in district and village councils, with experts blaming infighting for the ruling party’s poor show even in pocket boroughs of senior ministers. Elections were held for panchayat samiti and zila parishad seats in 21 of the state’s 33 districts. Of 4,371 panchayat samiti seats, the BJP won 1,989 and Congress 1,852. New members will elect heads of panchayat samities. In 2015, the BJP was in power in 163 bodies and Congress in 118.Of the 636 zila parishad (district council) seats, the BJP won 353 and Congress 252. The members will elect district council chiefs. In 2015, the BJP headed 20 zila parishads. This time, the BJP is set to have chiefs in 15 councils, Congress in five and Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) in one.The Congress did better than its showing in 2015 but this is the first time since 2005 that the state’s ruling party has not won the rural body polls. BJP president J P Nadda said the win symbolised the trust of poor people, farmers and labourers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. “This is a huge victory... This is farmers’ mandate for farm reforms,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, referring to three new farm laws that sparked massive protests.Commenting on the results, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said, “The results of the Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections have not been to our expectations... Our entire focus was on the Corona epidemic, due to which we could not promote our schemes and government’s work properly. At the same time, the leaders in opposition visited the rural areas and misled voters by false propaganda.” State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted that the results were a motivation to do better. “The Congress will do better in the upcoming local body elections (in remaining 12 districts) by keeping a good synergy between government and organisation,” he said. This was the second major election contested by the Congress after Sachin Pilot was removed as party unit chief following his rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot in July this year. In municipal council elections in November this year, the Congress performed well. The results will also boost the BJP before bypolls to three assembly seats, due in the coming months. Pilot was not able to campaign in the local body polls as he had tested positive for Covid-19 in November. The Congress lost in the home districts of senior leaders and ministers such as Dotasra, Pilot; cooperative minister Udai Lal Anjana, health minister Raghu Sharma and sports minister Ashok Chandna. A senior minister said on condition of anonymity that the party lost primarily because of infighting, poor campaign and anger of local people against some leaders for not resolving genuine grievances. “We lost in districts which were our bastions,” said a second Congress legislator, who was with Pilot when he rebelled against Gehlot. A third Congress MLA, who did not want to be named, said: “The party needs build ground force of workers and government needs make all political appointments and fill nine vacant positions in the cabinet at the earliest. The CM is in charge of 38 departments including several important ones, which is hampering efficiency,” he said. State BJP president Satish Poonia said the win came at a time when Congress was organising Bharat Bandh against PM’s policies. “Looking at the results, it seems that many Congress leaders are losing their ground. This is vote against chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s two years of misgovernance.”Political analyst Rajan Mahan said the results were setback for the Congress. “The results raise questions about traditional support base of Congress in rural Rajasthan... The infighting in Congress and no organisational structure has caused the party heavily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bjp-wins-in-rajasthan-local-body-polls-cong-suffers-setback/story-QWtjjSQ3LPlCFwzJHTZrUI.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||Vijayvargiya and Tejasvi among leaders booked for Siliguri clash||The West Bengal Police on Wednesday booked national and state leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with the violence at the rally in north Bengal’s Siliguri town on Monday. A BJP worker, Ulen Roy, was killed during a pitched battle between BJP workers and the policemen who stopped two processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat in north Bengal. The state police later clarified that Roy suffered injuries by a shotgun, which the police do not use and alleged that armed people in the rally killed Roy. On Wednesday, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and head of the party’s national information and technology cell, Amit Malviya, posted videos purportedly showing a policeman carrying a shotgun and said it nullified the state’s claim. It was, however, not clear where the video was recorded. The policeman was also not seen firing the weapon. Officers of the New Jalpaiguri police station, where the FIRs were lodged, said that BJP leaders named in the FIRs included Vijayvargiya, state president Dilip Ghosh, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) national president Tejasvi Surya the BJYM state president Saumitra Khan. The officials,however, did not clarify the sections invoked against the leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/vijayvargiya-and-tejasvi-among-leaders-booked-for-siliguri-clash/story-MkxxPkuPWXcQEs9iZAWtzH.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||Nadda slams CM, vows to oust TMC||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda accused West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday of being the face of “intolerance”, and swore to form the next government in the state with more than 200 seats.“Intolerance, thy name is Mamata. Bengal has always been known as a state that believes in exchanging views and showing tolerance to all people. Rabindranath Tagore and Rishi Aurobindo are known for their global views but today we only see intolerance,” said Nadda, on the sidelines of inaugurating nine party offices across various districts of the state. The BJP president, who is in Kolkata as part of a two-day visit to the state , also hit out at the ruling Trinamool Congress over recent killings of BJP workers. “Our leaders and party workers are being murdered every day. Legislator Debendranath Roy’s murder was passed off as suicide by the police and the killers of Manish Shukla are yet to be arrested. We lost a party worker this morning as well. Police in this state have been politicised. This government will not stay forever,” said Nadda. He further accused the TMC government of “minority appeasement”. “She planned the lockdown in such a way so that Eid could be observed, but people could not celebrate the foundation stone laying ceremony at the Ayodhya temple,” he said. Meanwhile, around 50 people attempted to show black flags outside the new election office of the BJP at Hastings in Kolkata, while Nadda was inaugurating it. They also shouted “BJP go back”. During the sloganeering, the protesters and BJP workers pelted stones at each other, said a police officer who was present at the spot.During his visit, the BJP national president also launched the ‘Griha Sampark Abhiyan’ in Kolkata as part of the party’s ‘Aar Noi Annay’ (No More Injustice) campaign in poll-bound West Bengal, as part of the party’s massive public outreach programme in the run up to the assembly election due in April-May 2021. Nadda also interacted with the locals residing on Girish Mukherjee Road, a few kilometres away from CM’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nadda-slams-cm-vows-to-oust-tmc/story-0iXEim0aaGXRo7Sc8LjgrO.html
10-12-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt looks to bypass new farm laws||The Jharkhand government has set the ball rolling to formulate laws bypassing the three new farm laws. Three states — Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan — have already passed bills in their respective assemblies to negate the laws. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said he recently met chief minister Hemant Soren in this regard. “I have suggested a few points to the chief minister and asked him to hold a meeting of all coalition partners in the government to discuss on the matter,” he said.Patralekh said the suggestions focused on continuation of the existing agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) and guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs) of agriculture produces that has also provisioned jail terms, if violated. Soren is likely to hold a meeting with the coalition partners — Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal — after performance review of all government departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-looks-to-bypass-new-farm-laws/story-KJwbjNvQjo5cMY7LDEwY0N.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A toilet monolith in India||Recently, the mystery apparition (and subsequent disappearance) of shiny monoliths in the United States and Romania have caused shock waves of excitement. Is it the work of aliens, or some sort of discreet artistic performance?And what about this abandoned Indian-style toilet, in south Delhi’s Deer Park? Can it be considered a work of art in its currently evolved form? Do we know where it comes from? Choked up with earth, and with a single plant growing from it, the discovery looks utterly original. The toilet lies next to a pathway snaking towards the Hauz Khas lake. Quick investigations with a gardener sunning herself on the lawn nearby reveals that a restaurant used to stand on the spot. This must have been the restaurant’s toilet, the woman says, admitting amusedly that she herself never noticed this odd sight until now. The restaurant building stands nearby, in ruins. That and the toilet’s wild state stand as a testament to Delhi’s very spirit—a land crammed with medieval and contemporary histories, which sometimes go past each other in parallel layers and sometimes intersect. This part of the Capital is littered with centuries-old Tughlak monuments, and this surreal-seeming ex-toilet is one more addition to Delhi’s many anonymous ruins—though this one is probably an early 21st century specimen. It could easily be passed off, one imagines, as a work of art in a bold and ambitious biennale—one can already imagine the all-knowing critics elaborating on their interpretations of the curious exhibit. In any case, this kind of toilet is already on its way to becoming worthy of a museum. An increasing number of homes and offices, in India’s urban centres at least, have long ago replaced it by the Western-style toilet seat, with the ubiquitous mug (lota!) being substituted with the more subtle metallic hose.Whatever, the abandoned toilet speaks on several levels. Worth a visit, if only to witness how the most commonplace things acquire a more intense personality once a ruin.The toilet is hidden beside a hedge, but is easy to locate. Very close to a signboard directing the visitors to the park’s... well, “public toilet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-toilet-monolith-in-india/story-QK4Elg2U8ME4T4uyucRSyO.html
10-12-2020||Jaipur||CM Gehlot dismayed over results of local bodies polls in 21 districts||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday expressed dismay over the results of Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti polls, saying they were “not as expected” and accused the opposition of misleading voters.In elections held for the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats in 21 districts of Rajasthan’s 33 districts, the BJP bagged 1,989, Congress won 1852, independents 439, CPI (M) 26, RLP six and BSP five.Similarly in elections held for 635 Zila Parishad seats in these 21 districts, the BJP won 353 seats and the Congress 252 with the result for one seat yet to be declared.The chief minister said his government has been working hard to curb Covid-19 in the state for the last nine months but the Opposition was working overtime in rural areas to mislead voters through false propaganda. “Our entire focus was on the Corona pandemic, due to which we could not promote properly our plans and government’s actions. At the same time, the leaders of the Opposition visited rural areas and misled voters by false propaganda,” Gehlot said in a statement. He said the government’s priority has been to save people’s lives and livelihoods and strengthen the state’s health infrastructure. He said in the coming time, the party will take its feedback from people and convey its good governance and give a befitting reply to the opposition’s propaganda.Gehlot thanked voters and the Congress workers who, he said, strengthened democracy by participating in this election.“I congratulate all the winning candidates. I am confident that all the people’s representatives will succeed in public service,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cm-gehlot-dismayed-over-results-of-local-bodies-polls-in-21-districts/story-bhLcJWnXKnvGcQX5tCFYIN.html
10-12-2020||Kolkata||Siliguri violence: FIR against Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh, other BJP leaders||West Bengal Police on Wednesday registered FIRs against veteran BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Tejasvi Surya, Dilip Ghosh, and several other party leaders on the allegation that they encouraged violence during the party’s “Uttarkanya Abhijan” march in Siliguri on December 7.A suo moto case was registered at the New Jalpaiguri police station of Siliguri Metropolitan Police against BJP national general secretary and state observer Kailash Vijayvargiya, MP and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh. Police also charged Soumitra Khan, Sayantan Bose, Sukanta Majumder, Nisith Pramanik, Raju Bista, John BArla, Khogen Murmu, Sanku Deb Panda and Praveen Agarwal and others.The Police alleged that those charged encouraged the party workers to create violence, break law and order, clash with police and damage government properties.Hundreds of BJP workers and supporters marched towards Uttarkanya, the state government’s branch secretariat, on Monday, protesting the TMC government’s “misrule,” in the state when police stopped them.Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) and BJP and leaders fought a pitched battle with police after they were prevented from moving past the barricades at two points near the branch secretariat. The Police later issued a statement alleging that “serious acts of violence” were committed at the Siliguri protest and they used water cannons and fired several rounds of tear gas shells to disperse the crowd.One BJP party worker, named Ulen Roy, succumbed to injuries caused by pellets fired from shotgun, according to a postmortem report. The West Bengal police claimed that the force did not use shotguns and alleged that “armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms.” BJP national general secretary and state in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya alleged that a “nexus of police and Trinamool Congress (TMC) goons” was behind the death of party worker Ulen Roy.“This is police’s Nadirshahi (cruelty) and the anarchy of Mamata Banerjee government. There is a nexus between the police and TMC goons. Police were using tear gas and goons were hurling country bombs” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/siliguri-violence-fir-against-kailash-vijayvargiya-dilip-ghosh-other-bjp-leaders/story-RMHCZf3miAhA7898KIwVZK.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Sarvodaya Enclave loses 77 trees in 7 years||South Delhi’s upscale neighbourhood of Sarvodaya Enclave, which pioneered the Capital’s first tree census in 2012, has lost at least 77 fully grown trees, showed the second round of a year-long census. The total number of trees in the area has gone down from 787 to 731, despite the addition of 21 new trees.The second round of tree census conducted between 2018 and 2019 in the neighbourhood, the results of which were compiled this year, showed that 77 trees, which were recorded in the first survey in 2012, were not found in the area. Residents said that these trees were either lost to storms, construction activities, heavy concretisation or old age. The survey showed that fully grown Ashoka, Amaltas, Neem, Bougainvillea, Saptaparni, Peepal, Harsingar, Ficus Benjamina, Semal and Yellow Oleander trees had been lost. The list included around 15 Ashoka trees, six Mulberry trees, nine Frangipani, and seven Gulmohur trees among several others. On December 8, environmentalist Bhavreen Kandhari sent a complaint to the deputy conservator of forests (south division), highlighting the loss of trees in the neighbourhood. “Section 10 of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994, imposes an obligation to plant trees by parties that have felled them. In Sarvodaya Enclave, 77 trees are missing and have not been replaced. This is in violation of aforementioned provisions and also hints towards the direction that these trees might have been illegally felled. A thorough investigation must be conducted to know what has happened to these trees and to identify parties responsible,” the complaint read. Responding to HT’s query on the action initiated on the complaint, DCF (south) Amit Anand assured that the complaint will be looked into and necessary legal action will be taken against the erring parties. Padmavati Dwivedi, an environmentalist who also spearheaded the first and second tree census in the area, said while some residents were alarmed at the large-scale felling of trees, most were not aware of the enormity of the situation because there was no data to record how many trees were lost all over the city. “We are alarmed at large-scale felling of trees. When you take our case study, you realise that their [trees] losses are massive, that too from right under our noses in our own colonies. The only reason we take this lightly is because we don’t know how many are lost because there is no data.” She added that a tree census was required in other areas of the Capital as well. “Trees in proximity to homes are often overlooked. However, the maximum benefits one reaps from a tree depends on how close we are to it. Citizens’ tree census makes people not only notice but also record them. This results in greater involvement from their end in the protection of trees. (Tree) census ensures there is a permanent record of the tree therefore its importance cannot be overemphasised.” CR Babu, an ecologist and professor emeritus at the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, Delhi University, said the tree census could provide an idea of how prepared the city is to fight pollution. He said that it will also help keep a check on illegal fellings and assess how many trees need to be planted in an area. “The girth and canopy would help us know how much carbon is trapped in these trees, how much dust they can trap and how much pollution they can mitigate. It is definitely a good idea to have such census across the city,” Babu said. Highlighting the need for such a local-level tree count, the residents of Sarvodaya Enclave said that since the survey was first conducted in 2012, people here have become more aware of the need for the preservation of trees in the colony. Hindustan Times visited the residential colony on Friday and found that many residents had removed the cement and tiles that were choking the roots and trunk of trees from their driveways. “Residents have definitely become more aware. When the survey was being conducted back in 2012, many were wary of why the volunteers were walking around with inch tapes and notebooks, clicking pictures of trees at their gates. We all want to do our bit for the environment, but many do not know that something as small as just allowing a tree to expand its roots by not concretising the area around it can help extend its lifespan,” said Meenal Sood,a resident of the neighbourhood. Tarun Kumar, who owns a daily needs shop in the colony, said that regular tree plantation drives are also now being organised by the residents here. “Because people here are educated and involved, they have organised plantation drives in the area. Some saplings are planted in the park and some are planted in their gardens or outside their houses,” Kumar said. Dwivedi also agreed that since the first survey, public awareness and acceptance of such a survey has increased. “The second tree census involved more people. It got less resistance from the colony. It was also easier to get volunteers from across the city. However, the builders avoided planting saplings to replace those they removed. Both the RWA (residents’ welfare association) and horticulture department of the municipal corporation must ensure that the forest department does not give permission for tree felling unless a sapling is planted first,” she said. A third survey is also likely to be conducted in the area sometime next year to maintain a regular count of trees and to ensure easy availability of data, Dwivedi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sarvodaya-enclave-loses-77-trees-in-7-years/story-JtRBN9hZCIEEQV6ce6v3bM.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s electoral roll: Voter awareness banners on Delhi govt websites||Digital banners have been put up on various Delhi government-related websites by election authorities to raise awareness among new voters to get registered on the city’s electoral roll which is currently under revision.The awareness material had been published on the Delhi government’s website, and websites of BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna discoms, and Delhi Jal Board, among other places.Delhi’s draft electoral roll published on November 16 had shown a rise of over 1.5 lakh in the total number of electors in the city compared to the last published roll this January.The total number of electors in Delhi stands at 1,48,43,859 in the draft roll and there is an increase in the number of both male and female voters vis-a-vis the one published on January 6, the Delhi CEO Office had then said.With the release of the draft electoral roll, the Election Commission had also begun the process to induct new voters in the electoral list who have either turned 18 or will complete that age by January 1 next year, officials said.“Special Summary Revision of Electoral Roll with respect to January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date, has been commenced in all 70 Assembly constituencies of Delhi, with draft publication of electoral roll on November 16, 2020,” the CEO Office had said in a statement.The total number of electors in Delhi is 1,51,723 more than the figure published in January, as per data shared by the office of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) here.The number of male, female and third gender electors are – 81,33,440; 67,09,508; and 911, respectively, according to the latest draft roll. The numbers for the January 6 roll were – 80,55,686; 66,35,635 and 815.Besides, including new voters, another objective for the summary revision exercise is to give opportunities for correction in electors’ particulars and also to invite objections against any wrong inclusion in the electoral roll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-electoral-roll-voter-awareness-banners-on-delhi-govt-websites/story-nvHi0Bd7UpGShwFJl7DmrI.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||7 protesters have died so far, 2 begin hunger strike||Seven protesters who are demonstrating against the new farm laws have died since November 27 — five of them at the Tikri border, one at the Singhu border and another on the Delhi Patiala Highway. Five deceased were from Punjab while two belonged to different towns in Haryana. Thousands of farmers have been protesting on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November 27, against the three farm laws enacted in September that seek to open farm trade. The farmers are demanding complete withdrawal of the bills and have held several rounds of talks with the central government. While three protesters died of cardiac arrest and three of different illnesses, one was burnt alive while he was sleeping in a car at the Tikri border.While Gurjant Singh, 67, Lakhbir Singh, 57, Mewa Singh, 48, Gajjan Singh, 55 and Janak Raj, 55 belonged to Mansa, Bathinda, Moga, Ludhiana and Barnala in Punjab; Ajay Moor, 32 and Kitab Singh Chahal, 60 were residents of Sonepat and Jind in Haryana, respectively.The Punjab government has announced financial assistance of Rs 5lakh each to the families of dead protesters from the state. Families of both Haryana farmers have demanded a compensation of Rs1 crore from the state government. Mewa Singh of Moga in Punjab died at the Tikri border on November 27 of a cardiac arrest. He belonged to a family of landless labourers and worked as a tailor. Janak Raj of Dhanaula town in Barnala district was burnt alive at Tikri border when the car in which he was sleeping caught fire on November 28. He was a cycle mechanic who went to Tikri border along with some tractor mechanics to help farmers. Gajjan Singh died at Tikri border on November 30. His family claimed he fell sick after facing the water cannon used by the police to disperse protesters.Lakhbir Singh, who belonged to the Laleana village in Bathinda district, suffered a cardiac arrest at Tikri border on December 2. He was an active member of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan).Gurjant Mann fell sick at the Tikri border on December 2, from where he was referred to Rohtak. He was brought dead at a hospital. He was a member of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). Protesters said Ajay Moor died on Monday of cold since he was sleeping in a park at the Singhu-Kundli border. He had a small piece of land in Sonepat. Kitab Singh Chahal died of a cardiac arrest on Delhi-Patiala highway during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. Meanwhile, two farmers from Uttar Pradesh — Suresh Chand, 60, and Bhudev Prasad, 70, taped their face with paper messages on them, declaring they were going on a hunger strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-protesters-have-died-so-far-2-begin-hunger-strike/story-2nnD6qayxQ5wWmTwwZCbeO.html
10-12-2020||Ranchi||17 booked for gang rape of woman in Jharkhand||Seventeen people have been booked for allegedly raping a woman, around 35-years-old, after holding her husband hostage in Jharkhand’s Dumka district, police officials said on Wednesday. One of the accused has been detained based on a statement filed by the woman, officials said.According to a complaint filed by the woman, she was returning from a weekly market with her husband on Tuesday night when the accused intercepted them. “As per the statement of the woman, she was retuning with her husband from village market on Tuesday night when 17 people intercepted her and took her husband hostage before committing the crime,” said Santhal region deputy inspector general Sudarshan Mandal. A medical examination of the woman, a mother of five, has been conducted and the police are waiting for the results, Mandal said.“The woman said she could identify only one person. We have detained the accused for interrogation. If his involvement is found in the crime, he will be sent to jail,” Mandal said.After the woman registered her complaint, the DIG visited her village along with Dumka superintendent of police (SP) Ambar Lakra.The DIG said, “We are interrogating the villagers regarding the crime. We are investigating the matter meticulously, as the woman is changing her statement. When I was interrogating her in her village, she said there were five persons involved in the crime.” According to the data available on the website of the Jharkhand police, as many as 1033 cases of rape have been filed till July this year, up from the 1416 rape cases filed in the corresponding period in 2019. As many as 1090 cases were registered in 2018, 914 cases in 2017, 1032 in 2016 and 1053 in 2015, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).Senior BJP leader Lois Marandi said, “Law and order situation has deteriorated in the state. The rape cases have become frequent in tribal districts. Tribals are not safe in this government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/17-booked-for-gang-rape-of-woman-in-jharkhand/story-s9Nr4AyDKknpv9xiJ7ik0K.html
10-12-2020||City||Two booked for attacking BJP work in Panchkula||Police have booked two men for allegedly attacking a BJP worker in Saketri village on Monday. The accused have been identified as Kuldeep Singh and Amandeep Singh.The victim, Jaswant Singh, of Saketri village, told the police that he was home around 10pm on Monday, when somebody knocked on his door. When he answered the door, he saw Amandeep, Kuldeep and some other men carrying sharp-edged weapons. “When I questioned them, they warned me against supporting the BJP and attacked me,” he alleged.On his complaint, the duo was booked under Sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention), 452 (house trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mansa Devi Complex police station. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-attacking-bjp-work-in-panchkula/story-C8bjxHrZqcNUS7yuUIcXyL.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man accused of carrying banned injections acquitted||A 29-year-old man arrested for possessing restricted injections was acquitted by a local court on Wednesday.The accused, Sunny, of Sector 25, was allegedly nabbed with 12 vials of Buprenorphine IP (2 ml) and 12 vials of Pheniramine Maleate IP (10 ml) in February 2019.According to police, Sunny was carrying the injections in a green carry bag. On spotting a police patrolling team, he turned around and sped up his gait. He was stopped on the basis of suspicion and was found carrying 24 restricted injections. As he could not produce any licence or permit, he was booked under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Sector 11 police.In court, Sunny’s counsel Yadvinder Sandhu said his client was being falsely implicated and the police had given contradictory statements in court. Hearing the arguments, the court of additional district judge acquitted him of all charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-accused-of-carrying-banned-injections-acquitted/story-mY242R2Vra8MC3RmHyIRkK.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Steep water tariff in GMADA areas of Mohali is key issue for MC polls||The higher water tariff in 12 sectors under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has become a hot topic for the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections likely to be held in February next year.The residents of Sectors 66 to 69 and 76 to 81, 88 and Aerocity, with a combined population of around one lakh, are at present paying five times the amount charged in other areas under the MC.Area councillors and residents of the affected areas have held several protests and even moved the Lok Adalat, for which the next date of hearing has been fixed on December 7 this year. Efforts to solve the matter have failed. In June last year the MC house approved the agenda of taking over the water supply system from new sectors, which was approved on July 16 by the local bodies department of Punjab. “The high water tariff is a major issue in the upcoming elections. We have held a number of protests and made several representations to the authorities concerned. People of GMADA sectors are only talking about the water parity issue,” said Sucha Singh Kalaur, president of the Plot Allotment and Development Welfare Committee, Sectors 76 to 80.MP Singh, president of the Residents’ Welfare and Development Committee, Sector 79, said it was strange that the officials concerned had not been able to sort out the issue despite approvals from the local bodies department.Blaming the Congress government for the problem, former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) area councillor of Sector 80, Surinder Singh, said, most of the sectors were represented by SAD councillors in the MC so their pleas were not accepted by the government. Blaming the SAD for “playing dirty politics,” Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu asked why the party “allowed an increase in rates when the areas were under MC and not fully developed.” However, Sidhu gave the assurance that he had taken up the matter with the authorities concerned and it would be sorted out soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/steep-water-tariff-in-gmada-areas-of-mohali-is-key-issue-for-mc-polls/story-5ZddzSwkGfUjEiKiFvkm1J.html
10-12-2020||City||Robber found shot dead in Mohali hours after armed loot bid in Chandigarh||Hours after attempting an armed robbery at a goldsmith’s shop in Sector 23, Chandigarh, one of the three suspects was found shot dead near Sector 86 in Mohali on Wednesday night.The deceased was identified as Jaspreet Singh, 34, a resident of Manimajra. He was found dead in a pool of blood in his Tata Tigor’s driver’s seat, which was parked in Sambhakli village.“We got information from Chandigarh Police that three men had fled after firing shots at a goldsmith’s shop in Sector 23. One of the three accused was found dead in his car near Sector 86,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh, adding that the deceased was shot point blank in the temple.As per preliminary investigation, the SSP said it seemed the murder was a fallout of a scuffle between the three robbers. Efforts were on to identify the absconding accused, who were also on the radar of the Chandigarh Police for the armed robbery attempt earlier in the day.The deceased was identified by his family members at the Mohali civil hospital’s mortuary. According to them, Jaspreet was married and unemployed. The unidentified accused have been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act, said, Daljit Singh Gill, station house officer, Sohana.Goldsmith, brother had narrow escapeEarlier in the day, Jaspreet and his two accomplices had fired four shots at a goldsmith in an attempt to rob him of cash at his shop in Sector 23.The victim, Dada Devgun, had a close shave as a bullet only brushed past his arm, while his brother, Sanjay Devgun, escaped completely unhurt, even as the robbers fled empty-handed.According to police, the three accused were brought to the shop by a man named, Rohit, of Sector 15, after they approached him to sell their gold. He has been detained for questioning.A live cartridge that got misfired and three shells were recovered from the crime spot. “The accused opened fired to rob the goldsmith. Two of them were caught on camera and we are trying to trace them,” said Vineet Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), City. Accused posed as customersDada and Sanjay were at their shop around 3pm when Rohit, who is their acquaintance, brought three men, saying they had some gold to sell. The men asked Sanjay to show them how much cash he had as they wished to sell a significant quantity of gold. When Sanjay showed them the cash he had in a bag, the trio tried to snatch it. The brothers retaliated in response, after which two of the accused pulled out weapons and opened fire, before fleeing. Sanjay managed to restrain the third accused, but he also managed to flee after pushing him. As the police were informed, SP Vineet Kumar, Sector 17 SHO Ram Rattan and teams of crime branch and operation cell reached the spot with a forensic team. Meanwhile, Rohit also disappeared from the scene. He was later nabbed and detained for questioning, when he claimed that he got nervous as the shots were fired and therefore left for Sector 15.According to Sanjay, he knew Rohit for the past six years and he worked with another jeweller. A police official privy to the investigation said Rohit claimed that the robbers got in touch with him through an acquaintance. While Rohit arrived at the shop on a scooter, the robbers came in a Hyundai Verna and drove off in it towards Sector 24.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 392 (robbery) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the IPC and Arms Act was registered at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robber-found-shot-dead-in-mohali-hours-after-armed-loot-bid-in-chandigarh/story-mI8dVFOknUVpw8bxSNIO8K.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Bharat Mission: MC declares Chandigarh Water Plus City, Centre to verify claim||The municipal corporation declared Chandigarh a ‘Water Plus City’ on Wednesday, the rating will be cemented after an independent third party verifies the claim for the Centre. MC commissioner KK Yadav said the corporation had applied for Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) Water Plus certification this year as it fulfils all the conditions: “We are treating all waste water before it is released into the stipulated drainage system. We are also using treated waste water (tertiary water), nearly 20% of the total waste water, in different parks and institutional areas, among other places.”The Centre’s inspection may take place anytime in January 2021. A city can get the water plus certification provided all wastewater released from households, commercial establishments ,drains and nullahs is treated to a satisfactory level (as per Central Pollution Control Board norms), before being releasing into the environment. Further, the MC must ensure adequate capacity of wastewater and sewage treatment facilities. The infrastructure must be well maintained and cost recovery ensured through reuse and recycling of treated wastewater to ensure sustainability. City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) convener Vinod Vashisht said, “Chandigarh, being an urban planned city, meets all the minimum necessary infrastructure and regulatory conditions and thus will receive the certification in all likelihood after a third party independent assessment is conducted at 64 different locations in the city. With the Water Plus certification, the city will get an additional 200 marks (3.33% weightage) in the 2021 Swachhta Survekshan, to be conducted in January, which will ensure that the city gets a good national ranking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-bharat-mission-mc-declares-ut-water-plus-city-centre-to-verify-claim/story-29o0bp0DvS1OjvF2vYs1GL.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Vivek Atray to head Chandigarh chapter of PRCI||The Chandigarh chapter of the Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) has elected former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Vivek Atray as its chairperson. Panjab University school of communication studies professor Jayanth Pethkar has been elected vice-chairperson while PR consultant Sudeep Rawat is the new secretary. Atray,who had been engaged with the Chandigarh chapter of PRCI since 2010, said each organisation requires effective communication for its survival, growth, and success. The Public Relations Council of India is the national apex body of public relations practitioners, communicators, academicians, and media personalities with 34 chapters across India and chapters in Dubai, Sri Lanka,Bangladesh,Nepal and Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vivek-atray-to-head-chandigarh-chapter-of-prci/story-AErFH7iGJSo1M8ant5XYoK.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||NMMC issues show-cause notice to Vashi hospital; authorities say did no wrong||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has issued a show-cause notice to Hiranandani Hospital, Vashi – A Fortis Network Hospital for allegedly not accepting patients recommended by it during the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body has demanded that hospital carry forward the mandated quota of patients. The hospital, however, claims that it has followed the guidelines of NMMC.NMMC and the hospital had signed a public private partnership (PPP) agreement in January 2006 wherein Hiranandani Hospital was allowed to use space belonging to NMMC hospital in Vashi in exchange of treating 800 patients referred by NMMC for free every year.Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “The hospital had been declared as dedicated Covid hospital, but continued to accept non-Covid patients during the pandemic. However, a perusal of our records shows that they did not accept a single patient referred by NMMC hospitals during this period. They refused to admit not only Covid patients, but also non-Covid patients for whom we have an agreement.”He added, “We have given a large space to them and need to check if we are getting the expected benefits in return. We have not sold the space to the hospital and the hospital needs to be reminded that it has an agreement with the civic body.”Bangar further said, “The agreement had been signed to provide quality medical services to the citizens of Navi Mumbai, and we cannot allow the hospital to deny it to them. The purpose of the agreement will be defeated otherwise.”The civic chief said, “In my notice, I have raised the issue with the hospital and stated that since our patients have not been admitted all these months, the quota needs to be carried forward. The people of the city should get the super-speciality service provided by the hospital.”When contacted, a statement released by the hospital stated, “We have followed all guidelines and regulatory protocols set out by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. Post discussion with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation authorities, the guidelines were implemented, which was in the best interest of the patients suffering from Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nmmc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-vashi-hospital-authorities-say-did-no-wrong/story-sWw2ERP04295SHGATHlZOI.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Passengers, experts question Covid-19 testing upon arrival in airports across Maharashtra||Two weeks after the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests was mandated for passengers arriving from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat, 104 of 9,704 total passengers who underwent the test at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) between November 26 and December 8 tested positive for Covid-19. Passengers, however, have raised questions about the state government’s rule of allowing passengers to leave the airport without their test reports. Earlier, the airport had reported that many passengers were sneaking out in order to skip the RT-PCR tests. While this issue was resolved, few arriving passengers are reportedly not reacting well when asked to pay ₹1,400 per person for the test, the reports of which arrive after a minimum of 24 hours. Top sources from the civic authority said after receiving complaints, the airport operator has been allowing each passenger to leave the arrivals only after seeing the negative report in case they have conducted the test from their departing city within 72 hours before travel or the test slip as a proof that the test was conducted after landing at the airports across the state. CSMIA officials reiterated that all passengers conducting RT-PCR test at Mumbai airport are being given a slip as proof of having undertaken the test. “Security officials at the airport are only allowing passengers to exit when either they show their negative report or their test slips,” said an airport official. Sources from a leading airline said more people opt to get tested after landing. “We have seen that many passengers, especially at Mumbai airport, have been conducting tests after landing. If our flight has around 110 passengers, not less than 60 are undergoing testing at the city airport.” Another senior official from an Indian airline said, “Our staff is placed towards the end of the aerobridges at CSMIA for checking passengers’ negative report. Those yet to test are directed to the counters set up a few metres away from the aerobridge. Everything goes well until there are more than two flights landing almost at the same time. ” With an aim to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, the state government had implemented norms for passengers arriving from Delhi, Goa, Rajasthan and Gujarat. According to this norm, all passengers arriving from these four places need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report conducted from the departing city within 72 hours before take-off. Easing the norm, the government also allowed travellers to get themselves tested at the arriving airport. Experts, however, said the state government’s norm was not a good decision. “Maharashtra government allowing people to get tested after landing at airports is like conducting breathalyser tests on pilots after operating a flight and not before taking off. If the government’s aim is to control the spread of virus in its state, they should not have not been given the option to get tested after landing,” said captain Mohan Ranganathan, aviation expert. He added, “As there are two options currently of either carrying a Covid-19 negative report from the departing city or getting tested upon arrival at the destination, it has not discouraged people much from travelling. However, people might have been discouraged if the only option available was to get tested prior to their flight.” Questions have been raised on the effectiveness of the norm too. Kalyan resident Rajesh Jain, who has been travelling to different cities for his work, said, “I arrived in Mumbai on December 2, and I am yet to get my report for the RT-PCR test conducted at CSMIA. Not all travel by choice; for some it is need-based like mine. I am currently in Bhubaneswar for work and I might be asked to fly to Rajasthan next week. However, before taking off for Bhubaneswar, I waited for 72 hours for my report. I live in a one BHK flat and hence isolation is a problem too. I have children at home and could not afford to take risks. Hence, I had to isolate myself in my balcony for the three days I was home.” Additional municipal commissioner P Velarusu did not reply to HT’s calls and messages. Health minister Rajesh Tope was unable for comment after repeated attempts.Borivli resident Prasad Pandit, who had to go to Goa and returned within 24 hours, received his RT-PCR reports on Tuesday night but with different names and test details. “I landed at CSMIA on Sunday evening and did my test around 8pm. I was told that my reports would be emailed to me within 24 hours but I had to follow up with the centre when I did not receive it on time. It was then that I was told that they did not have my record and that I had not conducted my test. After continuous follow ups, they handed over me a report with my surname but with a different name. Moreover, the time and day of conducting tests, too, were mentioned to be different than mine.” Pandit said he remained in isolation until he got his reports.Health professionals feel that the purpose of conducting the test is not served with such a time gap in preparing reports. “As per BMC rules, all reports have to be given within 24 hours. So, the delay of two days is a violation of rules. Secondly, the government shouldn’t allow testing at any airport which is forcing people to wait in long queues. This makes passengers more vulnerable to contracting the infection. The focus should be on doing the test before entering the airport. The test can be done within 72 hrs before the flight,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultant (AMC). Health activists also raised the issue that passengers are allowed to take private vehicles from the airport to their destinations before getting the report. “The infected passenger can not only infect the driver but also other people who come in close contact with him/her during the travel. Also, many passengers take autorickshaws which aren’t properly sanitised. This can become a source of infection. The government and the airport authority need to sit together and come up with better plans to channelise all these issues,” said Dr Abhijit More, a health activist. (With inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/passengers-experts-question-covid-19-testing-upon-arrival-in-airports-across-maharashtra/story-8YJQka5XiLwf8fmV90bGGP.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to procure 9 lakh RT-PCR kits from Chennai||Maharashtra has ordered 9 lakh real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing kits, worth ₹4.50 crore from a Chennai-based company. Haffkine Institute, which is responsible for the procurement, had floated a tender on November 21. The first phase will see the delivery of 4.50 lakh kits by end of next week. Of these, Mumbai will receive 1.72 lakh and almost 227,400 kits will be sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. The family welfare department, also in Pune, will receive 50,200 kits. So far, Maharashtra has conducted over 1.13 crore tests for Covid-19. This includes rapid antigen tests (RAT) which give results within 30 minutes. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines, every positive RAT is treated as true positive, while those who show symptoms of Covid-19 but test negative must be re-tested using RT-PCR tests, which are considered the gold standard for Covid diagnosis. Experts have recommended increasing the number of RT-PCR tests. “Asymptomatic patients don’t show symptoms and as per ICMR, the sensitivity of rapid antigen kits is only 50%. So, thousands of asymptomatic patients are slipping through the loophole in diagnosis, as the civic body is relying more on rapid antigen tests,” said a senior epidemiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-procure-9-lakh-rt-pcr-kits-from-chennai/story-E2a8J0rOVbiDLFvphaySCI.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra plans who will get Covid-19 vaccine and how||Set for a large-scale immunisation drive, the task force, which was appointed to chalk out the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Maharashtra, has decided the priority of groups to be vaccinated, cold chain resources, training methods and identified over 16,000 vaccinators, among other modalities. The task force, headed by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, in its first meeting, has decided that healthcare workers and daily wage labourers will be the first priority, followed by frontline workers such as police and security personnel, Asha workers and municipal staff. The third category will be of people over the age of 50 and those under the age of 50 with co-morbidities. Dr N Ramaswami, state health commissioner and member secretary of the task force, said, “The priority has been set as per the guidelines of the Government of India. The first priority will be healthcare workers, both public and private, followed by police and security personnel. We are collecting the details on people above 50 years of age and people under the age of 50 with co-morbidities, but it will be in the next phase.” According to the health department’s estimation, the number of healthcare workers in the state is around 4.5-5 lakh. “So far, we have added the data of over 90,000 people to the Central government’s [Co-Win] portal. As per the estimates, around 2.60 lakh government healthcare workers in the state will be vaccinated,” a bureaucrat said. He added that the government has identified 16,245 vaccinators and their details have been enrolled with the Centre on a designated portal. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The vaccination programme is a huge task. We are currently preparing the data on healthcare workers. Around 99% of the data of public hospitals is updated, while in case of private healthcare workers, 78% work is done. The district-level training has started, and they will train the taluka-level staff.” The task force has planned 3,145 cold chains, including 27 storage facilities on block level, 34 on district level, nine on division level and one main central storage facility for the vaccine vials in the state. “The Centre has so far only said that it will provide for the shortage of coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, etc. by December-January. We have already submitted the details of [storage] equipment needed,” Tope told reporters. Ramaswami added, “We have adequate storage facilities for the priority categories. We need additional facilities in eight divisions of the health department. Six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers will be provided by the Government of India and added in these eight divisions. We are doing the civil and electrical work to make the additional equipment fully functional. The work is estimated to cost ₹45 lakh.” The task force has already set up committees from district to block level to ensure effective distribution of the vaccine. The vaccination booths, according to the state government, will have five people, including two vaccinators, one assistant on data and records, one assistant on logistics and one for crowd management. The state health department has also assured that other vaccination drives will not be affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-plans-who-will-get-covid-19-vaccine-and-how/story-O5rfgVoDnCjmRx95ngmAuJ.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra ranks second after Odisha on urban governance index according to Mumbai-based Praja Foundation||Odisha ranked first, and Maharashtra came second in terms of good governance, according to a survey conducted across 28 states and 40 cities in India. Published by Praja Foundation, a Mumbai-based think tank, the report studied urban governance reforms over three years (2017-2020) in 40 cities across 28 states and the national capital region of Delhi. Praja Foundation has been conducting data-driven research on civic issues for the past two decades.According to Urban Governance Index 2020, which was published on Wednesday, the top five states for urban governance are Odisha, Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Manipur and Nagaland performed the worst. For its report, Praja mapped the status of urban reforms across four themes — empowered city elected representatives and legislative structure; empowered city administration; empowered citizens; and fiscal empowerment. None of the top five states scored more than 57%, with Odisha scoring 56.86%.Milind Mhaske, director of Praja Foundation said, “All the cities we surveyed in are not adequately empowered to provide citizens with the quality of life that they can benefit from. That was the main reason why we started mapping across the country for this index.”Praja Foundation’s report ranked Mumbai, with a score of 55.15%, first for fiscal empowerment of a municipal corporation and second for empowered citizens, and empowered city administration. The city came in at the 10th spot for empowered city elected representatives. Maharashtra is the only state where councillors are given allowances and dedicated staff for their office, and the only state where the city’s government has constituted all the committees mentioned in the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act (1888). Also, these committees meet at least once a month. Mumbai specifically has adequate fiscal empowerment since its civic body has independent authority to introduce new taxes, change tax rates, and approve its budget. However, 33% of posts in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) lie vacant. Regarding fiscal empowerment of BMC, Mumbai has the highest percentage of its sources of revenue at 81%. The city has eight employees per 1,000 people in the city, which is the second-highest in the country after Panjim in Goa.Despite many urban governance schemes, no state has devolved all municipal functions, which means municipal bodies remain dependent on the state for its funds and decisions in many areas. To improve the levels of empowerment of city governments, Praja Foundation’s report suggested Maharashtra ensure that the mayor’s term is co-terminus with that of the city government (five years). The mayor should also hold executive authority over the municipal commissioner along with the authority to appoint a chairperson of the standing committee that makes financial decisions for a city, said the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ranks-second-after-odisha-on-urban-governance-index-according-to-mumbai-based-praja-foundation/story-yt9Y8eVRMpaT3BMjytqdlN.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal surrenders in Chandigarh court in 2017 defamation case, gets bail||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday surrendered in a Chandigarh court in a defamation case that was filed against him in 2017. He, however, was granted bail by the court. Akhand Kirtani Jatha spokesperson Rajinder Pal Singh had moved the court, saying Sukhbir made defamatory remarks against him in 2017 by associating him with terrorist outfit Babbar Khalsa International. Rajinder Pal Singh complained that Sukhbir had made the allegation against him a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited his house on January 4, 2017. Sukhbir allegedly termed him and the Akhand Kirtani Jatha political fronts of the Babbar Khalsa International in rallies during his interactions with the media. The complainant’s counsel, PIP Singh, had claimed that Sukhbir’s statement had “badly hit Rajinder’s image and that of his organisation worldwide”. The police were asked to probe the matter under Section 202 (whether a prima facie case is made out) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). They submitted a report in the court in November 2019. Earlier in the day, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Tejpartap Singh Randhawa issued non-bailable warrants against Sukhbir, saying, “Bailable warrants issued against the accused were returned unexecuted citing ongoing construction work at the given address while he visited the residence off and on.” “It is evident that the accused is very much aware about the proceeding pending in court. Moreover, he is not a layman being a former deputy chief minister of Punjab. As he is intentionally evading the process of the court, he be served non-bailable warrants for December 12,” the order read.On this, Sukhbir’s counsel Munish Deewan apprised the judge that the case was also listed for hearing in the Punjab and Haryana High Court that stayed the non-bailable warrants giving the accused one week or 10-day time to appear in the trial court. Then the magistrate directed “not to issue the non-bailable warrants” against the SAD president who later surrendered in the court.“The offence is bailable in nature. The accused furnished bail bonds of Rs 20,000 with surety of the like amount,” the final order read. The matter was listed for hearing on December 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-surrenders-in-chandigarh-court-in-2017-defamation-case-gets-bail/story-AX5DLgrBjRMg1CzvG74J5O.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: NCB arrests two key drug suppliers, seizes drugs, cash worth ₹2.63 crore||In a major crackdown on the drug syndicate supplying narcotics to those associated with Bollywood, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested two key drug suppliers and seized drugs worth nearly ₹2.63 crore during an operation that started on late Tuesday night and continued till Wednesday morning. A total of 28 people have been arrested so far in the drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by NCB officials.Based on specific inputs, a team of NCB officials led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Tuesday night arrested Jitendra Jain alias Jeet alias Rigel Mahakal from Andheri (West). He was wanted in the case since September as a previous arrested accused has named him in his statement.During interrogation, Mahakal revealed information about another suspect. Following this, the NCB team headed by Wankhede on Wednesday morning raided a house in Millat Nagar, Oshiwara and caught Mohammad Azam Jumman Shaikh. Upon searching his house, the team recovered 5 kg of Malana Cream charas (hashish), small quantities of opium and ecstasy pills and cash worth ₹1,351,500. “Probe has revealed that Shaikh used to order drugs from Himachal Pradesh and then he would sell it to peddlers like Mahakal. Mahakal used to supply the drugs to Anuj Keshwani, who was earlier arrested by NCB. Keshwani in turn used to supply it to Kaizan Ibrahim who would further sell it to Dipesh Sawant, Rajput’s house help,” said NCB officials.Mahakal would run his drug business under the disguise of a disc jockey (DJ) while Shaikh would use his garment business as a front. Both of them have been in drugs business since past many years.The official added, “Shaikh would go to Himachal Pradesh and place order for Malana Cream and return to city. Members of Himachal based drug suppliers would come to Mumbai for delivery of the drugs.” “We are digging up the financial aspect and would check if the house owned by Shaikh was bought from the money earned from the drugs business,” the officer added. Shaikh has been previously arrested by local police for assaulting his wife. NCB officials said Malana Cream, grown only in Malana Region of Himachal Pradesh, is the most desirable charas in the world. Its international market price ranges from ₹40-50 lakh per kg.In September, based on the interrogation of Ibrahim, NCB had raided Keshwani’s Khar residence and seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana including imported marijuana joints and capsules and ₹185,200 and 5,000 Indonesian currency. Ibrahim was among the peddlers who supplied marijuana to Rajput, said NCB officials. Wankhede also said, “This is the biggest seizure in the drugs case and we have unearthed the entire chain. He used to supply drugs to Mahakal and also to other drug peddlers who move around in the Bollywood industry. We are checking which peddlers are in contact of Shaikh.”NCB, which has been investigating the drug angle into Rajput’s death, has till now arrested 28 people including Bollywood celebs including comedienne Bharti Singh, her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa, brother of Arjun Rampal’s partner Agisilaos Demetriades.2 arrested with marijuanaDindoshi police arrested two men for alleged possession of 57 kgs of marijuana worth ₹5.70 lakh. The police said the arrested accused were planning to sell the drugs in Mumbai.According to police officers, they received a tip-off on Tuesday that two men had been stocking marijuana in a garage in Malad (East). On Tuesday at 9pm, the officers raided a garage on General AK Vaidya Marg and recovered 57 kgs of marijuana stored in bags. The police arrested Tabarak Hamid Sayyed, 22, and Mushtafizur Shaikh, 23, under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.The officers investigating the case said both the arrested are residents of Goregaon. “We have arrested the two and are investigating the source of these drugs. We are also trying to find out whether the two are connected to a drug cartel or are in touch with other suppliers and whether they are only involved in peddling of marijuana or other drugs,” said Dr D Swami, deputy commissioner of police (zone 12).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-ncb-arrests-two-key-drug-suppliers-seizes-drugs-cash-worth-2-63-crore/story-GBpHEiziiycoINOKmRq7DP.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||2006 Mumbai serial train blasts case: 2 convicts appeal against their conviction before HC||Two of the convicted accused in the 2006 Mumbai serial train blast case, Dr Tanveer Ansari (accused number 2) and Zameer Shaikh (accused number 11), who were sentenced to life imprisonment by the special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court in September 2015, have filed separate appeals in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking setting aside of the convictions. According to their lawyer, advocate Ishrat Khan, the appeals will come up for hearing in due course.Ansari and Shaikh were convicted on various counts under the MCOC Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) (UAP) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to the appeals, the main contentions raised by both convicts is that their trial was not fair and was based merely on circumstantial evidence and confessional statements that were taken from the appellants under duress by the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) after they were arrested.Ansari and Shaikh along with nine others were convicted for being part of the conspiracy to set off massive blasts in the first-class compartments of seven trains on the Western Railway (WR) line on July 11, 2006. The blasts killed 209 people and injured over 700 others. Ansari and Shaikh were detained and arrested on July 20 and July 23, 2006, respectively. According to the appeals, both had been falsely implicated in the case and were made accused on the grounds that they had conspired along with the other accused to plan the serial train blast by carrying out recces of the trains. Ansari was accused of visiting Pakistan and getting trained by the terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LET), while Shaikh was accused of facilitating the travel of some of the accused to Iran under the pretext of a pilgrimage.Advocate Ishrat Khan said that the appeals were filed as both Ansari and Shaikh were innocent and had been falsely implicated. He said the ATS had recovered their confession by subjecting them to torture and had made them sign on pre-written confessions which were later withdrawn by both. Khan further added that though the ATS had not been able to submit any concrete evidence against the two, the trial court had not taken cognisance of the same, but had based its judgement on circumstantial evidence. The appeals have further stated that the statements of the witnesses and panchas were also weak and some of them seemed to be picked up directly from unrelated cases in Madhya Pradesh and Telangana and submitted before the trial court. In light of the above averments and the fact that both convicts have already spent 14 years in prison, the appeals have prayed for setting aside of their convictions. Khan said that the appeals have been admitted and are expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2006-mumbai-serial-train-blasts-case-2-convicts-appeal-against-their-conviction-before-hc/story-m5gtyHjGHPDTp1xNujiTZK.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||FYJC assessments likely to be made easier, says Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad||In a bid to reduce stress among students of first-year junior college (FYJC) as colleges will reopen barely a few months before the new academic year ends, the state education department is mulling to tweak the assessment pattern. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that with the delay in commencing the new academic year for FYJC this year, the government wants to make sure students are not stressed about assessments. She said a proposal to include only a limited syllabus for exams is being considered. “We realise that colleges have very little time to complete the syllabus, and students too have barely any time to prepare for exams. While we already have reduced the syllabus by 25%, we are now planning to tweak the assessment pattern for these students,” she said. Gaikwad stressed that colleges will have to complete the current syllabus, but said students are likely to be evaluated only on limited components. “We are thinking of options like continuous comprehensive evaluation or keeping only a limited part of the syllabus for exams.” Wednesday was the last day to complete admissions under the second merit list which was declared on December 5. Gaikwad said colleges can start their online classes anytime now. “In areas where schools and junior colleges are allowed to reopen, they can start physical classes following the norms as stated by the government,” she said. On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s (SC) interim stay on the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) or Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. With this, the second merit list for admissions, which was originally scheduled to be released on September 10, was stalled, leaving over 2.42 lakh students in the lurch in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region alone. While the state government has revealed that admissions to all courses will now take place without the 12% SEBC quota, it has also clarified through its recent government resolution that admissions under the quota that have already been confirmed before September 9 will remain intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-assessments-likely-to-be-made-easier-says-maharashtra-education-minister-varsha-gaikwad/story-wYlNEHQlMgdgNxicOhnX3M.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Metro car shed: Kanjurmarg land has always been state’s property, Maharashtra govt tells HC||Responding to a petition filed by the Central government seeking stay on the metro car shed work at Kanjurmarg, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday claimed before the Bombay high court (HC) that the 102-acre land has always been the state’s property.“This survey number (275 (part) of village Kanjur) always stood in the name of the state government,” said advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. “It was always state government’s land...even before this 1981 order,” he added, referring to an order issued by the then additional collector on February 16, 1981.Kumbhakoni said that after salt manufacturing ceased, several salt pan lands were abandoned and were lying vacant and disputes had started as regards ownership of those lands. In this backdrop, he said the additional collector had, in February 1981, directed the Kurla tehsildar to conduct enquiry, as contemplated under section 20(2) of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966 as regards 22 salt pan lands and to replace the remark of “Khajan” or “Mithagar” in ownership column of some other salt pan lands, including the 102 acres.“Name of the state government has always been there,” the advocate general insisted.Staking claim over the salt pan lands, the Central government has moved HC challenging the October 1, 2020 order of Mumbai suburban district collector to transfer 102 acres out of Survey No. 275 (part).On October 6, the collector transferred possession of the piece of land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and two days later the authority, in turn, handed it over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited, which has started levelling work at the site.The Central government also challenged these actions on the land claiming that the entire salt pan land, including the 102 acres at Kanjurmarg, belongs to its salt department and has always been under administrative control of the deputy salt commissioner.The Centre has also challenged the November 1, 2018, order of the Maharashtra revenue minister upholding the addition of names of the state government and some private parties in ownership column of several salt pan lands at Nahur, Mulund, Kanjurmarg, Mandale, Malvani and Pahadi areas of Mumbai. The minister’s order came on a proceedings arising out of the revenue enquiry conducted by tehsildar, Kurla. Arguing for the Central government, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, had earlier submitted that both the state government and MMRDA have accepted that the land at Kanjurmarg belongs to the Central salt department.Singh had pointed out relevant documents in support of the claim and had also brought to the notice of the HC that MMRDA had sought to intervene in a civil matter pending before the Bombay city civil court and offered to pay the Central government the market price of the land being used for proposed metro car shed.In this backdrop, Singh had urged HC to stay the operation of the transfer order passed by the collector and also stay the ongoing levelling work at the site.Kumbhakoni, however, refuted the claim. But the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was sceptical about the state government’s claim and directed Kumbhakoni to submit compilation of documents in proper order and posted the petition for further hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metro-car-shed-kanjurmarg-land-has-always-been-state-s-property-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc/story-ulFtYJ9wjJlaLmWtZfdc6O.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Raigad administration says no wetlands in Uran before Bombay HC panel; civic bodies pulled up for failing to restore wetland areas||The Raigad district administration informed the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed state mangrove and wetland panel on Wednesday that there were no wetlands in Uran taluka, which has faced numerous cases of environmental violations over the past two years.During the 14th meeting of the HC panel, the resident deputy collector (RDC), Raigad, informed members that following a detailed verification exercise of 13 areas that had wetland features in Uran, none qualified as a wetland as per the Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017. Committee members said the administration’s latest submission is contrary to claims made in previous meetings that all major natural areas in the taluka would be protected.Additionally, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and other civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) were pulled up for not responding to repeated directions to remove debris from natural areas and restore wetlands, water bodies and mangroves. Konkan divisional commissioner Annasaheb Misal, chair of the panel, alerted representatives from the civic bodies that non-compliance of the panel’s previous directions will be recorded and placed before the HC.In the Uran matter, member secretary of the HC-panel, Neenu Somraj said, “Regardless of the 2017 wetland rules, the Konkan commissioner directed that all wetlands need to be protected. The Raigad RDC pointed out that no areas in Uran were wetlands as per the 2017 rules, however, there are many wetlands protected under the National Wetland Inventory Atlas, Maharashtra 2011, and they need to be protected too.”During the last meeting of the HC-panel on November 2, the Raigad collector was directed by the Konkan commissioner to submit a proposal to the state environment department for the declaration of Panje as a wetland, and also survey and verify other areas with similar wetland features in Uran for wetland declaration.Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “A complete exercise was carried out based on various parameters of what constitutes a wetland across 14 talukas in Raigad district, and accordingly, 131 sites were identified, including 13 areas in Uran, as potential wetlands. However, only four wetlands [two in Panvel, one in Pen, and one in Alibag] were finally proposed as wetlands to the environment department. Most areas were rejected on grounds of having water bodies used for irrigation, agriculture, water supply or being on private land, etc, and did not fall under the definition of wetlands under the 2017 rules.”Shocked by the submission, non-government member of the HC-panel, Stalin D submitted a preliminary list of 13 wetlands in Uran to the Konkan commissioner during the meeting. “In the last meeting, the commissioner had directed all collectors to go the extra mile and identify new wetland areas to protect. In this case, the Raigad collector intends to destroy whatever is remaining,” said Stalin.The HC-panel said that all areas proposed by members were considered. “We will be issuing a letter to the collector to have a joint inspection to understand the present status of areas and resubmit findings,” said Somraj.Choudhari said she would have to check whether any such intimation had been received. “We have got a letter from the government for Panje. That will certainly be examined. If the divisional commissioner writes to us for other such lands, that will also get re-examined,” she said.The HC, in its landmark order banning the destruction of mangroves in the state in September 2018, had directed all civic bodies to restore natural areas where debris had been dumped. “This is completely pending despite repeated reminders. We are not getting a proper response either from any civic bodies. We will be taking it on record to submit non-compliance before the HC,” said Somraj, adding that a detailed letter will be sent to the civic chiefs on this.SUB-COMMITTEE TO LOOK INTO COMPLIANCE OF SPECIFIC CASESDuring Wednesday’s meeting, the HC panel also decided to form a sub-committee to check the compliance regarding all pending cases across all Konkan districts. “This is to check the extent of the investigation, action taken, and whether they are eligible for closure. The commissioner instructed to call a committee including all non-government bodies, and this process will be carried out over the next 10 to 15 days,” said Somraj. The decision was taken after Stalin D proposed that a complaint cannot be closed without the consent of the complainant, and their response needed to be factored in.URAN: WETLANDS REJECTED, RE-PROPOSEDThe verification exercise by the Raigad collector had proposed various wetlands in Uran, but not a single one was verified and finally proposed before the state environment department: Two locations at Karal, Khopte, Bori BK, Dronagiri, three locations at Bokadvira, Juipunde, Sheva, Sawarkhar, Bhendkhal, and Kaladhonada were proposed. Panje and Belpada have recently been proposed based on submissions before the HC panel. Meanwhile, these same sites have been proposed yet again by non-government members of the panel for re-verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raigad-administration-says-no-wetlands-in-uran-before-bombay-hc-panel-civic-bodies-pulled-up-for-failing-to-restore-wetland-areas/story-Ov7GM36hOQKnZiAjYSkCMI.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||No quota, give us benefits now, demand Marathas; SC refuses to lift stay, hearing on January 25||With the Supreme Court’s refusal on Wednesday to lift the stay on the Maratha quota likely to delay the admission and recruitment process, the community as well the Opposition want the reservation benefits to be extended with immediate effect. The Opposition has even alleged laxity in the state government’s approach while representing the case in the Apex Court. Under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, Marathas have been promised a reservation of 12% and 13% in jobs and admissions, respectively. The reservation was stayed by a three-judge bench of the Apex court on September 9. During its first hearing before the constitution bench of the SC on Wednesday, the state government and community leaders were expecting the stay to be lifted. The SC, however, posted the hearing for January 25. Until a decision from the SC, Marathas want a supernumerary quota in jobs to accommodate members of the community in government jobs, scholarships and freeships to students for fee waiver, financial provisions for institutes meant for the welfare of the community and aid for enterprising ventures by youths. Vinod Patil, one of the respondents in the petition, which has challenged the stay on the reservation, said, “The final decision may take a couple of months. Until then, the state government should extend the benefits the Other Backward Classes get to us.” Bharatiya Janata Party’s Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil alleged, “None of the ministers or the advocate general of the state were present for the hearing. In the absence of a proper study and preparations, the Apex court denied to hear the plea. The state government did not even ask for permission to exempt college admissions and recruitments completed in the rounds before the reservation was stayed. The government has disappointed the community. We expect the Thackeray government to at least extend the benefits applicable to OBCs to the Maratha community. Our government gave scholarships and other benefits to Marathas, when the reservation plea was pending in the Bombay high court.” BJP MP and Maratha leader Sambhaji Chhatrapati has said it would be a challenge to effectively argue on the reservation as the three judges who stayed reservation are part of the constitutional bench of five judges. Sachin Sawant, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson, said, “The state government has left no stone unturned in the preparations required for the legal battle. The cabinet sub-committee held several rounds of meetings. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed it regularly. The process of hearing has begun and we will soon get expected results. The Opposition is criticising the government for the sake of politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-quota-give-us-benefits-now-demand-marathas-sc-refuses-to-lift-stay-hearing-on-january-25/story-cyCkzPeb4ZK71EDY8elC5L.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||NCP to hold over 400 virtual rallies across Maharashtra on Sharad Pawar’s 80th birthday||To celebrate the 80th birthday of its chief Sharad Pawar, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has planned 400-500 virtual rallies that will be attended by 3 lakh people across the state on December 12, the party said. The party has also planned a slew of programs, including job fairs and blood donation camps among others.The leader is turning 80 on Saturday, and the party has decided to celebrate it uniquely by using digital technology, state unit chief Jayant Patil said on Wednesday. “NCP will be celebrating Pawar saheb’s birthday at YB Chavan Centre in Mumbai with a limited number of people, to maintain social distancing amid the pandemic. But around 3 lakh people will be participating in the program through 400 to 500 virtual rallies across 36 districts of the state,” Patil said.Considering the shortage of blood at hospitals, the party has decided to organise blood donation camps from December 13-20. On the first day, Supriya Sule, party member of Parliament (MP) and daughter of the NCP chief, will donate blood along with state health minister Rajesh Tope, at a blood donation camp to be organised at YB Chavan Centre.The party has also set a target of providing 80,000 jobs to unemployed youths with the help of the state skill development and entrepreneurship department. State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, who is also heading the skill development and entrepreneurship department, said that party workers have started registration of youths on Mahaswayam, a job portal started by the state government.“According to the website, around 214 companies need around 40,000 people for different portfolios. We will try to register 1.25 lakh youths seeking employment by December 12 and provide 80,000 jobs,” said Malik.The portal is working to connect employers and local, skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers and ensures jobs to everyone, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-to-hold-over-400-virtual-rallies-across-maharashtra-on-sharad-pawar-s-80th-birthday/story-cggY7whLPbf19QYIoyOFLK.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||RT-PCR test rates reduced to Rs 700 in Haryana||The Haryana government on Wednesday further reduced the rates for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to Rs 700 from Rs 900. The Rs 700 cap applies to samples collected at private labs, hospitals and collection centres of laboratories. The RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard in coronavirus diagnosis. An order issued by additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said that a maximum of Rs 900 will be charged by the private laboratories for samples collected through home visits. The freshly capped testing rates would be inclusive of taxes, costs involved in pick-up, use of personal protection equipment, packing, transportation of samples, documentation and reporting in Haryana. The ACS said that testing rates were further capped taking into account the cost of the testing kits, consumables, the consent of leading private laboratories and advice of experts. The state government had in October capped the rates for rapid antigen testing (RAT) at Rs 500, immunoglobulin-based ELISA test (used during sero survey) at Rs 250, CBNAAT testing at Rs 2,400 and TrueNat testing at Rs 1,250. Haryana reports 26 deaths, 1,400 fresh casesTwenty-six more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana, bringing the death toll to 2,650 on Wednesday, while 1,400 new cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,48,079, according to a bulletin. The new fatalities included eight from Faridabad, five from Hisar and three each from Gurugram and Jhajjar, the state health department’s daily bulletin said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in fresh cases included Gurugram (436) and Faridabad (218).The state has an active case count of 11,733 and a recovery rate of 94.2%, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rt-pcr-test-rates-reduced-to-rs-700-in-haryana/story-ius1sG84q1FJ4JlwJyQa1J.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Cloud cover over Mumbai, unseasonal rainfall unlikely, says IMD||The city witnessed partly cloudy conditions during the day and persistent cloud cover by the evening on Wednesday. The maximum and minimum temperatures, both in the suburbs and south Mumbai, were above the normal mark.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said cloudy conditions were under the influence of a weather system in the southeast Arabian Sea, and generally cloudy skies were predicted for the next three days, but Mumbai is not likely to witness any unseasonal rainfall.“According to our weather models, a low-pressure weather system has formed over the southeast Arabian Sea and led to the formation of associated weather systems along the west coast. While Mumbai is not likely to receive any rain, there is a possibility of rain for districts of south Konkan and south-central Maharashtra in the coming days. Associated rain warning will be issued on Thursday as we are monitoring this system closely,” said Bishwambhar Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD Mumbai.However, on late Wednesday evening, very light drizzling was reported some parts of the city such as Powai and Santacruz for a brief period. However, the IMD did not update its forecast for any expected rain activity for late Wednesday night or Thursday. Meanwhile, even with less sunshine, there was a marginal decline in the maximum temperature, while the minimum temperature increased by 2 degrees Celsius from Tuesday to Wednesday. At the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, the day temperature was 36 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees Celsius above normal, as compared to 36.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the hottest December day in six years and second hottest for the month over a decade. The minimum temperature at Santacruz was 20 degrees Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal. At Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, the day and night temperatures were 33.8 and 23 degrees Celsius respectively, both almost 2 degrees Celsius above normal. Moisture levels were low as 53% humidity was recorded in the suburbs 67% in south Mumbai. “This kept the heat index (air temperature and relative humidity) low leading to a reduced feeling of perceived hot weather,” said Singh.Though hazy conditions were witnessed on Wednesday, the air quality index (AQI) was much lower than earlier in the week. It was 145 (moderate) on Wednesday against 173 (moderate) on Tuesday and 189 (moderate) on Monday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Researchers said high temperatures and low moisture kept air quality in check. An AQI of 139 (moderate) has been predicted for Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cloud-cover-over-mumbai-unseasonal-rainfall-unlikely-says-imd/story-KOoQo6Gk2t5HtJbfgkNc0K.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala police drop murder charges against BKU farmers lodged in Naraingarh||Haryana Police have quashed the murder case registered against some farmers, including Bhartiya Kisan Union Charuni’s (BKU Charuni’s) Ambala chief Malkit Singh, after a 70-year-old farmer died during BJP’s tractor rally in Naraingarh on October 14. Ambala SP Rajesh Kalia said the case was dropped on the basis of the reports received earlier this month. An SIT led by DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar was investigating the matter, he said. “The reports from Madhuban (Karnal) and Khanpur Kalan (Sonepat) have confirmed that the farmer died of heart failure, not as it was alleged. So, we have quashed the FIR on December 7, but other case lodged for blocking the national highway will remain intact,” Kalia added. Naraingarh police station in-charge Gurmail Singh said, “We received the reports on December 2 after which we consulted the medical team that performed the autopsy at Naraingarh civil hospital. The doctors told us that the farmer had some heart-related problem and he died of heart failure.” Bharat Singh, the deceased farmer from Baragarh village of Shahazadpur, was on a tractor that was allegedly attacked by the protesting farmers on NH 344 (Ambala-Roorkee national highway). An FIR amounting to murder was registered against seven farmers.BKU state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said the development has exposed the government’s real agenda. “What the reports have revealed now is the same that we have been saying since he (Bharat SIngh) died. The government’s conspiracy to register false cases has been exposed,” he added. This has come almost a week after senior leaders from the JJP, including Digvijay Chautala, party’s state chief Nishan Singh and others, met home minister Anil Vij in Chandigarh, seeking cancellation of cases against farmers. It’s pertinent to mention here that Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini had on October 16 held a press conference in Chandigarh where he alleged that the “goons” of Charuni, Congress and Nirmal Singh were behind the attack that claimed the life of Bharat Singh and had termed it a “murder.”However, now Saini said, “He died of heart failure as the protesters blocked our way and tortured him.”On being asked about the cancellation of the case, he said, “I’m not in a position to speak on this. I’ll check the details and respond.”Saini was the organiser of the rally in support of the farm laws and was joined by Ambala MP and Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Ambala BJP chief Rajesh Batoura and other party leaders and workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-police-drop-murder-charges-against-bku-farmers-lodged-in-naraingarh/story-OwseUBV53iT02apZQvBWAP.html
10-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government changes stamp duty on property banking agreements||To bring uniformity and avoid the evasion of tax, the state government has changed the stamp duty on various banking agreements related to property sales. The stamp duty on the documents related to the deposit of title deed, equitable mortgage, hypothecation submitted for the loans has been increased to 0.3% from the existing 0.2%. The stamp duty on the property mortgaged but possession has not been handed over, has been reduced to 0.3% from the existing rate of 0.5%. Similarly, online filing or issuing notices will attract ₹15,000 from now.The whole aim according to the revenue ministry is to bring uniformity and ensure people comply with the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-changes-stamp-duty-on-property-banking-agreements/story-e23q14HLO8LEizI64Y3hLL.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Mayors stay put at Flagstaff Rd as AAP, BJP spar over protest||Mayors and office-bearers of the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations continued to camp outside Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Flagstaff Road for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, demanding the release of ₹13,000 crore due to the civic bodies. The AAP retaliated and said the crisis was the outcome of “rampant corruption”, “incompetence” and “financial mismanagement” within the civic bodies.The mayors were joined by BJP MPs Gautam Gambhir and Manoj Tiwari, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and BJP MLAs. Gupta said, “It is very unfortunate that even on the third day, CM Arvind Kejriwal did not bother to talk to corporation leaders.”The mayors and councillors said they are not deterred by the cold and will continue to sit there till Kejriwal meets them. “The CM, who has been attending to all other engagements, has not stopped to even address us. This is a fight for our constitutional right,” said north corporation mayor Jai Prakash.The cash-strapped civic bodies have not been able to pay salaries of employees on time with the north Corporation being the worst-affected -- salaries are due under the municipal body for the past three to four months.Senior AAP leader and party’s municipal affairs in-charge Durgesh Pathak said, “We will run the MCDs efficiently. The mayors are aware that the Delhi government has given all funds due to the civic bodies and it is because of their corruption that the MCDs are facing this financial ruin.” The party alleged that the north corporation had waived ₹2,457 crore owed to it by the south corporation, in lieu of rent on office space. “If the south corporation pays this money then for one year, the north civic body will not have any financial issues,” Pathak said. Meanwhile, south corporation mayor Anamika Singh and Delhi BJP leaders have filed a police complaint against deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Pathak over the latter allegedly publicly threatening to kill the mayors on Tuesday. The complaint was submitted to deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal, which was later forwarded to north district. DCP (north) Anto Alphonse said, “We have received the complaint. No FIR has been registered, so far.”Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said, “Everyone has a video in which AAP leader Durgesh Pathak is publicly saying that he will kill the corporation leaders and deputy CM Manish Sisodia trying to calm him down.”Pathak refuted the claims and said, “Who are we to beat the mayors? However, owing to the things they have done in Delhi, the people of Delhi will definitely beat them….The BJP has a habit of mixing random audios with random videos to defame and malign the image of the people. But they cannot divert attention from the issue of farmers. If they think that they will do all this to divert attention from the farm laws issue, then they are wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-stay-put-at-flagstaff-rd-as-aap-bjp-spar-over-protest/story-29m3TK9auaZHMDo5FkRQQO.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Gate to CM’s house blocked, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday insisted that the central government has kept chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under a virtual house arrest -- a contention the Delhi police has denied. The party has alleged that the Centre does not want Kejriwal to support the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws with the party spokesperson Raghav Chadha saying on Wednesday that the police were still blocking the main entrance to the CM’s residence. “While one gate was opened on Tuesday evening, the main entrance that everyone uses to enter the CM’s residence to meet him was shut even today (Wednesday). Access to that entrance has been blocked as 4-5 members of the BJP are camping outside the CM’s residence, with active assistance from Delhi Police. The CM’s right to free movement, a fundamental right, has been curtailed,” he said.When contacted, the police said they cordoned off a small portion in front of the CM’s residence for security reasons as mayors and councillors of the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled corporations continued their sit-in protest for the third consecutive day over alleged unpaid dues. On Wednesday, they were joined by more BJP leaders, including MPs Gautam Gambhir and Manoj Tiwari. But, Chadha said the protest by BJP leaders is “just an excuse”, adding,“They are doing this so that the revolution brought forth by the farmers doesn’t get stronger by the participation of Kejriwal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/access-to-delhi-cm-house-still-partially-blocked-centre-doesn-t-want-kejriwal-to-support-farmers-protest-raghav-chadha/story-CTyN5wSaA5geHQih8YLiTJ.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||East Delhi Municipal Corporation budget: 3 new taxes proposed to hike revenue||In a bid to overcome its acute financial crisis, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has proposed three new taxes—professional tax, betterment tax and education cess—in its budget proposal for the financial year 2021-22 presented on Wednesday.The total budget projection of the East corporation for the financial year 2021-22 is Rs 4,647 crore. With the proposed new taxes, the civic body aims to boost its revenue by Rs 50 crore annually. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the property tax collection has been hit. The corporation is facing a dual challenge of increased responsibilities in terms of providing services with limited resources to do so. So, we propose three new taxes that will together help boost the corporation’s revenue by around Rs 50 crore,” additional commissioner Alka R Sharma said in her budget presentation for the financial year 20201-22. She was presenting the budget proposal on behalf of municipal commissioner Dilraj Kaur, who is infected with Covid-19.Professional tax, which was first introduced by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, has been proposed for self-employed professionals and businesspersons with an annual income of more than Rs 5 lakh. “Professional tax for those earning more than Rs 5 lakh a year will be levied at the rate of Rs 100 per month, while for those earning above Rs 10 lakh a year, it will be Rs 200 per month. The levying of this tax is estimated to generate revenue of Rs 10 crore a year,” said Sharma.According to civic officials, this new tax would be levied on self-employed professionals such as doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants, architects, those working in private firms, etc. for using civic amenities. The corporation also proposed an education cess of 5% on annual property tax. “Levying of this tax is estimated to generate Rs 10 crore a year,” said Sharma.She added that betterment tax is proposed at 15% of annual property tax. “The tax will be levied against properties, the values of which have constantly seen a rise because of public infrastructure development works. This is estimated to fetch the civic body Rs 30 crore annually,” she said.The three taxes were proposed in the previous year’s budget as well, but were not approved by the House.Other than this, the corporation has also proposed hiking the transfer duty (for change in the name of properties) by 1%. This tax is levied by the corporation on the transfer of immovable properties situated in its area of jurisdiction. Currently, transfer duty is 3% for male buyers and 2% for female buyers.“This year, the property tax collected till November 30 was Rs 150 crore, as against Rs 209 crore in 2019-20,” said an EDMC official requesting anonymity.However, EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said that the new tax proposals may not be approved. “We will have to thoroughly examine the new tax proposals. We don’t want to put additional burden on the people during the pandemic,” said Jain.Manoj Tyagi, AAP councillor and leader of the opposition, EDMC, said that the budget is not people-friendly. “We are not in favour of levying new taxes at a time when the economy is slow. The budget has nothing new to offer to boost revenue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/east-delhi-municipal-corporation-proposes-three-new-taxes-in-a-bid-to-boost-revenue/story-KRDHzPnWzsKjyvJAGLWoGO.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Rethink 80% bed reservation in pvt hospitals, HC tells govt||The high court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to reconsider its decision of reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid patients after being told that half of such beds are lying vacant.Justice Navin Chawla turned down the request of the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, who had sought that the matter be listed after 10 days for better review of the situation after the petitioner’s counsel told the court that out of 5,081 ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, 2,360 were vacant as on Tuesday and that there was no justification for continuing the reservation of beds.Taking note of the submission, the court said that 10 days cannot be granted to review the order and it should be done immediately. It asked the government to re-consider its decision and file its stand by December 14 while posting the matter for further hearing on December 15. “See the figures. If 50% beds are lying vacant, it needs immediate review and not a review after 10 days,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers, who had challenged a September 12 decision of the Delhi government asking 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by high court on September 22.Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refused to vacate the stay and adjourned the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the Apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9. The Supreme Court refused to interfere with the high court’s order staying the AAP government’s instruction to private hospitals and asked it to go back to the high court.On November 12, a division bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad, finally, vacated the stay considering the increase in the number of cases in the city. On Wednesday, appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, told the court that they are taking all precautionary measures and that the matter be heard after December 17.He said that a meeting was held by Delhi health minister on December 7 to review the current Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Ghose said that the order to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 hospitals would be reviewed again on December 17. However, appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate Maninder Singh and advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, told the court that several ICU beds in government as well the private hospitals are lying vacant.Taking details from the Delhi corona app, Singh told the court that while 534 ICU beds with ventilator were lying vacant, another 1,038 ICU beds without ventilator are also unoccupied. Singh said in case of non-Covid-19 ICU beds, out of 1,420, at least 314 beds are lying vacant.The court agreed with the contentions raised and asked the Delhi government to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-govt-to-rethink-80-bed-reservation-in-pvt-hospitals/story-aZBW9qmvE3E7taUUmU9tuO.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||At Ghazipur, 2 elderly UP farmers start indefinite hunger strike||On a makeshift stage set-up on the Delhi-Meerut expressway, one of the prominent sites for ongoing farmers protests, all eyes were on Suresh Chand (60) and Bhudev Prasad (70).Chand and Prasad, both farmers from Uttar Pradesh, had taped their face with paper messages on them.“On hunger strike following Gandhi ‘s principles,” read the message written on the paper mask on Chand’s face. He has been on an indefinite hunger strike and a silent protest since Monday, demanding revocation of the three new farm laws passed by the Centre. He was also joined by Prasad on Tuesday. On Wednesday, both were responding to queries of people around them by writing down their answers in a notebook they kept with them.Chand, a resident of Summer Pur village in Firozabad, said he will not break his silence or eat anything till the Central government revokes the three new laws. He said that his family of 11 is dependent on the produce they grow on a 4.5 acre land. “We grow wheat, rice, maize, and potatoes on a seven bigha land and don’t earn much out of it. The new farm laws will reduce our income. already have a debt of Rs 5,000 from the bank.”Similarly, Prasad, who hails from a village in Aligarh, said that he is in debt. “I have Rs 2 lakh to repay. My family of eight is completely dependent on the 12 acres of land we own. We primarily grow sugarcane and we don’t receive our payments on time from the mill owners. That’s why we are always under debt.”“This is our state when we have Minimum Support Price (MSP). Imagine what happens when MSP is withdrawn. If we do not fight against these laws now our grandchildren will be working in someone else’s farms a few years down the line,” he said.The farmers fear the new laws will do away with the guaranteed MSP, enabling private players to procure produce at much lower rates. The government has been stating that MSP system will not be done away with.Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer from Uttrakhand protesting at Ghazipur border, said, “More people will join these two in their hunger strike in the coming days if the government does not listen to our demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-ghazipur-two-elderly-up-farmers-start-indefinite-hunger-strike/story-2Ze62E37FiRbWlPXpOOfVI.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Protest enters its 16th day, traffic on borders affected||Farmers continued to camp at Delhi’s borders for the 16th straight day on Wednesday, to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, leading to partial or complete closure of the border points.At Singhu, Tikri, Chilla, and Ghazipur borders, protesters spent their day cooking and distributing food at langars (community kitchen), delivering speeches or putting up posters and raising slogans against the farm laws.All seven border points of Delhi — Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla — have been shut since farmers from northern states laid a siege to demand repeal of the new laws.Since the border remained completely blocked, traffic continued to suffer in the city, as it has since November 24. Delhi traffic police said in an advisory, “Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. Available open borders to Haryana are following borders – Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.”The protest site at Ghazipur border also remained peaceful on Wednesday.The protesters on Wednesday continued to block one of the four carriageways of Delhi-Meerut expressways while traffic on other two lanes remained normal throughout the day. “We do not want to cause any inconvenience to the general public. Who would like to leave their homes and live on the roads? But our cause is important. We need to fight for it,” said Joginder Singh, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar.At the Chilla border (Delhi-Noida) link road the farmers cleared one carriageway around 5.30 am allowing the vehicles to move into Noida from Delhi. The protesting groups at this border also remained peaceful and number of farmers remained low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protest-enters-16th-day-traffic-across-border-points-affected/story-4m02gIgBKs7nc8x0xAulXP.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Govt planning collateral-free loans, doorstep assistance of CAs||The Delhi government is planning to offer collateral-free loans and doorstep assistance of chartered accountants and lawyers to entrepreneurs with a view to encourage the growth of start-ups, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday. The chief minister was speaking virtually at the IndUS Entrepreneurs (TiE) Global Summit and shared the Delhi government’s efforts in building a comprehensive start-up policy to turn the city into a global start-up destination.“As part of the start-up policy, we plan to provide collateral-free loans for start-ups in priority areas. We will also enable easy access to experts who can aid start-ups with accounting, taxation, registration, legal help, digital marketing, and other such services. Further, Delhi government will align its public procurement in a manner that a fixed percentage of goods and services are procured through recognised start-ups,” he said. The chief minister said a helpline will also be set up to answer all start-up related queries. “Individuals and start-ups will be able to use the government of Delhi’s doorstep service, by dialling 1076 and get a CA and/or lawyer to help them,” he said. Kejriwal reiterated that there are over 7,000 start-ups — valued at an estimated $50 billion — in Delhi, making it the city with the highest number of active start-ups in the country. He said the government is taking short and long-term steps to ensure start-ups have access to the best quality human capital by imparting entrepreneurship mindset curriculum in schools and opening the Delhi skill and entrepreneurship university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-boost-start-ups-delhi-govt-plans-collateral-free-loans-dedicated-helpline-and-doorstep-assistance/story-KBxWJ1ji47HR0f0fqowdNI.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Active Covid-19 cases down to 20,000, lowest in 2 months||With fewer cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported over the last 10 days in the city, the number of active cases (those still infected) has reduced to just over 20,000.According to the government’s health bulletin on Wednesday, there were 20,546 active cases in Delhi, which is the lowest in almost two months. Of the 72,079 tests conducted, 32,976 (45.7%) were done using the RT-PCR method — the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging. There were 6,460 containment zones in the capital, according to the bulletin. The city reported 2,463 new cases and 50 deaths due to the viral infection. So far, Covid-19 has affected over 599,000 people and killed 9,813 in Delhi. With fewer active cases, the pressure on the city hospitals has gone down. “It is heartening to see that Delhi is emerging victorious in the battle against the virus. First time Delhi has witnessed more than 13000 vacant covid beds in hospitals. Now the effect of the pandemic is on the decline,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. Meanwhile, 5,417 people are still admitted to hospitals in the city, as per Wednesday’s bulletin. The positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive—is also showing a decline. According to Wednesday’s bulletin, it was 3.42%, marking a week of the positivity rate staying below 5%. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control when a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained for two weeks. “It is a very positive sign; however the government must continue to conduct as many tests as possible. No one can say for certain if there ill be another surge—for one, it is linked to the behaviour of the community which is not easy to predict,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/active-covid-19-cases-down-to-20-000-lowest-in-two-months/story-GdnXWPE2GHVd4FrR4g5QLI.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC gets shot in the arm as UT releases complete grant-in-aid||In a major financial relief for the beleaguered municipal corporation, the UT administration has decided to release the entire pending grant-in-aid of Rs 173 crore to it. On Wednesday, it issued Rs 73 crore to MC, while the rest of the Rs 100 crore will be released in the next three months. With more funds, the civic body plans to revive development works it had suspended earlier. As part of the 2020-21 Budget, UT had allotted a meagre Rs 425 crore for MC as grant-in-aid. Following losses amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the administration had announced to even cut this down by 20%.However, now the funds have been restored and the corporation will receive the original aid of Rs 425 crore.MC’s own revenue collection also took a hit in the wake of the outbreak, forcing it to suspend all development works, even those already approved. Amid paucity of funds, it has been struggling to pay salaries to its employees and had to even monetise one of its fixed deposits and divert funds from other heads. Meanwhile, the administration has directed MC to augment its revenue and work out modalities for reducing expenditure. Development plans back on table With restoration of the aid, MC will be preparing a detailed plan of development works to be carried out. Recently, the civic body had earmarked around Rs 8 crore for councillors for priority works in their wards. “MC has asked the councilors to submit a list of works that have to be carried out in their wards. Urgent works will be carried out on priority based on their recommendation,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-gets-shot-in-the-arm-as-ut-releases-complete-grant-in-aid/story-YznkqmW8waTOXzfmsPpG1L.html
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn ready to increase wards, invites objections||The UT administration on Wednesday notified a draft notification regarding increasing the number of municipal corporation wards from 26 to 35. The administration has sought objections from the general public and other stakeholders within seven days, after which it will issue the final notification. The delimitation exercise is being taken up after nearly 14 years. The last delimitation of the wards was done in 2006 on the basis of the 2001 census. While the process was also initiated in 2015, it was not completed as the issue of including all villages in the MC was still pending. Delimitation committee deputy commissioner-cum-chairperson Mandip Singh Brar said, “Delimitation has been done to ensure equitable distribution of population in all wards in view of the addition of 13 new villages under the MC’s jurisdiction. The legal basis of the exercise is the 2011 census. We have also referred to the city’s latest electoral data.” In the wake of councillors and political parties’ long-standing demand of ensuring a homogenous electorate in wards, the delimitation committee has tried to keep urban areas and rural areas in different wards. “We have tried to keep the sanctity of the nature of the population as much as possible. But, with only data of an entire sector available in the 2011 census, splitting a sector’s population was not possible,” said Brar. Keeping urban character intactAt present, there are 26 wards in the MC that cover urban sectors and nine villages. The process has become crucial in the wake of addition of 13 new villages under the MC’s jurisdiction. The villages that were merged with the MC last year include Bahlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas. These villages have a population of over 50,000. “The wards do not have a uniform population. This is being corrected through the latest delimitation process. In order to keep the urban character of the city intact, the population in some wards will still be higher than others,” said a senior UT official. Key election year The delimitation exercise is all the more important with the MC elections less than a year away. With jurisdiction of most of wards changing, many of the existing councillors will see their wards break up. The Congress has criticised the administration’s handling of the delimitation process as ‘high-handed’. Pradeep Chhabra, the president of the party’s Chandigarh chapter, said, “The administration did not involve political parties in the process. They should have called an all-party meeting before issuing the draft notification.” On objections being sought by the administration, Chhabra, said, “Seeking objections is a mere formality. We can also approach the courts challenging the final notification.” At present, the Congress has five councillors in the house. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also plans to submit its objections in a couple of days. Convener Prem Garg said, “We want a uniform population in all wards. The continuity of the wards should also be maintained. AAP will contest from all seats in the MC election.” BJP general secretary Chander Shekhar, said, “We will study the notification and take a decision thereafter.” BJP currently has 20 councillors in the house. PROPOSED WARDS LIST1. Kaimbwala, Khuda Alisher, Lahora, Khuda Jassu and Khuda Lahora Colony. 2. Sectors 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. 3. Sectors 26 and 26-E, EWS Colony, Bapu Dham Colony and Madrasi Colony. 4. Manimajra Basti, Kishangarh, Basti Bhagwanpura, Pipli Wala Town, Housing Board Duplex and IT Park in Manimajra. 5. Old Manimajra (NAC), Shanti Nagar, Mariwala Town, Thakur Dwara and Govindpura in Manimajra. 6. Railway Colony, Shivalik Enclave, Mauli Jagran, Dhillon Complex, motor market, Darshni Bagh, Subhash Nagar and Indira Colony in Manimajra. 7. Ambedkar Colony, Charan Singh Colony and small flats in Mauli Jagran. 8. Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra and Raipur Khurd. 9. Sanjay Colony, Kabari Colony, Colony Number 4 and Daria in (and including) Industrial Area, Phase 1. 10. Sectors 27, 28 and 29. 11. Sectors 18, 19 and 21. 12. Sectors 15, 16, 17 and 24. 13. Sectors 11, 12, 14 and 25, UIET and dental college. 14. LIG Colony, Milkman Colony, Aman Chaman and Ambedkar Colony in Dhanas. 15. Sarangpur and Rehabilitation Colony, Dhanas. 16. Bhaskar Colony, Sectors 25 and 25 (West). 17. Sectors 22 and 23 18. Sectors 20 and 30. 19. Industrial Area Phase-2, Ram Darbar and Tatarpur. 20. Hallomajra and Behlana. 21. Sector 47, Bair Majra, Faidan and Chahar Taraf, Burail. 22. Sectors 31, 32 and 33. 23. Sectors 34, 35 and 43. 24. Sectors 36, 42, 53, 54 (Furniture Market, Adarsh Colony), 42 (Attawa) and Nehru Colony, Sector 52. 25. Sectors 37 and 38. 26. Sector 38 (West), Dadumajra Colony, Dadumajra village and Shahpur Colony and village. 27. Sectors 39 and 40. 28. Maloya village, EWS Maloya, Gursagar Bhattal Colony, Maloya, Gwala and Kumhar Colony, Sukhrana and Bansal Farm and EWS Maloya. 29. Sectors 55 (Housing Board), 56 (Bapu Dham Colony, Ambedkar Colony, Sweeper Colony, LBS Colony) and 55 (Palsora). 30. Sectors 41, Buterla and Badheri village. 31. Kajheri Colony, Sector 52, Sector 52 (EWS LIG Colony), Sector 61, Kajheri village, Sector 52 (Houses for Electricity Department, UT), Sector 52 (Transit Camp), Sector 52 (Karsan Colony), Kuldeep Colony, Kajheri), Pandit Colony, Kajheri, Gwala Colony Kajheri and Majdoor Colony Kajheri. 32. Sectors 44, 51 and Colony Number 5. 33. Burail (Sector 45). 34. Sectors 45 and 46. 35. Sectors 48, 49, 50 and Sector 63.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-ready-to-increase-wards-invites-objections/story-wQL8p1T6U3FWoQTPJmulVJ.html
10-12-2020||Pune||FYJC second round: 41,021 Pune students complete admission process||The second round of the First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions ended on Wednesday and a total of 41,021 students completed their admission process in the second round. A large number of students have still not confirmed their admissions and as of Wednesday, 66,009 seats are vacant across various streams in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad region. Earlier in the first round of the admissions, of the total 14.3 lakh FYJC students, 11.5 lakh sought admission in the state. The remaining 2.79 lakh students have to now complete their admission process. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) since September 9 and the admission process resumed on November 26. For this year’s Class 11 admission process, a total of 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. The total intake of seats this year is 1,07,030 in Pune region, 41,021 students have completed the admission process in the second round and 66,009 seats are still vacant.Talking about the ongoing admission process, Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, said, “The second round of admissions is over and still we can see that there is lot of enthusiasm among students to get prominent colleges and so they are not completing their admission process. Now, on December 10, the vacancy list for third regular admission round will be declared online for further admission process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fyjc-second-round-41-021-students-complete-admission-process/story-QAq1ysdnVKPH5YzMCBEb4M.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Maha-Metro sets June 2021 deadline to complete crucial Nal stop chowk flyover in Pune||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) has set June 2021 as the deadline to complete the multi-storey flyover at Nal stop, Karve road, after they inspected the site on Wednesday. Once complete, the two-tier flyover will help decongest traffic on Karve road. During a joint visit to the site by officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Maha-Metro along with local elected representatives, it was decided to construct a four-metre road with two-metre footpath till the time the flyover is ready for use. Local corporator Manjusha Khardekar, who was present there, said, “PMC’s road and drainage departments along with Maha-Metro are working together to complete the flyover before the monsoon starts next year.” So far, Maha-Metro has completed the foundation work for the flyover with partial completion of some pillars. Gautam Birhade, executive director (civil work) of Pune Metro, said, “We have set a deadline to complete the two-tier flyover by June 2021. We have discussed the plan with PMC drainage and road department officials in detail and they are ready to provide full cooperation to complete the work as per the deadline. After shifting service lines, it will make it easier for us to speed up the work.” Abhijit Dombe, executive engineer of road department, said, “Last year, people had faced a lot of problems during monsoon. So, we have instructed them to complete the work as early as possible. We have given them permission to shift service lines. Pune Metro contractor will shift the service lines as per our plan and instruction. They will take two months to complete this work.” The proposed flyover will come up on 13 pillars with three of them in the middle of Nal Stop square. The top tier of the flyover will be for the metro rail while the lower tier will cater to vehicular traffic. Flyover will start after SNDT chowk on Karve road and pass over Nal Stop chowk and will descend just before the next square. It is 572 metres in length and 6.1 metres wide. The corporation contributed Rs 30 crore and Pune metro will add Rs 26 crore to construct this flyover. Jadish Khanore, chief superintendent of drainage department, said, “To clear the problem of waterlogging in the area, Pune metro will construct a 900 millimeter (mm) diameter stormwater drain line on both the sides of the road. Besides that, the metro contractor will lay down 600mm diameter drainage lines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maha-metro-sets-june-2021-deadline-to-complete-crucial-nal-stop-chowk-flyover/story-EK21Z0b88cGfRwGIdt29YK.html
10-12-2020||Pune||18-yr-old booked for murdering 16-yr-old in Chakan||The Chakan police have launched a manhunt to nab an eighteen-year-old who is suspected of throttling a 16-year-girl from a farmer’s family to death following a quarrel over some petty issue while grazing cattle at the farmland near their residence at village Gonvadi in Khed taluka on Tuesday evening.The incident took place on December 8 in the fields of Baburao Mohite. Pravin Mohan Mohite (35), the deceased’s relative, lodged an FIR against the accused who has been identified as Mauli.Assistant police inspector PK Rathod, the investigating officer, said that the accused, an orphan from Nashik, stayed at the residence of the girl’s relatives and used to work in the field.“The accused killed her in a fit of rage as she used to have regular fights with him over petty reasons. The deceased’s eight-year-old relative, who witnessed the crime, pleaded him to stop, but he strangulated the victim to death,” he said. Meanwhile, IPC 302 ( murder ) section has been invoked against the accused, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/18-yr-old-booked-for-murdering-16-yr-old/story-k62hlNjEgScgyNBuHSi8CP.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Maha CET cell to start engineering , pharma admissions from December 10||Maharashtra state common entrance test (CET) cell will start the admission process for Bachelor of Engineering (BE) and Bachelor of Pharmacy (BPharm) from December 10. Students have begin registering through the online mode. For BE admissions, the last date for registration is December 15 and document verification by December 16. The admission process of Master of Engineering (ME) and Master of Technology (MTech) will begin from December 11. Master of Computer Application, Master of Pharmacy, Master of Architecture and Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) will start from December 10. Last date for registration for BPharm admissions is December 14 and students need to get documents verified by December 15. According to a statement issued by the CET cell, students who will register for admissions till December will be marked as “non cap” and similarly for BPharm admissions students registering till December 14 will be marked as “non cap”. The detailed schedule of admission process of all the courses is uploaded on the CET cell website www.mahacet.org. The first merit list for the BE admissions will be declared on December 17 and later on December 18 and 19 students can give their objection on it. On December 21, the final merit list will be declared and students can give their college preferences between December 22 and 24. Students need to confirm their admission from December 29 to 31 and from January 1, 2021, the second round of admissions will start. Meanwhile, a meeting was held by state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant with state labour and excise minister Dilip Walse Patil and College of Engineering Pune and Government Polytechnic College, Awsari officials on Wednesday. Issues faced by prominent colleges during the current times were discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/engg-pharma-admissions-to-begin-from-today/story-2hNFx7Gk5Amob9pJ0ps49O.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Now, you can get bus passes online in Delhi||Regular bus travellers can now get passes online, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday. The minister on Wednesday inaugurated an online digital delivery of DTC bus e-Pass facility, which will be applicable to both DTC and cluster buses. Commuters can apply at www.dtcpass.delhi.gov.in. The applicant can fill-up his/her credentials such as name, father’s name, and date of birth, and upload the photo on the portal and pay through debit, credit card, net banking and BHIM UPI. The general bus pass will be available for download immediately after submitting the application, while the concessional pass will be delivered within the next working day, at the registered mobile number and email ID of the applicant, after verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-get-bus-passes-online-in-delhi/story-Ai4c7X8URRuyEK2lr3SdbJ.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||CM Kejriwal launches mobile anti-smog gun||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday inaugurated a truck-mounted anti-smog gun, which has a water tank of a capacity of 5,000 litres. It will be used to wash roads, footpaths, and trees to curb dust pollution.“This anti-smog gun said this is mounted on a BS-VI fuel certified engine truck, which is a significant step in reducing air pollution owing to lesser vehicular emission,” the government statement said. “The 5,000 litres of the water tank can wash the road, footpath, and trees in the median and sidewalks as this anti-smog gun has the facility to atomize the water and carry particulate matter suspended in the air,” the government statement read. It added, “Around 23 anti-smog guns have been installed by the PWD (Public Works Department) at key intersections and construction sites across Delhi, to combat dust pollution in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-launches-anti-smog-gun/story-Ic7wz7o0qen2clnhsacjnI.html
10-12-2020||Pune||Defence officials ok plot of land for Pune Lohegaon airport cargo use: Bapat||Pune’s Lohegaon airport will soon get control of a long-pending stretch of defence land bordering the airport.This will be used to expand the airport’s cargo facility. The transfer of the land came to a conclusion after BJP MP Girish Bapat met with defence officials and officials of the airport authority of India in Delhi recently. A written order is expected in the coming days said Bapat. Bapat said, “Yes we are expecting the transfer of land in the next 8-10 days. After multiple follow ups, we will finally get hold of the land as the defence ministry has given an in-principle approval for the same. The decision was taken at the meeting which took place in Delhi between myself, Airport Authority of India officials and Indian Airforce officials. The airforce needs a piece of land which the Airport authority owns in Chandigarh and in exchange the air force will hand over their Pune land to the airport authority.” The piece of land which is currently in possession of the Indian Air Force is the BSO Yard and CWE office land, spread across 8.5 acres and 2.5 acres, respectively. The land will now be used for the cargo needs of the airport. During a meeting with the Airport Advisory committee, Pune Airport Director Kuldeep Singh had said that due to the absence of this land, cargo facilities could not be expanded and so the city and airport are facing huge losses. Girish Bapat is also the chairman of the airport advisory committee. As of now due to the re-carpeting work, the flight operation timings have been limited to only 12 hours from 8 am to 8 pm. Currently about 70 flights arrival and departures which was 170-175 flights being operated at the airport daily. Kuldeep Singh during an earlier interaction had said, “Currently the Pune airport has a cargo capacity of about 150 tonnes in shipment daily which could be escalated to a much higher capacity. Sky is the limit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/defence-officials-ok-plot-of-land-for-lohegaon-airport-cargo-use-bapat/story-i1gR8q2t5e2DxWrdUBWZCL.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||For first time this season, min temp falls below 10°C||The minimum temperature in the national capital dropped below 10 degrees Celsius for the first time this season on Thursday, falling to 9.4°C, three notches below the normal mercury level, even as the met department said winter is setting in early this year.The maximum temperature in the Capital, meanwhile, stood at 25.6°C, two degrees below normal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Monday forecast that minimum temperatures would fall under the 10°C mark this week because of cold winds blowing in from the direction of the snow-clad western Himalayas. Adampur and Faridkot in Punjab recorded the lowest minimum temperatures of the season so far on Thursday at 5.6°C, Hisar, Narnaul, Rohtak, Sirsa recorded temperatures of 8.2, 8, 9 and 8°C respectively. “Normally, minimum temperatures don’t drop below 10°C in November. In recent years, in 2017 during the last week of November, the minimum temperature had dipped to 7.6 degree C. It’s unusual for minimum temperatures to drop to single digits around this time. Winter is setting in early this year,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. In 2019 the lowest November temperature was 11.4 degree C and in 2018 it was 10.5 degree C.The weather forecaster on Thursday said it expects mercury levels to fall further from Sunday.Also Read: Covid-19 restrictions reduced global pollution levels by nearly 20%, shows NASA study“We are seeing a dip in minimum temperatures across northwest India and expect temperatures to dip further from November 22, when a western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region,” Srivastava said.He added that winds are likely to get faster from Friday, up to around 18kmph, thereby also dispersing pollution in the region. Delhi on Thursday recorded an air quality index (AQI) reading of 283, categorised as ‘poor’.Also Read: After a short breather, pollution levels rise in Delhi“The fall in minimum temperature is not abrupt. There are clear skies now, so the heat is radiating back. Minimum temperatures may go up marginally on November 21 before falling again after the western disturbance passes. There is a slight northerly incursion of cold winds and we are climatologically moving towards cold days,” said K Sathi Devi, head of national weather forecasting centre.A low-pressure area has formed over central parts of south Arabian Sea. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over southwest Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours. The met department, in its Thursday bulletin, said minimum temperatures are likely to fall gradually by 2-4°C over northwest India during the next three days and over central India by 2-4°C gradually after 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minimum-temperature-in-delhi-falls-below-10-c-mark-for-the-first-time-met-says-further-chill-expected-from-sunday/story-Huvzx0mX0LNWXjB5apG7dK.html
