11-12-2020||Bhopal||MP home minister meets Jaya Bachchan’s mother to reach out to Bengali community ahead of Bengal polls||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra called on Indira Bhaduri, mother of veteran Bollywood actress-turned-politician Jaya Bachchan, at her residence in Bhopal on Friday in a bid to reach out to Bengali community members living in the state ahead of West Bengal assembly elections to be held next year. Mishra is in-charge of BJP’s affairs in 48 assembly constituencies in West Bengal.Mishra, who recently visited West Bengal, announced on Friday to meet Bengali community families after the attack on the convoy of BJP chief JP Nadda and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) affairs in charge in West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya on Thursday.Mishra sought blessings of Bhaduri while touching her feet and apprised her of the present political situation in West Bengal. He urged her to give her blessings for a nationalist and BJP government in the state under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre.He also told her that there are about 2.5 lakh Bengali families members living in Bhopal and the BJP would soon convene a meeting of all the community members to create a conducive atmosphere for the BJP in West Bengal seeking their support.Also read: ‘Independent ties with countries’ - India pushes back against Russian minister’s commentsAfter calling on Indira Bhaduri, who lives at Shyamla Hills in Bhopal, Narottam Mishra said, “West Bengal has given several legendary personalities to the country and it has contributed chiefly to country’s literary, spiritual and religious fields. The state played a leading role in the freedom struggle. But when we see such a sorry state of affairs in West Bengal caused by its chief minister Mamta Banerjee, it pains us.”He said, “West Bengal used to give employment to many but many industries are being closed down in the state and there is poverty and unemployment galore under Mamta Banerjee government. We will meet Bengali community members in the entire country, particularly in Madhya Pradesh. I have requested century’s great actor Amitabh Bachchan’s mother-in-law Indira Bhaduri to appeal to her community members to help BJP restore law and order in West Bengal by forming its government.”Reacting upon Mishra’s visit to Indira Bhaduri’s residence and his recent visit to West Bengal, state Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “home minister Narottam Mishra who has been made in-charge of BJP affairs in 48 assembly constituencies in West Bengal is extremely busy with canvassing for the party. Hence, he should be dropped from the state cabinet so that a new home minister could pay attention to deteriorating law and order situation in Madhya Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-home-minister-meets-jaya-bachchan-s-mother-to-reach-out-to-bengali-community-ahead-of-bengal-polls/story-DcSh18GEh0RWkLzMLEqLKI.html
11-12-2020||City||72 Ludhiana youth get jobs at placement camp||Despite the economic slowdown amid the Covid pandemic, over 72 candidates got selected during the placement camp organised by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) at their office near Partap Chowk on Friday.A total of 109 candidates participated in the camp. Officials from Rockman, ICICI Foundation, Vardhman, and Bajaj Allianz interviewed the candidates for various job roles. The eligibility for the jobs was Class 10, 12, and graduation and, the salaries offered were between Rs 6,700 to 15,000.To maintain social distancing norms, the authorities accommodated the candidates in the conference hall and, gave company representatives proper space to conduct the interview sessions.Navdeep Singh, deputy chief executive officer, DBEE, said, “We are organising such camps on every Friday of the month. A large number of candidates have got jobs during these camps. We post updates regarding important dates on our Facebook page and even send messages to the candidates so that they can appear for the interviews.”Sukhwinder Singh, a candidate, said, “I completed a two-year-long fitter course in July last year and then did a six-month-long CNC programming course. When I started searching for a job, the lockdown was implemented, and I was left unemployed. Therefore, when I got to know regarding the camp, I decided to appear for the interview.”“The officials guided us regarding the job roles and qualifications required. I am expecting to get a job,” said the 22-year-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-ludhiana-youth-get-jobs-at-placement-camp/story-DC51eIhhJeD6kpamBHt6vN.html
11-12-2020||City||Lok Insaaf Party to join farmers’ stir at Singhu border||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjeet Singh Bains said that the party will join the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border from December 12.While addressing media persons after returning from Delhi, Bains lauded the farmers and union leaders for bravely fighting the ruling BJP regime. He demanded the release of social activists, professors, students, and journalists who have been arrested by the Central and state governments under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.“Many thinkers have been arrested on false grounds of participating in anti-national activities. The farmers are also being branded as anti-nationals. To ease the tension, the government should repeal the three anti-farmer laws and release the people incarcerated on false grounds,” said Bains.‘BJP TARGETTING PEOPLE SUPPORTING FARMERS’The district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) condemned the recent alleged attack by BJP goons at the residence of Delhi deputy chief minister Munish Sisodia.“The BJP, alarmed by the farmers’ massive movement, is now resorting to such despicable acts to target those who are supporting the farmers in their struggle,” said Aman Mohie, joint secretary, Punjab unit, and Suresh Goyal, AAP district in-charge (urban), in a statement issued from party headquarters on Friday.Goyal said that ever since the AAP ministers, MLAs, and workers started working for the struggling farmers as their “servants”, the BJP has been resorting to cheap gimmicks to target them.He added, “In a democratic system of governance, people are within their legitimate right to protest peacefully pressing for their demands, but the BJP government, through the Delhi police, have been suppressing such rights of the people. Such hooliganism of the BJP would prove disastrous for the country and its people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lok-insaaf-party-to-join-farmers-stir-at-singhu-border/story-bS1uyVcgJjgukv6NZsGv2J.html
11-12-2020||City||Punjab SCERT postpones scholarship exams scheduled for today, tomorrow||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) have postponed the National Means and Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam and Punjab State Talent Search Exam (PSTSE), and National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) scheduled to be held on December 12 and 13 in the state due to administrative reasons.A letter regarding the same was issued by council director Jagtar Kulria on Friday afternoon, a day before the PSTSE was scheduled to be held.PSTSE, which is conducted annually by the state government for students of classes 8 and 10 to provide financial help, will now be held on December 19. NTSE (stage 1), a national level scholarship exam conducted for Class 10 students, and NMMS, a centrally sponsored scheme for Class 8 students, will now be held on December 20. A total of 5,561 students have registered online to appear for PSTSE, 4,379 for NMMS, and 4,376 for NTSE.As per the council, the time, roll number, and centres will remain the same. New admit cards will not be issued. This move by the council will give extra time to students to prepare for the exam.The principals of over 50 government schools had been on their toes on Friday to make arrangements for the upcoming scholarship exams. Teachers of the district stated that they had even made transportation arrangements to ferry the students to the exam centres.A government school principal said, “We had got the rooms sanitised and had made proper seating plans to ensure social distancing, but now the authorities have postponed the exams. Teachers were informed about their examination duty on Friday morning and had to be informed about the postponement in the evening.”Students who qualify for the NTSE, become eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs 15,000 (Rs 1,250 per month) for classes 11 to 12, and Rs 2,000 per month at the undergraduate level. The students who qualify NMMS exam become eligible for Rs 12,000 per annum (Rs 1,000 per month) scholarship for four years from Class 9 to 12. Those who crack PSTSE, get Rs 200 every month till the completion of Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-scert-postpones-scholarship-exams-scheduled-for-today-tomorrow/story-t3HGrOCfV0YymLKVMx2sFM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Slight decline in air quality as winds change||Low wind speed and a change in wind direction led to a marginal decline in Delhi’s air quality on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said Delhi and neighbouring cities are likely to receive light rainfall starting Friday night. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 295, in the poor category. On Thursday, the AQI was 284, also in the poor category. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said on Friday, the average wind speed was 6kmph, which was not enough to blow away the pollutants. However, with a western disturbance impacting the entire region, the pollution levels are not expected to worsen much over the weekend. “The wind speed reduced to 6kmph and the direction also changed from north-westerly to easterly on Friday. Some areas in Haryana have received rainfall on Friday afternoon,” said Srivastava. He said the average wind speed in Delhi is likely to remain around 8-10kmph on Saturday and Sunday, which means that the air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” zone till Monday. “The western disturbance will pass on Saturday and the wind direction will change back to north-westerly,” he added. The Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said under the influence of this western disturbance, isolated to scattered rainfall and better ventilation are expected on Friday and Saturday and the AQI is also likely to further improve to the moderate category or the lower end of poor category. “However, the respite is not expected to last long. As an aftermath of the western disturbance, high moisture availability and higher air holding capacity will result in the creation of dense fog (mainly during early morning hours). This will lead to a deterioration in air quality from December 14,” the Safar forecast said. IMD scientists also said from December 14, the temperature is also expected to start falling. On Friday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 11.3 degrees Celsius. This was two notches above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 25.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/slight-decline-in-air-quality-as-winds-change/story-4FeAxZZPKieG0aYtOhIjFM.html
11-12-2020||City||Ludhiana activist returns national award||To express solidarity with the protesting farmers and mark his protest against the central government, Ludhiana-based 24-year-old youth activist Gauravdeep Singh, founder of NGO named Initiators of Change, returned the National Youth Award conferred on him by the Government of India in 2018 for his services. Gauravdeep has been working to create awareness among voters with Ludhiana district administration and chief electoral officer of Punjab for several years and has influenced thousands of youngsters with his words.Gauravdeep, who has been with the farmers at Singhu border since November 27, had announced during the protest that he would be returning the award, and handed it over to additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Amandeep Singh Bains.Gauravdeep said, “After working so closely with the election commission for years to create awareness on the right to vote, I was honoured by the Modi government with the National Youth Award on January 12, 2018. However, in the last one year, this government has not worked for its voters, but for the corporate houses of this country. The essence of democracy is the right to protest and the right to express, but the way this government has been suppressing the voices of dissent in recent times makes me feel that all my hard work to strengthen democracy has gone in vain. The farmers of my country have been treated like outsiders so as a young Indian, I feel disrespected and less optimistic about my faith in the current government. Farmers have been brutally attacked and denied the right to enter their own national capital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-activist-returns-national-award/story-568mJpWFsNtMh2StHe8PYP.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||HC seeks govt response on plea challenging price cap on RT-PCR tests||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea which challenged the government’s decision to cap the price of RT-PCR tests done by private labs at ₹ 800 on the grounds that the limit was set arbitrarily and without due consultations with the stakeholdersJustice Navin Chawla issued a notice to the Delhi government on the plea filed by the Association of Practising Pathologists, through advocate Neeraj Grover.The plea said the Delhi government while capping the charges for RT-PCR molecular based testing, had not taken into account the three different methods of testing -- RT-PCR (open system), CBNAAT and TRUNAT -- all loosely referred to as RT-PCR molecular tests in general parlance. The petitioner said these tests differ in their respective sensitivity as well as other factors.Grover told the court that the three tests differ on specificity, turnaround time and the cost involved. He said the capabilities of various labs in private sector to conduct such tests also differ on account of infrastructure and capital requirements.“While the costs to labs for doing an RT-PCR (open system) tests is around ₹1,200, the cost of a TRUNAT is around ₹2,000 and CBNAAT test is around ₹3,500,” the petition said.During the hearing, advocate Ramesh Singh, standing counsel of Delhi government, told the court that the price was capped only for the RT-PCR test, which is a molecular test, and not for CBNAAT and TRUNAT which are cartridge-based tests, while agreeing that all three tests are different.The government, also represented by the additional standing counsel, said a similar matter was pending in the Supreme Court and hence the plea should not be entertained. It said the petitioner did not give even a representation to the government highlighting their grievances and directly approached the court.After hearing brief arguments, the court issued a notice to the government seeking to know its stand.The plea by the association of over 240 practising pathologists said the Delhi government had failed to appreciate that the order of capping the price of the test is a “regressive” step as it was forcing path labs to do important investigations by using cheap RT-PCR open system kits which provides inaccurate results.The petition also said the Delhi government is not making timely payment of lab bills. It said most of the private labs which have committed their substantial capacity to the Delhi government and have been doing tests for them, have not been paid for doing tests for over two months while the vendors and manufacturers of kits demand an 100% advance for supplying the consumables.“Even the salaries of the staff and additional charges for Covid duties are being paid regularly. In such circumstances, the finances of the labs involved in Covid testing are draining quickly,” the plea read.The matter would be now heard on February 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-challenging-price-cap-on-rt-pcr-tests/story-U5zHcnlajGYkr6FU6aRKJM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat case: Delhi HC dismisses plea to transfer probe against Maulana Saad to NIA||The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea which had sought the transfer of investigation of a case against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad from the Delhi Police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case was registered against Maulana Saad for holding a congregation in March in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19.A bench comprising justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh dismissed the petition after the petitioner sought to withdraw it with the liberty to approach the Supreme Court. The court said that since one petition with a similar prayer is already pending in the Supreme Court, it cannot be heard here.“Advocate Yash Chaturvedi for the petitioner seeks to withdraw the petition with liberty to further prosecute the petition seeking similar relief instituted by him herein before the Supreme Court. Leave and liberty granted. The petition is dismissed and withdrawn,” the bench said in its oral order.A petition filed by Mumbai lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay has also sought directions to the NIA to investigate the matter in a timebound manner and requested that the probe be monitored by the high court, alleging that the Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite considerable the lapse of time.“It is virtually impossible for Maulana Saad to hide himself for such a long time and that too in the capital of the country. Performance of Delhi Police has been pathetic from the very inception and outset. Failure of the Delhi police is explicit from the fact that despite there being lockdown and curfew-like situation, Maulana Saad was able to arrange a gathering of thousands of people belonging to Tablighi Jamaat in the capital of India,” the plea said.The petition also alleged that the acts of omission and commission of Saad and his associates/Tablighi Jamaat constitute “terrorist acts/activities” as defined under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and hence the matter should be probed by the NIA.On March 31, the Delhi Police lodged an FIR against seven persons, including the cleric, based on a complaint by the station house officer of Nizamuddin police station for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-case-delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-to-transfer-probe-against-maulana-saad-to-nia/story-KKStGjFO2RYsE9dmEPd8XL.html
11-12-2020||City||Two Ludhiana women lose Rs 6.21 lakh to cyber scammers||Two women of the city lost Rs 6.21 lakh to online fraudsters. The women had transferred the money to the accused for buying suits and dresses, but the scammers took the money and did not send the consignment.The accused have been identified as Paramjit Singh of Tilak Nagar in New Delhi, Timzen Rao of Tripura, Yuyakim of Manipur and Lanuiyer of Nagaland.An FIR was registered following the statement of Simarjot Kaur of Industrial Area-A. In her complaint, Simarjot said that she had started a boutique in partnership with Harinder Kaur and they had ordered dresses and suits online.The woman told the police that the accused assured them that they will dispatch the consignment soon after receiving the amount. “We had transferred Rs 6.21 lakh to the accused using mobile application Google Pay, but they did not send the dresses. Later, the accused stopped attending our calls,” she added. She said that after they realised that they have been duped, they filed a complaint against the accused.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said that the FIR has been registered under sections 420 and 120 B of the IPC against the accused at Moti Nagar police station. A hunt is on to catch the accused, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-ludhiana-women-lose-rs-6-21-lakh-to-cyber-scammers/story-Z0xEEzNWuyrjSkDrW2sOtO.html
11-12-2020||City||Truck crushes 19-year-old woman to death in Ludhiana||A 19-year-old woman died while her father suffered severe injuries after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle in Sahnewal on Thursday evening. After the accident, the driver of the truck managed to escape, leaving his vehicle on the spot.The victim has been identified as Simran Kaur of Dharod village. Her father Gurmeet Singh has suffered multiple injuries and admitted to a private hospital in Doraha.An FIR has been registered following the statement of Makhan Singh, uncle of the woman.He said that his brother Gurmeet Singh and his daughter Simran Kaur were going to Sahnewal on a motorcycle. “When they reached the main road in Sahnewal, a speeding truck hit their motorcycle from the rear. As a result, both of them fell on the road and Simran was crushed under the tyres of the truck,” he added. ASI Bhupinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under sections 279, 304-A, 337 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused truck driver, identified as Paramjit Singh of Kotla village of Fatehgarh Sahib. A hunt is on to nab him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-crushes-19-year-old-woman-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-pWkjWTyaqnJ0QrPTFTvIeO.html
11-12-2020||City||Ludhiana MC all set to crack whip on property tax defaulters||The Ludhiana MC is all set to crack whip on the property tax defaulters.The authorities on Friday issued orders to seal 83 properties falling in Zone – B, property tax of which has not been paid by its owners. The notice to seal such properties was issued under Section 138 of the Municipal Corporation Act. The orders were issued after the property owners failed to pay the property tax within one month’s notice. The order reads that the civic body will start sealing these properties from December 14. Besides, the order of snapping water and sewerage supplies in 250 properties was also issued against the defaulters, who have not paid water and sewerage bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-all-set-to-crack-whip-on-property-tax-defaulters/story-BQjf2tvP3pDeHf6n67ZNJL.html
11-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Sarpanch’s husband assaulted for deterring accused extracting sand||The Koom Kalan police have booked a father-son duo and their four accomplices for assaulting a sarpanch’s husband and his brother in Ratangarh village on Thursday night after the victims deterred them from extracting sand from the village. The accused have been identified as Sohan Singh, his son Gurjit Singh, their accomplices Baljit Singh, Sursewak Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Amarjit Singh – all residents of Ratangarh.The FIR has been registered following the statement of Pavittar Singh, 35, husband of sarpanch Gurbakhsh Kaur, who stated that he came to know that the accused were extracting sand from the village land. “When I, along with my brother Iqbal Singh, went to the spot to deter them, the accused assaulted us and fled the spot,” he told the police.ASI Raghvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said that on being informed, the police reached the spot and initiated investigation. He added that a case under sections 341, 323, 324, 506, 148 and 149 of IPC has been registered against the accused.A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sarpanch-s-husband-assaulted-for-deterring-accused-extracting-sand/story-RQtIp8gwqOrdHXHISLv6WL.html
11-12-2020||City||Men posing as cop, scribe held for extorting money from medical practitioner in Ludhiana||A police imposter along with his accomplice robbed a medical practitioner of Rs 10,000 and threatening him of lodging an FIR against him. The accused claimed that condition of one of his patients has turned critical after availing treatment. The accomplice of the imposter, who was posing as a scribe, made a video of him and threatened him that he will telecast it on a news channel.After some locals gathered there, the accused managed to escape. On being informed, the police arrested the duo, while their two accomplices managed to escape.The arrested accused have been identified as Manpreet Singh, 34, of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar in Bhamian and Dharminder Singh, 36, of Kuldeep Nagar. Two of their accomplices, Kaka and Gagan of Subhash Nagar, are at large. The cops have recovered a police uniform, the car used in the crime, a fake identity card of a vernacular daily along with a microphone of a web channel from their possession.The FIR has been registered following the statement of Majhe Chaudhary of Vishkarma Colony in Moti Nagar, who is a medical practitioner. In his complaint, Chaudhary stated that he was at his clinic on Thursday when the accused turned up there in a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car.Manpreet Singh was wearing a policeman’s uniform, while Davinder Singh was posing as a scribe.Chaudhary said the accused claimed that one of his patients had developed serious medical problems after availing treatment from him. “He said the patient is admitted to Apollo hospital and his family has spent Rs 3 lakh on his treatment,” the complainant told the police. “The accused threatened me that if I did not pay Rs 3 lakh to the family, they will lodge an FIR against me and also telecast a news item. I gave them Rs 10,000 and said would arrange Rs 3 lakh the next day. However, after some locals started gathering at my clinic, the accused fled,” he added.“I found their activities suspicious and informed the police immediately after the accused left the place,” Chaudhary said. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police have arrested two of the accused from Shiv Chowk. A case under sections 420 and 170 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused at the Moti Nagar police station.Manpreet Singh is already facing trial in six cases, including snatching and forgery. Dharminder Singh is a taxi driver. A hunt is on for the arrest of the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/men-posing-as-cop-scribe-held-for-extorting-money-from-medical-practitioner-in-ludhiana/story-ztpJyhUqC7y6BrSAHSTOcP.html
11-12-2020||City||Excise dept in a joint operation with police seizes 1,400 litres of ENA in Rupnagar, five held||A joint team of the excise department, Mohali police and Amritsar police arrested five men after recovering 1,400 litres of extra-neutral alcohol (ENA) from a pick-up truck in Rupnagar on Friday.The truck, bearing registration number PB02-TG-1147, was loaded with seven drums of 200 litres of ENA, a raw material used to produce illicit liquor.The accused have been identified as Kawaljit Singh, alias Gopi, of Cheta Kallah in Amritsar; Akashdeep Singh and Maan Singh of Meharbanpur, Amritsar; Harjit Singh, alias Jeeta, of Chatiwind, Amritsar; and Kuldeep Singh of Mahal, Amristar. The team also apprehended three men, who were piloting the pick-up truck in a Toyota Innova (PB10-CG-0070).“The ENA was pilfered from trucks in connivance of their drivers and was to be supplied to Amritsar and Tarn Taran. The seizure came following secret information received around 20 days ago about some people from Amritsar being active in ENA smuggling,” said Rajat Agarwal, excise commissioner, Punjab.A case under Section 61/1/14 of the Punjab Excise Act has been registered at the Majitha police station in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/excise-dept-in-a-joint-operation-with-police-seizes-1-400-litres-of-ena-in-rupnagar-five-held/story-lRGe7aOyJeK2ZWDVwvhexM.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Helmetless man killed as bike skids near Hallomajra||A 32-year-old man was killed and his co-worker injured after their motorcycle skidded on a road between the airport and Hallomajra in the wee hours of Friday.The deceased was identified as Mahesh Pawar. He was riding pillion behind his co-worker, Mahesh Singh, 30, when the accident took place around 2am. Both were not wearing helmets.Police said the men were residents of Behlana and worked as waiters at Hotel Turquoise in Industrial Area, Phase 2. They were returning home after work when their motorcycle slipped near Hallomajra, leaving them injured. They were found on the road by a police team and rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where Pawar was declared brought dead, while Singh is still undergoing treatment.Officials said the duo was not found under the influence of liquor. Pawar’s body was handed over to his family after autopsy. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/helmetless-man-killed-as-bike-skids-near-hallomajra/story-rco7AZBVQ3SXw35SiQa2EO.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Four juvenile persons apprehended for robbing cabbie of his wallet at gunpoint||Delhi Police Friday apprehended four juveniles for allegedly robbing a cab driver of his money and other valuables at gunpoint in south Delhi’s Khanpur. The crime had taken place on Thursday morning and one of the juvenile suspects was caught by a police officer from near the crime scene. The other three who had managed to escape, were caught after searches, police said.The incident took place on the BRT Road near Khanpur T-point. Cab driver Subhash Singh, a resident of Najafgarh, was waiting to pick up a passenger near the T-point around 4.30 am, when four persons armed with knives and pistols approached him and forcefully pulled him out of the car.“Threatening to kill him, they robbed him of his wallet which had ₹ 2,500. When he resisted, they hit him on his head and threatened to shoot him dead. Soon as the boys left, the driver raised the alarm and two policemen at a picket on the opposite road rushed to his help. While three of the suspects managed to escape, one of them was nabbed by the policemen following a chase,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur.A countrymade pistol and the cabbie’s wallet with cash were recovered from the apprehended juvenile, the DCP said. “Based on the juvenile’s disclosure, our teams conducted more searches and the other three were also caught. All of them have been sent to observation homes,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-juvenile-persons-apprehended-for-robbing-cabbie-of-his-wallet-at-gunpoint/story-8rg4tFeFIi7roD0IdR4cMJ.html
11-12-2020||City||PDP leader Waheed Parra’s custody extended by 9 days||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Friday extended the police custody of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra by nine days and also granted permission to the agency to conduct a lie detector test on him. Parra’s 15-day custody was supposed to end on Friday. Parra, a confidante of party president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, was arrested by the NIA on November 25 in connection with a terror case. Before being arrested, Parra had filed his nomination for the District Development Council (DDC) elections from Pulwama in south Kashmir. He is being questioned at the NIA headquarters for his alleged involvement with the Hizbul Mujahideen. Parra’s name had surfaced during a probe into the suspended deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh’s case. The latter had been arrested while he was allegedly ferrying Hizbul terrorists with arms and ammunition in a car in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pdp-leader-waheed-parra-s-custody-extended-by-9-days/story-GokcVHRJzEnT90A8UrSaPP.html
11-12-2020||City||Dalit girl raped by landlord’s son in Jammu, accused absconding||Police have booked a man for allegedly raping a Dalit girl in Jammu. The 20-year-old victim has alleged that she was raped by the son of her landlord on Wednesday. Subsequently, her family was assaulted on Thursday after it approached the police for help.The victim hails from Chhattisgarh and was putting up with her parents and brothers in a rented accommodation here.The incident took place when her parents and brothers had gone out for work. Accused Ajay Kumar, 26, barged into her room and allegedly raped her.“My daughter was unwell on Wednesday and had stayed back at home. Ajay had barged into our house, bolted it from inside and committed the crime. There were six women and two men on the premises but none came to the rescue of my daughter, who kept crying for help,” the victim’s mother said.The victim’s brother said, “In the past, the accused had molested two other girls. We want him to be hanged for committing such heinous crime.”A senior cop said that statement of the victim and her family has been recorded before court and two separate FIRs of rape and assault on the family have been registered against the accused.“Those involved in the assault have been arrested, but the rape accused is still absconding. We have constituted teams for his arrest,” he added.“Medical examination of the rape survivor has been conducted and reports are awaited,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dalit-girl-raped-by-landlord-s-son-in-jammu-accused-absconding/story-EzemZhW48z1i1ZQHZFyvDL.html
11-12-2020||City||59.9% voter turnout in fifth phase of panch bypolls||State election commissioner KK Sharma said that 59.9% and 52.43% voter turnout was recorded in the fifth phase of the vacant panch and sarpanch bypolls, respectively. He said that the bypolls for panch vacant seats were held in 229 constituencies in the fifth phase. Of total 42,504 electors including 22,140 males and 20,364 females, 25,460 voted in this phase of panch bypoll which started at 7am and went on till 2pm. Sharma added that Jammu division recorded 77.52% voter turnout and Kashmir division 58.35% in this phase. Similarly, 52.43% voting was registered on vacant sarpanch constituencies in the fifth phase in 125 constituencies. Of total 88,078 electors including 45,766 males and 42,312 females, 46,179 exercised their right to choose their representative, he added.He said that 75.84% polling was registered in Jammu division while 42.85% polling was recorded in Kashmir division in the sarpanch bypoll. In Jammu division, Doda district recorded the highest voter turnout of 90.83% for panch bypoll, followed by 88.51% in Reasi, and 84.09% in Poonch. Similarly, Budgam topped with 69% voter turnout in Kashmir division, followed by 66.82% in Kupwara and 64.91% in Bandipora.The SEC said that in sarpanch bypolls, Kupwara recorded highest of 84.24% voter turnout in Kashmir division, followed by 71.6% in Bandipora and 55.78% in Budgam. In Jammu division, Jammu district topped with 81.13% polling, followed by 80.37% in Poonch and 79.78% Reasi, he said. Arrangements for counting of votes discussed Meanwhile, he reviewed preparations for counting of the district development council (DDC) election and panchayat bypoll to be held on December 22 in a meeting with Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma and all 20 deputy commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir held via video conferencing. Secretary state election commission Anil Salgotra and other officers also participated in the meeting and discussed arrangements, including manpower for counting of votes for both polls which are to be held on December 22 from 9am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/59-9-voter-turnout-in-fifth-phase-of-panch-bypolls/story-WISzsDABDMPidXryg1B9EI.html
11-12-2020||City||Govt officials like ‘Kumbhkarna’, need to be woken up by using different means: J&K HC||Peeved over their casual approach, the Jammu and Kashmir high court has equated government officials in the Union territory with “Kumbhkarna”—brother of the demon King Ravana and observed that “they had to be woken up by using different means.” The acting chief justice of Jammu and Kashmir high court justice Rajesh Bindal on Wednesday expressed his displeasure over working of government officials in the UT.He made these observations while dismissing a writ petition filed by the National India Construction Company, which had challenged the rejection of its bid for construction of a road under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). “In the case in hand and what is seen in other cases filed against the government in this court, replies/objections are not filed in some cases even for a decade. It is not limited to main petitions but even in contempt petitions, a compliance report is not filed for a long time. This not only results in denying fruits of litigation to the succeeding party but even lowers public trust in the judicial institution,” justice Bindal observed. “Honourable Supreme Court had compared a litigant approaching the court after a huge delay with Kumbhkarna. I think if considered in that light, for filing of replies/objections in the cases pending in this court, the government officials are no better. As has been mentioned in Ramayana, demon King Ravana had to use a lot of noise and different means to wake up Kumbhkarna, when his kingdom was in trouble. Here also the government officials are to be woken up from slumber by using different means,” he further observed. “The way of working and attitude of shirking responsibility (by officials) will not change unless people at the helm are held accountable for their action and inaction. If officers and staff are paid salaries from amounts contributed by the public, why should the public exchequer suffer for their inefficiency and casualness?,” he observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-officials-like-kumbhkarna-need-to-be-woken-up-by-using-different-means-j-k-hc/story-e0QqZXrT1BFPz5KHDQR8mI.html
11-12-2020||City||Principal secy to L-G reviews Jammu Smart City Project||Principal secretary to Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor, Nitishwar Kumar, reviewed the Jammu Smart City Project in a meeting held on Thursday at the civil secretariat here.During the meeting, the CEO of Jammu Smart City Limited (JSCL) presented a detailed report on the various initiatives taken by the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the project. A brief history of the JSCL, which was one among 100 cities selected by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs in third round of the Smart City Mission, was presented. The CEO JSCL briefed the chair about the projects completed so far, under the implementation stage, and the ones likely to be started soon.The projects completed so far include public Wi-Fi at eight locations, JSCL Academy for skills, Multi-Level Semi-Automated Car parking at city chowk, GPS enabled vehicle for waste collection, development of green spaces, street lighting conversion from Sodium Vapour Lamp to LED.The projects under implementation are wayfinding signages, vertical garden under flyover between Dogra and KC Chowk, two bin segregation dust bins, Reverse Vending Machines, Panjtirthi Parking, refuse compactor, smart power metering, multi-level car parking at bus stand, recreational park at Bhour Camp, musical fountain at Bagh-e-Bahu, façade lighting Illumination of Bahu fort, façade lighting illumination of Mubarak Mandi, Jammu Zoological park, upgradation and modernisation of fire & emergency services among others.The projects that are tendered include road improvement from Dogra Chowk to KC Chowk, community/public toilets (12), modern abattoir with the waste management system, biomining and remediation of legacy waste.The projects scheduled to be rolled out in the next two months and projects in the feasibility stage were also discussed during the meeting.Kumar called upon all the stakeholders to put in concerted efforts to make the solid waste management under the Swachh Bharat Mission a success. “An Information Education Communication (IEC) initiative needs to be undertaken to sensitise and educate people about the benefits and need for segregation of waste at source, a habit, which is the stepping stone for a robust solid waste management program,” he said.All the line departments were directed to submit their proposals for budget allocation for the projects being led by them under the JSCL so that there is no loss in momentum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/principal-secy-to-l-g-reviews-jammu-smart-city-project/story-Mhn2KedDCtCie2woIOtKmK.html
11-12-2020||City||2 drug peddlers held with 320gm heroin in Hamirpur||The Hamirpur police have arrested two drug peddlers and recovered 320gm heroin from their possession, here on Friday.District police chief Gokul Kartikeyan said that the police team intercepted a car and during search, the contraband was found inside the vehicle.The accused have been identifies as Satish Kumar, of Aghar, and Kaku, of Bhota, in district. They were nabbed near Galu village on Friday morning after recovery of the drug. One of the accused is a student at a local polytechnic institute.Kartikeyan said that this is for the first time that such a big quantity of heroin was recovered in district. A case had been registered against the accused under Sections 21 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.2 held with 36gm heroin in Kullu Two drug peddlers have been arrested while trying to smuggle 36gm heroin in Kullu.The accused have been identified as Vivek Bodh, 31, and Bhola Dutt, 39, both residents of Shamashi village in Bhuntar, Kullu.Vivek, who had come from Delhi, was arrested near ITI Shamashi with 36gm heroin. During investigation, he revealed that he had bought the contraband on behalf of Bhola after which, police arrested the latter too.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said police are conducting investigation. Cases have been registered under Section 21 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-drug-peddlers-held-with-320gm-heroin-in-hamirpur/story-YRmRV8Q3xc8jcUuhyHxQaN.html
11-12-2020||City||Jai Ram meets Union ministers over setting up new industrial units in HP||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met Union minister for railways, commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, in New Delhi on Friday.Jai Ram said that Himachal has submitted a proposal to the central government for setting up a electronic devices manufacturing hub in state to fulfil PM Modi’s dream of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”.He said that presently, there is a huge dependence on China in this sector and with the setting up of a manufacturing unit in Himachal, India will be able to manufacture indigenous electronic devices thereby building self-sufficiency in this sector.He added that the state government is ready to provide land and electricity at competitive rates. He requested the Centre to provide grants for providing common facilities.He insisted on setting up of a bulk drug pharma park and a medical devices park as well in state as Himachal provides a conducive environment for growth of industries.He requested the Centre to consider Himachal’s claim for the project of the three states in the race. He added that a power generation transmission distribution equipment hub should be established in state.He thanked the Centre for extending its support for growth of Himachal in all spheres “due to which the state reached seventh position of 17 slots in ease of doing business”.The CM also spoke to Union minister of state for chemical and fertilizers Mansukh L Mandaviya regarding setting up of a bulk drug pharma park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-meets-union-ministers-over-setting-up-new-industrial-units-in-hp/story-E1D4RvVocGRPSRlSLlQwTJ.html
11-12-2020||City||Atal Tunnel cleared for traffic after 3 days; snow, rain likely today||Atal Tunnel that cuts across Rohtang Pass was cleared for traffic on Friday, three days after it was closed due to heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district.The Kullu district administration has also cleared the Jalori Pass road for light vehicles. Superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said road beyond Solang Nala has been cleared and people are advised to travel safely. The weather was mostly cloudy throughout the state during the last 24 hours while minimum temperatures were one to two degrees below normal while maximum temperatures increased by two to three degrees.State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said heavy snowfall and rain are very likely to occur throughout the state on December 12. “Weather will remain clear throughout the state from December 13 to 17,” he added.Minimum temperature in Shimla was 7°C while it was 5°C in Kufri. Manali, Dharmashala and Dalhousie recorded 4°C, 6.6°C and 6.2°C minimum temperatures respectively. Minimum temperature in Una was 8°C, Solan 6.2°C, Bilaspur 8°C, Hamirpur 8.2°C, Nahan 11.9°C, Mandi 5°C and Kalpa shivered at minus 0.4°C. Keylong was coldest at minus 5.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-cleared-for-traffic-after-3-days-snow-rain-likely-today/story-m4wezvlFxGw9VyP1vXZclL.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant-led JJP risks losing farmers’ support||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala,32, and his fledgling Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) have risked losing their support base in the farming community by not coming out openly in support of the agitating farmers. The JJP and the BJP are ruling Haryana in coalition since October 2019. The farmers who have laid siege on the arterial roads leading to the national capital are demanding that the three farm laws enacted by the Centre should be repealed. The JJP prides itself being the flag bearer of farmers’ rights and its core vote bank is the farming community. However, its reluctance to part ways with the ruling BJP in Haryana or take a firm stance on the issue is not going down well with the peasantry. To add to JJP’s declining credibility, seven of the 10 party MLAs have expressed unequivocal support to the protesting farmers. Dushyant’s own stance on the issue—“I will be the first to resign if the minimum support price is discontinued”—has cut little ice with majority of his party MLAs and the farming community. “Why is this question being put to us? They (Dushyant, his MLA mother, Naina and minister, Anoop Dhanak) should be clarifying their stance on the farmers’ issue. We are clear-cut in lending our whole-hearted support to the farmers,’’ said JJP MLA, Ishwar Singh, on being asked about the stance of the top leadership. JJP’s soft stance on the issue has also given fodder to the opposition Congress and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD). Dushyant’s uncle and INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala has announced that he is ready to quit as a legislator while the Congress has accused Dushyant of betraying the farmers. ‘Long term damage’ The deputy CM though has maintained that he is also a farmer first and will never allow the interest of peasantry to be compromised. “It’s my responsibility to get the farmers remuneration for their produce. Our government has ensured that farmers get the farm produce paycheck directly in their bank accounts. Even Punjab has not been able to do it so far. I hope when the assurance for minimum support price to farmers is given in black and white by the Centre, farmers will be quite satisfied,” he said on Thursday. Professor Ashutosh Kumar, who teaches political science at Panjab University, Chandigarh, says Dushyant and the JJP has done long term damage to their credibility by not being loud in expressing their support to the farmers. “That’s the least he could have done. By siding with the BJP led central government, he has landed himself in a difficult situation. Dushyant claims the legacy of farmer leader Chaudhary Devi Lal but by not taking an open stand, he has damaged himself politically,” professor Kumar said. He said the fact that JJP MLAs are speaking a different language showed that the leadership is under a cloud in the party. “The JJP looks like a party still in the making. It also shows that the MLAs are worried about their political career if they do not take position in favour of the farmers, given the visible anger. Another political expert said Haryana government’s handling of the agitation has not gone well with the farmers. “When water cannons were fired at the farmers, the deputy CM kept mum. He cannot absolve himself from the responsibility,” he said. A game of calculationsEven as the pressure mounts on Dushyant to pull out from the alliance, the first time MLA has chosen to bide his time and allow the storm to pass. “The age is on his side. He is just 32 and will have long innings in politics. Right now, his priority will be to strengthen the JJP – politically as well as financially. Being the deputy chief minister has given him that platform. He would not like to squander this opportunity,” said one of his top rung rivals in the state. Also, the fact that assembly elections are a good four years away is a factor playing in the minds of the top JJP leadership. Professor Kumar says Dushyant would know that if he pulls out of the alliance, his party MLAs might switch sides to join the BJP. A similar event occurred in 2009 when Bhajan Lal’s son Kuldeep Bishnoi was stunned by the poaching of his party MLAs by the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dushyant-led-jjp-risks-losing-farmers-support/story-k74FzItgxypG8C3Y8uoZQI.html
11-12-2020||City||Agitating farmers get ‘energy boosting’ food as mercury dips||As the agitation against Centre’s three agriculture laws continues at the Singhu-Kundli and Tikri borders, farmers have been getting ‘energy boosting’ eatables like carrot pudding, almond ladoo, homemade mawa and other traditional food from volunteers and donors to brave the cold of December.Dharmender Hooda, a resident of Rohtak, said they have been preparing carrot pudding from one quintal of milk everyday at Tikri border for the protesters. “During winter, most families in Haryana and Punjab prepare eatable from milk which help in boosting energy. Therefore, we have decided to provide the same facility to the protesting farmers here,” he added.Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana, said donors have been providing them almond, raisins, desi ghee and other items in quintals to prepare such recipes for farmers, who are protesting in the cold since last 16 days.“Most donors remain anonymous and are providing us back up support. We have been giving mixed almond and raisin (a mixture of seven items) to the protesters. Due to the dip in temperature, young farmers have been taking care of the elderly. In the coming days, we will arrange heating facilities for them,” he added.Two farmers, both from Haryana’s Fatehabad district, have provided a roti-making machine at the Singhu-Kundli border and a washing machine at Tikri border.“We donated a washing machine because the elderly protesters were struggling to wash their clothes. We washed over 50 pair of clothes on Friday. Our volunteers prepare around 1,600-1,700 rotis per day. We have never seen such support in an agitation,” both the farmers said.Haryana youths have also started providing carrot and orange juice to farmers at Tikri border. Besides, several protesters have set up solar charging panels, mobile toilets, blankets and fruits, medical facilities. Khalsa Aid India has installed foot and leg massaging machines for farmers and pictures of the same were shared on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agitating-farmers-get-energy-boosting-food-as-mercury-dips/story-KKkURldRXkhbxvrXX3dniJ.html
11-12-2020||City||ASI killed as gun fires accidentally in Mohali||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) accidentally shot himself dead while cleaning his service gun while on duty on Friday.Balkar Singh, 50, of Chuni Kalan village, Fatehgarh Sahib, was posted in the India Reserve Battalion (IRB), Punjab, for the past 30 years, and currently deputed on check post duty near the Chandigarh International Airport.Mohali SP (City) HS Virk said, “Balkar was sitting with his colleagues inside a tent near the check post around 11.30am. In the meantime, he started cleaning his weapon, which accidentally fired and shot him in the face.”Airport police station SHO Shivi Brar said the bullet was lodged in the barrel and fired while cleaning, killing the cop on the spot. The autopsy will be conducted at the civil hospital in Phase 6 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-killed-as-gun-fires-accidentally-in-mohali/story-bcyOywCTKPApP3HGs016kM.html
11-12-2020||City||9 months on, Covid warriors fight toughest battle in HP||Nine months since the Covid-19 outbreak, health workers are fighting their toughest battle against coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh that has one the highest positivity rates at 8.9% as against the national average of 3.7%. So far, four healthcare workers have died and more than 1,000 have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. The state has seen 24,984 Covid-19 cases since November that is more than the combined tally between March and October with the three districts of Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Mandi reporting a positivity rate of above 13%, while Shimla has a positivity rate of 12.5% and Solan 9.4%. A total of 757 people died of the contagion in the state with the death rate of 1.6%. Shimla accounts for 195 of the deaths, Kangra 150 and Mandi 98. State has reported over 47,000 positive cases In the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital alone, 252 health workers have tested positive. The hospital has treated more than 1,200 Covid patients so far, while 200 of them who were admitted in a critical condition have died of the infection. Till December 11, the state recorded 47,877 Covid-19 infections. There are 7,384 active cases and 39,681 people have recovered. The recovery rate has increased to 82%. “This is a harrowing time for us but then it’s our duty to save lives,” says Dr Lakshita, an intern who goes by one name. “We see two to three Covid deaths daily in the isolation ward. My mother, who is a teacher, was worried when I was quarantined but later reconciled to the situation,” says the young doctor, who tested positive last month and is now back to work with a renewed resolve at IGMC. Naresh Khaslaik, 37, a class four employee at the hospital, also contracted the infection during the course of work. He was deputed to carry blood samples of infected patients and is now undergoing treatment in the hospital’s Covid block. “I may have caught it while carrying samples from the ward to the laboratory for testing. I was wearing gloves and a mask but don’t have a PPE (personal protective equipment) kit,” he says. His immediate concern is the well-being of his family. “I have no symptoms but am worried about my wife, son and daughter,” he says. His wife is an anganwadi worker. “I’ll return to work as soon as I’m out of quarantine. I’m a Covid warrior and the war is still on,” Khaslaik says. IGMC biggest covid care centre in north Being a tertiary care hospital, IGMC gets Covid patients from outside Shimla, too. “The hospital has 100 beds for Covid patients and was full to capacity last month,” says medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj, 42. The hospital has now created a facility to accommodate another 100 patients, while work is underway on a prefabricated Covid hospital that will be ready by this month-end. Dr Raj, who is a neurosurgeon, also underwent treatment for Covid after testing positive in early November. “I spent 10 days in the Covid care ward and got an opportunity to understand the problems of patients and nurses. I’ve tried to rectify things. It’s my duty to keep the staff’s morale up.” Days before Dr Raj was hospitalised, he performed a rare surgery on a 60-year-old woman. “It was a life-threatening condition and we had to conduct an emergency operation that took six hours,” he says, adding that despite the risk, his team has done 12 surgeries, three of them rare ones, during the pandemic. Nurse hasn’t been home in seven months The staff on Covid duty stays at the Circuit House near Hotel Peterhoff, 4km from the hospital. “Corona duties are stressful. We feel exhausted and home sick at times but the call of duty keeps us going. I’ve not been home for seven months,” says Meenal Kumari, 35, a nurse at the IGMC’s isolation ward. She belongs to Ghumarwin in Bilaspur and adds, “The saving grace is that I stay in the nurse’s hostel and don’t have to worry about being a risk to my family.” Himachal logs 651 Covid cases, 20 fatalities Himachal Pradesh recorded 651 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 48,354 while the death toll mounted to 783 as twenty more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 166 were reported in Mandi, 92 in Shimla, 77 in Kangra, 61 in Chamba, 46 in Solan, 45 in Bilaspur, 37 in Kullu, 36 in Hamirpur, 35 in Sirmaur, 25 in Kinnaur, 22 in Una, and nine in Lahul-Spiti. Among the 20 deaths, ten occurred in Shimla district alone. Indira Gandhi Medical College (Shimla) medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said that 10 people have died at the IGMC. The deceased were in the age group of 30 to 91. One of the deceased was a 30-year-old pregnant woman. Most patients suffered from acute respiratory distress caused by Covid-19. There are 7,725 active cases in the state while 39,801 people have recovered. As many as 770 recoveries were reported on Friday. The recovery rate has increased to 82%. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 8,986 cases, followed by Mandi at 8,062 and Kangra at 6,556 cases. Solan has recorded 5,704 cases, Kullu 4,037, Sirmaur 2,854, Bilaspur 2,531, Chamba 2,435, Hamirpur 2,428, Una 2,425, Kinnaur 1,180, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,156 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-months-on-covid-warriors-fight-toughest-battle-in-hp/story-246vuAABus1sPKDzrbCKBP.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Six government officials suspended for graft in Haryana||The Haryana government on Friday suspended six officials of different departments and issued directions to register First Information Reports (FIRs) against a number of officials for their alleged involvement in corruption. According to an official spokesperson, during a review meeting of CM Window, Social Media Grievances Tracker (SMGT) here, Panipat superintendent of police (SP) was directed to constitute a special team to arrest a sarpanch, who has been absconding after committing an embezzlement of ₹2 crore from the panchayat fund. In another case of misappropriation of ₹1.60 crore panchayati funds in Mewat, the BDO Amit Kumar and the then panchayat secretary were suspended and directions were issued to register an FIR against them. The disciplinary proceedings were initiated against a retired executive officer of municipal council, while a former building inspector Bhim Singh was suspended. Following a complaint regarding corruption allegations against officer of the cooperation department, inspector Amit Kumar working in Karnal district was suspended. The said inspector in connivance with his relatives had set up a bogus society, the spokesperson said. The orders were issued to lodge two FIRs against naib tehsildar Shivraj Singh for his appointment allegedly on the basis of forged documents. Patwari Jai Singh of Kaithal was suspended for not making entry regarding acquisition of land, while orders to lodge an FIR against him by the department concerned were also given. An FIR will be registered against assistant registrar cooperative society (ARCS) Satish Rohilla and Rishi Kumar after they were found hand in glove with the builder regarding 40,000 square yards of land in Gurugram. In another matter, Rishi Dangi, the nodal officer of CM window of panchayati raj department was suspended. Taking strict action against eight officers of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), the chief minister directed to chargesheet them on the basis of a complaint made by a Panchkula-based resident on the CM’s Twitter handle. The complaint was regarding use of poor quality material by HUDA, Panchkula, in connivance with the contractors, for construction of roads in sectors across Ghaggar river, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-government-officials-suspended-for-graft-in-haryana/story-Y1UF4OnctH65vM2OqUWJPK.html
11-12-2020||City||Three held for Panchkula youth’s murder||Police have arrested three men for the murder of a 24-year-old youth in Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, on Wednesday night.The accused, Rahul of Rajiv Colony, Arun of Saharanpur and currently living in Mauli Jagran, and Mukesh Yadav of Indira Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, had allegedly killed the victim, Sagar, also of Rajiv Colony, using a knife and beer bottles.They will be produced in court on Saturday.In his complaint to the police, Sagar’s friend, Mannu, had said that he had an argument with the three accused after they waylaid him in the colony. As Sagar also reached the spot, the men attacked him with a knife and beer bottles. Sagar was taken to the civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-panchkula-youth-s-murder/story-LYS5QyrX6nLys9U0v7WmjI.html
11-12-2020||City||IMA’s nationwide wide strike sees clinics shut in Pune as well||PUNE In response to the nationwide strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), doctors in the city too kept their clinics shut on Friday. Allopathy doctors kept their non-emergency work closed and medical students from government and private medical colleges and post graduate students also participated in the strike, said an IMA statement. The doctors have declared a strike to oppose the central government’s decision to allow Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries. IMA, in a statement, said, “All the emergency services were carried out smoothly. Our doctors did not carry out any protest or public demonstrations today. We are thankful to all the associations of modern medicine and all the 45,000 members of IMA Maharashtra.” The Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) on November 20 declared that Ayurveda graduates with BAMS in their postgraduate education will be given training in 58 surgeries from modern medicine. The Indian Medical Association has strongly opposed this at national level. Reasons for IMA’s opposition is that giving Sanskrit names to these surgeries is misleading and not factual. The IMA has now demanded that the notification of CCIM should be withdrawn and that the four committees of NMC should be dissolved immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ima-s-nationwide-wide-strike-sees-clinics-shut-in-pune-as-well/story-k7ecDP7JEAUJhT1fLZqfpO.html
11-12-2020||City||Ahead of LDCA tournament, cricketers converge at Mohali’s PCA stadium for training||It was a day of joy and thrill at the IS Bindra Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) Stadium in Mohali on Friday, as 31 senior cricketers converged to attend a 10-day camp under the supervision of head coach Munish Bali and fielding coach Sandeep Sawal. After a gap of almost nine months, PCA is organising a full-fledged camp following all Covid protocols. The preparatory camp is being organised ahead of a tournament by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) from December 18 in Ludhiana, to be followed by the domestic season starting in January. All cricketers and support staff underwent mandatory tests at individual level and were found fit for the camp. The campers include Mandeep Singh, Rahul Sharma, Abhishek Sharma, Abhinav Sharma, Aarush Sabharwal, Salil Arora, Prabhsimran Singh, Anmolpreet, Anmol Malhotra, Sanvir Singh, Sandeep Sharma, Karan Kaila, Mayank Markande, Ikjot Thind, Gurkeerat Mann, Ramandeep Singh, Siddharth Kaul, Arshdeep Singh, Harpreet Brar, Gurnoor Brar, Nehal Wadhera, Baltej Singh, Krishan, Gitansh Khera, Yuvraj Singh, Barinder Sran (subject to permission), Harjas Singh, Abhishek Gupta, Naman Dhir, Abhijeet Garg, Himanshu Satyawan and Kuwar Pathak. “The players and support staff are happy to be back at the ground. Players had been training at individual level for fitness and skills. It is wonderful to have them in a group and train as a unit. I’m sure this camp will help them get back into the playing mode,” said PCA secretary and former Ranji Trophy cricketer Puneet Bali. “The tournament at Ludhiana will provide players a platform to play matches after a long gap and prepare for future domestic matches,” added Bali. Former Indian cricketer Yuvraj has also been asked to come out of retirement and play in the tournament, following which he has written to the BCCI for an NOC. The board’s response is awaited. The 38-year-old southpaw will represent Punjab in the LDCA tournament if given permission by BCCI. A few days ago, BCCI secretary Jay Shah and treasurer Arun Dhumal had visited Chandigarh and Mullanpur cricket grounds to inspect whether they can host upcoming domestic matches in January amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-ldca-tournament-cricketers-converge-at-mohali-s-pca-stadium-for-training/story-3e8CQkMZIlFqucbV9LhcOO.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 starts post-Covid care clinic||Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will launch its weekly “Post-Covid Care Clinic” on Saturday.An order issued by Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH-32, stated, “It has been observed that a significant number of patients, who recovered from Covid-19, report to the hospital with diverse complaints. It has, therefore, been decided to start a dedicated clinic/OPD named ‘Post-Covid Care Clinic’ at GMCH.”The clinic will run in the Medicine Special Clinic Area, Level-5, Block-B, on every Saturday from 9am to 1pm only with referral/appointment through the telemedicine services.“Patients, who are one month post Covid diagnosis, but are still facing some problems, are eligible to follow up in this clinic,” the order read.Patients will be attended to by the doctors from medicine, pulmonary medicine and psychiatry departments. “In addition, if required, they will be advised physiotherapy,” the order added.Physiotherapy services will be available daily by appointment in the pulmonary medicine OPD. A similar clinic is also running at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, since November 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-starts-post-covid-care-clinic/story-PySdRsXVQw8FK4PRGe3epJ.html
11-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Opposition is ruthlessly oppressed with police’s assistance in Bengal’: Governor||Lashing out at the Mamata Banerjee government over Thursday’s attack on the convoy of BJP national president JP Nadda, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Friday that any political activity by the opposition is ruthlessly oppressed by the state government with police assistance. The Governor also said that he has a list of 21 senior public servants who are acting as political workers. This list includes names of some senior IPS officials who have been appointed as advisors by the Mamata Banerjee-government, he said. “Any political activity by the opposition in West Bengal is ruthlessly oppressed with police assistance. Alarmingly, police are always on political mode in support of the ruling party. Such oppression climaxed yesterday,” he said while addressing the media at Raj Bhavan on Friday. Taking on the chief minister over the issue of branding a section of political leaders as outsiders, Dhankhar cautioned the chief minister and said that his responsibility come into play when the chief minister deviates from the Constitutional path. Also read: Situation at border over last 6 months result of China’s actions - India“I wish to caution the chief minister. What is meant by outsiders? Where are we heading when we tag Indians as insiders and outsiders? Please don’t play with fire. Stop this game of outsiders and insiders. My responsibility starts when you deviate from the Constitutional path,” he added. A day after Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, also a TMC MP, attacked Nadda, Dhankhar urged the chief minister and the MP to take back their words and advised that it would increase her stature. “How could a responsible chief minister talk the way she did? In my tweet, I have urged her to think about the grace and depth of Bengali culture and withdraw the video (of her speech) as that would enhance her dignity. Withdrawal of the video with an apology will raise her stature,” he added. For the chief ministers’ nephew, the Governor’s advice was, “He was talking about a person much older to him and occupying a senior political position. It was unavoidable. I am sure he would heed my advice. He has a long political career ahead of him. He must be part of a system of setting high standards.” The chief minister had mocked Nadda in her speech on Thursday saying, “They (BJP) have no other work. At times the home minister is here, other times it’s Chaddha, Nadda, Fadda, Bhaddha. When they have no audience, they call their workers for doing nautanki.” The Governor also accused the chief minister and the state administration of favouritism and corruption. “Non-responsive approach of the CM to critical issues raised by the Governor is a pointer that governance is not in accordance with the rule of law and more importantly this is a cover-up for corruption, nepotism and favouritism,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/opposition-is-ruthlessly-oppressed-with-police-s-assistance-in-west-bengal-governor/story-3iET9fUr7sxWfdkbdXLkVP.html
11-12-2020||Kolkata||Rise in crimes against women in West Bengal disturbing, says NCW||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Friday said it was disturbed by the “rise in crime against women” in West Bengal and raised a number of issues, including “increase” in trafficking cases and “lack of help” from the police to rape victims, in the state.In a statement, the National Commission for Women said its chairperson Rekha Sharma visited West Bengal to inquire into more than 267 complaints, including suo motu cases, on which the state police has not taken any action or informed the panel about their status for the last eight months.“The National Commission for Women is disturbed by the rise in crime against women in the state,” it said.The panel said it has raised its concern about the “rising problem of trafficking of women” from North Bengal and tribal areas of the state.“The Commission has noticed that most of the widows in Vrindavan are from West Bengal and they should be rehabilitated with their families in the state. The commission has raised this issue with the additional chief secretary,” it said.The NCW said it has directed the police chief and the nodal officer to submit the action-taken-reports within 15 days from the receipt of the complaint and file the charge-sheets which are pending with the police even after over six months.“The commission also met the victims of rape and police atrocities. In the meeting, it was told that no help whatsoever has been provided by the state government and police authorities. No compensation has been given to the victims under the POCSO Act,” it said.The commission said it has noticed that no online class has been conducted at primary level in government schools during the pandemic.“In the scheduled meeting, the chief secretary to the government of West Bengal, DGP, West Bengal, and commissioner of police, Kolkata, were supposed to come.“Instead of them, junior officers came without any information on the complaints which were sent to them beforehand. They didn’t have any answer to the queries of the commission,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/rise-in-crimes-against-women-in-west-bengal-disturbing-says-ncw/story-XyGUb8ErciqfZtjIkau5rO.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||No jeans or t-shirt: Maharashtra govt issues dress code for govt employees||Jeans and t-shirt may mean stress-free wear for some, but they are no longer suitable `office attire’ for government employees in Maharashtra.And the government may do a policy `flip-flop’ once in a while, but the employees are not allowed to wear the humble slippers to the office as per the new dress code.Also, all government employees must wear khadi clothes at least on Fridays to encourage the use of handspun, a circular issued on December 8 stated.“It has been observed that several officials/staff (mainly contractual staff and advisers engaged for government work) do not wear attire suitable for government employees. Hence, the image of government staff gets sullied among people,” it said.People expect “good behaviour and personality” from all government officials and employees, it reminded.“....if the attire of officials and employees is unsuitable and unclean, it also has an indirect impact on their work,” the circular said.The attire should be “proper and clean”, it said.Women employees can wear sarees, salwars/chudidars kurtas, trouser pants and shirts alongwith dupattas if necessary, it said. For men, there is less choice: they can wear shirts and “pants or trouser pants”.“Clothes with deep colours and strange embroidery patterns or pictures should not be worn. Besides, employees and staff should not wear jeans and t-shirts in offices,” the circular ordained.Women employees should wear chappals, sandals or shoes while men should wear shoes or sandals, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-issues-dress-code-for-govt-employees/story-BxTeW4RbsqjC7PQE7WPZ8M.html
11-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand jail prisoner dies under suspicious circumstances||A 45-year-old inmate in Sitarganj jail of Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district died under suspicious conditions on Thursday late night, said police.Police inspector Salahuddin at Sitarganj police station said, “The deceased, identified as Jeevan Singh, a resident of Pithoragarh, was brought to the government hospital by the jail authorities in critical condition on Thursday night where the doctors declared him brought dead.”Also read: Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stirHe further informed that “In the preliminary investigation it was found that Singh was found lying unconscious in the open jail by jail wardens. The doctors, in their examination, found a scar on his head and a swelling on his left arm.”The police officer said that Singh was guilty in a murder case and was sentenced to life imprisonment by the court.“His family members have been informed about the incident. The exact cause of his death would be ascertained after the post mortem examination report comes,” said Salahuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-jail-prisoner-dies-under-suspicious-circumstances/story-kLUZerJ3udmRtUFejHab3N.html
11-12-2020||Lifestyle||International Mountain Day: Mountaineers make the most of pandemic pause||While most of us felt like hostage when asked to stay indoors due to the pandemic, the mountaineers defied this feeling. They took this break to work harder than the routine and prepared themselves to conquer new peaks once Covid-19 situation improves. On International Mountain Day, today, some Delhi-NCR mountaineers share how mountains became their muse during the pandemic, and instilled motivation and inspiration in them to stay strong. International Mountain DayThis day is celebrated on December 11 every year to create awareness about the importance of mountains to life. It even highlights the opportunities and constraints of mountain development, and builds alliances that will bring positive change to mountain people, and environments around the world.Hisar-based 19-year-old Shivangi Pathak, the youngest Indian female to reach the summit of Mount Everest, says, “I hardly ever spent so much time without being in the mountains before this. Mountains are my inspiration. They give me strength. I have learnt so much from them, and I feel that everyone must spend at least 4-5 days on mountains twice a year. During the pandemic, to keep myself fit, I wake up early in the morning when everyone is asleep and then workout. This routine started in the lockdown, and even now I’m following this regime while maintaining social distancing. I don’t wear mask while working out and that’s why I prefer to practice in the wee hours of morning. In fact, I’m in my hometown and my mother is making such amazing food, but I choose to eat healthy and stay healthy. It’s a challenge to not have that food.”“I do miss the mountains. They have given me hope and aspiration to become better each day like a personal challenge,” says Sangeeta S Bahl, a Gurugram-based mountaineer whose last summit was Mount Everest in 2018. She adds, “Nature is enthralling whilst mountains are majestic form of spirituality. Summits on top of peaks have become the defining moments of my life where adversity, insurmountable challenges became a dream that was captured. Other people seek answers from Mother Nature creating a calmness in a pristine environment. And this is why to find peace all run to the mountains and lap of nature. The pandemic was very effective for me and my husband, who is also a mountaineer.” Sangeeta’s husband, Ankur Bahl, also a mountaineer, opines, “The self-imposed isolation during the pandemic was akin to being in the mountains! Mountains to me are the epitome of sacredness and hope and people love to head to the hills for recharging themselves... All this while (during the pandemic) I’ve been constantly training in our home gym for the North Pole next year, if it so happens. Work from home and now office has kept me busier than usual and family time has been lesser in fact, but I’ve managed to play scrabble and have OTT screen time.” Sangeeta adds, “We both trained ourselves six days a week, not just physically but mentally as well. We bought new gym equipment, shoes for running and lots of books to build our mental strength; I’m also writing my autobiography. I even train aspiring mountaineers, and this year started a nutrition course for myself.”  Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/international-mountain-day-mountaineers-make-the-most-of-pandemic-pause/story-elaYThbL0K98N960u3xY4M.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt should pay AMC’s share for water scheme, says BJP leader||On the eve of the ground- breaking ceremony for the 1,680-crore water pipeline project in Aurangabad city, a BJP leader on Friday said the Maharashtra government should pay the civic body’s share for the scheme.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will attend the groundbreaking ceremony of the water pipeline scheme at an event in Garware stadium in the city on Saturday.Addressing the media, BJP MLA and former minister Atul Save said when the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government in the state had sanctioned the project, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) was asked to pay a share of around Rs 17 crore.“Considering the financial crisis faced by the AMC, the previous state government had later found a way out and not a single rupee burden was put on the civic body,” he claimed.However, the MVA government has now taken an assurance from the AMC asking it to pay Rs 631 crore, as its share to complete this scheme in three years, Save alleged.“When the corporation was not able to pay Rs 17 crore, how will it shell out over Rs 600 crore?” the BJP leader said, adding that the state government should pay the civic body’s share.Save further said that the scheme was sanctioned and all the formalities were completed in December last year, but it has taken a year to start the work.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said the ground-breaking ceremony is access controlled and will take place in the presence of 200 invitees due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The ceremony will be broadcast on temporary screens installed across the city as well as on social media platforms, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-should-pay-amc-s-share-for-water-scheme-says-bjp-leader/story-1ho3KhBXQzH3GKn0ALPdKO.html
11-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police to soon provide weekly-off to its personnel||In a bid to bring reforms, Uttarakhand police would soon provide a weekly-off to its personnel. Initially, it would be provided to the personnel posted in the nine hill districts of the state followed by the plain districts. The announcement on the same was made by the newly appointed director-general of police, Ashok Kumar, in Haldwani during his tour of Kumaon region. “To reduce the stress of our personnel the police headquarters is planning to give one weekly-off. Initially, it would be implemented in the nine hill districts including Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Champawat and others. Later it would be implemented in four major districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, US Nagar and Nainital districts,” said Kumar. AP Anshuman, inspector general (law & order) and chief spokesperson of the police headquarters in Dehradun said the move is part of the reforms that the department is gradually bringing for the welfare of its personnel. “The headquarters are mulling the decision and would soon implement in the hilly districts after proper evaluation. As the duty of police goes 24x7, our personnel have to be on duty. Also, there is a shortage of manpower in the department than the sanctioned one. So, we will have to consider all these factors,” said Anshuman.Also read: Uttarakhand police set up grievance redressal panel, will shorten hill postings in revamp He added, “After analysing all these factors, a duty roster would be made following which the personnel would be given weekly offs.” The development has been hailed by the police personnel, especially by the lower-ranked ones. “If implemented, we will get the much needed time to spend with our families at least once a week and have proper rest after a hectic duty schedule of the week,” said a 46-year-old head constable posted in a Dehradun police station. Another police personnel posted in the hill district of Rudraprayag opinion said, “Weekly offs are a much-needed thing for police personnel. We are also humans and have families like all other people working in other professions. This will give us the much-needed mental rest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-to-soon-provide-weekly-off-to-its-personnel/story-yQx4eVhSaFKDfVIOJgPgSM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Third wave of Covid waning, Delhi still testing over 70,000 a day, says Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was waning in the state, with the positivity rate remaining below 5% for ten days in a row. “The third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi is going down. We can now say that the peak was on November 7 when a positivity rate of 15.26% was recorded. Now, the positivity rate has remained below 5% for ten days,” said Jain in a press briefing. He said, with over 70,000 tests a day, Delhi has been conducting one of the highest tests per million in the country. As of November-end, Delhi reported the highest test per million in the country at over 330,201. The national average stood at 100,159. Also read | Covid-19: Here are 10 least affected countries in the worldDelhi was followed by Ladakh (241,355), Goa (237,626), and Andaman and Nicobar islands (202,033), which have a fraction of Delhi’s population. “Currently, the situation seems to be under control. But, people need to continue wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It is because people of Delhi have cooperated that we are seeing this result. I also want to thank the healthcare workers who have worked day and night,” the minister said. Delhi has tested over 71,741 samples a day on an average during December, compared to an average of 53,579 during November. Nearly half of these tests were done using the more accurate RT-PCR method. In Delhi, the ratio of tests had been skewed towards the less accurate rapid antigen tests since it was rolled out in mid-June during the first surge in the number of cases. The number of RT-PCR tests had been ramped up in the city in mid-November after a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah. “I agree that the reports for the RT-PCR tests, which should be given within 24 hours, is getting delayed in some places and we are trying to strengthen it. When we met with the Centre, we were asked to double RT-PCR testing. We doubled our testing, but the reports were getting delayed. Now, the situation is improving,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/third-wave-of-covid-waning-delhi-still-testing-over-70-000-a-day-says-satyendar-jain/story-R1rJRQO10jTqW1XO160uDM.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt directs registered cooperative societies to upload records on website||The Haryana government has directed all cooperative societies registered in the state to upload their records on a web portal to ensure transparency in operations and facilitate common people, an official said on Friday.Strict action will be taken against the societies which fail to comply with the directions, additional chief secretary, cooperation department, Sanjeev Kaushal said.The process of uploading data of all cooperative group housing societies and cooperative house building societies, which number around 1,200, is underway, he said.Data of about 400 such societies has already been uploaded on rcsharyana.gov.in, he added.According to Kaushal, the availability of data online would not only bring more transparency in operations, but would also help in resolving disputes.It would also facilitate common people wanting to buy or rent a plot or flat in these societies as they would be able to access all basic details about the societies through the portal.Kaushal said that under the Haryana Cooperative Societies Act, 1984, action would be taken against the office-bearers of the Managing Committees of those societies, which fail to upload their data within the given time. The department would also stop providing any service to such societies, he added. There are a total of 18,200 cooperative societies registered in the state, of which 10,500 are functional, the statement said.These include Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS), Cooperative Labour and Constructions Societies, Cooperative Group Housing Societies, Cooperative House Building Societies and Cooperative Transport Societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-directs-registered-cooperative-societies-to-upload-records-on-website/story-9MIkdIqqMYtUR3Wr0Zu3GI.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi government orders probe against North MCD for alleged Rs2,400 crore fraud||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that the state government has ordered a probe against North Delhi municipal corporation on charges of misappropriation of funds to the tune of over Rs2,400 crore. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) -- which runs all three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) -- denied the allegations, calling them baseless.“There has been misappropriation of funds to the tune of more than Rs2400 crore in the North Delhi municipal corporation. It concerns payments between the North and the South Delhi municipal corporation. We have ordered a probe into it which will be headed by an additional chief secretary-rank officer in charge of the urban development department of the Delhi government,” said Jain, who holds the health, home and urban development portfolios in Delhi.Also read | LNJP treats 10K Covid patients, Satyendar Jain hails hospital teamHe added, “Rs 2,400 crore is a big amount and such misappropriation is unbelievable, especially when the municipal corporations claim that they are not able to pay salaries to doctors, nurses, teachers, sanitation workers and other employees.”Jain’s allegations and the probe come at a time when mayors of the three MCDs have been protesting outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for more than three days now, demanding disbursement of the funds which, they claim, the Delhi government owes to the civic bodies, against the backdrop of sanitation workers threatening to go into a strike for not getting salaries .When asked about claims by the three MCDs that the Delhi government owes them Rs13,500 crore, Jain said the government has always disbursed payments to the MCDs on time, with no instance of default or delay, in accordance with the applicable finance commission report, and it is the MCDs which owe money to the Delhi government.BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “This is a baseless allegation by AAP to divert attention from the issue concerning the money that they owe to the three municipal bodies. There has been no misappropriation of funds. The south MCD owes Rs2,547 crore to the North MCD as rent for using the premises of the civic centre building in central Delhi which is officially a property of the North civic body. The rent is owed since 2012 when the trifurcation of the MCDs happened. In the current budget of the MCDs, there is also a provision for waiver on the rent payment that is due but it is awaiting approval of the House. The Delhi government can get it probed by any agency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-orders-probe-against-north-mcd-for-alleged-rs2-400-crore-fraud/story-b2DUO7PhxGVImdkWVxzkJN.html
11-12-2020||Pune||Civic sense among onlookers could have saved the gaur, says Pune forest officer Rahul Patil||The forest department was caught in an uncanny situation when an Indian bison (gaur) showed up in city on Wednesday morning. While the foresters were equipped, the sudden experience threw a challenge at them which eventually ended in the death of the wild and shy animal. Following are the excerpts from an interview with district forest officer Rahul Patil, Indian Forest Service officer, who led the rescue operation.What went wrong with the crowd management at the site?An Indian bison had first shown up in Katraj a long time ago. It was after 15-20 years that a gaur shown up again. After reaching the spot at 8 am, even we were not convinced that it was gaur (Indian bison). We cordoned off Mahatma Phule Society. Whatever equipment were required for the operation - net, tranquiliser gun, medicine, antidote - everything was available. At the same time, a mob at Mahatma Phule society was cooperative. When it left the bungalow property, it got injured and we suspect that the animal had received injury even before it strayed to Katraj. He was also unhealthy. Once he crossed over the compound wall, the crowd of watchers increased. Then he crossed the main road and even the police department’s cooperation could not help. What was required was an inherent civic sense among residents, those taking pictures, chasing him, throwing stones at the shy animal. We tried to trap him by the horns at one location, but onlookers were distracting him. This was happening to an animal who was already scared as it had left its natural habitat. The gaur does not harm anyone intentionally, but if it had dashed into anyone, it would have killed 4-5 people instantly.What was the cause of death? The perception was that forest officials could have saved the animal.The cause of death, after the post-mortem, was found to be respiratory insufficiency, cardiovascular failure, stress and shock. It had sustained an injury on the nose which had already made breathing difficult. Plus, within a short period, it ran about 4-5km distance. There was internal bleeding and the body temperature was up too. As far as role of forest officials was concerned, I was part of an operation where a tigress called Shivni had killed six people and there were orders to shoot that animal. Shooters were ready too, but I did not allow them to kill the animal. Why would I do something to jeopardise this animal’s life? In fact, the regional forest officer had said that he will handle the situation and my presence was not required. During the rescue operation, I was standing near a fire brigade vehicle and the bison was near a Scorpio just in front of the fire brigade vehicle. I knew it was there but I could not sense or see him. I was trying to tell the fire officer to move him with the help of water, but it ran in my direction. Had I been even one step ahead, the dash could have been fatal. How did a bison landed in Pune city?We need to realise that the forest department can bring about restrictions only in some areas. But there are hills which are privately owned forest areas where construction has started. Subsequently, we have disturbed the wild habitat of these animals. Gaurs can be found in Tamhini ghat where construction of resorts and other buildings has happened. The corridors of these animals - the routes that provide connection between two locations - have been disturbed. The natural corridors passing through Mumbai, Lonavla, Kolhapur, Radhanagari and other areas have been destroyed. How should we prepare for such a situation?Today, it was a gaur, tomorrow it could very well be a leopard. We can only try to talk to people, not the animals. Leopards have already started showing up in Bhilarewadi area of Katraj. There is construction activity in that area. From Bhilwarewadi to Swargate is barely 10km, leopard can easily cross it. This was a major learning experience. Irrespective of NGOs, we are creating a ward-wise volunteer base of 5-10 people. We are planning to register their details like phone number. There is a golden hour after sighting. These people may save casualties in that period before foresters can reach the spot. They will be trained in wildlife management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/an-inherent-civic-sense-among-onlookers-could-have-saved-the-gaur/story-DCh1k2mWsq8ciheozYc3DJ.html
11-12-2020||Pune||Parents protest against Pune schools overcharging fees||The parents’ association in Pune organised a protest in the front of the central building on Thursday against overcharging of fees by private schools. Talking about their demands, advocate Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents’ Association, said that the schools have violated the norms of Right to Education (RTE) and the issues faced by parents should be addressed by the education department.“We want solutions to our problems. Many parents are facing salary cuts and layoffs. In the middle of the pandemic, how can these schools expect us to pay huge amounts of fees when most of the facilities are not even availed by students because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only the tuition fees should be charged from students,” said Sahai.Kalidas Jadhav from the Parents’ Association, Pune, said that the authorities have not responded to the problems faced by parents.“Schools are forcing parents to issue post-dated cheques to pay the fee for the whole year. The student should pay for services what they are using, which is just the tuition fee. We are also demanding that this year should be declared a zero year, so that no student loses on the academic curriculum,” said Jadhav.Laxmi Sapkal, a parent, said that if the government schools were better, there would be no need to admit our children to private schools. “We are willing to give government schools the fees required, provided they improve the quality of education and provide sports facilities to the children, so that the holistic development of the child happens,” said Sapkal.Speaking during the protest, a parent on the condition of anonymity shared that many schools are not providing login details if the yearly fees is not paid. “Most of the parents have at least two children. The school is charging fees for libraries and sports as well. Financial condition of parents has deteriorated during the pandemic. Moreover, we are forced to pay the fee for the entire year otherwise our children are harassed during online classes,” said the parent. Dinkar Temkar, joint director of primary education, said that the parents were assured that relevant actions will be taken soon.“Schools which have stopped online education of selective students, who have not paid full fees, should start the online classes. Also, students who have been removed from private schools during the pandemic should be readmitted to schools immediately. We will be giving normal notices regarding the same very soon,” said Temkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parents-protest-against-pune-schools-overcharging-fees/story-nvdjTLVBNevPJwvk9FN0JM.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||11 years on, consumer panel asks Mumbai woman to approach civil court with her grievance||It took 11 years for the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) to ask a Mulund resident, who had approached the commission stating that her ornaments worth Rs1.30 crore were stolen from the locker of a nationalised bank, to approach a civil court with her grievances. This matter is not such as can be aptly adjudicated on merit in summary proceedings by a quasi-judicial forum like the consumer commission, said NCDRC presiding member Dinesh Singh. NCDRC asked Saroj Dasani to approach the civil court concerned, saying the matter is best undertaken by a civil court as it required recording of extensive oral and documentary evidence. In her complaint, Dasani had said that she had opened a locker at the Mulund (West) branch of the State Bank of Bikaner in June 2008, and had kept some important papers and valuables, like diamond jewellery, in it. When she visited the bank the next month, she had forgotten her set of keys on the desk of the bank’s locker in-charge. So she went back to the bank, checked the contents of her locker and found everything in order.But on November 17, 2008, when she visited the bank again and opened the locker, she found it was completely empty and all her documents and valuables were missing, said her complaint. She immediately lodged a complaint in writing with the branch manager. The complainant believed that someone had made duplicate keys of her locker during the time that her keys were left at the bank. Blaming the bank for the theft, Dasani said the locker cannot be opened without the master key, which is in the possession of a bank officer and hence, the bank was responsible for the theft of her valuables worth Rs1.30 crore. The bank responded to the complaint, contending that the locker was also being operated independently by complainant’s husband. The bank also asserted that the matter required adjudication of issues that involve disputed questions of facts and therefore the matter should not be adjudged in summary proceedings before the consumer commission, but by a civil court. NCDRC accepted the bank’s contention and returned the complaint, with liberty to the complainant to move a competent civil court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/11-years-on-consumer-panel-asks-mumbai-woman-to-approach-civil-court-with-her-grievance/story-T2VkwYUwtbirkyWwCJaOFL.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks state govt stand on plea against price cap on RTPCR tests||The Delhi High Court Friday sought the AAP government’s response on a plea challenging its decision fixing a cap of Rs 800 on RTPCR tests for detecting Covid-19 infection in the national capital.Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on the plea by an Association of Practising Pathologists which has contended that the price fixed would not cover the cost of consumables to be used in the test.The association also contended that the price cap cannot be made applicable to TrueNat and CBNAAT tests, which are also used to detect Covid-19 infection, as they use cartridges which are very expensive.It further said that sensitivity of TrueNat and CBNAAT was 98% and 100%, respectively, which were much higher than that of RTPCR open ended system test which stood at 67-70%.It also said that approximate costs incurred by the labs on TrueNat and CBNAAT tests were Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,500, respectively and were higher than the amount of Rs 1,200 for RTPCR.The Delhi government, represented by its standing counsel Ramesh Singh and additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, told the court that the price cap was not applicable to CBNAAT and TrueNAT tests as these are different from RTPCR.The court also noted that the three tests are not common and hence a common price cannot be fixed for them.RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research.Cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) is a recently introduced polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based method for detection of TB.TrueNat is an indigenously developed portable version of CBNAAT and was also meant for detecting tuberculosis (TB).The association, in its petition, has sought quashing of the November 30 notification of the Delhi government capping price of RTPCR tests at Rs 800.It has claimed that ‘the continuance of the unreasonable price cap, would force the labs to compromise on quality of kits and testing standards and such actions would be counter-productive in the fight against Covid and the health of the residents of Delhi”.During the hearing, Singh told the court that the association ought to have first moved a representation to the Delhi government regarding their concerns before rushing to the court.He said that had they done so, they would have found out that the price cap was not applicable to TrueNat and CBNAAT tests.Singh and Narayan further told the court that even the association’s concern over the price cap of Rs 800 could have been considered had they moved a representation.They also told the court that a similar issue was being considered by the Supreme Court and therefore, the petitioners could have filed an application in the apex court.The court, however, said the notification in question was not before the top court.The court, while listing the matter for hearing on February 25, 2021, declined to go into the prayer in the petition with regard to alleged delay in clearance of bills of the private labs by the Delhi government which outsources tests to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-state-govt-stand-on-plea-against-price-cap-on-rtpcr-tests/story-t8M4RecoZDMxv9yGU9oSnJ.html
11-12-2020||Jaipur||Over 21 per cent polling recorded in Rajasthan urban local body polls||A voting percentage of 21.88 was recorded in the first two hours of polling for the post of members in 50 urban local bodies spread over 12 districts of Rajasthan on Friday.  Voting began at 8 am and will end at 5 pm and all Covid-19 guidelines are being followed, a spokesperson of the state election commission said. As many as 2622 polling booths have been set up for polling in 1775 wards of 43 Nagar Palikas and 7 Nagar Parishad and a total of 14.32 lakh voters are eligible to cast their votes.As many as 7249 candidates are in the fray for the post of members in the 50 urban local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/over-21-per-cent-polling-recorded-in-rajasthan-urban-local-body-polls/story-TgqYyQslw2bH5sBEFPmjmI.html
11-12-2020||Lucknow||BJP govt ignoring farmers by adopting a heartless attitude: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP of adopting a heartless attitude towards the demands of farmers, and said the global response to the stir has “deeply” hurt the image of India worldwide.Yadav’s party has been backing the farmers’ stir against three new agri laws.In a tweet, Yadav said, “The BJP government is ignoring the farmers by adopting a heartless attitude towards the justified demands of the agitators shivering on the streets.The global response that is coming to this, has deeply hurt the democratic image of India worldwide. BJP government should stop exploiting those who feed us”.Yadav had on Thursday said the farmers’ stir was also a movement to restore democratic values and that is why people are “emotionally connected” with it to save democracy.The SP leader was detained by the police on Monday after party workers led by him broke through a security cordon to sit on a dharna in the heart of the city in support of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-govt-ignoring-farmers-by-adopting-a-heartless-attitude-akhilesh-yadav/story-RYDPsM5Z4l7FX62uExccdL.html
11-12-2020||Patna||Bihar youth killed in road rage after marriage party attacked by armed miscreants||In a suspected case of road rage, a youth was allegedly shot dead and another two were injured by unidentified assailants in a moving SUV at Industrial police station area of Buxar district in Bihar.The deceased has been identified as Dhananjay Kharwar, 18, a resident of Kochas in Rohtas, while the injured have been identified as Manish Kharwar and Kanhaiya Ram, who were both referred to Varanasi for better treatment. According to the police, the incident happened on Thursday midnight when a group of people in a SUV had an argument with the occupants of a car and riders on a motorcycle while returning from Buxar to Rohtas.A clash broke out allegedly after the motorcycle rider was hit while trying to overtake the SUV, following which the two sides engaged in a verbal exchange and later clashed at Manjharia village under the limits of Industrial police station. Police said the assault took place when Dhananjay returned home. Buxar SP Niraj Singh told HT that a case has been lodged against six persons on the basis of the statement given by Mahendra Kharwar, the father of the deceased.Three persons—Rahul Kumar alias Aman Singh, Dhiraj Kumar Singh and Sourabh Kumar alias Munsi Singh—have already been arrested, said police. During interrogation, they confessed while alleging that it all started after the victim’s vehicle had hit their bike. The four men, who were riding on a single bike, called for help following which a group of men armed with pistols, sticks and lethal weapons arrived at the scene,” said the SP.Also Read: 900 Bihar farmers to miss out on govt subsidy for stubble burningEyewitnesses claimed that the miscreants damaged the SUV and opened fire.Sadar DSP Gorakh Ram said, “This seems to be a case of road rage. We are investigating the case. According to information, four men riding a motorcycle on the state highway here had an argument with the men occupying the SUV over the issue of the SUV hitting the bike, when the two-wheeler was trying to overtake the vehicle.“Our teams are conducting raids. We shall soon arrest three more accused—Kush Singh, Prakash Singh and Rocky Singh,” said Sadar DSP Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-youth-killed-in-road-rage-after-marriage-party-attacked-by-armed-miscreants/story-hJR7Inw0Bwp5cxyVLKCIEI.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Non-emergency services come to halt at private medical institutes in Punjab||Non-emergency services at private medical institutes across Punjab came to a halt on Friday after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) gave a call to protest the Centre’s decision to allow post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform general surgeries. IMA members said that only Covid or other essential medical interventions such as casualty, labour rooms and emergency surgeries, will be addressed by the doctors for 12 hours from 6am on Friday. Allopathic doctors are up in arms against a central government notification on an amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act that allows Ayurvedic practitioners to practise modern medical practices. Also read: More than 1 lakh doctors on strike across Maharashtra todayIMA state general secretary Dr Paramjit Singh Mann described the notification as “a step to legitimise mixopathy”. He said allopathic doctors are fighting to “save the honour of the noble profession”. The contentious notification will not just kill the legacy of modern medicine but also pollute the sanctity of the Ayurveda system, he argued. “We have nearly 9,000 doctors as IMA members who have announced to suspend work in protest. Ayurvedic practitioners are not educated to perform modern medicine then how can they be allowed to work in that way. We want the Union government to withdraw the amendment,” said Dr Mann. The president of the IMA’s Bathinda chapter, Dr Vikas Chhabra, said 120 private hospitals in the district have extended support to the call for protest. He said the IMA is not against Ayurveda but the undermining of modern medicine by the Centre. “The notification of the amendment to the CCIM Act allows Ayurveda doctors to do over 55 types of surgeries, including abdominal, ENT and eye operations. One wonders how Ayurvedic doctors can perform surgeries in the absence of anaesthesia and antibiotics in Ayurveda,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/non-emergency-services-come-to-halt-at-private-medical-institutes-in-punjab/story-GsKWzae0t2B3xZ6CTbfaxK.html
11-12-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police STF arrest suspected JMB operative||Kolkata Police’s Special Task Force arrested a suspected operative of the Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), a banned Bangladeshi terror outfit, from West Bengal’s Birbhum district late on Thursday night. “Identified as Najibullah, 50, the accused maintained a social media account to spread radicalised ideas and hatred against non-Muslims and was engaged in instigating young people to take on the path of Islamic fundamentalism,” said a senior official of the STF. Police arrested him from his residence at Paikar in Bishbum, around 260 km north of Kolkata. They have also found fundamentalist literature and books from a printing press Najibullah owned. A few electronic devices were also seized. “The accused may have links with the JMB. We have seized some material. Further investigation is going on,” said the officer. In June this year, the STF had arrested a suspected JMB operative from Hooghly district. Another operative was arrested from Murshidabad in May-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-police-stf-arrest-suspected-jmb-operative/story-7aNSr4yw8k5R0K0ROtBD2K.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic snarls continue in Delhi, around borders||Traffic jams continued in several parts of Delhi, especially around the city’s borders, because of the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national Capital. Delhi Traffic Police said the traffic situation may worsen over the weekend as more farmers are joining the protests and their Unions are threatening to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway and take over the Yamuna expressway on Saturday.Traffic police are heading a meeting on Friday to intensify presence around borders and other arterial roads within the city that might be affected by the protest. The traffic police said that for commuters travelling to and from Haryana on Friday can use single carriageway in Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan, , Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Friday morning that Jhatikara border will remain open only for two wheelers and pedestrians. The police also issued an advisory saying that the traffic was being diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal road.In another tweet, the police said, “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road , GTK road, NH-44.”Apart from the borders, on Friday morning traffic remained heavy at ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Palam flyover, IIT-Delhi crossing, Rajouri Garden and near Sarai Kale Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-snarls-continue-in-delhi-around-borders/story-ln9m6zZB4JxqFATbMoSULP.html
11-12-2020||Lucknow||‘Not Harvard or Cambridge’: Yogi says locals will make Purvanchal the best||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the present government would make eastern UP, also known as Purvanchal, the most prosperous region in the country.Over the years, there had been a deliberate attempt to malign the region as a laggard, he said, adding that even academia had put its stamp of approval on such a perception at one time.The chief minister made the comments in Gorakhpur while inaugurating a three-day webinar-cum-seminar on the development of Purvanchal at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay University campus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency Varanasi and Yogi Adityanath’s former Lok Sabha constituency Gorakhpur are both in Purvanchal.The UP planning department and the DDU university organised the webinar comprising 45 sessions, to be attended by the chief minister, ministers, development experts, researchers and other stakeholders.“The region has everything to offer: nine kinds of climate, the most fertile land in the world, abundant human resources, adequate water and flowing rivers like the Ganga, the Yamuna, the Saryu and more. With such resources, we have resolved to turn this region into the most developed and most prosperous one in the country,’’ he said.“This will not be done by Harvard or Cambridge, but (we) will have to do this with the help of youth, farmers, and local artisans,’’ he said.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath says UP close to defeating Covid-19, claims model worthy of studyReferring to the state government’s One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme, he said, “Every district has at least one unique product. The government, by promoting and creating a market for the products, will realise PM Modi’s dream of a self-reliant India.’’“The need of the hour is to not create a white elephant by formulating policies sitting in air-conditioned chambers. We need to make policies as per the local requirements in consultation with the local talent and expertise, and (in line with) the ground realities,” he said.Purvanchal development board vice-chairman Daya Shankar Dayalu said good times for Purvanchal began six years ago when “Modiji became the MP from Varanasi”.“Now, it was for chief minister Yogi Adityanath to give a shape to the PM’s vision and create an aura of positivity and ensure a golden future for Purvanchal,” he said.DDU university vice chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh, Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan and several ministers were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/not-harvard-or-cambridge-yogi-says-locals-will-make-purvanchal-the-best/story-jyxp6uHSlzNwSIyQBjO4oN.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||No relief for vehicular movement in Delhi as farmers’ stir enters Day 16||The Delhi Traffic Police on Friday said that the Tikri and Dhansa borders would continue to remain closed for all traffic movement as the farmers’ agitation against the central government’s farm laws entered day 16. On Saturday, the protesting farmers will block the Delhi-Jaipur highway and have organised a nationwide protest on Monday. They also threatened to block all railway tracks across the country.Through a series of tweets, the Delhi Traffic Police stated, “Traffic Alert:Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement.”The police also pointed out that only a single carriageway was open for vehicular movement on the Jharoda border with Haryana adding other borders open with the neighbouring state were Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, and Dundahera. Traffic Alert :Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement.Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceMeanwhile, the number of protesters in the national capital and surrounding states is increasing every single day as farm unions are requesting more and more farmers to participate in the fight against the agricultural reforms passed by the Parliament in September.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla (Delhi-Noida) border points for nearly two weeks. The Delhi Police on Friday morning said that two IPS officers leading the police force at the Singhu border- which is the largest protest site- tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease along with a DCP and an additional DCP.Also Read: Farmer groups from Punjab begin journey to Delhi, police on alertSo far, five rounds of talks have been held between the protesting farmers and Union ministers. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again urged farmer leaders to resume talks.“The government is ready to consider with an open mind any provision in the new laws where farmers have any issues and we want to clarify all their apprehensions,” Tomar said while addressing a press conference on Thursday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-relief-for-vehicular-movement-in-delhi-as-farmers-stir-enters-day-16/story-zClnLRRtZBM3tdP712r6SN.html
11-12-2020||Lucknow||Special fridges to store Covid-19 vaccine arrive in Lucknow||Specially-designed Ice Lined Refrigerators (ILR) started arriving in Lucknow, the state capital of Uttar Pradesh, on Thursday in anticipation of Covid-19 vaccine. “We have received four ILRs. Each one has a capacity of 225 litres,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge of routine immunisation.Asked about the storage capacity of the fridges, he said, “It is still early days to talk about the number of vials per box.” Likewise, Dr Singh said, the number of ILRs that will eventually be required cannot be mentioned right away. The picture should get clearer in the days to come, he added.The ILRs, after they reached the Aishbagh cold chain storage point, were kept in the building beside the Urban Health Centre and Woman and Child Hospital. This building has been prepared exclusively to store the vaccine and a space of 2,400-sq feet has been earmarked for the ILRs and cold chain boxes. In addition to the building, two residential blocks have also been acquired nearby for vaccine storage. “With the arrival of ILRs, our cold chain system will soon be in place as we already have temperature controlled systems at all places where routine vaccination is done,” said Dr DS Negi, director general, medical health. “We have dedicated the ground and first floor for storing the vaccine,” said Dr Singh. The ILRs have compartment temperature between 2 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius for storing vaccine vials. The first round of vaccination will be for healthcare workers and their list is being prepared. The list has already crossed the 40,000-mark and should be final by next week. “Those in the frontline, including policemen and municipal corporation staff, will be vaccinated in the second phase and the next will be the elderly (above 50 years of age),” said Dr Singh. There are about 14,000 municipal corporation staff and approximately 20,000 policemen, including traffic police personnel and home guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/special-fridges-to-store-covid-19-vaccine-arrive-in-lucknow/story-pbsvxJKGlzzn8HHZQpCsgP.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Decomposed bodies of woman, her three kids found hanging in forest in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi||The decomposed bodies of a 30-year-old woman and her three children were found in a forest in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. The four had been missing for about two months. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of death by suicide and police have sent the bodies for a post-mortem to establish the cause of death. The woman’s husband reportedly tried to consume poison along with his second wife after seeing the bodies but the couple was rescued is recuperating in hospital. A 35-year-old resident in Bhiwandi taluka had registered a missing complaint of his wife, and three minor children, two daughters, and a son, on October 21. According to his complaint, his wife left the house with the children after a fight with him and never returned. Within a month, the man had remarried.According to Thane Rural officials, on Thursday, the man’s brother went inside in the jungle to collect wood when he detected a foul smell. Proceeding further ahead, he came across the four bodies hanging from a tree. He identified the children from their clothes.Padgha Police officials said, “He ran home and informed his brother who reportedly consumed poison along with his second wife. Both are admitted in the hospital. The site is being examined by the forensic department and dog squad. The site is deep inside the forest which is frequented only by tribals. While it appears to be a case of suicide, we are questioning all relatives of the deceased and her husband. As of now, an accidental death report has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decomposed-bodies-of-woman-her-three-kids-found-hanging-in-forest-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi/story-vEVYmWmd9aGW0DpFsoPpVM.html
11-12-2020||Patna||900 Bihar farmers to miss out on govt subsidy for stubble burning||In a bid to discourage stubble burning, the Bihar government has initiated strict action against 900 farmers in the last three months post paddy harvesting season by blocking government incentives and subsidies paid through direct benefit transfer( DBT) for three years in 11 districts. Bihar is the only state in India where such a system has been put in place since last year, linking government incentives for farmers with compliance to the ban on stubble burning– a major factor for air pollution. Total 1.64 crore farmers are registered with the State agriculture department for DBT transfers. With 462 penalised farmers, Rohtas district tops the list of offenders who have been denied the DBT assistance, followed by 133 in Kaimur and 100 in Nalanda, shows data assessed from the agriculture department. Rohtas and Kaimur are the major paddy growing districts in Shahabad region. Other districts where farmers have faced action include Buxar (93), Bhojpur (21), Patna (33), Gaya (40) and Jamui (7). The blocking of subsidy transfers by the government means the farmers will not get aid for procuring farm equipment, input subsidy etc, which are directly transferred to the accounts of farmers registered with the state agriculture department. “The aim of blocking the DBT to farmers is to disincentivise the practice of stubble burning. The exercise has been undertaken by strict monitoring of the farm lands by our agriculture coordinators and kisan mitras, who report about erring farmers from remote areas,” said, secretary, agriculture, N Saravana Kumar. Kumar said the government was not in the favour of filing FIRs against erring farmers but the blocking of DBT could turn out to be an effective method.“We are doing awareness programmes in the districts to tell the farmers how burning of crop-residue not only causes air pollution but is also bad for the soil as it damages the micro nutrients in the soil,” Saravana said. Last year, DBT to 376 farmers were blocked after the post-Kharif season and this year, post Rabi season in February- March, 625 farmers were blocked.“This system of blocking DBT to farmers is only in practice in Bihar. It is proving effective as farmers cannot get benefits for three years, which is a long time,” said a senior agricultural officer. Stubble burning is rampant during the post Kharief and Rabi crop season harvesting, when farmers burn the waste to dispose of the crop residue, causing air pollution. Delhi and other cities, especially in north India, have been grappling with extreme air pollution caused by stubble burning. Also Read: Bad-air law drafted, cleared in less than a weekIn Bihar, the problem of stubble burning may not have reached alarming levels like in Haryana and Punjab but farmers have been using the practice more in the last few years due to huge residue left in the farms after the harvest due to wider use of combine harvesters. “In Bihar and other states, the growing mechanisation of farming has led to heavy stubble burning in the last few years as the waste generated is huge post harvest by equipments, Besides, farmers are not much interested in keeping husk for sale as there is less demand for it in rural areas these days due to less focus on animal rearing,” said Dr Bihari Singh, environmentalist and co-ordinator, environmental sciences, Nalanda Open University. Also Read: Confronting everyday sources of pollution across the countryHe listed the ill-effects of stubble burning. “Smoke from the crop residue emits heavy quantities of carbon dioxide, suspended particulate matter and other harmful particles that affect the air quality index (AQI). It is one major reason for air pollution in cities and towns in the state,” Singh added.Singh said the practice of burning of crop residue could be checked if the government encourages farmers to make compost through short-term methods after harvesting as it would enrich the soil and cause less air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/900-bihar-farmers-to-miss-out-on-govt-subsidy-for-stubble-burning/story-viw4jYJZjcmjG948WLfECJ.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Miscreants ‘smear black ink’ on TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee’s Delhi residence||Some unidentified miscreants allegedly smeared black ink on the walls of the New Delhi residence of Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday, a video of which went viral. Following this Delhi Police reached the residence of the Diamond Harbour MP, however, they found the wall clean. According to the police sources, the wall could have been cleaned before they arrived at the spot. The police have not received any complaint in this regard yet. The alleged incident took place on a day the motorcade of BJP National President J P Nadda was attacked allegedly by the Trinamool Congress supporters outside Kolkata. The convoy was headed to Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/miscreants-smear-black-ink-on-tmc-leader-abhishek-banerjee-s-delhi-residence/story-ptR9Xy1hUeO8zM3KxLmLnL.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||LNJP treats 10K Covid patients, Satyendar Jain hails hospital team||The Delhi government-run LNJP hospital has successfully treated over 10,000 patients since it was declared a dedicated coronavirus facility, city Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday and hailed the team of the facility for the services rendered.Located in central Delhi, the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital was converted into a dedicated coronavirus facility soon after the outbreak of the pandemic here in March.“Congratulations to the team of LNJP Hospital for successfully treating over 10000 Covid +ve patients. This is the highest number of people to whom any Indian hospital has been able to provide service to. Kudos to the team and staff and we are eternally grateful for their services,” Jain said in a tweet.The LNJP is the largest hospital under the Delhi government.The British-era hospital has 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients currently, besides ICU beds.Delhi recorded 1,575 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the lowest in over three months, even as the positivity rate slipped to below three per cent, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lnjp-treats-10k-covid-patients-satyendar-jain-hails-hospital-team/story-qWEd1x5rPyOq5UmF2hUprO.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to have at least 48 Covid-19 vaccination centres for general citizens: BMC||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) would be setting up at least 48 distribution centres across Mumbai for administering Covid-19 vaccine to the city’s over 1.24 crore population once it is available. There will be two to three vaccination centres in each of the 24 administrative wards of the city, according to civic officials involved in process. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Once vaccination starts, we will start distribution in every corner of the city simultaneously.”Kakani added, “We will use network of our municipal dispensaries, civic hospitals and civic schools where vaccine distribution centres will be set up. All wards have already identified such spots. Also, distribution will be done in closed environment, considering the vaccine doses will require a certain temperature to be maintained for which cold storage will be required while the process of vaccination is on.”The final distribution plan will be decided after the Centre lays guidelines for the same. The number of distribution centres will also go up once private institutions are also permitted for vaccine distribution, said BMC officials.Initially, 125,000 identified frontline workers will be administered the vaccine followed by senior citizens and those with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-have-at-least-48-covid-vaccine-centres-for-general-citizens-bmc/story-HAtEckgJppSNkZ0i1a5O0O.html
11-12-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says UP close to defeating Covid-19, claims model worthy of study||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh was on course to victory after a decisive battle against Covid-19. He claimed this had become possible due to effective health management and exemplary teamwork, he said in Gorakhpur, according to a state government statement.He also said UP’s Covid management had justifiably come in for huge praise from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and there should be a research paper on the matter.“We are about a month away from the Covid vaccine, while the state has already contained the pandemic,” he said as the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony of the ‘Healthy Eastern Uttar Pradesh- An Initiative’ drive at AIIMS, Gorakhpur.Also Read: We are about a month away from Covid-19 vaccine: UP CM AdityanathHe pointed out that while the Covid death rate in developed countries like the United States was 8% and between 3-5% for some other states of India, but it was as low as 1.04% in Uttar Pradesh. But for some setbacks, the figure would have been below 1% in the state, he said.He reminded the medical fraternity that the AIIMS at Gorakhpur had the responsibility for about five crore population spread over Gorakhpur and Basti divisions and eastern and north Bihar and even up to Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-says-up-close-to-defeating-covid-19-says-up-model-worthy-of-study/story-rsgNNTsaZs3vIljVsPYT0O.html
11-12-2020||Patna||RJD lays condition for naming MLAs for Bihar house panels, logjam persists||The setting up of various committees in the newly constituted Bihar Assembly has taken a new twist with the leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, asking the Speaker to reveal the names of committees in which RJD leaders will either be included or made chairman of, before his party recommends names of MLAs for the positions.The move comes a day after Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha sent a reminder to Yadav asking him to recommend names of party MLAs for various house committees, which have not been set up yet.There are a total of 22 legislative committees in the Assembly, which are proportionally represented by both ruling and opposition parties depending upon their strength in the lower house.In a letter to the Speaker, Tejashwi said it has been a precedence that parties are informed about house committees by the Assembly secretariat and subsequently the names of party MLAs are recommended based on seniority, legislative experience and geographical location of their constituencies, for wider and appropriate representation.“There has been a telephonic talk between my office and (the) Speaker’s office on sending the names of committees, where the party’s leaders would be given chairmanship. But so far, the names of the committees have not been sent to us,” the RJD leader said in a letter, which was issued to the press by the party.Also Read: Nitish Kumar reviews law and order for second time in 10 days as crime spikes“The RJD requests that the names of committees be sent so that recommendations of party MLAs for such committees as representatives and heads could be sent,” the Yadav scion said.Political observers said that the RJD’s move to put conditions before sending names for the formation of various committees indicates it may not be in any mood to allow the panels to be set up by consensus, as has been the tradition.The RJD could be resorting to pressure politics to ensure party’s senior leaders get chairmanship in key legislative committees, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/rjd-lays-condition-for-nominating-mlas-for-bihar-house-committees-logjam-continues/story-ncLaxmtjw7XWoWhEo0EKkM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||2 IPS officers posted at Singhu border area test Covid-19 positive: Report||Amid heavy deployment at the Singhu border area, two of the Indian Police Service (IPS) officers who led the force where the farmers’ protest is ongoing against three farm laws, have tested positive for coronavirus.According to the Delhi Police, both the officers are currently under home isolation. The Delhi police officers who tested positive has been identified as Outer North Deputy Superintendent of Police (DCP) Gaurav and Additional DCP Ghanshyam Bansal. This comes on the 16th day of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.Farmer leaders on Thursday said that they would intensify their agitation by blocking railways to put pressure on the government for the repeal of three farm laws after rejecting the Centre’s proposals to make amendments on Wednesday.Six rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and farmer leaders regarding the laws but no headway has been made on the front.The farmers are protesting against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce(Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmer (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-ips-officers-posted-at-singhu-border-area-test-covid-19-positive-delhi-police/story-UlP0NNT2Bz0lKRcAYECWyI.html
11-12-2020||Kolkata||Missing Kolkata youth’s skeleton recovered from home; mother is a suspect||The skeleton of a 25-year-old man, who was reported missing, was recovered from the terrace of his residence at Salt Lake, a satellite town of Kolkata, on Thursday. Police have arrested the man’s mother and brother. Sleuths of Bidhannagar police said that they received a complaint from a man Anil Kumar Mahensariya, a businessman by profession, on Thursday. The man, in his complaint, told the police that his eldest son Arjun was missing and that he suspected his wife Geeta had either abducted his son or might have killed him. “When police went to search the house, they found a skeleton from the terrace. The skeleton is believed to be that of Arjun. Geeta has been arrested,” said a top official of Bidhannagar police. Some black stains were found on the floor of the ground floor which cops said could be caused by burning something. Ashes were also found on the staircase leading to the terrace. The couple was married at least 32 years ago and had three children – Arjun, 25, Vidur, 22 and Vaidehi, 20. But due to some marital discord, Anil left his Salt Lake residence in August 2019 and started living separately in an apartment in Rajarhat, around 10 km away, the police said. Also Read: Mamata compares BJP leadership to Hitler, MussoliniOn October 29 this year, Anil came to know that Geeta, along with their three children, went to visit her mother at Ranchi in Jharkhand. A month later on November 30, however, Anil came to know that his eldest son Arjun was not with his mother at Ranchi. Later that day however, Geeta called Anil and said that all the three children were with her. With his eldest son missing for the last few days, Anil lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar East police station on Thursday. Police initiated a case and raided the Salt Lake house from where the skeleton was recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/missing-kolkata-youth-s-skeleton-recovered-from-home-mother-is-a-suspect/story-RbQO5V06q8kDrQiexCgxfN.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi records its third warmest December day in 14 years||After experiencing colder than usual October and November, Delhi started off with a warmer December this year, with the maximum temperatures hovering between 28 and 29 degrees Celsius for the past two days. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for the national Capital. This was the third highest maximum temperature in December in the past 14 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The record for the warmest December day was set in 2014, when the mercury rose to 30 degrees Celsius. A few years before that, in 2011, December had recorded the maximum temperature at 29.5 degrees Celsius, taking it to the second spot in 14 years.On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 28.3 degree Celsius, which is four degrees above the season’s normal. IMD scientists said the absence of cloud cover was causing the day temperatures to spike. “The absence of cloud cover has led to the temperature rising during the day. From December 14, the temperatures are likely to fall again. This will be after Delhi and NCR towns receive light rain because of the impact of western disturbance on December 11 night and December 12 morning,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-its-third-warmest-december-day-in-14-years/story-zQAj0JBOWL7oVZxya1MgiJ.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Strong winds improve Delhi air quality, AQI in poor category||Strong winds continued to improve Delhi’s air quality on Friday, with the air quality index of the city reaching 272, in the poor zone, at 7am. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 284, in the poor zone. On Wednesday, the AQI was 358, in the very poor category. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said, “The average wind speed on Thursday was around 10kmph to 12 kmph. Even though the direction of the wind was north-westerly, the contribution of farm fires from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana is zero now,” said Soni. He also said that Delhi is expected to breathe clean air at least till December 13. The AQI will continue to improve and is likely to reach the moderate range by Saturday, he said.“There is a forecast of light rains around Delhi-NCR from Saturday night to Sunday morning, the wind speed will also remain higher on those days,” he added. Scientists also said that Delhi’s minimum temperatures will start falling from December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/strong-winds-improve-delhi-air-quality-aqi-in-poor-category/story-lrvi2uYhTYANJnFVEJFzwN.html
11-12-2020||City||Use of sub-standard material at Mohali’s Purab Premium Apartments; Punjab vigilance to submit report in two weeks||Carrying out further investigation against the use of sub-standard material in the construction of Purab Premium Apartments, the Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) on Thursday carried out a technical inspection. The VB will submit its report in two weeks, following which action will be initiated. The contract of the project was given to Simplex Infrastructure Private Limited. A team of 15 officers including executive engineers reached the spot at around 9.30am and carried out inspection till 7pm.In 2018, the members of the Purab Premium Allottee Association had lodged a complaint with the VB alleging that GMADA had used sub-standard material in the construction of the apartments. Whatever they promised in the brochure before they had invited applications were not there in the detailed notice inviting tenders (DNIT). They had also raised objections against a huge financial irregularity during the construction.They alleged that in the brochure it was stated that there will be no water tank on the roof and 24X7 pressurised water supply will be available. As per the brochure, all the towers should be separated, but GMADA has joined six to eight towers together and there are 27 towers and four blocks.Col Dalwinder Singh (retd), general secretary of the association, said, “The team found major discrepancies and inadequacies, and samples are being collected by the team.”A senior official of the VB, who was part of the team, said, “We have collected most of the documents pertaining to the construction of the flats. People have lodged complaints as they feel that despite spending lakhs they have been cheated by GMADA.”He further said, “We are hopeful of preparing the report in the next two weeks, following which action will be initiated.”In 2017, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had constructed 1,620 apartments of three types in Sector 88. Of these, 980 houses have already been allotted of which 590 allottees have taken possession. The project has 27 towers of 60 flats each, a community centre and a sports complex with indoor and outdoor sports facilities.There are around 700 flats that are also falling into disrepair due to non-occupation and use. Further, there have been many incidents of violence and affray in the recent past in the complex.Purab Premium lacks basic amenitiesResidents of Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, Mohali, protested outside the office of GMADA on May 21 to raise the issue of poor civic amenities.Purab Premium Apartments Allottees’ Association president SK Loona said, “The apartments are grappling with civic issues. We do not even have basic amenities.”“The GMADA has installed a low-capacity and poor-quality water tank on the top floors of the building. The tanks are unable to bear the pressure of water, resulting in breakdown,” said Loona, adding that the authority had recently replaced only seven water tanks despite the demand being much larger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-of-sub-standard-material-at-mohali-s-purab-premium-apartments-punjab-vigilance-to-submit-report-in-two-weeks/story-5SQsWp3q2tC4hy8nxKtSFM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Shahnawaz’s private rose garden||All roses here are white, though some have a pale pink flush, as if a drop of blood had spread through their veins. This is a private garden. What makes it unique is that it stands on one of Old Delhi’s highly perched rooftops, on the fourth floor, and gives a sweeping view of the historic quarter’s skyline. Look there! That’s the dome of the great Jama Masjid.And above your head, the Walled City’s ubiquitous paltu (pet) pigeons are crisscrossing their hyperlocal sky.But strangely these views, so celebrated in stories and movies, don’t seem as fascinating as these commonplace potted roses. Indeed, these blossoms appear to encapsulate the very essence of the lives of the people living here. As for the flowers themselves, they must feel pretty special to be here, for the area is so cramped and crowded, so tree-less, that it is hard to imagine any flowery refuge in the vicinity. This little rose garden was set up a decade ago by Shahnawaz Khan, an MCD (Municipal Council of Delhi) staffer, who lives with his family, composed of his father, sister, wife and children. He is in the office at the moment, and his sister Mahvish is leading the way to the rooftop escape. The garden has more than just the roses. The metal jaali that shields the dangerously steep metallic staircase is covered with money plant vines. One side of the roof has tulsi plants, an aloe vera plant, and a madhumalti. There’s a tiny lemon tree too, growing out of a pot, with dark green lemons hanging on it.The house is reached from the street by a long flight of staircases. The roof of roses lies two floors above the main residence. Sitting here in the afternoon gives a sense of great isolation from the world. Neighbourhood life shows up sporadically only—a woman is combing her long black hair on some adjacent roof, a goat is bleating on another one and an eagle is perched on a dish antenna. Flocks of birds are passing overhead frequently, their shadows momentarily crossing the surface of the roof.Now, the silent Mahvish plucks a rose. Her hand is decorated with henna—“from a cousin’s wedding, a week ago.”Truth be told, you won’t learn anything about her life from these perfectly ordinary roses, nor about the lives of the others inhabitants of this hauntingly beautiful mansion. And yet, somehow, the flowers bring you closer to their intimate world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-shahnawaz-s-private-rose-garden/story-DxdcuvI4F1OgBpAZKt0cpI.html
11-12-2020||Lucknow||We are about a month away from Covid-19 vaccine: UP CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday claimed that while a vaccine against Covid-19 was just about a month away, the infectious virus had already been contained in the state.“We are about a month away from the Covid-19 vaccine and the state has already contained the pandemic. Developed countries like the US registered a Covid-19 death rate of about 8 per cent, but Uttar Pradesh only saw 1.04 per cent of Covid-19 deaths,” Adityanath said.He was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of the ‘Healthy Eastern Uttar Pradesh’ drive at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Gorakhpur, where he was the chief guest. He also said that Covid management had received huge praise from the World Health Organisation and a research paper should be done on it. “Teamwork always pays rich dividends and medical institutes like AIIMS should realise their role in this regard. More and more research should be done on the field, which is generally better than what is done in labs,” he added. He further reminded the medical fraternity that Gorakhpur was responsible for about 5 crore people, spread over Gorakhpur and Basti divisions, eastern and north Bihar and Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/we-are-about-a-month-away-from-covid-19-vaccine-up-cm-adityanath/story-R9tw3pIwkJOjdKKgsA7IoM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||DCW institutes inquiry after Dy CM Sisodia’s family attacked in Delhi||Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday said it has set up an inquiry taking suo-moto cognizance of media reports of an alleged mob attack on the family of Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia inside his official residence on Monday.As per a statement, publicly available CCTV footage of the incident clearly showed a large mob allegedly belonging to a political party, attacking the house and easily breaching security cover despite the presence of security personnel. The statement also added that Sisodia’s wife and children were present in the house at the time of the attack.“This is a very serious matter. If elected representatives can be attacked in the high-security zone this easily, one can only wonder what level of security is available to common citizens. The DCW has instituted an inquiry in the matter,” it added. Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had hit out at the ruling party at the Centre for the incident and asked why the BJP was getting “so desperate” in Delhi. “I strongly condemn the systematic, organised and violent attack on Dy CM Manish Sisodia’s home. The goons entered his house in police presence when he was away. Why is BJP getting so desperate by the day in Delhi?” Kejriwal said. According to the Delhi Police, six people have been arrested in connection to the incident. An investigation is underway and a proper offence has been registered under appropriate sections of law.AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj at a press conference had informed that while the Deputy chief minister was not present at his house, only women were present.AAP leader Atishi Marlena hit out at Centre over the incident. The party also showed CCTV footage of a group of protesters entering the gate of Sisodia’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dcw-institutes-inquiry-after-dy-cm-sisodia-s-family-attacked-in-delhi/story-raF2oISXDccKM0bhCxt8EL.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Offline exams on cards for Panjab University students||Panjab University is planning to conduct the examination of odd semesters in an offline mode.Several meetings of a special panel have been held to decide whether the varsity should conduct semester exams in online or offline mode as the semester is nearing its end. The members are of the view that exams should be held in physical mode keeping in view the sanctity of them. However, the final decision is still awaited.Due to the pandemic, PU had earlier conducted the exams of the final semester in online mode. Dean university instructions (DUI), who is also a member of the panel, RK Singla said, “The planning of offline exams is under process, but we haven’t finalised anything yet. Everything is in the initial stage.”The examinations for odd semesters are likely to be held in February.In the region, besides Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar has already issued directions to conduct the odd-semester exams in offline mode. However, Punjabi University, Patiala, has reportedly decided to continue with the online-offline blended mode.A challenge for universityConducting physical exams will be a challenging task for the university. The students will need to be called to the campus prior to the examination date. Also, varsity’s three hostels in south campus are under the possession of the Chandigarh administration as Covid-care centres.A university official said that if exams will be conducted in offline mode then the students will be called on campus following all safety norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/offline-exams-on-cards-for-panjab-university-students/story-FocsBPWG9RVoJTlpK7KP5O.html
11-12-2020||Kolkata||Nadda convoy attacked in Bengal, MHA seeks report||The convoy of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda was attacked in West Bengal’s South 24-Parganas district, the party said on Thursday, triggering a sharp rebuttal from the state government and prompting the Union home ministry to seek a report into the matter that turned out to be the latest flashpoint in the politically charged state that will go to polls in early-2021.The BJP said some of its frontline leaders as well as workers sustained injuries after being assaulted by the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress at Shirakol in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. TV news footage showed stones raining on the convoy and shattering windshields. Vehicles of some media houses were damaged.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, its national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were hit by stones and shards of glass from shattered windows and windshields of their cars, according to the party.Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh condemned the incident. Both of them called up the BJP president, state leaders said. The home ministry also asked state governor Jagdeep Dhankar to submit a report on law and order situation in the state and steps taken by the Trinamool government to maintain peace.“The attack on BJP president JP Nadda is condemnable. No matter how much we condemn, it will not be enough. The Centre is taking this very seriously. The West Bengal government will be answerable to the peace-loving people of the state for this,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.“Bengal has sunk into the darkness of lawlessness and oppression during the Trinamool Congress regime. The manner in which political violence is being taken to its limit in West Bengal it is painful and a matter of concern for people who have faith in democracy,” he added. Nadda, who visited Diamond Harbour as part of his two-day trip to the state, said West Bengal had plunged into a state of lawlessness, and appealed to BJP workers to ensure the party’s win in the upcoming assembly elections. The incident took place in the afternoon, when he was on his way to his destination a day after meeting voters in Bhawanipore, the chief minister’s assembly constituency in south Kolkata. “These two constituencies are the fountains of corruption and intolerance,” Nadda said. The BJP leadership alleged that the attack was planned to foil Nadda’s programme and there were no policemen along the highway connecting Kolkata to Diamond Harbour, a distance of 52 km. But CM Banerjee hit back, saying the attack was staged by the BJP to draw public attention.“They staged it to show people that they are being attacked. Why did they have 50 cars in the convoy? I move with only three. What were the cars in the tail end of the convoy doing? How could videos be made and circulated so fast? What were the central police force personnel, who accompany BJP leaders, doing at that time? I challenge this. I have asked the administration to inquire,” she said. Responding to this, Nadda said in the evening: “Mamata Ji knows nothing about administration. The central force personnel accompanying us only protect us. They do not stop stone-throwers on the streets.” Addressing a rally at Arambagh in Hooghly district in the afternoon, Abhishek Banerjee ridiculed Nadda. “Today Nadda fell into a gadda (pothole) at Diamond Harbour. What can I do if common people’s anger finds an expression in outrage? The BJP spreads fear and violence, but in Bengal they have lost balance...” Urban development minister Firhad Hakim said the BJP did not even inform the state government about the movement of its leaders. “The central government provides security cover to Nadda and other leaders. If they had asked for security cover from us, we would have arranged it,” he said. The state police said in a statement nothing happened to Nadda’s cavalcade. “Shri JP Nadda, National President, BJP reached safely at the venue, Diamond Harbour, South 24 Pgs. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, Diamond Harbour PD, sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy. Everyone is safe and situation is peaceful. Matter is being investigated to find out actual happenings,” the force tweeted. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had a scheduled meeting with the chief secretary and director general of police at 6pm. “CS @MamataOfficial & DGP @WBPolice called on me today at 6 PM. Unfortunately, neither came with any update on pending issues or regarding attack on convoy of BJP President JP Nadda. Their continued non responsive stance signals failure of constitutional machinery in the State,” Dhankhar tweeted after the meeting. BJP leaders fanned out across the state to protest against the incident. Roads were blocked at several places. Demonstrators got into a scuffle with policemen in Howrah town. Two police personnel and two BJP workers were injured. With elections approaching, the political temperature in Bengal is on the rise. The BJP has set a target of winning over 200 of the 294 seats in the upcoming polls in the state, which is often in news for political violence. In the 2011 assembly elections, the BJP failed to win a single seat and got a vote share of around 4%. In 2016, it did better, winning three seats and bagging a vote share of around 10%. Buoyed by the Lok Sabha performance last year (18 out of 42 seats), the BJP is now focusing on the issues of corruption and nepotism, lack of employment, and law and order in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nadda-convoy-attacked-in-bengal-mha-seeks-report/story-0dtxBJtwkHLikzxooSDt7K.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University financial board members urge offline meeting||Three members of Panjab University’s Board of Finance (BoF) have written to the registrar of the university requesting that the board’s next meeting should be held in offline mode instead of online.The next meeting of the BoF, which has a total of nine members, is scheduled to be held on December 15 in an online mode. However, the members of the board, Navdeep Goyal, Rajat Sandhir and Ashok Goyal, have submitted that the budget being a critical issue in the financial management of the university, the meeting should be held in offline mode instead of holding it online.“Budget requires discussion and participation of the members, which can be done more effectively in an offline meeting,” the members have said. In the next meeting of BoF, the revised budget of 2020-21 financial year and the budget estimates of 2021-22 financial year will be tabled in the meeting.The meetings of BoF are convened by the registrar, who is the secretary of the board, as directed by the vice-chancellor.The members have also said that the board’s members are limited and the meeting can be conveniently held in offline mode following standard operating procedures (SOPs) and have requested that their submission should be considered given the importance of the matter.The development comes days after secretary higher education, Punjab, Rahul Bhandari had written to the PU registrar, requesting that the meeting of BoF should be held in an offline mode. The members of the PU’s financial board include two nominees, one each from the government of Punjab and the Chandigarh administration.Bhandari said, “It is better if we have a physical meeting instead of an online one. We can have a physical meeting following all precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-financial-board-members-urge-offline-meeting/story-vfJaH8El58C88DU9ZCX4KN.html
11-12-2020||City||1,100 visitors turn up as Chhatbir Zoo reopens after nine months||Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, reopened after a gap of nine months on Thursday, welcoming 1,100 visitors on the first day. As part of safety protocols against Covid-19, the zoo will be allowing 2,700 visitors per day for now. Before, it was closed on March 16 in view of the pandemic, the zoo saw a daily footfall of nearly 3,000. The main attraction on Thursday was white tigress Diya’s three cubs – Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor, who were born on November 17 last year. Most of the visitors flocked around their enclosure, enchanted by the two male and one female cubs, who have an orange coat unlike their mother. Zoo field director M Sudhagar said, “We are happy with the response on Thursday and are hopeful of more footfall during the weekend.” He added that they were following the standard operating procedure to ensure the safety of visitors, employees, workers and animals. The zoo will remain open from 9.30am to 4.30pm on six days (Monday closed). Before it was closed in March, it was earning nearly Rs 1.8 lakh a day, and hence, suffered losses to the tune of Rs 5 crore over the past nine months. Hoping to become self-reliant in the next two years, zoo authorities say it will take at least six months to recover from the losses. One of the largest zoos in India, Chhatbir Zoo is spread over 505 acres of forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 animals and birds, including five adult tigers and three cubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-100-visitors-turn-up-as-chhatbir-zoo-reopens-after-nine-months/story-R1ZAFWKSy9VSYZkRO8c7NO.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||32-year-old farmer dies after axe attack by cousin in Mohali||A man allegedly killed his 32-year-old cousin using an axe following a spat at Kambala village on Wednesday night.Lakhwinder Singh, 31, alias Lakhi, was arrested at home a few hours after he killed Gurvinder Singh, a farmer and milk supplier, around 11pm. Inspector Daljeet Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Sohana police station, said Gurwinder and Lakhi consumed alcohol at a wedding in their village and had an argument. As Gurwinder was returning home, Lakhi ambushed him, inflicting deep injuries on his neck with an axe, before fleeing to his house.Gurwinder was taken to a hospital by other relatives, but declared dead soon .Police reached the crime spot around 1am and arrested Lakhi at home.“Old family rivalry between the cousins and heated arguments at the function led to Gurwinder’s murder. We have arrested the accused and also recovered the axe from his possession. Further investigation is on,” the SHO said. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 (carrying prohibited arms) of the Arms Act was registered against Lakhi after Gurwinder’s uncle Kuldeep Singh filed a police statement. Lakhi will be produced before a local court on Friday, when the post-mortem will also be conducted at the civil hospital in Phase 6. Gurwinder is survived by his mother and a younger brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-year-old-farmer-dies-after-axe-attack-by-cousin-in-mohali/story-Gev6aa0i3Z613PMT6KEJsK.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||School bus operators in Chandidarh withdraw plea from HC||The Chandigarh School Bus Operators Welfare Association has withdrawn its plea from Punjab and Haryana high court. In November, the body had demanded that authorities should be directed to come out with a reasonable policy so that livelihood of those operators and bus staff affected by the pandemic are saved.The members had also demanded that they be allowed exemption in road tax and insurance etc as school bus operation had not resumed and schools had been barred from collecting the transportation fee etc.It was also argued that they, too, have the right to life and propagate their profession. Steps have been taken so that schools and parents are not affected by the pandemic, but no announcement has been made to provide succour to affected transporters and bus staff, the court was told.Their lawyer, Harmandeep Singh Saini, said a modified plea in the wake of some fresh developments will be filed. The association has around 600 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-bus-operators-in-chandidarh-withdraw-plea-from-hc/story-1YQQpzoJL3F7nzDmxeyxHP.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Now, pick a bicycle for ₹10 to cruise around Chandigarh||With the aim to encourage cycling as a last-mile connectivity option, the ambitious public bicycle sharing system was launched on Thursday. Residents can now rent cycles to commute through the city by paying Rs 5 (member) and Rs 10 (non-member) for half an hour. Annual membership will also be available for Rs 500.Users will be able to collect the bicycle and pay for it by registering on the mobile app, Smart Bike.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore launched the first phase of the project from the docking station at Rock Garden. The administrator emphasised that the project will not only reduce carbon footprint, but also help with reducing traffic congestion. Badnore himself took a ride on a bicycle, along with other officials, from Rock Garden to Punjab Raj Bhawan. While briefing about the pilot project, KK Yadav, MC commissioner-cum-CEO, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, said the system comprised 25 docking stations spread across prominent locations in the city, such as Rock Garden, Sukhna Lake, high court, PGIMER, Sectors 17, 22, 34, 35 and 43, and 225 bicycles, including over 100 pedal assisted e-bikes. The docking stations have been planned in consultation with the UT urban planning department, with each location carefully selected, keeping in mind traffic flow and mixing of traffic.Yadav said in total, 5,000 bicycles will be provided in the city through a network of 617 docking stations. “This will make it India’s largest and densest public bike sharing network. The project will be developed in four phases of 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations each, within a span of 18 months,” he added. The commissioner said all bicycles were GPS-enabled and had locking facility, which will be monitored by the Command and Control Centre, having a 24x7 helpline. This project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire M/s Smart Bike Tech Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad, for 10 years on public-private partnership (PPP) basis. He further said as Chandigarh was participating in India Cycle4Change Challenge, an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, with the launch of the public bike sharing system, UT’s prospects of winning had increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-pick-a-bicycle-for-10-to-cruise-around-chandigarh/story-9HNb31nVqAmjONiWwoCWkL.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ongoing farmers’ agitation holding up appointment of Punjab Congress office-bearers||The ongoing farmers’ protests against the three agriculture marketing laws are holding up the appointment of office-bearers of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, who was in Chandigarh on Thursday to meet chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and others, said the appointment of new panel is taking time as the party cannot distract its leaders from the fight being waged by the farmers. “The farmers are fighting for their land and livelihood, and the Congress leaders are making efforts to identify with them without any self-interest,” he said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had dissolved the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees in the state in January this year, retaining the state unit president Sunil Jakhar, to pave the way for its restructuring ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. Rawat’s predecessor Asha Kumari had sent a list of office-bearers in consultation with Jakhar, but she was replaced before it could be finalised. Rawat, a former chief minister of Uttarakhand and five-time former MP, took charge in September and has held a series of meetings with the party MPs, MLAs and other leaders for feedback. The AICC general secretary said when he took charge, there were three tasks on his priority list – unity, organisational structure and elections to urban local bodies. “The first task is more or less complete as Capt Amarinder, (former minister) Navjot Singh Sidhu and (Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh) Bajwa are in dialogue. The party set-up will be finalised as and when things settle down,” he said. The party is also fully geared up for the local body polls and will announce its candidates once the election schedule is decided by the state government, he added. On the farmers’ agitation, Rawat said the Centre should accept the protesters’ demands and take back all three laws. “This is a people’s movement and the Congress is lending its support to a just cause by cooperating with and facilitating the farmers. Both Capt and Jakhar are well-recognised for taking up the issues of farmers and it works to the advantage of the party,” he said. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) do not have the farmers’ trust, he further said. “(Former CM) Parkash Singh Badal could have made a difference earlier, but (SAD president) Sukhbir Singh Badal has not been able to identify himself with the farmers. Also, they continued in the NDA government even after the farm ordinances were promulgated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-stir-holding-up-appointment-of-punjab-congress-office-bearers/story-nCgbjPnAMuIPNRRE9mvJFN.html
11-12-2020||City||Magisterial probe ordered into 40-year-old alleged carjacker’s death in police encounter at Amritsar||The district administration in Amritsar has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the death of a 40-year-old alleged car snatcher in a police encounter on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway near Manawala village on Tuesday night. Inderjit Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur who was accused of snatching an SUV in Haryana, succumbed to the bullet injuries at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital the same night. Sub-divisional magistrate (Amritsar-1) Vikas Hira on Thursday initiated the probe on the directions of deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira after the victim’s family termed the incident as “a fake encounter”. On Tuesday evening, the Amritsar commssionerate police’s crime investigation agency (CIA) unit had set up a checkpoint near the Manawala toll plaza which is under the jurisdiction of the rural police. The CIA team claimed to have got information from the Haryana Police that Inderjit was coming towards Amritsar after snatching a Toyota Fortuner in Ambala. The barricading was done without informing the rural police, it is learnt. The CIA unit members claimed that they opened the fire to save their lives after Inderjit tried to run over them with the SUV. The post-mortem on the 40-year-old’s body was conducted on Thursday by a board of three doctors at Amritsar civil hospital under SDM Hira’s supervision. “I have started the probe. The report will be submitted within three months,” the SDM said. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Jandiala, Sukhwinderpal Singh, under whose jurisdiction the incident took place, said, “Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya had written to the DC who then ordered to conduct a magisterial probe. The SDM also visited the crime spot.”“Efforts are on to collect the footage of the closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the toll plaza. So far, the victim’s family has not lodged a complaint against the policemen involved in the firing,” he added. On Thursday morning, the family wrote to the SDM demanding that the SUV, CCTV footage from the toll plaza be preserved besides conducting videography of the autopsy.Inderjit’s brother Maninderpal Singh said, “A case of murder should be registered against the guilty cops. Two bullets were pumped into my brother’s body. While the police claim they fired at the SUV’s tyres to stop it, there is no sign of bullets on the tyres. It appears they fired at my brother with an intention to kill him.”Maninderpal claimed that some passersby shot the video of the incident, but the cops got the clips deleted forcibly. “As per the eyewitnesses, they CIA team fired at least six rounds. It was a planned murder,” he said.Inderjit, who worked as a driver for nearly a year after having returned from abroad, is survived by his wife, mother and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/magisterial-probe-ordered-into-40-year-old-alleged-carjacker-s-death-in-police-encounter-at-amritsar/story-1Dzup6Zt1s8ZDyDV1dRJ9K.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC confirms pre-arrest bail of lawyer accused of being part of ₹7.26-crore cheating conspiracy||The Bombay high court (HC) recently confirmed the October 29 bail order of an advocate and solicitor who was accused of being a part of a conspiracy in which a man and his son were purportedly duped of ₹7.26 crore in exchange for a plot at Lonavla.The advocate, who was involved in preparing the documents of the deal for the main accused, was allowed the bail on the grounds that he was only extending services to his client based on the facts placed before him, and had no role to play in the actual fraud. In an earlier hearing in October, the bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the anticipatory bail plea of advocate Vinod Mistry, was informed that in 2013 a man and his son had decided to buy the Lonavla plot, for which they paid varying amounts to persons who pretended to be owners as well as the tenants (including an NGO) of the plot. The accused had promised that they would relinquish their rights on receiving the payment. As each payment was followed up with memorandum of understanding (MoUs) and agreement deeds made by Mistry on behalf of the recipients, the man and his son did not find anything amiss. The complainants paid ₹7.26 crore till 2015. However, the deal remained pending after that, 2015. Later, they discovered that the land belonged to the government, and the persons who they had paid the amount were tenants. In 2019, they asked the recipients to return the amount. But when they did not get the amount back, they lodged a complaint four months ago against the recipients and arraigned Mistry as a conspirator. The counsel for Mistry informed the bench that he was a practicing advocate and had earned a reputation over 50 years of practice. The bench was informed that Mistry had simply offered services sought from him and that he had no role to play in the conspiracy. The bench was assured that Mistry would cooperate with the police and hence he should be granted anticipatory bail. On November 27, when the matter was heard, additional public prosecutor MM Deshmukh informed the court that Mistry had reported to the police station whenever he was called for investigations and there was nothing left to extract from him. After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “In such circumstances, as nothing further is required to be extracted from the present applicant, in my considered opinion, the order dated 29th October 2020 requires a confirmation subject to the same stipulations. However, it is expected that the applicant will co-operate with the investigation and report to the investigating officer as and when called for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-confirms-pre-arrest-bail-of-lawyer-accused-of-being-part-of-7-26-crore-cheating-conspiracy/story-2OpZIfsFiM9NX5v9Sr2maN.html
11-12-2020||City||J&K sees 81 deaths, 4,549 virus cases in December so far||The first 10 days of December recorded 81 deaths and 4,549 Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir after another eight fatalities and 366 fresh infections on Thursday. The total Covid count in the UT reached up to 1,14,773 and death toll to 1,775.Officials said 196 people tested positive in Kashmir and 170 in Jammu. Five persons died in Kashmir and three in Jammu division. They said that 1,08,150 people have recovered in the UT so far after 526 patients were discharged on Thursday. There are 4,848 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 32.69 lakh.A total of 1,141 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 634 in Jammu. In terms of fatalities, December has already recorded 81 deaths while the month’s cases so far reached 4,549 with a daily average of 454 cases. There were 15,434 infections in November as compared to 19,619 cases in October. The month of September had recorded a steep rise in cases to reach 37,372 from 17,339 infections in August.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 63 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 29 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 99 followed by 15 in Rajouri district. Srinagar tops the case tally with 23,974cases and 430 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 21,853 cases and 320 deaths.Till date, 8.18 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 21,359 in home quarantine, 4,848 in isolation, and 27,714 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.62 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-sees-81-deaths-4-549-virus-cases-in-december-so-far/story-Dj6mM0SX3zShJv3geYl0oN.html
11-12-2020||City||DDC polls in J&K: 51% turnout in Round 5, highest polling in Poonch||The fifth phase of district development council (DDC) elections recorded 51.20 percent voter turnout across Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, said state election commissioner KK Sharma. Polling was peaceful in the 37 DDC constituencies, including 17 in Kashmir division and 20 in Jammu division, he added. He informed that polling was held in 2,104 polling stations including 1,190 from Kashmir division and 914 from Jammu division. Jammu division recorded an average voter turnout of 66.67 per cent with Poonch district recording the highest percentage of 71.62 per cent, followed by Doda district with 70.95 per cent while 70.83 per cent voting was seen in Rajouri district. The lowest turnout in Jammu division was witnessed in Jammu district which recorded 60.24 percent polling. Besides, Kashmir division recorded 33.57 percent average voter turnout with Bandipora district recording the highest polling at 56.40 percent followed by Kupwara district at 52.35 percent and Budgam with around 45.65 percent polling. The election chief informed that in Kashmir division, the polling percentage recorded in Ganderbal was 37.47 percent, while Baramulla reported 44.31 percent, Anantnag 21.89 percent, Kulgam 26.94 percent, Pulwama 8.12 percent and 5.52 percent polling was registered in Shopian.Similarly, in Jammu division, poll percentage of 64.71 percent was recorded in Samba, 69.47 percent in Udhampur, 68.27 percent in Kishtwar, 67.11 percent in Ramban, 69.15 percent in Reasi and 62.36 percent in Kathua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-in-j-k-51-turnout-in-round-5-highest-polling-in-poonch/story-BOWlSuc70AgVliJzUgi31H.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body schools, gymkhanas to be Covid-19 vaccination points||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to include civic-run schools and gymkhanas as Covid-19 vaccination points to provide faster and better accessibility to immunisation for citizens. Expecting the roll-out of the vaccine next year, BMC plans to immunise one crore of the city’s population in the first phase of the immunisation drive. Around 400 schools and gymkhanas under the civic body will be roped in along with medical colleges, peripheral hospitals and dispensaries for the purpose. “First, we will start vaccination centres at tertiary and secondary care centres. But we will also keep ready schools and gymkhanas under BMC ready if we need more centres,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, adding, “We are already using schools and gymkhanas as Covid care centres (CCC), and therefore there won’t be a problem in converting them into vaccination centres.” Based on the directives of the Union health ministry, the civic body has started preparing the blueprint for the vaccine distribution. BMC has been holding regular meetings with senior health officers, including deans of medical colleges over the vaccination drive. In Mumbai, around 1.25 lakh public and private medical staffers will be provided the first dosage of the vaccine. BMC has already registered their phone and email IDs. Once it receive the vials, each beneficiary will be informed on SMS about the nearby location and time of the vaccination. Once removed from the cold storage, a vial can sustain for around 10 hours. “For now, we’ll provide training to workers from the department of immunisation. They will train those whom we’ll recruit for the mass immunisation process,” said a the health department official. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has cautioned against the hype about vaccines which are undergoing clinical trials. “The safety of the vaccine has to be tested widely with a large number of volunteers across the globe in different categories such as age groups, gender, race, continents and climate conditions. Any vaccine which is not tested fully with such third-stage clinical trials is not safe,” read the statement issued by Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, IMA Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-schools-gymkhanas-to-be-covid-19-vaccination-points/story-yqus0LmfbNxW22TPTcHC0H.html
11-12-2020||City||J&K DDC polls: High-stake battle in Uri’s Parenpilla seat||In the fifth phase of DDC polls, a seat in north Kashmir’s Uri has become a prestige point for the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and Congress.Parenpilla, now a coveted seat, went for polls along with the 37 others in J&K on Thursday. Winning this seat is crucial for both National Conference (NC), an alliance partner with PAGD), and Congress. Workers of both the parties made a beeline outside polling stations to cast their votes. At the end of the day, 66.63 percent voting was recorded for this seat.At Garkote, a polling station set up inside a government school, half of the registered voters had exercised their franchise by 1pm. “We have always voted for NC as the party has done a lot for us. Today, we voted in favour of the PAGD candidate from People’s Conference. Only about half of our family voted though. Had it been an NC candidate, all of us would have voted,” said a local businessman.Garkote village is located on the LoC and has been a victim of shelling from Pakistan. At three polling stations in the village, over 3,000 voters are registered and most of them came out to vote.In Machigund, the villagers had been voting since morning. “We have always voted in elections. We hope our the new DDC member, once elected, will construct underground bunkers which were destroyed in 2005 earthquake,” said a village elder.Two-time former minister and senior Congress leader Taj Mohiudin also contested from Parenpilla DDC seat of Uri in Baramulla. Mohiudin was once pitched to be the chief ministerial candidate during PDP-Congress coalition government in J&K. He is facing a tough contest from the PAGD candidate of Sajjad Lone’s Peoples’ Conference.On Tuesday night, police had stopped and questioned a close relative of Mohiudin, near LoC, following allegations that he was distributing money among the voters at Kamalkote.Sajjad Lone accused the administration of trying to hush up a case of money distribution.“Attempts to hush up a case involving distribution of money in Parenpilla, URI, DDC constituency. The constituency goes to polls tomorrow. The L-G has a moral duty to ascertain who all r(are) behind attempts to hush up the case,” Sajjad Lone tweeted late on Tuesday night.Police, however, denied the allegations.“If Taj Mohiudin loses this election, his political career will be over. He chose to contest from this seat as it’s a reserved seat and major chunk of voters belong to the Gujjar community which could tilt the balance in favour of the former minister,” said a local resident of Uri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-ddc-polls-high-stake-battle-in-uri-s-parenpilla-seat/story-pmO4yISaxSzqcPLs7Tj9yK.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||More than 1 lakh doctors on strike across Maharashtra today; emergency services won’t be hit||More than 110,000 doctors across Maharashtra will go on strike today to protest against the Centre’s notification authorising post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to perform general surgical procedures. As a part of a nationwide protest, all non-essential, non-Covid and out-patient department (OPD) services at hospitals in the state will be withdrawn from 6am to 6pm. However, all emergency services, including casualty, critical care, intensive care unit (ICU), Covid-19 care, emergency surgeries and labour room, will function as usual.General practitioners, specialists, resident doctors and medical students will take part in the demonstrations across the country.According to a statement issued by the Maharashtra branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), around 15,000 MBBS students from 36 medical colleges and 10,000 postgraduate students, too, will participate in the demonstration. The agitation is supported by 34 specialist organisations, which include the Federation of Gynaecologists (FOGCI), Maharashtra Surgical Society, Physicians Association of India, Indian Association of Paediatricians, Indian Dental Association, Association of Colorectal Surgeons, Indian Radiological and Imaging Association, among others. The Centre’s notification, which has spared the row, was issued on November 20, in which the Central Council of Indian Medicine authorised a post-graduate in Shalyathanthra and Shalakyathanthra to perform 58 general surgical procedures, which include general surgery, urology, surgical gastroenterology, ENT, ophthalmology and dental medicine, among others.“Just by giving some Sanskrit names, Ayurvedic doctors can’t perform surgical procedures. A doctor spends years to gain expertise before operating on any patient. Also, they need approval from and registration with the Indian Medical Council. To raise awareness about the issue among people, we have decided to stop non-Covid, non-essential services on December 11 between 6am and 6pm. But it won’t affect emergency services,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra. “If an inexperienced doctor operates on a patient, it is like playing with the person’s life.” The IMA has termed it “mixopathy” practice, “which can increase calamities”, as per a statement released by the association. “IMA is not against Ayurveda, our contention is, such mixing of different pathies will be detrimental to the patients and Ayurveda will not grow,” reads the statement issued by IMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-than-1-lakh-doctors-on-strike-across-maharashtra-today-emergency-services-won-t-be-hit/story-zwmCEaCn5O1V9soEMXYS6N.html
11-12-2020||City||Roshni Act verdict: SC asks J&K HC to decide review petition on December 21||The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday asked the Jammu and Kashmir high court to decide on December 21 the pleas seeking review of the verdict scrapping the Roshni Act which had conferred proprietary rights on the occupants of the state land.A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana considered the oral assurance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Jammu and Kashmir administration, that no coercive action will be taken against those petitioners who have approached the top court in the matter as they are not “land grabbers or unauthorised people”.The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, adjourned the hearing of the petitions to the last week of January next year.Meanwhile, the top court asked the J&K High Court to consider the review petitions against the October 9 judgment on December 21.It may be stated here that the review petition is scheduled to come up for hearing before the division bench of the J&K high court on Friday.The SC observed that the pendency of the instant pleas will not come in the way of any petitioners approaching high court in review.The J&K HC has declared the Act void abinitio and directed the CBI inquiry against the land allotments.On Thursday, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told court that the J&K government could not come in the way of common people or those who are lawful occupants. “There is no question of that that but land grabbers cannot be spared,” he said.Justice NV Ramana then asked whether an order directing no coercive action be taken during pendency of the proceedings can be recorded. The Solicitor General assured the apex court at this juncture that no such order was necessary.“We have nothing against anybody and illegalities have to be punished. A lot of confusion in this matter though,” Justice Ramana observed.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for one of the petitioners then told court that the Solicitor General’s submission was good enough.Petitioners represented by Rohatgi submitted that the HC struck down the Act in a PIL without hearing the actual land allottees.The HC had held that the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act 2001, popularly known as Roshni Act was completely unconstitutional and all acts done under it or amendments thereunder were also unconstitutional and void ab initio. The bench comprising Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajesh Bindal directed CBI investigation into allegations against former ministers, ex-legislators, bureaucrats, high ranking government and police officials for having encroached upon public lands under the Roshni Act in their favour. Following this, the UT administration sought a review of the judgment, which will be listed on Friday.Roshni Act was passed in 2001 to provide ownership of state land to people who were occupying it after it was introduced in the budget speech of 2000 by then finance minister Abdul Rahim Rather of the National Conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roshni-act-verdict-sc-asks-j-k-hc-to-decide-review-petition-on-december-21/story-zhJwW8rWnduncniv13FwaK.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||What next for Sharad Pawar at 80?||Two days before Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s 80th birthday on December 12, political circles were on Thursday abuzz with speculation that the leader may become the convener of the United Progressive Alliance – a Congress-led coalition – if the Congress agrees to give the post to a non-Congress leader. Currently, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is the chairperson of the UPA. Pawar’s aides said the NCP chief was approached by a few Congress leaders. The leader, however, denied it. “There is no basis in the reports that Sharad Pawar will be made the UPA chairperson,” Pawar clarified to ABP Majha, a Marathi channel, in the evening. Senior Congress leader Tariq Anwar, too, termed the reports “baseless”. NCP leaders, however, said Pawar should be given the responsibility to bring the Opposition parties together, amid the need to put a strong alternative before the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Pawar saheb has the experience and capability. He can also hold the Opposition parties together. The Maharashtra experiment can be tried on the national level. It is the right time to take the call,” said an NCP leader, requesting anonymity. “Pawar saheb came in contact with leaders from other parties when he was the chief minister and has always maintained a cordial relationship with everyone, even if he is a part of the Opposition. He has always been interested in resolving issues and doesn’t mix politics with development. Amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation, he led a delegation, including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, to President Ram Nath Kovind and urged him to repeal the controversial laws. I don’t know beyond that,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Challenges ahead At the base of the speculation is Pawar’s experiment to bring three parties – Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena – together to wrest power from the BJP in Maharashtra. Pawar’s aides think he can bring more parties to the UPA and create confidence among voters that there could be an alternative to the BJP nationally. But as he turns 80, Pawar, the veteran of many battles, has two major challenges before him. First, to ensure the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state completes its five-year term, which he has been insisting on since the three-party alliance came to power in 2019. Second, to decide who will lead the NCP, as he may not be active in politics after a few years. Since the MVA regime came into existence, at regular intervals, there have been reports that the BJP was planning ‘Operation Lotus’ to dislodge the current dispensation by engineering a large number of defections. The BJP leaders, too, have been saying that the Thackeray-led government won’t last long. “The three-party government sees lack of coordination, but will not fall unless one of the three parties falls out of it, which seems unlikely. On the other hand, most of the legislators who defected to the BJP, to be in power, be it from the Congress or NCP, want to switch sides again. This is why senior BJP leaders have been giving statements that the government will not last,” Bal said.The successor Pawar has groomed many young leaders, including his daughter Supriya Sule, nephew Ajit Pawar and state NCP chief Jayant Patil, who are now the party’s frontline leaders, but who will become his successor is still not clear. Over the years, Ajit has emerged as his political heir, as he was the most popular leader among partymen after senior Pawar. However, there could be a trust deficit between the NCP chief and his nephew, as he tried to split the party last November by joining hands with the BJP to form a government that lasted only 80 hours. “The NCP has a big set of young leaders. I can name many who are acceptable to all – Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil and Dhananjay Munde. There are many in the party who possess qualities to lead,” Pawar replied to a question in a recent interview. NCP insiders say Ajit is still second-in-command in the party. “Despite his unsuccessful coup, everyone knows Ajit dada is still holding number two position. He is also the most popular leader in the party. No one is denying the contribution of other leaders, but they can’t replace him,” said an NCP leader, requesting anonymity. On the other hand, the rise of Supriya Sule in the party in past few years is an indication that the NCP chief has been grooming his daughter for bigger responsibilities. Sule is now part of the top brass and has a say is major decisions. Some party leaders opine that Pawar may not appoint a clear successor as that would lead to bad blood. It is quite possible that Ajit would not like to work under Supriya’s leadership. “Pawar is never going to retire from active politics. Politics is his oxygen. He has survived big ailments, critical surgeries and still at the age of 80, he is one of the most active leaders in the political sphere,” political analyst Pratap Asbe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/what-next-for-sharad-pawar-at-80/story-FVG7O9nsGTUhALqmijrfGK.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department initiates pilot project for reusing school textbooks||In a bid to encourage students to ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’ the Maharashtra education department has started a pilot project of passing on the textbooks of students from one batch to another through schools. In a circular issued on Thursday, the department stated that the move aimed at creating awareness about reusing textbooks among students, and thereby reducing the use of paper and saving the environment. “Students who study under schools wherein free textbooks are distributed under the government’s Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan are urged to deposit their old textbooks (for the year 2019-20 or 2020-21) to the school. These books can then be passed on to the students in the following year,” stated the circular. Officials from the state education department said the initiative will first be tested on pilot basis, and can be expanded further after gauging the interest of students and parents. Applauding the move, a civic school teacher from Mumbai’s eastern suburbs, said, “Such a programme will also encourage children to use their textbooks well to make sure they remain good enough for other students to use in the coming years.” Once parents deposit textbooks in schools, the institutes will then send the data of such books to the education officers, following which a detailed report on the response will be collated. Every year, the government spends around over Rs200 crore for printing new textbooks under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. Under the initiative, the state distributes free textbooks to Class 1 to Class 8 students of aided and government run schools. If students reuse their textbooks, the government hopes that these costs can also be saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-initiates-pilot-project-for-reusing-school-textbooks/story-4FsJOnboReJ5WeSR0xI5DO.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to set aside FIR against traders who cheated banana farmers in Jalgaon||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the criminal application of three persons against whom farmers had lodged complaints of cheating in Jalgaon district. While elaborating the reasons for rejecting the application which sought to quash the first information report (FIR) against the three, the court said that there was an increase in instances of farmers being duped by traders and observed that the inability of farmers to afford litigation was used by traders to exploit them. While also observing that this was one of the reasons which compelled farmers to die by suicide, the court refused to quash the FIR wherein the three applicants were accused of cheating banana farmers by taking their produce but not paying them. On December 7, a division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar, while hearing the application of Mayur Khandelwal, 28, Kailashchandra Khandelwal, 58, and Akil Husonoddin Shaikh, 37, all residents of Raver taluka in Jalgaon district, was informed that the Jalgaon police had registered an FIR against them on July 28, 2017. The three were booked under sections 420 and 406 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), based on the complaint of a woman who is a broker of agricultural produce. As per the complainant Saniya Kadri, she got in touch with the owners of Khandelwal Transporters whose services she used to transport banana produce from Jalgaon district to other places. She alleged that Mayur approached her and assured her that he could get her better prices for the produce. The applicants claimed that she would get larger profits as he would use his contacts with traders who he was in touch with due to his transport business across the country. Kadri claimed that she had arrived at an agreement with Mayur on the aforesaid terms. Kadri’s advocate, SN Suryawanshi submitted that thereafter his client collected bananas from the farmers on the promise that they would be paid in a few days. When it was time to pay, the applicants told Kadri to pay the farmers from her own resources as they needed some time due to a financial crunch. Kadri complied, but thereafter, when she pursued the applicants to pay her, they started avoiding her. Hence she lodged the complaint with Jalgaon police. However, advocate KC Sant for the applicants, said that Kadri had not handed over agricultural produce to his clients for sale. He also submitted that the claim that an amount due to Kadri was more than ₹2.8 crore. Sant added that his clients had only dealt with transport-related transactions with Kadri, and it was she who was actually selling bananas directly to the traders. In light of these submissions, he sought setting aside of the complaint against his clients. After hearing submissions, the court observed, “It cannot be said that applicants had no intention to deceive. They were involved in these transactions. They had collected the money as sale proceeds, but they did not pass the amount to the informant and the farmers…There is material to make out the offence of misappropriation and also the cheating.” The bench further remarked, “Such instances are increasing day by day. It is unfortunate, but it is a fact that all the systems are not showing sensitivity to the problems faced by the farmers. The farmers have no resources, and they cannot afford to indulge in litigation. This inability of farmers is used by the traders like applicants and they make money on the agricultural produce which farmers get after working hard.” While rejecting the application, the court said, “The suicides of farmers are increasing day by day as farmers are facing all kinds of problems and present problem of cheating is an additional circumstance which is compelling the farmers to commit the suicide. Due to all these circumstances, this court holds that no relief can be granted in favour of applicants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-set-aside-fir-against-traders-who-cheated-banana-farmers-in-jalgaon/story-OedOOF6v5UL0CF92cr9vrN.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Over 2.04 lakh seats remain vacant in Mumbai after Round 2; third merit list on December 15||Over 2.04 lakh seats (including general and quota seats) across first-year junior colleges (FYJC) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) remain vacant after the second round of admissions, which concluded on Wednesday. Only about 37% students who were allotted colleges in the round, ended up confirming their seats in the second general round.Colleges said students might still want to wait for the third round to see if they get their desired college before zeroing down on something.“Some students who might have missed the cut-off by a few marks might wait for the third list,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college. A total of 76,231 students were allotted seats in the second round of which 28,061 students confirmed their admissions. The state education department will announce the third merit list for FYJC at 11am on December 15. The department announced the admission schedule for the third round on its official website on Thursday. While the third merit list will be declared on December 15, students who get colleges in the list can secure their admissions by December 18. The state education department has allowed colleges to start their online classes for FYJC. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “The FYJC admission process has been smooth this year and we are happy that admissions will complete soon. We are hoping that colleges start their classes online. We have also extended all the help by organising online classes for students across the state through the Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (MSCERT).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-over-2-04-lakh-seats-remain-vacant-in-mumbai-after-round-2-third-merit-list-on-december-15/story-AhmcCKyHLKsYriDHRUlkVP.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Strategies planned to fight illegal wildlife trade in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||The anti-poaching unit of the Thane forest department held a meeting on Thursday with animal welfare groups working within its jurisdiction to build strategies to develop a stronger network to fight organised wildlife crime.“The Mumbai Metropolitan Region is witnessing increasing cases of illegal pet and wildlife trade, and the pattern has changed to using the web for easy access and communication. We intend to enter and break into this network,” said a senior forest official.Thursday’s meeting was held online to take suggestions and develop strategies to counter wildlife crimes with animal welfare groups such as Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW); Plant and Animals Welfare Society - Mumbai (PAWS-Mumbai); the Thane Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Spreading Awareness on Reptiles and Rehabilitation Program (SARRP); Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA); and others. Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW said that among the issues discussed at the meeting were scheduling meetings of the bird committee appointed by the Bombay high court; preparing a database of volunteers and database of members trained in wildlife rescue; the need to generate awareness; and getting help from police departments and cyber cells while dealing with illicit wildlife trade cases.At the end of the meeting, it was decided to launch a dedicated email id, helpline number, social media handles through which teams would monitor illegal social media activities related to hunting and poaching along with spreading awareness and information about conservation issues.The meeting comes a day after one person was arrested after a truck carrying 94 caged animals and birds was intercepted. According to forest officials, 62 Indian rose-ringed parakeets, 12 plum headed parakeets, seven Indian palm squirrels, and 13 albino rabbits, were being delivered to south Mumbai as the truck was on route to Crawford Market. The wildlife has been rescued. Another instance of a large raid this year was on October 30, when 88 wild animals were rescued and two persons were arrested from an apartment in Lalbaug by the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/strategies-planned-to-fight-illegal-wildlife-trade-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-AftSDEjzrBXE5RCJKyQrJP.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||No time consuming electrical inspections of solar plants of up to 250 kWp: Chandigarh admin||For quick and trouble-free installation of roof top solar power plants here,the Chandigarh administration has scrapped time consuming electrical inspections for setting up plants of up to 250 kilowatts peak (kWp, the rate at which the system generates energy at peak performance). The relief has been extended to residential category and government plants. The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by UT adviser Manoj Parida with the heads of different departments, including UT electricity department, Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest), municipal corporation, urban planning department to improve their coordination.Parida also directed that UT electricity department to give a technical feasibility report within seven days, which is expected to also speed up the process to install the plants.The department currently takes around four months to give a report. The administration has achieved a target of 37.5 MW against a target of 69 megawatt (MW) solar power generation that the ministry of new and renewable energy has set for 2022 after enhancing it from 50MW. Even though the government recently notified the new subsidy scheme for rooftop solar units, the response from households remains low because of several bureaucratic bottlenecks. The subsidy amount has been raised from 30% to 40% for panels of up to 3 kWp capacity. For solar units from 4 kWp to 10 kWp, the subsidy will be 20%. There will be no subsidy for plants above 10kWp. Earlier, 30% subsidy was given to all applicants irrespective of the capacity of the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-time-consuming-electrical-inspections-of-solar-plants-of-up-to-250-kwp-chandigarh-admin/story-4FyeJoBhGbQ4GrujUXT45M.html
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Realty, hospitality sectors in Maharashtra yet to feel full force of migrant workers||May 14 and 15 will forever be etched in Mukesh Mali’s mind. Six years after moving to Mumbai in the hope of bettering the quality of life of his three school-going siblings and farmer parents, 27-year-old Mali returned to his village, Kosalao — a five-hour drive from Jaipur — on foot. At the time, the nationwide lockdown had just been extended for the third time, and while the Centre and states allowed shramik special trains and buses to ply from April-end, thousands of stranded workers, like Mali, walked back to their home states. “We tried very hard to get tickets, but trains were always full. But walking back was the most difficult thing we’ve ever done,” Mali said. “Some of us fainted, we stopped multiple times.”Now, Mali is in two minds about returning to Mumbai, where he worked as a manager in a three-star hotel in Parel, overlooking waiters, food quality, and attending to complaints. With his savings nearly over, Mali is frustrated — “Our area faces acute scarcity of water. The income is based on rains. Both a shortage as well as an excess of rainfall would mean that our crop is destroyed,” said Mali, who also taught in a private school before migrating to Mumbai in 2014. At the hotel, he earned ₹24,000, most of which he sent home to his parents. His employer wants him to return but his parents want him to return only after a vaccine programme is in sight. “They are afraid, since I am the main earning member [that I will fall ill]. They want me to do menial jobs in my village till the vaccine is introduced. But my employer has assured me that he is following all the rules and that I would be safe,” Mali said.He is not alone in facing this dilemma. Two major industries of Mumbai — hospitality and real estate — stare at a bleak future as several migrant workers haven’t returned due to the high number of active coronavirus cases in Mumbai. According to the state government, at least 1.2 million workers from states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha, left Maharashtra after the lockdown was announced on March 24. Estimates by industry bodies like the Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) and the Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR) reveal the current shortfall to be approximately 210,000 workers in the real estate sector and around 300,000 workers in the hospitality sector, which comprises everything from small roadside dhabas to boutique hotels and includes a host of subsidiary businesses. “There is still fear as Mumbai continues to be a hot spot of Covid-19 and rumours of another lockdown are always rife,” said Sukesh Shetty, secretary, AHAR.On April 2, Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) extended the registration validity of projects by three months, and on May 18, by another three more months invoking the ‘force majeure’ (unprecedented event) clause and stating that the Covid-19 outbreak was a calamity that was adversely affecting the development of real estate projects.However, real estate research firm Liases Foras warned that delays in execution of projects has a negative impact. “The builders get money based on the stage of construction, and today banks have become very cautious in disbursal of money. If the builders delay their work, it will only result in making projects unviable,” said managing director Pankaj Kapoor.According to Kapoor, there are 4,500 projects ongoing in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region of which 80% are likely to be delayed by 12-14 months; 80 projects of the top five builders will likely face a delay of 6 months to a year, he said.Omkar Realtors and Developers Private limited (ORDPL), a leading firm specialising in slum revamp projects, is doing everything it can to woo workers, said its director. “We used all available modes of transport such as arranging buses, booking train tickets as well as making flight reservations to bring our workers back,” said Rajendra Varma of ORDPL. In the past four months, they have brought back approximately 1,300 workers to resume work in seven construction sites. But their workforce is still falling short by at least 30%, Varma said.He felt optimistic as the panic around Covid-19 had subsided and the wages offered in Mumbai were more than what workers earned in their home states, these would be incentive enough for them to return.“We don’t have any work opportunity in our villages,” said Malashri, 25, a resident of Bidar, Karnataka and mother of four. “Due to Covid-19, villagers did not allow anyone inside their houses for work. Even they had less money because hardly any economic activity was taking place,” said Malashri, who returned to Mumbai in November with her husband Srinappa Kamble in a luxury bus, tickets paid for by the builder. The two work at a construction site in Dronagiri in Navi Mumbai for ₹1,000 a day — Malashri earns ₹300 while Srinappa is paid ₹700 for their labour.Many like Mali are not keen to return to the city which has a population density of 20,000 people per square kilometre. And for many restaurant owners, this has meant that they remain shut.VIE Hospitality, which runs Revival Restaurant at Girgaum Chowpatty famous for its thalis, has remained shut for the past eight months. Though restaurants were allowed to open in Mumbai in October, it has kept its restaurant shut due to labour shortage. “I employ workers from Uttarakand and Jharkhand, scattered across the states. It was not possible to arrange buses or other vehicles, and even if I had, I doubt the workers would have been ready to travel by road for a week to reach Mumbai,” said Kamlesh Barot, director, VIE Hospitality, justifying his decision to not arrange for transportation for workers.Mirah Hospitality, which runs 10 hotels including Rajdhani, Hitchki and Bayroute in Mumbai, is operating with 700 staff members — less than 50% of their pre-lockdown numbers. “We are operating our hotel with just 50% capacity due to the government’s guidelines and hence are managing it with the current depleted number of staff,” said Aji Nair, COO (food and beverages division).“Hoteliers are not sure of their business as patrons are still reluctant to frequent their place due to the fear of Covid-19. In addition, the hotels need some trained staff which has been with them for years. Hence it makes sense to wait for the staff and open properly,” said Savio D’sa, a hospitality consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/realty-hospitality-sectors-in-maharashtra-yet-to-feel-full-force-of-migrant-workers/story-X60z2PQrDBAzXIti02BHcP.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Protesters barge into Sisodia’s house, act caught on camera||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that “BJP goons” illegally entered deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s official residence at Mathura Road “to attack his family members” while he was not there, and blamed the police for allowing the breach of security. The Bharatiya Janata Party denied the charge, saying its workers were peacefully protesting against alleged comments by an AAP leader the previous day against municipal corporation mayors. CCTV footage from a camera installed near the entry gate to Sisodia’s residence showed a group of people first rushing towards it and then aggressively pushing their way through into the house. The video, recorded around noon on Thursday, also showed police personnel apparently unable to control the mob and running after them into the premises.Delhi Police registered an FIR under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 427( Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 447 (Punishment for criminal trespass), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and section 3 of Defacement of Public Property Act. Six people have been detained, police said. The incident comes two days after the AAP alleged that the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was put under a virtual house arrest, allegedly at the behest of the Union government to keep him from supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation — a contention the police denied. The mayors of the BJP-ruled municipalities have been on a sit-in protest outside the CM’s residence since Monday. Hours after the security breach, Sisodia tweeted: “Today, BJP’s goons broke the open the doors of my house and barged in and tried to attack my family. Amit Shahji, since you have lost in Delhi’s politics, will you confront us like this?” Addressing a press conference on Thursday, senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj and MLA Atishi also blamed the Union home ministry. The home ministry did not respond to a query seeking comment.During the press conference, the AAP leaders showed the CCTV video. “The most surprising part is that the police deployed outside for safety purposes were already aware of the fact that BJP workers will be attacking. The barricades were removed, these attackers were given way, and allowed to enter the residential premises. This incident today happened under the superintendence of Delhi Police,” Bhardwaj alleged.Later, the Delhi Police tweeted a photograph of the main gate of Sisodia’s residence and said that “...allegations of the gate being damaged/broken are incorrect”. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said one Delhi BJP leader Hukum Singh had given a written application on Wednesday seeking permission to hold a protest outside Sisodia’s house on Thursday. The permission was denied, citing Covid-19 guidelines, he said. “On Thursday, around 11.30am, nearly 150 people reached Mathura Road, where an adequate deployment of security personnel was made and iron barricades were placed to stop the crowd from proceeding towards the deputy CM’s residence. Some of them jumped the barricades and entered the deputy CM’s residence,” DCP Singhal said.Singhal that C Arvind, secretary to the deputy CM, lodged a police complaint. “Accordingly, a case under appropriate sections of law has been registered at the Tilak Marg police station. The investigation is on,” he said.Atishi, however, alleged that if the police wanted, the mob could have been stopped. “But Delhi Police personnel chose to stand on the sidelines. These protesters were stopped only by the officers at the deputy CM’s camp office, and the civil defence staff present there. The police did nothing,” she said. “First they put Delhi’s CM under house arrest and then an attack is planned on the deputy CM’s family. The people of Delhi are well aware of the cheap tactics that the BJP used in the 2020 elections, from abuses to attacks. It is evident from today’s incident that all the earlier ones too would have been orchestrated. In the coming MCD elections, I am sure that the Delhiites will teach BJP ministers a tough lesson as they did in the 2020 [assembly] elections,” she added. When contacted, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta confirmed there was a protest outside Sisodia’s house.“Our workers went to deputy CM’s house to protest against the threats made by AAP leader Durgesh Pathak to kill BJP leaders who are protesting outside the CM’s residence. Pathak said this at Sisodia’s presence and the latter didn’t even object to it,” Gupta said.Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, however, said that the video circulated by the AAP was from July 12, 2020. “The AAP made a video of July 12, 2020 of Deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s residence viral, accusing karyakartas (workers) of forcibly entering Deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s residence, whereas during the demonstration today, not a single BJP worker entered the Deputy CM’s residence,” said Malhotra. The AAP rejected the allegation, and Delhi Police confirmed the incident took place on Thursday.Late on Thursday, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) headed by Swati Maliwal issued a notice to Delhi Police to explain the reason for the lapse in security arrangements at the deputy CM’s residence, and sought a report by December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protesters-barge-into-sisodia-s-house-act-caught-on-camera/story-LIEYdmGhACQfzpgaDwhSqM.html
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant rules out snapping ties with BJP govt over farmers’ agitation||Firmly ruling out snapping ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) will pull the rug from under the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government if the Minimum Support Price (MSP) is stopped. Chautala has been under pressure from the opposition as well as a powerful section of the farming community to withdraw support to the BJP-led state government ever since the farmers’ protests began. His comments are in sync with chief minister Khattar, who had said that he will quit politics if the MSP is discontinued. Breaking his silence on the farmers’ protest and expressing optimism over resolution of the deadlock, the deputy CM said farmers should understand that it is their victory as the Centre has agreed to give written assurances to address their issues. Hitting out at Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for what he said “systematic harassment of Punjab farmers”, Chautala said Punjab farmers were angry as they got neither seeds nor fertilisers during the wheat sowing season. “The first and foremost demand of farmers pertained to MSP assurance in writing...When the Centre is ready to give a written assurance about the MSP, I don’t think the issue should be dragged further,” Chautala told reporters after an informal meeting of the cabinet at his residence here. Stating that he will hold the post of deputy CM till the time farmers produce is procured under the MSP, he said: “I will resign and walk out of the state government the moment I am unable to assure MSP to the farmers.” He said: “We have been firmly taking up the farmers’ issues with the state and the Union government. It is a matter of happiness that the Centre has agreed to give in writing after Ajay Singh Chautala recently had said a written assurance about the MSP should be given by the government.” During the informal meeting headed by Khattar, discussions were held regarding the upcoming panchayat elections, purchase of Rabi crop among others. It was decided that the panchayat polls will be held in time and that the government has written to the election commission in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dushyant-rules-out-snapping-ties-with-bjp-govt-over-farmers-agitation/story-lw2nDRAOlhnhUlY4Xx8qSP.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court grants bail to former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain’s brother||A Delhi court has granted bail to Shah Alam, the younger brother of former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain, in one of the cases of the northeast Delhi riots, while questioning the credibility of the witnesses in the case.The police had arrested Alam on April 21 for his alleged role in rioting, arson, mischief with fire along with destruction to public property.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav granted bail to Alam at a bond of ₹20,000 while seeking to know from the police as to what was stopping the two beat constables (also prosecution witnesses), from reporting the matter to the higher officials on the same day as the incident (February 25) and why they waited till March 6 to report the matter.The judge also said that the prosecution has not been able to point out the difference between the role of the accused and that of the other co-accused who have been released on bail, except for the fact that he is the younger brother of principal accused Tahir Hussain.“…. I am of the considered opinion that applicant is also entitled for grant of bail in the matter on the ground of parity. He cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that he is younger brother of principal accused Tahir Hussain,” the court said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-former-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-s-brother/story-hdR0ZOZH2xKho3U6mly3ZO.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||MCDs hiked 11 taxes in past 3 days, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that the three municipal corporations (MCDs) ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have increased around 11 different taxes over the past three days. The north corporation mayor, on behalf of all three corporations, said the civic bodies have not hiked any taxes in this year’s budget owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and even those proposed in the budget will not be approved.Senior AAP leader and municipal affairs in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the AAP will soon start a campaign to apprise people about these “inhumane acts” of the BJP and organise a mass movement against “arbitrary tax hikes”. “The taxation system of an authority decides how that authority is. In Delhi, on the one hand, you have the Arvind Kejriwal government,which has not increased a single tax in the past six years but still managed to double the budget. On the other hand, you have the BJP-ruled MCDs, which are continuously increasing taxes. In the past three days, the north, east and south corporations have presented their budgets and all of them have increased taxes arbitrarily,” he said. The AAP said the civic bodies have increased professional tax, which means now all professionals will have to pay more depending on their profession. “In addition, now the people of Delhi are being asked to pay a betterment tax. They have also increased the property transfer tax. If any person in Delhi wants to open a factory, then the person will need to pay double the money for a factory licence. The BJP-ruled MCDs have hiked the rate of trade licences as well that of health licences. They have also hiked the commercial house tax, residential house tax and the charge for cleaning garbage. The MCDs have also hiked education tax and tax on vacant land,” Pathak said. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash, on behalf of all three corporations, said the civic bodies have not hiked any taxes in this year’s budget owing to the pandemic and the economic slowdown. “The new taxes that have been proposed by the east corporation will not be approved by the House, as we don’t want to burden on the people of Delhi during a pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcds-hiked-11-taxes-in-past-three-days-says-aap-mayor-says-no-hike-will-be-approved/story-5ttNFNBInWaJRTbnAk35FL.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||BJP says party workers angry over AAP threats||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday said that party workers had gone to Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s house to protest against the alleged AAP threats to “kill mayors of Delhi”, a charge rejected by the AAP leaders. Even though CCTV footage shows BJP workers opening the doors and barging into Sisodia’s Mathura Road residence and police confirming the incident took place on Thursday, the BJP said it was an old video clip. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “Our workers went to deputy CM’s house to protest against the threatening statement made by AAP leader Durgesh Pathak to kill BJP’s leaders who are protesting outside the CM’s residence. Pathak said this in Sisodia’s presence and the latter didn’t even object to it.”Gupta was referring to a video clip circulating on social media which purportedly shows AAP leader Durgesh Pathak making the threat in the presence of Sisodia. The BJP had lodged a police complaint in the matter on Wednesday. Pathak, in a statement, had rubbished the allegation and said the BJP has a habit of mixing random audio clips with random video clips to “defame and malign” the image of the people.Delhi BJP vice-president Ashok Goel Devraha said BJP workers are angry over AAP leaders “threatening to kill BJP leaders”. “We had gone there to protest against the threatening remarks. AAP has become a party of goons who work under the patronage of CM Arvind Kejriwal. The Kejriwal government furiously promotes the criminal activities of its leaders. This is why, Durgesh Pathak dared to threaten to kill the mayors, who are sitting on a dharna outside CM residence. Instead of taking action against such leaders, the AAP is giving them an important position,” said Devraha, who led the protest.Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said the video circulated by AAP is from July 12, 2020. “AAP made a video of July 12, 2020 video of Deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s residence viral, accusing BJP karyakartas of forcibly entering deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s residence, whereas during the demonstration today, not a single BJP worker entered the deputy CM residence,” said Malhotra. Naveen Kumar, Delhi BJP media head, said Arvind Kejriwal should expel leaders like Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-says-party-workers-angry-over-aap-threats/story-765YFhHk2YFfX5xfo0R3oM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Govt not giving dues to create anarchy: BJP||Mayors of the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations, who continued their sit-in protest outside the CM’s house for the fourth day, said on Thursday that by not releasing the pending funds to the civic bodies, the Delhi government wants to create an atmosphere of “anarchy”.The AAP, however, said the protest is only an excuse by the BJP to harass chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and distract attention from the nationwide farmers protests. The BJP has decided to hold protests outside residences of all AAP ministers on Friday. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and leader of the opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri will meet Delhi L-G Anil Baijal regarding the protest by mayors. In a joint press conference, North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash, South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh and East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said they have been sitting “under an open sky in the cold” to demand the dues of the over two lakh employees engaged by the three civic bodies.“If we will not be able to pay salaries to our staff, they will be forced to come out on the streets. This is what the Kejriwal government wants. They want to create an atmosphere of anarchy, as elections to the civic bodies are just a year away,” said Prakash.The AAP said the Delhi government doesn’t owe MCDs. “Even the mayors of BJP-ruled MCDs know that their protest is only an excuse by their high-command to harass CM Arvind Kejriwal and distract from the issue of nationwide farmers protests. The mayors are well aware that Delhi government has given all the funds due and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the MCDs are facing financial ruin. Since they have decided to only protest rather then govern, it is best that they resign and let AAP run the MCDs. We will run the MCDs efficiently, within the same budget,” the AAP said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayors-say-govt-wants-to-create-anarchy-in-delhi-aap-hits-back/story-9LVufdlC8Xu5E3TAjK9ScM.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||80% street trees in Vasant Vihar concretised||While south Delhi’s upscale neighbourhood of Vasant Vihar may seem to have preserved its green cover, a tree census conducted by its residents showed that of the total 4,993 trees on its streets, 3,859 trees were heavily concretised. The census also showed that over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires etc. in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off and at least 793 trees were infested with termites. Vallari Sheel, an environmental scientist and urban ecologist, who spearheaded the tree census in Vasant Vihar, said that she was encouraged to conduct this elaborate survey after a few trees went missing overnight from the plot near her house, where a new building was being constructed a few years ago. “The idea behind conducting this survey was to provide data to the neighbourhood and the authorities. Unless there is a record of trees, we will never be able to know how many are felled discreetly,” Sheel said. While highlighting the condition of trees in the neighbourhood, Sheel said that while the loss of trees due to construction and encroachment was an issue, over 80% of the street trees here were victims of heavy concretisation. She said trees that were located outside people’s houses were the worst-affected. Most of them were choked with concrete and tiles, leaving no space for their roots to breathe or absorb water and nutrients, she added. In this census, Sheel and her team surveyed only street trees and not those planted in parks and inside houses. Hindustan Times visited the neighbourhood on Tuesday, and found that several residents had cemented the soil around the trees outside their gates to make driveways and guardrooms. Many had also constricted trees with cemented platforms (chabootras), potted plants, garbage piles and even barbed wires, violating National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) 2013 ban on the concretisation of the base of trees. HT also found that many trees had been lopped off and their branches cut off in the name of pruning. In 2013, the NGT had not just banned the concretisation of the base of trees within a radius of one metre but had even asked the authorities not to dig the road within one metre of a tree. Environmentalists working to remove this heavy concretisation around trees in the neighbourhood said South Delhi Municipal Council (SDMC) and the Public Works Department (PWD) are responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of trees in Vasant Vihar. However, while officials have removed concrete to make space for soil around trees located on walkways and public spaces, they have failed to remove encroachments from outside people’s houses. Environmentalist Bhavreen Kandhari filed a complaint with the SDMC commissioner and the PWD engineer-in-chief, requesting action against such violation of court directions, on December 8. “...These activities are also in violation of section-8 of Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. Several trees have been felled for the purpose of construction and have not been replaced. Section-10 of the DPTA has placed an obligation on the party that has cut trees to plant such number and kind of trees,” the complaint read. A senior PWD official said that internal roads of the colony were under the jurisdiction of SDMC. “On the main roads, we ensure that concrete around trees is regularly removed,” the official said. A senior official of the horticulture department of SDMC, on the condition of anonymity, said a successful drive to remove concretisation around trees can only take place if an anti-encroachment drive is initiated in such upscale neighbourhoods. However, it would require manpower and resources that the department does not have at present.“In such colonies, the problem is that residents have encroached upon kerbs where these trees are planted. So technically, these trees are not coming in your way, you have encroached upon public land where the tree was planted. But now you are conveniently saying that the trees are blocking your driveways and gates,” the official said. Manish Aggarwal, SDMC councillor from Vasant Vihar, said that before the Covid-19 lockdown, many residents were issued notices to remove encroachment outside their houses, but because of the pandemic, several people did not take action.“We had stuck notices outside many houses asking them to clear the encroachment and many complied with the directions. SDMC will take action in the area that falls under our jurisdiction,” Aggarwal said. Padmavati Dwivedi, an environmentalist who had spearheaded Delhi’s first tree census in Sarvodaya Enclave in 2012, said without a tree census there was no way to know the condition of trees around us. “The only interaction of citizens with trees cannot be limited to pruning their branches. They must get involved in their care and protection too. Conducting a tree census is not a one-day photo opportunity, it takes persistence to complete it and to record data, which can be referred to at any time,” Dwivedi said. Aditya Prasad, an environment lawyer, based on whose petition the NGT had issued the order in 2013, said that apart from ecological damage such largescale concretisation of trees is also a violation of judicial orders. “Years after the high court and the NGT issued clear directions to prevent concretisation, agencies have not acted on-ground. This is a violation of judicial orders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/80-of-street-trees-in-vasant-vihar-concretised-census/story-tJUEVUyBIZZmQHKMp4t9jI.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Protest continues, farmers threaten to block railway tracks across India||The farmers union leading the protests at the borders of Delhi on Thursday threatened to block railway tracks across the country if the Centre does not agree to their demands and repeal the three new farm laws.Addressing a press conference on Singhu border on Thursday evening, farmer leader Boota Singh said the farmers had decided to intensify their ongoing agitation. “We will block railway tracks across the country if the Centre does not revoke the three farm laws.A date for the same will be announced soon,” he said.Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar on Thursday urged farmer leaders to come in for another round of talks, which was however, rejected by farmer leaders.On Thursday, the protests continued across Delhi borders with more farmers joining the stir at Singhu border — the biggest protest site. “We are expecting more people to join the protest at Delhi borders ahead of the all India protest that will be observed on Monday,” said farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu.At Singhu border, protesters on Thursday were seen shouting slogans against the government, singing songs of resilience, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage. Besides food, free books and sanitary napkins were also distributed among protesters. Inderjeet Singh, the member of Guru Nanak Mission Society Nawashahr Punjab, arrived on Thursday morning with a stack of books that weighed ‘three quintal’ to distribute among the protesting farmers. “Most of these books are based on the holy book Guru Granth Sahib. We wanted to distribute these so that they can read in their free time. We have got books in Punjabi, Hindi, and English,” he said.Some popular faces, including Bollywood actor Gul Panag and Congress leader Sandeep Dikshit were also spotted at Singhu border on Thursday. At the Ghazipur border, the situation continued to remain peaceful on Thursday with some farmers from Hapur and Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh going back to collect more ration and supplies. In the evening, during a press briefing, the national spokesperson for Bhartiya Kisan Union and farmer leader, Rakesh Tikait said, “Our stand is firm and until the laws are repealed, we will stay put.”At Tikri border, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, some protesters were seen holding posters demanding the release of arrested activists and intellectuals including Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imaam, Sudha Bhardwaj, and Anand Teltumbde, among others, to mark the International Human Rights Day on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protest-continues-at-delhi-borders-farmers-threaten-to-block-railway-tracks-across-india/story-fKAIrHHnhmBG2Nv8a7ZyiP.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Survey identifies most vulnerable for Covid shot||Data collected during the currently underway door-to-door survey in hot spots and containment zones will be used to identify those above the age of 50 years and those with comorbidities as both categories of people will be next in line, after the health care and front-line workers, to receive a Covid-19 vaccine, sources in the health department said. The government has already asked all hospitals, nursing homes, and stand-alone clinics in the city to get their employees registered for the vaccine shots. “More than 2 lakh registrations have come for the first trial of the Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi. The priority is health care and front-line workers. After which the focus will be on the aged, and subsequently, the entire population of Delhi, said health minister Satyendar Jain. According to the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), 10 million health care workers, 20 million front-line workers, and 270 million people over the age of 50 years and those with comorbidities will be the priority groups to receive the vaccine. The vaccination drives could be conducted simultaneously for all three priority groups, depending on availability of the shots.Currently, India’s regulator is looking at emergency use authorisation for three vaccines – one, developed by Pfizer and BioNtech; second, by Oxford and AstraZeneca which will be manufactured and distributed in India by the Serum Institute of India; and the third, the indigenously developed Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research A line list – with details like name, address, phone numbers – of those in line for the vaccine will be uploaded to the national digital CoWIN platform to help the government in tracking the vaccine drives. “The aged and those with comorbidities are at the highest risk of developing severe Covid-19, so most of the government’s initiatives have been targeted towards them. The door-to-door survey that was conducted in November already ensured that we have a list of such vulnerable people and now our surveyors are working on updating it,” said a senior official from New Delhi district. In November third week, the Delhi government had initiated a massive survey, covering 5.73 million people, to identify those with symptoms of Covid or a history of contact with a Covid patient.Over 13,500 people were found to be symptomatic of Covid among those surveyed. The officials were asked to continue the survey till at least December 31 as new containment zones and hot spots are constantly being identified. “The database created during the survey will also be compared and merged with the voter rolls and the data with dispensaries to create a list of people who will receive the vaccine when it becomes available,” said an official from the west district. Once the Delhi government issues an order, the collection of data from outside the hot spots and containment zones will begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/survey-identifies-most-vulnerable-for-covid-shot-lists-those-50-and-with-comorbidities/story-tPfwReDnfXyGAwf4Rou0AP.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Farm to Facebook: Stir at borders gets online push||Village-wise WhatsApp groups for mass sharing of photos and videos, numerous Facebook live sessions, Instagram posts and creative Twitter hashtags -- the farmers’ protesting at Delhi’s borders are making optimum use of social media to connect with people back home and to spread the “correct” message about their ongoing movement against the new farm laws.At Singhu border, connecting Delhi with Haryana, where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the past 15 days demanding revocation of the three farm laws, every second person can be spotted doing a Facebook live of either a speech being delivered from the stage or the distribution of food at the langar (community kitchen). Many youngsters from Haryana and Punjab, who have accompanied their families to the protest site, have also created WhatsApp groups to update people back home about the ongoing protest.Kawaljeet Singh, 28, a farmer from Mohali in Punjab, said he keeps his selfie stick handy for regular Facebook lives. “You can’t hold the smartphone for so long and a selfie stick helps get a wider shot. I do at least five to six Facebook live sessions, of 30 minutes each, every day. It’s very important to show people what’s happening here. Otherwise, there is so much misinformation about the farmers’ protests on social media. We are not Khalistani or terrorists who are trying to disrupt the peace of the nation; we are farmers who work hard to feed the nation and we are here to fight for our rights,” he said.Standing next to the stage set up at Singhu border, a group of youngsters from Moga was trying to upload some pictures on Instagram on Thursday. Balwinder Sandhu, 32, said many Instagram accounts have come up in support of farmers in the last few days. “We click pictures of the protest site and upload them as our stories on Instagram by tagging these accounts. They pick up the pictures and post from their official accounts to further spread them,” he said.By Thursday evening, there were around 972,000 posts with the hashtag #farmersprotest on Instagram. Some of the accounts popularising the movement are ‘farmersprotest’, ‘supportfarmers’, and ‘farmbillprotests’, among others. Youngsters are also using Twitter to garner more support. Navkiran Natt, 29, a protester at Tikri border and the daughter of a farmer family from Mansa district in Punjab, said farmer leaders made a “conscious decision” to promote the movement on social media. “Many of our leaders have language limitations. So they send their messages to youngsters associated with the protest and we translate them into multiple languages and then post them on different social networking sites. We have also made several videos in Punjabi instructing people on how to make accounts on Twitter and how to use it,” she said.Using hashtags such as #farmersprotests, #Istandwithfarmerprotest, and #tractortotwitter, at least 100 tweets were posted per hour on Thursday. “We have many WhatsApp and Twitter groups where we discuss and decide which hashtags to use on a particular day. Many of our Punjabi brothers and sisters living abroad also help us in translating the content,” she said.Through WhatsApp groups, the protesters said they share videos and pictures with people who could not join the agitation at the Delhi borders. “We also make regular video calls to show our family members what’s happening here. Their hearts and minds are here with us and the movement. Besides, these WhatsApp groups help keep the spirits high. We send the videos of speeches being delivered here to our fellow villagers to keep them motivated and interested in the movement. It’s a long fight,” said Harinder Singh, 26, a farmer from Rajpura in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-to-facebook-stir-at-borders-gets-online-push-protesting-farmers-make-most-of-social-media-to-spread-their-message/story-1106HpQ4Y93xtCyyrGGr7J.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Kala Kunj: Delhi Archives set to get a new cultural centre||The Delhi government is going to construct a cultural centre, named Kala Kunj, to create a dedicated infrastructure for better conservation of the city’s archives, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. To start construction of the building, Sisodia, who is also the art and culture minister, on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of Kala Kunj - Delhi Archives Annexe & Cultural Hub at department of Delhi archives. “Kala Kunj, the proposed building, will have a state-of-the-art auditorium with a capacity of 500 and excellent audio-visual facilities. It will also host art exhibitions, archives, libraries, a café, and offer a mix of cultural activities. It will be an important and dedicated centre for cultural and intellectual activities,” he said. Senior government officials said this building will be in addition to the existing office building of the Delhi archives department in Qutub Institutional Area. The Kala Kunj building is expected to be ready in 24 months and cost Rs 50 crore. The Delhi archives department was established in 1972, but it has been functioning in its current office since 1986. An additional annexation was under consideration since 2013 due to the continued expansion of records. It was finally on Thursday that the foundation stone was laid after the Delhi government gave its administrative approval this year. “One of the main objectives of the construction of this annexe is to also provide South Delhi a cultural centre where people can come and connect with art, culture, heritage and history. The new building will ensure a dedicated space in conserving this country’s rich archival heritage, and history so the future generations can stay connected to their culture. The annexation of Delhi Archives will be very useful in the direction of cherishing and continuously advancing the cultural heritage of the country,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kala-kunj-delhi-archives-set-to-get-a-new-cultural-centre/story-vI9xn732UZBDf8nkeBxtCJ.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Total cases cross 600k mark, positivity rate drops to 2.46%||Delhi reported 1,575 new Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the city’s tally to over 600,000. This comes on a day when Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital reached the milestone of treating 10,000 Covid-19 patients. “Congratulations to the team of LNJP Hospital for successfully treating over 10000 Covid +ve patients. This is the highest number of people to whom any Indian hospital has been able to provide service to. Kudos to the team and staff and we are eternally grateful for their services,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. Of the 64,069 tests conducted, 29,441 (45.9%) were done using the RT-PCR method — the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.The number of tests was lower than the average the average 73,705 during the seven previous days. The positivity rate in the city also dropped to 2.46%, which is the lowest since April 30 when a positivity rate of 2.08% was recorded. Positivity rate, the proportion of samples that test positive, indicates whether enough tests are being conducted and whether the spread of the infection in under control. Experts believe the transmission is under control if the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for two weeks in a row. Delhi’s positivity rate has remained at 5% or less for nine days so far. This has never happened since the Delhi government started releasing data on daily number of cases reported and number of samples tested. “The positivity rate in Delhi today is 2.46%. Since November 7, positivity rate is decreasing. In last 14 days, active case reduced to 18,753. The third wave is fading,” said Jain in a tweet. The city also reported 61 deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of people who died among those who tested positive – to 2.33%. It had been 1.55% on November 18 when Delhi reported its highest toll of 131 deaths in a day. “Earlier, we saw a sudden increase in deaths because of the hazardous pollution levels in Delhi. Still, a lot of people are admitted in the hospitals. This has a lagging effect, which means that we see changes after a gap of 2-3 weeks. Now that the cases have decreased, the death rate too will eventually fall,” said Jain .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/total-cases-cross-600k-mark-positivity-rate-drops-to-2-46/story-bef2T2fsQLyaEm7D9eZnJK.html
11-12-2020||Pune||FYJC centralised admission round 3 schedule for Pune declared||The detailed schedule of the third round of Class 11 admissions for the Pune region was declared on Thursday by the deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune. Earlier in the second round of the admissions, of the total intake of seats (1,07,030) in Pune region, 41,021 students completed the admission process and 66,009 seats are still vacant. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 since September 9 and it resumed on November 26. As per the schedule, on December 10 at 10am the vacancy list for regular admission round-III will be displayed online, including quota seats surrendered by junior colleges and socially and educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) seats converted to general quota. Till December 12 (11.55pm) application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for regular round-III will start online. “On December 15 at 11 am, junior college allotment list for regular round-III admissions will be displayed online. Cut-off list for regular admission round-3 will be displayed and SMS will be sent to students. From December 15 at 11.30am to December 18 5pm, students need to confirm their admission to the allotted colleges. Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by the student login. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect their admission fee only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI), any e-wallets approved by the government of India or Reserve Bank of India to contain the spreading of coronavirus,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department. On December 20, the vacancy list for special round admission will be displayed by the colleges at 10 am. Important dates December 10 – Third general updated merit list will be declared December 10 to 12 – Application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for regular round-III will start December 15 – Junior college allotment list for regular round-III admissions and cut-off list for regular admission December 15 to 18 – Students need to confirm admission to allotted colleges December 20 - Vacancy list for special round will be declared||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/class-11-centralised-admission-round-3-schedule-declared/story-VmHCMlmTAyiBVPbY6BGZNO.html
11-12-2020||Pune||PMC to decide on reopening schools on Dec 11||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not yet taken a conclusive decision to reopen schools from December 13. A high-level meeting regarding the same will be conducted on December 11 to decide if schools will be reopened or not. Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner said that the meeting will be conducted on December 11 and a concrete decision will be taken then. “We will be assessing the situation of Covid cases and other factors. Based on that, we will take the decision to reopen schools,” said Kumar.Shivaji Daundkar, head of PMC’s secondary education department, said that there are as of now no orders to restart schools.“As soon as there is a decision to reopen schools, we will begin with the process. However, the order has to come first,” said Daundkar.Meenakshi Raut, education officer with the PMC, said that once there is a nod to restart schools, the relevant actions will be taken. “We will follow all the standard operating procedures outlined by the state government and accordingly, the schools will reopen,” said Raut.Sagar Kondhalkar, a parent, said, “The Covid pandemic has not ended. The cases are rising and reopening schools does not seem like a good idea. I am very anxious sending my children to school. Though online teaching comes with its own challenges, I feel that at least, the kids are safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-decide-on-reopening-schools-on-dec-11/story-bPumbwemLzk8y2wx7XrVGM.html
11-12-2020||Pune||CM Uddhav Thackeray inspects tunnel work on Pune-Mumbai expressway||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday reviewed the progress of the ‘Missing link’ project in the ghat section on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, which will help reduce the travel distance between the two cities by six kilometres and save 20 minutes of travelling time.Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is executing the Rs 4,797 crore project to build a bypass road between Khopoli and Kusgaon on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway. Thackeray along with public works minister Eknath Shinde; energy minister Nitin Raut; transport minister Anil Parab and MSRDC director Radheshyam Mopalwar and other officials visited the site and inspected the progress of the missing link work between Khopoli and Kusgaon. “The length of existing Pune-Mumbai expressway section from Khopoli exit to Sinhgad Institute is presently 19km. This distance will be reduced to 13.3km after construction of the new missing link. So, the total length of the expressway from Mumbai to Pune will be reduced by six kilometres. Travel time will be reduced by 20-25 minutes,” said Mopalwar during his briefing to the chief minister.MSRDC officials claimed that once the project is complete, the section would be accident-free. “Mumbai-Pune expressway and NH-4 meet near Khalapur toll plaza and separate near the Khandala exit. The section from Adoshi tunnel to Khandala exit is a six-lane road but the traffic of 10-lane road (six-lane of Mumbai-Pune Expressway + four-lane of NH-4) ply in thw section. Heavy amounts of traffic and landslides cause congestion in this stretch. Due to decrease in speed and increase in time of travel in this section and in order to save time, vehicles move at a faster speed on the rest of the expressway which has resulted in an increase in the number of accidents,” said an MSRDC official.Officials briefed that the project is divided in two packages - package-I consists of two eight-lane tunnels of length 1.75km and 8.92km respectively and package-II consist of two eight-lane viaducts of length 790m and 650m respectively and capacity augmentation (six-lane to eight-lane) of the existing Pune-Mumbai expressway from Khalapur toll plaza to Khopoli exit (6.5 km).Meanwhile, the Chief Minister also visited the trauma care centre at Ozurde. Earlier in the day, the CM inspected the progress of the work at Koyna hydroelectric power plant in Pophali, Ratnagiri and later inspected Koyna dam area in Satara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-inspects-tunnel-work-on-pune-mumbai-expressway/story-NMy1QfFY5fLY7OeBbm3uEK.html
11-12-2020||Pune||Pumta proposes Neo Metro service for Pune||The Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (Pumta), at a meeting held on Thursday, has proposed running a “Neo Metro” service on the city’s existing bus rapid transport system (BRTS) roads, mainly from Katraj to Swargate and Hadapsar. Pumta is preparing a feasibility report for the same after the meeting held under the leadership of divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s (PMPML) managing director Rajendra Jagtap said, “We suggested introducing the Neo Metro on BRTS corridors mainly on a priority section between Katraj-Swargate-Hadapsar.” Neo Metro is cost effective and can be executed in a short period on existing corridors.Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation’s director Ramnath Subramaniam said, “The Neo Metro proposal got discussed at the meeting. PMPML suggested it. At the meeting it was decided to prepare a feasibility report.” Neo Metro is the a concept introduced by Maha Metro in Nashik city and Pimpri-Chinchwad. It is a hybrid concept between a bus service and the metro rail.The Neo Metro buses can be operated on the ground level like a tram, as well as on elevated corridors.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has already approved the Neo Metro buses on its proposed High Capacity Mass Transit Route.Recently, Pune district guardian minister, Ajit Pawar, also suggested using the Neo Metro on Pune’s proposed HCMTR corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pumta-proposes-neo-metro-service-for-pune/story-ViZmLiATHzUK7NG7cFwOZK.html
11-12-2020||Pune||PMPML files proposal to promote sustainable mobility||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has sent a proposal to the Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (Pumta) promoting sustainable mobility in Pune. Several topics were included in the proposal like extension of services and requirement of infrastructure in the metropolitan region, expansion of BRTS and completion of planned network. “It is essential to focus on public transport now more than ever. The Covid-19 pandemic is expected to change the travel behaviour of commuters as the surge in private vehicle ownership is visible in the past few months. While PMPML strives to provide a quality, safe and affordable public transportation and for that we have sent a proposal to PUMTA requesting to help in resolving some of our issues,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap. Jagtap said, “PMPML is keen to extend its services to larger PMRDA areas and request PMRDA to process the transfer of reserved land for bus depots and terminals as suggested in the Comprehensive Mobility Plan. Along with that, prioritising the BRTS and bus lanes are essential to promote use of public transport, as it enables buses to move. The incomplete network and permitting private vehicles on BRT lanes has affected PMPML’s performance.” “PMPML runs an 150-electric bus fleet – the highest in the country - and the plan is to add another 500 electric buses in next few years.” PMPML, in its proposal, demanded support required from Pune Metro for multi-modal integration and the restriction to entry of heavy goods’ vehicles inside the city from 7am and 10 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-files-proposal-to-promote-sustainable-mobility/story-HftNugFTeJYkxIJAq4vYmI.html
