12-12-2020||Chandigarh||J&K DDC polls: Voting at 31 constituencies in Phase 6 on Dec 13||A total of 31 constituencies will go to polling in the sixth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Also, there will be voting for filling 334 panch and 77 sarpanch seats in J&K.State election commissioner KK Sharma said that DDC polls for 14 seats in Kashmir division and 17 in Jammu division will be held on Sunday.The SEC said that against the 14 DDC constituencies in Kashmir, 124 candidates are in fray. In Jammu division, 121 candidates are in fray. A total of 7,48,301 electors, including 3,90,432 males and 3,57,869 females, are going to elect their representatives, he said.A total of 2,071 polling stations have been set up - 1,208 in Kashmir division and 863 in Jammu.The SEC further added that of 127 sarpanch post vacancies notified in the sixth phase, 37 have been elected unopposed. There will be a contest in 77 constituencies and 229 candidates are in fray.Similarly, of total 1,548 panch post vacancies notified in this phase, 334 constituencies will go for elections with 740 candidates contesting.On arrangements in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the SEC said adequate arrangements have been made to ensure safety of all stakeholders including voters and polling station staff. He said sanitizers, thermal scanners and face masks have been arranged at the polling stations to ensure that SOPs are strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-ddc-polls-voting-at-31-constituencies-in-phase-6-today/story-wtHT0cJVMUrjv8kIw3PmsM.html
12-12-2020||City||Two civilians injured in grenade attack by terrorists in Sopore||A militant attack on security forces in Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Saturday left two civilians injured as the grenade missed the intended target, police said.This is the second grenade attack in Baramulla in the past three days.Police said that around 5.55pm they received information about a grenade attack on the security forces at Sopore bus stand.“Preliminary investigation revealed that the terrorists lobbed a grenade upon a security force deployment in the area. However, the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road. Two civilians received minor injuries in the incident and were taken to a nearby hospital,” a police spokesperson said.The police have registered a case in this regard under relevant sections of the law as their investigation into the terror crime is underway.The area has been cordoned off and search is going on.Three days ago, in a similar grenade attack on the national highway near Singhpore village, five civilians were injured when militants targeted a security force vehicle, but the grenade exploded on the roadside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-by-terrorists-in-sopore/story-dFRsodtCOawD7gWH24ShTI.html
12-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP worker beaten to death, 6 injured during door to door campaign in Bengal||A BJP worker was beaten to death and six others were injured when a group of people attacked them during a door to door campaign of the party in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district on Saturday, police said. Saikat Bhawal was one of those who were assaulted in Halisahar area. When he was taken to the JNM Hospital at Kalyani, doctors declared him “brought dead”, police said adding that the matter is being investigated.Six other people who were injured in the attack that took place in ward number six of the Halisahar Municipality were admitted to the hospital.Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh alleged that goons sheltered by the Trinamool Congress killed Bhawal but the ruling party denied the charge.Singh said that the party will launch a protest in the district against the incident on Sunday.The BJP said that the party activists were attacked when they were engaged in the “Griha Sampark Abhiyan”.It a public outreach programme which is part of the saffron party’s “Aar Noi Annay” (No More Injustice) campaign launched in the run up to the state Assembly election due in April-May 2021.TMC MLA of Naihati, Partha Bhowmik, claimed that Bhawal’s death is the result of an old dispute between two groups of the locality and the BJP is unnecessarily politicising the incident.He said that the TMC will not allow the saffron party to disturb the peaceful situation in the district.Joint Commissioner of Barrackpore Police Commissionerate, Ajay Thakur, said that two persons were detained in this connection with the incident and are being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-worker-beaten-to-death-6-injured-during-door-to-door-campaign-in-bengal/story-KgpKnONYxPMQffzRq1SoJJ.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||As Covid fatalities mount in HP, hospitals struggle to tackle bodies||Even as Himachal Pradesh continues to witness a surge in Covid-19 deaths and cases, the state’s premier medical institute, Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH), is struggling to manage the influx of dead bodies rendering them unattended in the isolation wards for hours.On Thursday, as many as 11 patients died due to the infection, but their bodies lay unattended in the wards for several hours as no staffer was available to pick them up. The staff assigned the job were allegedly found drunk on duty.“My mother succumbed to the virus on Friday night. I got the body on Saturday afternoon,” said Arun Kumar from Jakhorh village in Shimla’s Jubbal tehsil.What has added to the problem is the space crunch at the hospital morgue, which is full to capacity nearly everyday. The IGMCH morgue, which can accommodate 10 bodies, is being used for both Covid and other victims.The hospital management has admitted to the delay caused in the lifting of bodies from the isolation wards.“The death toll mounted suddenly on Thursday and our mortuary got fully occupied. The bodies were awaiting cremation at the grounds too,” said IGMCH medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj.“There was some delay in picking up of the bodies due to negligence on the behalf of staff members who were assigned the task. We then sent other staff to do the same. Strict action will be taken against the erring employees for dereliction in duty,” he said.The sudden rush of bodies of Covid victims has left the cremation facilities struggling to keep up the pace. Kanlog Crematorium in Shimla, which has only six platforms, is being used for both Covid and non-covid victims. The non-covid bodies are cremated before 10am while the virus victims are consigned to flames thereafter.“Bodies have started piling up at the hospital and only six out of 11 Covid victims could be cremated on Friday. Most of the dead are from outside Shimla and their family members are stunned because of the delay in cremations. It’s high time that the government took corrective measures,” said former Shimla mayor and senior CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan, while he insisted upon constructing a temporary crematorium opposite the Kanlog.“Cremation starts around noon and it is not possible to cremate more than four to five bodies by the evening. If a non-covid body is brought for cremation, it takes at least two to three hours more as the covid body has to be kept outside the crematorium in this duration,” said Sanjay Sood, head of Sood Sabha, which manages the Kanlog crematorium.When reached, the chief minister’s office said they have raised the matter with the urban development department. “We have spoken to the urban development department to construct a temporary crematorium in Sanjauli which will be dedicated to Covid bodies,” said chief minister’s private principal secretary RN Batta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-covid-fatalities-mount-in-hp-hospitals-struggle-to-tackle-bodies/story-Rh4X0rZWWbuq586aXefjiK.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||1.5-kg gold biscuits recovered in Jammu’s Katra, 4 held||With the arrest of four smugglers and recovery of 1.5kg gold biscuits in Katra on Saturday, the Jammu and Kashmir Police have busted an inter-state gold smuggling racket that was operating in three to four states.“On Friday, Reasi senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashmi Wazir received information that some people based in Delhi and Katra are running an illegal business by bringing in gold from Guwahati. They were then making wrongful gains by selling the gold illegally,” said Katra SP Amit Bhasin.They were using three people as couriers for smuggling gold from Guwahati to other parts of the country.“Acting on the tip-off, a police team conducted raids at multiple locations in Katra and arrested four persons. They recovered nearly 1.5kg gold from the accused,” Bhasin added.The SSP said that the accused have been identified as Amandeep Singh, of Ludhiana who was presently putting up at Patel Nagar in New Delhi, Haresh Kumar, of Simbli in Jammu, Rohit Kumar, of Agarjitto in Katra, and Sunny Kumar, of Dhanas in Udhampur. A case was registered under Sections 420 and 109 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Katra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-5kg-gold-biscuits-recovered-jammu-s-katra-4-held/story-iKtZUtoMooM4SPJR9UPlaK.html
12-12-2020||Noida||Child PGI tests over 2.65 lakh RT-PCR samples in last seven months, GB Nagar crosses 5.5 lakh testing figures||The government’s Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) – better known as Child PGI – has tested over 265,000 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) samples, the highest in a lab run by the state government, for Covid-19 till Wednesday. The hospital serves 12 districts, including GB Nagar. The others are Ghaziabad, Saharanpur, Hapur, Rampur, Sambhal, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Kanpur Dehat and other adjoining district. RT-PCR testing is regarded the gold standard of testing for Covid-19. Dr. (Major) B P Singh, senior emergency medical officer (EMO) of Child PGI, said that the instituted achieved the feat in less than seven months. “The total positivity rate was 1.8 to 2 %. More than 5,000 of them have been tested positive,” he said. So far, as many as 5,58,389 samples have been tested in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. District magistrate Suhas LY said that after the outbreak of Covid-19, the main focus has been on expanding the capacity of the district to track the suspected and susceptible population early, test them quickly and treat them effectively. “From testing just 597 people in March, we ramped up testing to 110,205 in September. Till December 9, we have conducted tests of 5,58,389 samples. As a result of this increased testing, we are witnessing a continuous reduction in positivity rate and cases of new infection,” he said. The DM further said his administration has also set up an integrated Covid-19 control and command centre, which works as the nerve centre of Covid-19 battle in the district. “It is manned by people from health and other departments and is equipped with modern equipments for communication and decision making. We are continuously focussing on improving our surveillance and contact tracing as that is the key to early detection of cases. Also, through continuous monitoring of the containment zones as well as other areas, we are trying to keep the number of cases and the positivity rate low. Surveillance has also been ramped up,” Suhas said. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that there are four ICMR-approved laboratories in the district. “While the labs in Child PGI and Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) are under the state government, the labs in National Institute of Biology (NIB) and National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) are owned and controlled by the central government. It is really commendable that the same set of labs, which used to test around 1,300 samples daily in May, are now testing over 4,000 samples in a day in December,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/child-pgi-tests-over-2-65-lakh-rt-pcr-samples-in-last-seven-months-gb-nagar-crosses-5-5-lakh-testing-figures/story-9CRnZvmLB8vzSgcB4igm4I.html
12-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: 23-year-old woman sustains severe burn injuries in acid attack||Ghaziabad: A 23-year-old woman from a locality in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar sustained severe burn injuries when her brother-in-law allegedly threw acid on her at her house early morning before fleeing. The suspect, 30-year-old Sirajuddin (single name) was arrested late Saturday. Police said the incident took place around 3.30am on Saturday, when the victim was sleeping in her house, along with her mother and four siblings.“I was sleeping along with my five children when an unidentified person jumped the main gate of our house and threw some inflammable substance over my daughter,” her mother alleged in the police complaint.According to local sources, the woman also suffered facial burns and her clothes also got burnt during the incident. They said the victim’s mother then called locals who informed the police and the victim was later rushed to hospital in Ghaziabad city. The police, on the basis of the police complaint, registered an FIR against an unidentified person under Indian Penal Code sections 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 326a (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid, etc).“The victim sustained about 15% burn injuries and was rushed to MMG Hospital. From there, she was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, from where she was referred back to Ghaziabad. Her condition is stable but she is under medical supervision,” said Iraj Raja, SP (rural).“The suspect is the husband of the victim’s elder sister and he developed relations with the victim. In the meantime, she became friends with a man from Meerut and Sirajuddin got furious. He tried to pressurise her,” said the SP. Officers said the suspect drives pickup vans and procured acid from Delhi. His name cropped up when police questioned the family at length.“It was easy for him as he knew that the door of the room had issues and the family kept it unbolted during night. So, he entered easily and gave way to the act and fled to his house in Meerut,” he, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-23-year-old-woman-sustains-severe-burn-injuries-in-acid-attack/story-MF4r5wredoV4Z9Ol9pliWM.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Derogatory language will not be tolerated: J&K BJP Mahila Morcha chief||BJP Mahila Morcha’s J&K unit president Sanjita Dogra and women activists protested against Panther’s Party president Balwant Singh Mankotia outside the Panther’s Party office in Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, on Saturday for his allegedly derogatory and insulting remarks against BJP leaders and Union ministers.Union minister Smriti Irani and other BJP leaders have been canvassing for the party candidates in Jammu and Kashmir for the ongoing DDC polls.While campaigning for Panther’s Party candidates in Udhampur, Mankotia had allegedly used derogatory words for women leaders of BJP. Though he had not named anyone, he had allegedly used some derogatory words.Sanjita said that this is shameful on part of Mankotia. “He has not only abused women, but also intentionally degraded their dignity by using derogatory words.She appealed to L-G Manoj Sinha to look into the matter seriously and immediately direct the police to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/derogatory-language-will-not-be-tolerated-j-k-bjp-mahila-morcha-chief/story-gtXD9WZdSITDZBHNcmT7tM.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||‘6 months, 3.25 cr people, 3 phases’: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 vaccination plan||Maharashtra government has prepared its vaccination programme for Covid-19. It is preparing to administer the vaccine to 3.25 crore people in six months which will be completed in three phases. Those who will get vaccine shots include health workers, frontline workers and citizens above the age of 50 years and having co-morbidities. However, it is still unclear whether vaccine shots will be free or people will have to pay the charges.The vaccination drive is going to be conducted systematically. People will have to register at a designated website and they will be asked to present at a vaccination camp on a specific date and time to ensure it to be a smooth affair, the officials said.In the first phase, the state will be administering Covid-19 vaccines to health workers. Frontline workers (including police, fire brigade, conservancy staff etc.) will be vaccinated in the second phase while the third phase will have citizens above the age of 50 years and those having co-morbidities vaccinated. It has already started registration of health workers, said a senior official from the state health department, requesting anonymity.“Following the directives of the central government, we have started our preparations to the start vaccination drive assuming that the vaccine will be made available from January. The drive will be conducted at district hospitals, rural hospitals and primary health centres. A team of four to five people will conduct the drive and their training programme has also started,” he said.Also read: ‘Use election-like process for Covid-19 vaccination drive’ - Centre tells states“Each person will have to register to get a vaccine shot at a designated website. He or she will be called by sending a text message and will be asked to come at a specific date and time along with their identity card. The people available at the camp will check their registration and identity; the vaccinator will give the shot and the person will be kept under observation for at least half an hour. If there is no complication then the person will be allowed to go if not then further treatment will be given,” the senior official said.“We still have no idea whether the vaccination will be free for all or people will have to pay. The decision has to be taken by the Centre,” he added.He further said that the state health staff has already completed a vaccination drive for measles-rubella only two years ago in 2018, hence they are hoping that there won’t be any hassle as the staff has had a similar experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-months-3-25-crore-people-3-phases-maharashtra-s-covid-19-vaccination-plan/story-Vvco7WB9P5bK3b3DZuYfVP.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farmers use steam cooking system to cook at Singhu border||With the number of protesting farmers increasing and arranging gas cylinders to cook meals for thousands of them becoming an issue, a steam cooking system plant was brought from a gurdwara in Punjab’s Gurdaspur and set up at the Singhu border on Friday.The steam cooking system installed on a trolley has three stoves attached to bigger utensils. It has the capacity to cook rice, pulse and vegetables for nearly 3,000 people in one go, said Gurwinder Singh, a sewadar of the Gurdaspur gurdwara.“As we had been preparing breakfast, lunch and dinner for nearly 5,000 people every day, arranging cooking gas cylinders was a problem. We then decided to bring the steam cooking system available at our gurdwara. This has brought a lot of respite to our volunteers because cooking has now become easy and fast,” said Singh.Nearly 50 volunteers have been managing the kitchen, which includes bringing ration, cutting vegetables, cooking meals, and serving them free of cost to the farmers and everyone else visiting the protest venue. The kitchen has been set up behind the main stage where farmer leaders deliver their speeches throughout the day.Explaining the functioning of the steam cooking system, Gurpratap Singh, another volunteer, said that the machine includes a boiler which takes water from the water tank attached to the trolley.“Instead of gas cylinders, we use wood to boil the water in the boiler. The high steam generated by the boiling water passes to the three stoves through pipes. This is how we cook the meals. One utensil on the stove can cook 50kg of rice or pulse in one go. Nearly 100 litres of water are required to cook one meal,” said the volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-farmers-use-steam-cooking-system-to-cook-at-singhu-border/story-WeLBfl9cygXyE2bdkWO8KJ.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Three of family held for murdering woman on wedding day in Srinagar||The police here have arrested three family members of a woman who was murdered on her wedding day last month in Srinagar.The revelations of the murder of the bride-to-be, Shahnaza, daughter of late Mohd Qasim Sultan of Saida Kadal, Srinagar, allegedly by her step-brother, nephew and niece over property and jewellery has triggered shock and anger in the valley.Police said the blind murder case of Shahnaza was solved in record time after Nigeen police station filed a report on November 13 following directions from the court of chief judicial magistrate, Srinagar.The court direction came after the woman’s fiancé Nasir Hussain Kawa, a resident of Kawpora, Shadipora, filed a petition when he was informed that the woman died of a heart attack on November 4. They were set to be married on November 4-5.“The complainant stated that he had apprehensions of the woman being murdered and accordingly, the proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC were initiated,” said police spokesperson Manoj Kumar.Kumar said the investigating officers learnt from the medical reports that the woman was actually murdered prompting them to file a murder case.He said that a special investigating team led by SHO Nigeen under the supervision of SDPO Zakoora swung into action and started rounding up suspects in the instant case.Kumar said the special team got clues pointing towards the involvement of the deceased’s family, including her step brother Mohammad Shafi Sultan, nephew Wajid Gulzar Sultan and niece Nighat.“Among the suspects, Wajid was put to sustained questioning. He revealed that he along with his uncle Shafi and sister Nighat hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Shahnaza as she had been their eyesore,” Kumar said.The official said the main conspirator was Shafi, who eyed a piece of land and jewellery, and motivated Wajid and Nighat to take part in the murder plan.“On November 3, they all hatched a conspiracy to eliminate her. The victim used to wake up for prayers early in the morning and in the wee hours of November 4, as she was busy praying, Shafi along with Nighat and Wajid entered the room and attacked the victim from behind and smothered her to death,” Kumar said, adding that they then strangulated her with a piece of cloth and later tied it to the ceiling fan along with Shanaza’s body,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-of-family-held-for-murdering-woman-on-wedding-day-in-srinagar/story-t1x0lfxBdi9ohQ23yTh50J.html
12-12-2020||Noida||Delhi-Meerut Expressway’s UP sections may not get benefit of net metering||Ghaziabad: The under construction Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) may not be on “energy saving” mode in Uttar Pradesh. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that they will not be able to get the benefit of net metering system in UP due to the change in policy by the state government. As a result, NHAI will be forced to operate about 5,500 streetlights through electricity procured directly from the power department, instead of solar power, the officials said. The phase 1 (Akshardham to UP Gate) and phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) of the DME project are operational, while phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) and phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) are under construction and have an official deadline of December-end. The NHAI officials said that they are getting the benefit of net metering system under phase 1 in Delhi. “But we will be using direct electricity connection on commercial rates for running streetlights under phase 2. It is due to UP’s changed policy that we will not benefit of net metering system here. If there is a policy change, we will install the system. Now, we have applied for direct electricity connection,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.The phase 2 has installation of about 3,000 streetlights which will now be operated using direct electricity instead of solar power. “The 3,000 streetlights have daily consumption of about 1,000 kilowatts of energy,” Garg said. Under the net metering system, domestic or commercial consumers who generate their own electricity using solar panels or photovoltaic systems can export their surplus energy back to the grid. The mechanism also allows for reduction in electricity bill with the amount of energy exported to the grid. “The net metering system is installed under phase 3 as well, but the 1,500-odd streetlights are running on direct electricity received from the power department. Their operation involves usage of about 750 kilowatts of electricity per day. Likewise, phase 4 also has 1,000 streetlights which are proposed to consume about 500 kilowatts of energy per day. Since installation of net metering is part of the contract, we will get the system installed but streetlights will be running on direct electricity,” Garg added. The development means an increase in operational cost, the NHAI officials said. Officials of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) said that the issue has cropped up due to the policy change. “Due to the change in policy in January last year in UP, the net metering is allowed only for households and private tube wells, and not for commercial consumers. NHAI will be charged as per the commercial tariff and net metering will not be applicable for them. The issue cannot be decided at local level,” said RK Rana, chief engineer (distribution) of PVVNL. The work on some parts of phases 2 and 4 are likely to extend to the next year. The NHAI officials said that some work on a rail overbridge near ABES College and another 500 metres pipeline laying work may need more time to get complete under phase 2. They further added that work for another rail overbridge under phase 4 may also take more time and may extend to 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-meerut-expressway-s-up-sections-may-not-get-benefit-of-net-metering/story-JueCwrVkYyKxJFVhXLB55J.html
12-12-2020||Noida||We are moving ahead with development: CM Yogi||Ghaziabad: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday, without naming anyone, said that people were “jealous” of the developmental works being carried out by the state government. He was speaking during an event at Indirapuram on Saturday evening to inaugurate the newly constructed ‘Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan’. “People are jealous as to why such works are being done? It is because of jealously that they have lost their sleep. They are jealous as they are seeing the works, which had been held up for years, happening. We are moving ahead with development. These are people who are trying to create conspiracies against the country as they cannot see development of ‘Bharat’ and they do not want to see smiles on faces of youths and farmers,” Yogi said. He said that he has no hesitation in encouraging the faith and said that the ‘Kanwar Yatra’ will go on in a vibrant manner. “Our country is a land of faith and it binds us from east to west and from north to south. In this country, we have seen a lot of efforts being put up to create a divide. During the present times, some people are involved in spreading chaos and also have hands in trying to create a divide. But we have our faith with us and it gives us strength,” Yogi said. He also raised questions on the construction of Haj House in Ghaziabad which was constructed under the tenure of the previous government near the banks of river Hindon. “It is same Ghaziabad where directions of the National Green Tribunal and guidelines of the state administration were flouted and Haj House was constructed. Whenever there was demand for construction of ‘Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan’, every land was made disputed and hurdles were put up. However, we decided for its construction and even paid for the land cost of this majestic building. It will be used by pilgrims who wish to go for ‘Char Dham Yatra’ and other pilgrimage,” he said, adding that the state government spent about Rs 132 crore which also includes the land cost. The ‘Kailash Mansarowar Bhawan’ has come up in Indirapuram over an area of about 9,000 square metres and has state-of-the-art facilities for pilgrims who will be able to make stay. Yogi also spoke about “spiritual tourism” and said his government made best arrangements for about 24 crore pilgrims in ‘Kumbh Mela’ which was earlier held in “unorganised manner”. “Such events create employment opportunities for different people whom I met during the Kumbh Mela and they told that their incomes increased manifolds. When such opportunities can be created in Ayodhya and Varanasi, no one can stop such opportunities in Ghaziabad as well. When we are creating such opportunities, people are trying to create hurdles. But I do not worry and walk on path of development,” he added. Claiming that his government will not allow any criminal activities in the state, Yogi said, “Earlier, goondas (criminals) walked freely and policemen had to hide their faces. Now, criminals hang placards in their neck and beg for their lives. It is same system but ‘shashan’ (rule) has changed. Those who take law in their hands should think on what type of ‘Yatra’ they wish to go. Here, we have a lot of ‘Yatras’. When we are making efforts for all, we will not allow anyone to make law hostage,” he said. The CM also lauded the efforts of the Ghaziabad district officials in terms of cleanliness and also during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Earlier, Ghaziabad was among the dirtiest cities. But officials and workers did a makeover in just three years. The work done during the pandemic is also outstanding. They saved people and also kept in check the fatality rate. it is on the same lines of vision of our Prime Minister,” Yogi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/we-are-moving-ahead-with-development-cm-yogi/story-trCjLPUsyL56BMstfCLErO.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||2,000 patients received Ayurvedic treatment for Covid-19 in Delhi govt hospital||A day after doctors from across the country protested the Centre’s decision to allow Ayurveda practitioners to perform certain surgeries, the Delhi health minister congratulated one of the hospitals under it for providing “pure Ayurvedic treatment” to 2,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. “Congratulations to Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurved Charak Sansthan for successfully catering to 2000 covid patients with pure Ayurvedic treatment. It is the 1st Indian Ayurvedic hospital which has treated covid patients from ages 1month-106years. I applaud the team and staff,” said the health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. The hospital was one of the three designated as Covid Health Centre that admitted mild to moderate Covid-19 patients who did not need much medical intervention. The hospital has been treating its patients with a concoction called Nagaradhi Kwath that contains three herbs, haldi milk, and Amla Churan for Vitamin C. This protocol was followed for a case control study of 1,000 patients where half received the ingredients and the other half didn’t. Another trial of 1,000 patients was conducted to test sitopaladi churna which is given to patients for common cold. “Our patients also did some pranayama and yoga to relieve anxiety. We are yet to analyse the results of the study but there was an improvement in the condition of the patients. We are not saying that these herbs cure Covid-19, but it helps in relieving the symptoms,” said Professor Vidula Gujjarwar, director principal of Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurveda Charak Sansthan. The institute had also done a case-control trial of Chyawanprash and found that there was no difference in symptoms in those who were given the mixture and those who weren’t. “We are not against anyone practicing any pathy; in fact, an integrated system of Indian medicine should flourish. The problem is when the people who are trained in Ayurveda prescribe medicines or perform therapies that are allopathic. They are not trained for it and that would mean risk to the patients,” said Dr BB Wadhwa, president of the Delhi Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-000-patients-received-ayurvedic-treatment-for-covid-19-in-delhi-govt-hospital/story-kjSzE69tmZbOtTZgdcgvoO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest may turn violent: Shanta Kumar to govt||BJP veteran and former Union minister Shanta Kumar, on Saturday, said that the farmer movement has reached a crucial juncture. He said that the government as well as the farmers should stay alert as the situation may spiral out of control due to involvement of anti-national elements.“It is unfortunate that despite long talks and assurances of Union ministers and PM Modi, the movement continues to intensify,” Shanta said in a press statement.The three farm laws, against which farmers are protesting, are based on recommendation made by a high-level committee on Restructuring of Food Corporation of India (FCI) headed by Shanta.“Some anti-social elements have joined the movement and some NGOs are suspected of indirectly pumping money to facilitate the protests,” he added.He alleged that the command of the movement is not in hands of real farmers.“A few days ago, there was a 100-day dharna at Shaheen Bagh. A delicate phase arrived when riots were fuelled in which 50 innocent people were killed,” he said.“The farmer movement is also slowly taking the form of a similar movement. Leaders are fuelling the protests for their vested interests,” said Kumar.He added that the movement is mainly run by Punjab leaders. Grain production in Punjab is high and the Food Corporation buys bulk of food grain from there. Its tax and commission amount to over ₹5,000 crore annually, said Kumar.“With the new law in place, farmers will be able to sell their produce elsewhere and the earnings from commission will automatically come down. This is the reason why middlemen, especially from Punjab, are giving crores of rupees, quilts and food grains to the protesters,” he alleged.“A leader whose photo has been put up at the protest site was accused of hijacking an airplane but was never caught. If this is true, the country needs to be careful,” he added.Earlier, Kumar had said that the farmers’ protest is politically motivated. He said the new laws will bring radical changes in the agriculture sector and will not end the MSP system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-may-turn-violent-shanta-kumar-to-govt/story-IfClXQ1WBFEPqpjaPrt90L.html
12-12-2020||Noida||One killed, two injured as vehicle touches high-tension wire during marriage procession in Dankaur||Greater Noida: A 15-year-old boy died while two other persons were injured as their vehicle, which was part of a marriage procession, came in contact with a live overhead wire in Dankaur on Friday night, the police said. According to the police, the incident took place around 10pm in Mankpur Khadar village. The vehicle that came in contact with the live wire was carrying a music system and people were dancing to the tunes of a song, the police said, adding that the three persons on the same vehicle received burn injuries and one of them died. The deceased was identified as Chirag, a resident of Faridabad. The injured were identified as Pawan Kumar, 19, and Sandeep Kumar, 18, both residents of Faridabad. They are undergoing treatment at a private hospital and are out of danger, the police said. The members of the marriage procession had come from Faridabad to Dankaur. Anil Kumar Pandey, station house officer, Dankaur police station, said that there was an 11kv power line in the village. “The marriage procession was moving when the DJ van hit the overhead wire. Three persons on the vehicle received burn injuries in the incident. They were rushed to a private hospital where Chirag was declared brought dead,” he said. The deceased’s family took away the body to Faridabad for last rites, the police said. The incident had created panic in the neighbourhood and the organisers immediately stopped the music system. A police team from Dankaur police station reached the spot and got the power disconnected, the SHO said. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that the police have not received any complaint from the deceased’s family. Officials of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) said that the power supply was resumed in the area in the morning. “We investigated the matter and found that the power line was intact. We found that the DJ vehicle was high in length and came in contact with the live wire. The organisers should have checked the vehicle’s height and the route to take such a procession in advance,” said VN Singh, chief engineer, PVVNL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-killed-two-injured-as-vehicle-touches-high-tension-wire-during-marriage-procession-in-dankaur/story-PAmUTNJtdOn5XtP5CjUJ4J.html
12-12-2020||Noida||Toll plazas in Ghaziabad and Hapur suffer 35-50% revenue loss during ‘toll-free’ call by farmers, says NHAI||Ghaziabad: The “toll-free plazas” call given by the protesting farmers impacted the fee collection at three major toll plazas in and around Ghaziabad on Saturday. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said that the protesters arrived at the toll plazas around 11.30am and allowed vehicles to pass without paying tolls. The Ghaziabad district has two major toll plazas at Dasna and Duhai interchange of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE), while another major toll is at Chijarsi in Hapur which is part of phase 3 of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway project. The call for making toll plazas free was given by the farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. After the recent talks with the government reached a deadlock, the farmers’ leaders gave a call for “toll-free” plazas on December 12. “As per our estimates, we suffered a revenue loss of about 35% at Chijarsi toll plaza, while the loss is estimated to be about 50% at the two toll plazas at Duhai and Dasna interchange. The protesters arrived in groups around noon on Saturday and held protests till late afternoon. The traffic at the three toll plazas was normalised by 5pm today,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. He said that EPE tolls have movement of about 60,000 passenger car units per day, while the Chijarsi toll has movement of about 40,000-50,000 cars a day. “Almost all the lanes have Fastag facility and about 80-85% vehicles use Fastags. However, the toll through Fastag is deducted only when the vehicles move at slow speed at toll plazas. After the farmers made lanes toll-free, vehicles moved at high speed. So, most of the vehicles went without any deduction,” Garg said. Although the administration had made deployment of police at toll plazas in Ghaziabad as well as Hapur districts, protesters came in groups of hundreds and stayed at the tolls, police officials said. “As part of their protest, they made toll plazas free for vehicles. However, we did not allow them to take up any protest or disrupt any traffic on highway. The protesters came in groups and every group staged their protests. There was no untoward incident reported during the day,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police, Hapur. Meanwhile, hundreds of farmers on Saturday continued the blockade of National Highway-9 at the UP Gate and said that their “toll-free” call was successful. “Various tolls in western UP were made toll-free, but none of our supporters indulged in any violence or disrupted any traffic movement. The call was to make the government aware about the strength of farmers and also to involve more farmers in the ongoing agitation. No violence or any untoward incident was reported during the protests. Our leaders have already told supporters that protest must go on peacefully,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The BKU supporters led by Rakesh Tikait has been staging protests at the UP Gate since November 28 and were joined by other farmers from Uttarakhand, Punjab and western UP. The protesting farmers on December 3 blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of NH-9 and are still continuing since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/toll-plazas-in-ghaziabad-and-hapur-suffer-35-50-revenue-loss-during-toll-free-call-by-farmers-says-nhai/story-ja6kSah2H2BNTfClsLtbuL.html
12-12-2020||Noida||Farmers remove toll barriers on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||A group of farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Tikait) on Saturday protested on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) in Sirsa village and lifted the toll barriers for a free passage of vehicles on both sides of the carriageway as a mark of opposition against the farm bills. The police, however, said that the barriers remained toll-free only for a while and toll collection returned to normalcy after the police personnel present at the spot reasoned with the farmers. Another group of farmers also gathered on the NH-91 near the Luharli toll plaza in Dadri and made free passage for vehicles. Farmers also reached Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway to do the same. However, a police team kept the farmers away from the plaza and tolls were collected normally. Sunil Pradhan, a BKU-Tikait member, said that the farmers’ group protested at different tool plazas. “We reached the Eastern Peripheral Expressway at 9am and lifted all the toll barriers. Farmers were stationed at the spot to ensure a free passage of vehicles,” he said. The six-lane EPE connect places in western Uttar Pradesh, such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Baghpat to Faridabad and Palwal in Haryana. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that police personnel were deployed at all the spots. “The farmers were not allowed to reach the Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway. The toll collection continued as usual on Yamuna Expressway. The farmers protested for half-an-hour on the service lane and then they left,” he said. Pandey said that on the EPE, nearly 100 farmers from three organisations had gathered and made one lane toll-free for one-and-a-half hour. “The police personnel present at the spot, however, reasoned with the farmers and the situation came to normal after a while,” he said. On NH-19, Luharli toll plaza in Dadri, the farmers managed to make the toll plaza free for merely ten minutes, said the police. Meanwhile, at Noida’s Chilla border, the farmers organised a Ramayana recitation programme. The rain and wind on Saturday led to a collapse of the makeshift tent of farmers at Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal on Saturday. The farmers had to take shelter inside the memorial building during the rain. Dr SK Giri, general secretary and spokesperson of BKU Lok Shakti, said that the farmers are resolved to fight on till their demands are met. “On Saturday afternoon, the farmers also met Gautam Budh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma at his office in Kailash Hospital. We also submitted a memorandum to the government through Sharma. We hope our grievances are addressed,” he said. Sharma did not respond to call and text message for a comment.  Meanwhile, Thakur Swaraj Singh Bhati, national president, BKU Lok Shakti , along with some other farmers also got their heads tonsured in protest against the farm bills on Saturday.A delegation of five farmers led by Thakur Bhanu Pratap, president BKU-Bhanu on Saturday evening met Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar at Singh’s residence over the issue. “We discussed farmers’ issues and demanded formation of Kisan Aayog. The two ministers talked to us for one-and-a-half hour and assured that the issues will be addressed. We may open the Noida-Delhi road at Chilla border on Sunday,” Pratap said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-remove-toll-barriers-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway/story-XCDrbNyBh287HBty8WeJGN.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||7 succumb, 419 test positive for Covid in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded seven deaths and 419 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday taking the total Covid count in the UT to 1,15,626 and death toll to 1,793.Officials said 211 people tested positive in Kashmir and 208 in Jammu. Three persons died in Kashmir and four in Jammu division.They said that 1,09,002 people have recovered in the UT so far after 430 patients were discharged on Saturday. There are 4,831 active cases in J&K, while the total number of tests conducted has crossed 33.19 lakh.So far, a total of 1,148 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 645 in Jammu.In Kashmir, there was a hike in fresh cases in Srinagar where 89 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam with 35 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases were recorded in Jammu at 118, followed by 26 in Udhampur.Srinagar tops the case tally with 24,161 cases and 433 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 22,072 cases and 327 deaths.Till date, 8.26 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 23,197 in home quarantine, 4,831 in isolation, and 27,154 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.69 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-succumb-419-test-positive-for-covid-in-j-k/story-6ogSGNqspkxUnkydpWSFUO.html
12-12-2020||Bangalore||After violence at Wistron plant, Karnataka minister says will give protection to firm||Minister for large and medium scale industries in Karnataka Jagadish Shettar on Saturday said that the state government will give necessary protection to the Taiwanese company--Wistron-- in Kolar which was vandalised by its employees.“Employees of a Taiwanese company vandalised Wistron office, situated in Narasapur Industrial Area in Kolar district of Karnataka, on Saturday. The incident occurred over the non-payment of salary dues for several months. The company deals with the manufacturing of Apple iPhones in India,” read a press statement from the minister. “The protest against the management turned violent after some people started vandalizing the office, setting vehicles on fire, pelting stones and setting the company’s board on fire,” the statement read. Regretting the unpleasant incident, the minister said that it is not right to take the law into one’s hand no matter what the problem was.“The State government has taken steps to develop industries in the State and is committed to the protection of the worker’s right. The problem could have been resolved if it had been adequately addressed as per law,” the statement quoted him as saying.Shettar said that the state government is ready to provide adequate protection to companies that have invested in the state.“We will take stringent measures to prevent such unpleasant events from recurring. We have already spoken with the District Superintendents of Kolar District and the Superintendents of Police and have been instructed to provide necessary protection. Karnataka is a peaceful state, which has always welcomed foreign investors and investment and provided them with a peaceful and friendly environment to conduct business,” the statement read. “The incident at the Wistron plant is unfortunate and unacceptable. The Government is committed to conducting a full and fair investigation into the incident and punish the wrongdoers,” he added.Deputy chief minister of Karnataka CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday condemned the incident in which hundreds of workers were seen entering the Wistron manufacturing plant at Narasapura in Kolar district of Karnataka and smashing the office properties.“It was imperative that nobody takes the law in their own hands. There are appropriate forums to resolve such issues without indulging in this wonton violence,” the Deputy CM said in a tweet.Narayan also said that he had directed Superintendent of Police (SP) Kolar to ensure all measures are taken to bring the situation under immediate control and the culprits are identified. “Strict action will be taken under the law against the errant elements,” he said.Narayan said that he has discussed the matter with Meena Nagaraj, the Director of Electronics, Information Technology and Biotechnology at the Government of Karnataka. “Our government will do the needful to ensure that the situation is resolved expeditiously and all stakeholders and their concerns are allayed,” he added.“We will ensure that all workers’ rights are duly protected and all their dues are cleared,” he assured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/after-violence-at-wistron-plant-karnataka-minister-says-will-give-necessary-protection-to-firm/story-SwLiWxc2noyh1N8c1e8NEO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Recoveries cross 40K in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 597 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 48,951.The death toll mounted to 793 after 10 more patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 159 were reported in Mandi, 98 in Solan, 80 in Kangra, 70 in Shimla, 49 in Kullu, 36 in Chamba, 28 in Sirmaur, 24 in Bilaspur, 19 in Kinnaur, 17 in Hamirpur, 10 in Una, and seven in Lahul-Spiti.Recoveries in the hill-state have crossed the 40,000-mark. As many as 737 recoveries were reported on Saturday, taking the total tally to 40,538. The recovery rate has climbed to 82.8%.Meanwhile, the death rate of Himachal is at 1.6%. There are 7,575 active cases in the state. In December, the state has recorded over 8,400 new cases so far and total 6,11,569 tests have been conducted.Shimla remains the worst hit district with 9,056 infections followed by Mandi at 8,221 and Kangra 6,636. Solan has recorded 5,802 infections, Kullu 4,086, Sirmaur 2,882, Bilaspur 2,555, Chamba 2,471, Hamirpur 2,445, Una 2,435, Kinnaur 1,199, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,163.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recoveries-cross-40k-in-himachal/story-g1Hx54KT5pwKWDrMBMq4sO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Stocks and shares and making up losses||When all the shopping malls and markets of the world were closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the share market worked incessantly. Since I owe my allegiance to the brick and mortar segment, the virtual commodities being traded in the market were beyond my comprehension. Besides, my limited knowledge of mathematics and its cousin economics have always made me wary of the numerical world.I was more like an American, who would use a calculator to add two plus two, than an Indian, doing quick mental calculations. Mathematicians Aryabhata and Shakuntala Devi would definitely not have been proud of me.But then they were not like my lawfully wedded partner: A great optimist. He introduced me this year, as we remained locked in due to the pandemic, to the world of dividends, profit sharing and debentures with such fervour that there was no getting away from statistics.The peace of morning tea routine was shattered by the high decibel financial chatter on TV. My soulmate would be engrossed in it, his expressions changing in tandem with market trends. I would sit like a nincompoop fiddling with my cup of tea. The only sound that moved him, besides Big Ben of London, was the market opening bell, and the monologue of the TV anchor rattling off facts and figures of various companies faster than he could breathe.When he noticed that I was unable to make the head or tail of the market, hubby dear started lovingly explaining the workings of the share bazaar. After a few sessions I knew that upper freeze had nothing to do with the upper part of the freezer, that short selling did not have any shorts to sell, that future stock was not a career and that bulls and bears were actually human beings like us.My weary soul would hope that the topic would change with the next cup of tea, but to my dismay, it never did. It seemed my fiscal half had taken it upon himself to teach me a few nuances of the monetary world. After a few more weeks passed by I knew the names of all the TV presenters and the number of times they had repeated their outfits in a month. The rest of it was still Greek to me.It had taken me years to decipher a few facts about cricket, and then dealing with money matters was a double whammy. I was feeling so quarantined in my own house.Finally, my observant better half saw through my anguish, and so, one fine morning, brightly said, “Ok, no more fiscal talk, but I want you to know that I have been doing a bit of trading. How would it be if I tell you that you are part owner of a banking sector, that you can actually vote in a pharmaceutical company, that you have certain rights in a shipping company, and that your favourite metal, gold, is doing well at the index?”That made a lot of sense. My eyes lit up and I said to him, “Now you are talking, man!” It sounded more glamorous than the mundane numbers on the graph. Since then, I have become genuinely interested in the numbers game, and have started following the exponential rise and fall of the market. The going is good and I hope to cover my fiscal deficit soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-stocks-and-shares-and-making-up-losses/story-WOfZMzKGxZLRvB35goQ46L.html
12-12-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to visit north Bengal on 3-day trip from Monday||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit north Bengal on a three-day tour starting Monday, state secretariat sources said here.During her tour, the Trinamool Congress supremo will be addressing two rallies.“The chief minister will reach Siliguri on Monday. She is scheduled to fly in a chopper to Jalpaiguri to address a rally on Tuesday. She will attend another rally in Cooch Behar the next day,” an official said.She will return to Kolkata on Wednesday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-to-visit-north-bengal-on-3-day-trip-from-monday/story-I5U5PQfa76Jp75scLTS8BO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Reinvent Chandigarh’s Sector 17, the Bryant Park way||Last week I happened to visit the Sector 17 market for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak. The afternoon sun and the open spaces made an inviting combination. I happened to interact with the owner of a new café, an old family acquaintance, near the approach from the Rose Garden. He revealed that the footfall had begun to increase in the last few weeks as people were less inclined to visit the closed spaces of malls during the pandemic and instead preferred the open Sector 17 market. He sounded enthusiastic about the response he was getting and said he hoped the administration would allow outdoor seating for cafes and restaurants to entice more visitors. This interaction set me thinking about my first visit to the market more than 50 years ago as a school student.In the 1970s, Sector 17 had become the city centre with showrooms, three theatres (Neelam, Jagat, KC), offices, Parade Ground, the Inter State Bus Terminus, general post office and many open spaces. It emerged as the hub of activity when many businesses shifted there from Sector 22, including the Indian Coffee House, English Book Shop, Capital Book Shop and Gulatis. Then, with major restaurants opening, Sector 17 started attracting bigger crowds. The generation growing up will not know that a road used to cut across the sector in front of Neelam Theatre till the concrete plaza was built along with the parking lots.With the coming up of the Open Hand water feature and fountains near the over bridge, the open spaces became a haven for children and students. A few balloon sellers and booksellers on the pavement with an occasional pirated CD-DVD seller made your day livelier. Of course the shoeshine boys near Neelam theatre had always been there.Losing its charm Unfortunately, however, decades later, this market centre has lost its charm with the multiplex culture and mall-mania overtaking the city. Actually, its death knell sounded with the coming up of Elante Mall where you can spend hours in an air-conditioned environment. It should have been a challenge for the administration to reinvent Sector 17, but it gave up without a fight. Still worse was to come. The takeover of all the open spaces by the phari market had ruined the city’s soul.But then there are many things that are still in favour of Sector 17. It is the centre of the original Phase-1 of Le Corbusiers’ planning, it lies in close proximity to the Rose Garden, has huge open spaces and the best brands in town! Barring the few months of extreme summer, the place can still attract locals and tourists. All that needs to be done is replicate successful models from across the world. Of the cities I have been to, I can think of Bryant Park, New York; Leicester Square, London; and Quincy market, Boston. All these three places have enough for weekend locals or tourists round the year.However, Bryant Park can be used as a model to revitalise Sector 17 and supplement Corbusier’s plans for the city centre.The ideal city centre Sector 17 seems to be modelled on the city centres of any of Europe’s major destinations with a pedestrian-only zone surrounded by shopping areas and a few theatres/cinemas. The old cities have a few monuments and/or historical buildings, which Chandigarh lacks. The city centres of all European cities have a vibrant life, full of activities for all ages, again something which Chandigarh has ceased to have. There used to be musical performances near the fountains on Saturdays which fizzled out after some years.Bryant Park in Manhattan is a classic example of a park in the centre of a city being successfully managed by a private not-for-profit organisation, Bryant Park Corporation. It has an interesting history, undergoing restoration in the 1980s after being overrun by drug dealers and prostitutes. The park has in its premises the NY Public Library, with underground stacks, open green lawns, a few memorabilia shops and a few eateries besides a reading room and restrooms. It hosts different events round the year, like movies, musical performances and programmes with local sports teams. There are classes on yoga, martial arts and knitting! All activities including ice-skating in winter is free.The Chandigarh administration, in collaboration with local traders can easily reinvent Sector 17 into another Bryant Park. In fact, there is more open space in Sector 17 than in Bryant Park. To start with, parking areas in front of shops should be converted into greens with activities for children at one end, and a library, a few open-air eateries and a senior citizen corner at the other. A water body could be added to get the children back. Arts college students can be roped in to show their creations like sculptures and paintings. Portrait making in the evenings can be a big draw. Similarly, university students and cultural groups can be invited to present recitals, plays and other performances. There could be a small area for Punjabi cuisine or street food like corn-on-the-cob or roasted sweet potatoes, especially for tourists. Different competitions for school children or college students can be held, including painting, story writing and musical performances. In fact, a competition to get the best ideas for reinventing Sector 17 could be organised to start with. There is no limit to what can be done in different months of the year. On Sundays there could be flea market added to the activities. All major festivals can be celebrated here and a recreational centre also set up for children near the GPO area.As has been done in Bryant Park, garden umbrellas can be set up with steel chairs and tables, free newspapers and free WiFi at various spots. Book launches, free movies, free plays and so much more can be organised here!I hope the well wishers of the city bring back the glory days of the city centre.(The writer is a professor at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. Views expressed are personal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-reinvent-chandigarh-s-sector-17-the-bryant-park-way/story-eabHTkH09Ri1dpGdo0pNoM.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||J&K DDC polls: Gupkar alliance ditches Congress on seat-sharing pact in Nowshera||Congress, which had jumped on the Gupkar bandwagon ahead of the district development council (DDC) elections, has been ditched by the latter on their seat-sharing agreement.Former MLC and chief spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) Ravinder Sharma said, “It is unfortunate that the National Conference (NC) fielded candidates where the seats were left for Congress in Nowshera assembly constituency. While Congress remained committed to the settlement and didn’t field its candidate against the PDP-NC alliance in Nowshera, the latter has backtracked.”Sharma, who was on a tour of the area to campaign for the Congress candidates, regretted that the NC fielded its candidates at the eleventh hour from Seri-Lamberi and Sunderbani seats in Nowshera assembly constituency against the settlement arrived at between the parties on seat sharing at some places.“It was settled at the very beginning of talks for seat sharing, of which he was also a part, that the PDP-NC would together contest the Nowshera seat while Seri-Lamberi would go to Congress and for the Sunderbani seat, the local leadership would jointly decide the candidate. I did honour the settlement but it was unfortunate that the NC fielded its candidate in Seri-Lamberi seat on the last day against the prior agreement.”Congress did not field any candidate from the Nowshera seat in the previous phase of the DDC polls.“I was conveyed by the top NC leadership on the day of filing of papers too that the latter would not field its candidate from Seri-Lamberi, but unfortunately it did, which is wrong,” he added.“At all other places where seats were mutually left for each other, no cross candidates were fielded, though on many seats we are contesting against each other,” he said.Seeking support for Congress, he appealed to the people to vote for any like-minded party or secular candidate where Congress was not in the fray, but reject BJP.Sharma along with senior leaders of the party carried out a hectic campaign in various villages of Nowshera and urged people to reject the BJP for its “anti-youth, anti-poor and anti-farmer policies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-ddc-polls-gupkar-alliance-ditches-congress-on-seat-sharing-pact-in-nowshera/story-Tox2kW29SmBjglXfm5WNsI.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: A joyful 50th anniversary, even during Covid||A couple of years back, a friend celebrated his golden wedding anniversary. His children made it a special day by holding a party where famous qawwals were invited to regale the audience with the choicest of qawwali. Later, the projector was turned on to showcase moments from the lives of the couple: From when they were young to the birth of their children and then grandchildren. In a nutshell, the entire life of the couple was scanned up to the present times.This got the wife and I thinking about celebrating the success of 50 years of our togetherness, which by no means is a small feat. In fact, we had started thinking two years ago about it, little realising how 2020 would turn out to be.However, though to me all days are alike but it’s “in” to celebrate these special anniversaries or birthdays in a big way. Therefore, some plan it in a hotel or resort and others fly to a special tourist destination or go on a cruise. Innovative ideas can be endless.We were perplexed recently when another friend of mine whose golden anniversary was due before ours did not invite us to a party, wondering how he could ignore us. A few days later, however, we learnt that he had offered prayers at a gurdwara and decided to donate money to needy children instead of organising a lavish celebration. Such gestures are indeed wonderful. After the Covid-19 global invasion we left India for Vancouver in Canada, thinking it would be safer to go out of India. This was not true because the second wave, as they call it, made it mandatory for us to stay at home there with no one to visit, even close relatives or friends, to contain the growing numbers. As our anniversary, the 50th D-day approached, it was celebrated in the home environs with just our own family. Of course, our children and grandchildren gave us many surprises by meticulously planning everything like special decorations, ordering snacks, drinks, our favourite food and expensive gifts. Last but not least, there was a surprise Zoom call enabling us to get together virtually with our siblings in India, and other near and dear relatives in the US and Canada. Covid had changed everything because we could not celebrate the big day by physically being together with our other family members and friends.However, what mattered at the end of the day was an introspection of our journey of 50 years together. Many people crossed a silver or golden anniversary milestone, but was happiness part of the equation? Were they compatible? Did they enjoy the journey.? Or was it just a forced coalition, a journey that was a tedious, unending long ordeal?The current generation is smart, people part ways the moment they understand that they are unhappy or that their alliance is not workable. Older generations were more wary of divorce no matter how unhappy they were. As we tread in our seventies, having shared good and worst times while standing united, giving each other strength, we cherished each moment of togetherness and felt inseparable. However, the thought that one of us may have to depart earlier gives us the jitters. It is inevitable that sooner or later, one of us will predecease the other at a time when we have started needing each other more in our old age as the children have grown up and have their own lives.We would love to live life fully so as to enjoy whatever time is left, without worrying about the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-a-joyful-50th-anniversary-even-during-covid/story-cPGduWC1UbYLBEaN6PAvrI.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cyber fraud: Shimla-based doctor duped of Rs 2.16L||A Shimla-based private doctor was allegedly duped of Rs 2.16 lakh by online fraudsters.In his complaint, the doctor said he had received a call from someone posing as a representative of Amazon. They told him that he will be getting a gift for online shopping and to receive the gift he will have to pay them Rs 9,772 which will be refunded when he receives the gift.He transferred the amount twice in the bank accounts provided by the fraudsters via Paytm after which he received a one-time password (OTP). The accused asked him to share the OTP after which Rs 68,894, Rs 80,012 and Rs 48,996 were withdrawn from his account.When he realised that he was duped, he filed a complaint in Sadar police station and shared the numbers from which he had received calls.Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Mohit Chawla said that a case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cyber-fraud-shimla-based-doctor-duped-of-rs-2-16l/story-a2tZuN7IdOKBl3ZTL0hDXP.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Srinagar: Six acquitted in Maulvi Showkat murder case||A special trial court here has acquitted six of the eight accused in the killing of prominent Jammu and Kashmir cleric Maulvi Showkat Ahmad Shah, who was murdered in a cycle explosion in 2011.Ashwani Kumar Sharma, additional sessions judge TADA, POTA and special judge designated under NIA Act in Srinagar, stated that the prosecution has failed to prove whether in fact the murder of Shah was committed by the accused persons on the basis of the alleged conspiracy and whether the act of the accused was a terrorist act.“In the present case, a terror has been struck in the people by using the IED in the killing of Shah (the deceased) but who has struck the terror and by whom the IED has been blasted has not been established before the court by the prosecution. It has not been established before the court when the conspiracy to kill was hatched as alleged,” the court said in the judgment pronounced on Thursday.The acquitted persons include Abdul Gani Dar alias Abdullah Gazali, former chief of militant outfit Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM) and alleged president of Sout-ul-Haq, alleged militants Nisar Ahmad Khan alias Ishaq and Javaid Ahmad Munshi alias Bill Papa, besides Abdul Majid Dar Almadni, Gulzar Khan and Riyaz Ahmad Shah. During the trial, Abdullah Gazali, out on bail, was found murdered in February 2020 inside Jamiat-Ahli Hadees, the same mosque outside which Shah was killed in an explosion in 2011 in Maisuma.The accused were represented by advocates M A Pandit, Abu Adil Pandit, Abu Owais Pandit, Nadeem Pandit and Mohammad Amin.The police had filed the chargesheet against the six and another two who were “absconding”, after claiming that the murder was part of a “conspiracy” to radicalise the Shah-led organisation Jamiat Ahli Hadith. The accused were chargesheeted with murder, unlawful activities Act and Arms Act.“The challan of the prosecution as such is dismissed. Accused persons are acquitted of the charges leveled against them…by giving them a reasonable benefit of the doubt,” the court said.The court also directed that the file be consigned to records and put before the court again on the arrest of seventh and eighth accused. The two are Fayaz Ahmad Dar alias Jameel-ur-Rehman, general secretary of PoK-based Jihad Council and Mohammad Azhar Ali alias Abdullah Uni, a militant commander who was killed in an encounter in September 2011.Shah, a prominent religious leader and head of Jamiat-Ahli-Hadees, was killed on April 8, 2011, in a blast planted on a cycle when he was entering a mosque for Friday prayers. Shah was also a close aide of Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front chairman Yasin Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/srinagar-six-acquitted-in-maulvi-showkat-murder-case/story-tln9KdEhdUHP0X6Y64GyYI.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Mr Besra Sparrowhawk and her hubby||A few Besra sparrowhawks have been photographed in the Sukhna Lake jungles in winter when the bird resorts to altitudinal migration from its summer breeding grounds in the Himalayas. A comparatively rare migratory hawk, the bird derives its common English name from Hindi, where Besra is used only for the female of this species. In Hindi, the male is known as Dhotee/Dhooti/Dharti. However, in English both the sexes go by the common name, Besra. The choice of English name underlines the female’s precedence over the male because in raptors or birds of prey, the females are larger and pack more power than males. They are thus preferred by falconers. The word, Besra, itself is derived from Baaz (female Northern goshawk) and denotes the latter’s smaller version while her diminutive hubby, the Dharti, means just about a handful! Since a Besra (Accipiter virgatus) resembles the Shikra, it is confused and mistaken for the latter, a common and very visible hawk of tricity gardens.The Besra’s reticent nature and preference for lofty, dense forests renders it elusive to easy observation. All of this serves to enhance the enigma of this shikari on an annual winter safari to the Sukhna.To fill the void on the Besra, we shall dwell on aspects of its behaviour and character. Once upon a time, the Besra was a well known and understood raptor, especially by native falconers of yore. When it comes to knowledge of raptor behaviour and their distinctive character, there are no better observers than falconers and austringers. While the Besra outwardly resembles a Shikra, the former’s expertise and speed at dodging and twisting through trees/branches, obstacles and dense undergrowth are more allied to the reputed qualities of the Eurasian sparrowhawk. These qualities render the Besra a favourite to trap and train, and thence flown to hunt small birds. A section of falconers were so besotted with the Besra – due to her tenacity/speed – that they even preferred her to the female Eurasian sparrowhawk.Adding to our knowledge of the Besra’s capabilities to hunt down the most twisty of small birds, the distinguished raptor specialist, Rishad Naoroji, wrote: “Capable of rapid aerial manoeuvres and recorded capturing an Asian Palm swift.” Some falconers would train Besras and Shikras to kill small birds and serve these to larger, trained raptors in their mews such as Northern goshawks and Peregrine falcons. The energy of larger raptors was reserved for bigger shikar such as of gazelles, bustards, geese and hares.The most detailed account of the Besra’s prowess – as gleaned from native falconers – was provided by TC Jerdon in his book, Illustrations of Indian Ornithology, published in 1847. “The Besra is said to be somewhat more difficult to train than most of the hawks, and is a delicate bird, and requires great care and attention, especially during the hot season. It is highly esteemed among native falconers, and sells for a considerable price. It is very speedy, and particularly active and clever in the jungle, which its habits, as a denizen of the forests in its wild state, peculiarly fit it for. It is chiefly flown at partridge, which it seizes in general with great ease and certainty; also occasionally at quails, snipes and doves. The male or ‘Dhotee’ (which is smaller than the female) is but seldom trained and is then flown at sparrows, Brahminy mynas etc,” the book stated.Armed with an astute grasp of a wild raptor’s character, falconers would employ cunning methods to outwit these wary, strong birds. “The Besra, and other short-winged hawks, as well as occasionally the Luggur and some of the falcons, are usually caught by what is called among falconers the ‘Do Guz’. This is a small, thin net from four to five feet long, and about three feet broad, stained of a dark colour, and fixed between two thin pieces of bamboo, by a cord on which it runs. The bamboos are fixed lightly in the ground, and a living bird is picketed about the middle of the net and not quite a foot distant from it. The hawk makes a dash at the bird, which it sees struggling at its tether, and in the keenness of its rush, either not observing the net from its dark colour, or not heeding it, dashes into it, the two side sticks give way, and the net folds round the bird (Besra) so effectually as to keep it almost from fluttering,” wrote Jerdon.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-mr-besra-sparrowhawk-and-her-hubby/story-kxncnFuendSUuC562yjUdO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||State-level 3-vs-3 basketball tourney commences in Ludhiana||The first state-level 3-vs-3 basketball tournament kicked off at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Saturday. Of the 43 competing teams, 42 are from Punjab and one from Haryana.As many as 42 matches were played on Day 1, of which 22 were played in the Under-17 boys category, eight each in Under-17 girls and in Under -19 boys and five in Under-19 girls. In these action-packed matches, Mansa Club had the highest score of 15 points in the Under-17 boys category. In Under-19 boys, the top was Ludhiana Basketball Academy Team with 16 points, followed by Majha Amritsar with 14 points. In Under-19 and Under-17 girls, Guru Nanak Club was the top scorer.The tournament was inaugurated by JP Singh, president of the District Basketball Association, who was accompanied by Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of PBA, Vijay Chopra, finance secretary, and Brij Bhushan Goyal, treasurer.In Under-17 boys, the Patiala wing team beat Khirawali Club by one point, while the Doraha BB Academy defeated High Fly BB Academy by six points. Mohali Lakers beat Baba Farid Club 10-7 and GGN Club edged out Doraha Public School by one point.In Under-19 boys, Ludhiana Basketball Academy defeated Gymkhana Club, 15-5. Meanwhile, The Dr Ambedkar Club beat Jimmy Joy Club, 2-1. In Under-19 girls, Guru Nanak Club beat Amritsar Club 12-2, while BIS Warriors edged out Guru Ram Dass Academy, 7-6. The Punjab Stealers beat Joy Brother Club 11-1. Also, The Guru Nanak Junior Club defeated Punjab Stealers, 10-8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-level-3-vs-3-basketball-tourney-commences-in-ludhiana/story-1FrQkEIUqosFXKEXC9zP3N.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for posting woman’s morphed photos||A man was booked for creating a woman’s fake account on a popular social media platform and posting morphed photographs on it on Saturday. The accused, Anand Kumar Jaiswal of Deep Colony, had been posting digitally morphed images of the complainant and other unidentified women on the account to defame her. The cyber cell was able to trace the accused. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said an FIR under Sections 509 ( insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Information and Technology Act and Indecent Representation of Women Act has been lodged against the accused at the Focal Point Police Station. The accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-booked-for-posting-woman-s-morphed-photos/story-zGmlKhH4ee6n6BeQsNFqgI.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||40-year-old labourer held for raping minor daughter in Ludhiana||A labourer was arrested for allegedly raping his 15-year-old daughter in an inebriated state in Harikrishan Vihar of Meharban on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday afternoon when the 40-year-old accused was alone at home with his daughter while his wife was at work. When the victim’s mother returned home from the factory she worked in, she found her daughter crying, on being coaxed the victim narrated the ordeal, after which the mother registered an FIR against her husband. The accused had also threatened to kill the victim if she disclosed the sexual abuse. Meharban station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur said the accused was notorious for being a drunk and had fled his house after raping the teenager. He had hidden in the area to evade arrest but was nabbed by the police the next day. The police have lodged an FIR under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-year-old-labourer-held-for-raping-minor-daughter-in-ludhiana/story-HKd2AjGw131aTfRLhztkUO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid toll reaches 300 with one death||The death of a 47-year-old woman from Sector 47 took Chandigarh’s Covid-19 toll to 300 in Chandigarh on Saturday. Also, 70 new cases were reported, pushing the tally to 18,572.The fatalities had breached the 100 mark on September 16, when six people had succumbed to the virus, and a month later, on October 15, the toll crossed the 200 mark.Of the total cases in the city, 815 are active and 17,457 people have been cured. These include 92 patients, who were discharged on Saturday. Two dead in Mohali, 52 test positiveMohali reported two more Covid-19 deaths and 52 fresh infections, apart from 127 recoveries.The district now has 16,864 total cases, of which 307 patients have died and 14,322 have recovered. Another 2,235 patients are still infected. All of Saturday’s cases were from Mohali city. No fatality in Panchkula for five daysPanchkula saw no casualty for the fifth consecutive day, but reported 36 new cases, taking the tally to 9,416.Among the fresh cases, 24 cases were from sectors and the rest from Amravati Enclave, Chandimandir, Kalka, Kot, Mansa Devi Complex and Moginand.There are 444 active cases, 8,837 persons have been discharged and 135 persons have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-toll-reaches-300-with-one-death/story-aGi9eMczdICUo4HBmiptRP.html
12-12-2020||City||Poor visibility affects 14 flights at Chandigarh International Airport||As many as seven flights arrived late and an equal number left late due to unfavourable weather conditions at the Chandigarh International Airport on Saturday.Air India flight AI-9805 left for Kullu after a delay of one hour and 37 minutes and subsequently its return was cancelled.Similarly, Air India flight AI-3415 from Leh arrived late after 2.05 hours and its returning AI-3416 flight was delayed by 4.06 hours.Another Air India flight from Leh also arrived late by 2.4 hours and the returning flight was cancelled.An Ahmedabad flight by GoAir (G8-911) arrived late by one hour and subsequently the G8-912 flight back to Ahmedabad was delayed by one hours and 44 minutes.The airline’s G8-810 flight from Bengaluru landed late by 39 minutes, affecting its departure to Bengaluru by 31 minutes.Its another flight from Srinagar arrived after a delay of one hour and 46 minutes, which caused the returning flight to depart late by 1 hour and 13 minutes.Indigo’s Srinagar flight 6E-6178 also arrived late by 35 minutes and another from Bengaluru landed after a delay of 25 minutes. Poor weather affected two more flights leaving from Chandigarh. While Air India’s AI-9806 flight to Delhi left after 2.12 hours, GoAir’s G8-562 flight departed for Mumbai after 14 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-visibility-affects-14-flights-at-chandigarh-international-airport/story-GYiKkwX2ZjVJbSVBoffQ5I.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Know your case camp: Elderly Ludhiana man seeking accused’s arrest yet to receive justice||Police said they solved 714 complaints on Saturday during the “Know your case” camps held at six police stations and two wings in the city. However, an elderly man, Narinder Kumar of Sant Enclave, returned disappointed from the Dugri police station. He has been making rounds of the police station for the past three and a half months seeking the arrest of those accused of thrashing his daughter, her husband and brother-in-law.Kumar said the police personnel are trying to convince him to settle the case.He added that Prabhjot Singh of Passi Nagar, along with his wife and mother-in-law, had thrashed his daughter Roop Rani, 28, of Urban Vihar on August 24, when she was returning home after picking up her four-year-old son from tuition. He added that Rani called her husband and brother-in-law to the spot, but the accused thrashed them as well. A case was registered against Prabhjot , his wife Geet Kaur and mother-in-law Harjit Kaur. However, even as three and a half months have passed, police are yet to make an arrest.On Saturday, the camps were held at Dugri, Dehlon, Sadar, Sahnewal, Division Number 7, Meharban and Tibba police stations and the economic offence and anti human trafficking wings. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal visited the camp and listened to the grievances of residents.According to the commissioner of Police under the scheme, victims, complainants and accused have the right to know the status of investigation and inquiry in FIRs and complaints. It covers all police stations, economic offences wing, child and women cell, anti-human trafficking, traffic, cyber crime cell and licensing unit. A service-oriented scheme, it is aimed at bringing greater transparency and accountability in the police functioning, and increasing police-public interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/know-your-case-camp-elderly-ludhiana-man-seeking-accused-s-arrest-yet-to-receive-justice/story-T4vnJv684s86ai2fHyFHoM.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kidnapping of Ludhiana hotelier’s son: Sarpanch surrenders before police||The Maluwal village, Moga, sarpanch who was wanted in the kidnapping of the two-year-old son of a prominent Ludhiana-based hotelier surrendered before the police on Friday.The court remanded the accused to a day in police custody on Saturday.The accused, Lal Singh, had surrendered at the Durgi Police Station. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said hours after the toddler’s kidnapping one Rachhpal Singh, also a former sarpanch, along with sarpanch Lal Singh exchanged cars with Harjinderpal Kumar, Sukhdev Singh Sukha and one Lal Singh of Kot Isse Khan in Moga. Lal had handed over the child to Rachhpal Singh and sarpanch Lal Singh and asked him to take the boy to his house and hand him over to his wife Mandeep Kaur.Rachhpal, Harjinderpal, Sukha, Lal and his wife Mandeep have already been arrested. Lal was the sixth accused involved in the crime.The ADCP added that the sarpanch had been absconding since December 2. After the police conducted repeated raids at his house, he surrendered before the police. The driver Harjinderpal, who had been working with the family for two years, had kidnapped the boy on December 1 and demanded ₹4 crore as ransom to release him. However, they abandoned the child on December 2 after the police conducted an intensive raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kidnapping-of-hotelier-s-son-sarpanch-surrenders-before-police/story-FzWEoY7pIBWLfjGvddm03J.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 30 cases of snatching closed with the arrest of 5||The Division Number 7 police claimed to have solved 30 cases of snatching and robbery with the arrest of five who were held for hatching a conspiracy of robbing a petrol pump and liquor vend.The accused Anuj, 27, of Bhamian Khurd, Gurdev Singh, 32, of Ashok Vihar Colony, Arshdeep Singh, 25, and Sukhjinder Singh, 27, of MS Colony at Tajpur Road, and Narinderjit Singh,28, of Tajpur Road were arrested late on Thursday when they were planning a heist in a vacant plot behind Ludhiana Central Jail. The police have recovered sharp-edged weapons, 12 mobile phones and a motorcycle from their possession.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the police acted on a tip-off. A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 ( assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged against the accused at the Division 7 Police Station. The DCP added that the accused were drug addicts and committed the crime to fund their habit. The accused were active in Tajpur Road, Metro Road, Bhamian Kalan, Chandigarh Road, Sector 32 Chandigarh road, Moti Nagar, Mundian Kalan, Mundian Khurd, Jamalpur and Rahon Road.The accused are in police remand and are already facing trial in several criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-30-cases-of-snatching-closed-with-the-arrest-of-5/story-bOoNyWTBtj9fQXjSWp63SP.html
12-12-2020||Dehradun||Two men wanted for 100 cases of snatching, theft land in Ludhiana police net||Two men wanted for multiple cases of snatching and vehicle lifting were arrested on Saturday. The police said the accused were involved in at least 100 cases of snatching and vehicle lifting.Two cars, five motorcycles and 37 mobile phones were recovered from their possession. The accused are Bagga Singh of Shimlapuri and Lakhbir Singh alias Lucky of Majaliya village of Samrala. As per the police, the accused were drug addicts and committed the crimes to fund their addiction. They were out on bail and had been facing trail in several cases of snatching and theft. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (City-1) Deepak Pareek said the bike-borne accused were arrested near Cheema Chowk during a special checking. The accused confessed their involvement in 100 cases of snatching. The ADCP said the accused would roam around in the city around 5am. They would target traders going to the vegetable market early in the morning and rob them of cash and mobile phones. At night, they would rob factory workers on their on way. The prolific thieves would steal daily and at times twice a day. They had also robbed a Renault Kwid near Sherpur using a sharp-edged weapon. A case under Sections 379B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the accused at the Division 2 Police Station .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/two-men-wanted-for-100-cases-of-snatching-theft-land-in-ludhiana-police-net/story-ZDrBaOUQwiYpkqCrFkExhN.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two Rajasthan men held for duping 31-year-old of ₹2.13 lakh||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested two Rajasthan men for duping a city resident of Rs 2.13 lakh by luring him with “escort services” through a website.The victim, who is aged 31 and is a resident of Sector 20, told the police that he was searching for jobs online, when he came across a website offering “escort services”, a euphemism for flesh trade. The complainant alleged that he made an online payment of Rs 2.13 lakh for the services, but was sent a fake hotel address. On his complaint, the cyber crime cell tracked down two fraudsters, identified as Israil Mohammad of Karigaro Ka Mohalla, Tonk, Rajasthan, and Ashutosh Sharma of Sureli, Tonk, Rajasthan.They were arrested and presented in court that sent them to two-day police remand. Police are investigating whether they duped more people through this modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-rajasthan-men-held-for-duping-31-year-old-of-2-13-lakh/story-MvOL4cxtSvaP6YFcCY4SYO.html
12-12-2020||Pune||‘State’s gender budget for FY 2020-21 unfavourable toward women empowerment’||Pune: UNICEF, Maharashtra, in its study, has revealed that Maharashtra’s Gender Budget for financial year 2020-21 is about 7,300 crore, around two per cent of state’s total budget and departments with highest allocations are from tribal, development, social justice, rural development, housing and public health. The findings were presented by Anuradha Nair, social policy specialist, UNICEF, Maharashtra, on Saturday at online national conference on Women@Work, jointly organised by Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics (GIPE), Mumbai School of Economics, Public Policy (MSEPP), India Development Foundation (IDF) and Pune International Centre. According to Nair, the findings indicate that there have been no interventions for physical health disorders prevalent among women and no allocations for counselling centres for women’s mental health issues while health insurance for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender persons is not allotted. In higher education, no measure is undertaken to prevent dropouts, while the financial assistance for higher education is only 1% of the entire education budget, she said. “There’s a need for a ‘Gender Action Plan’ as women account for 48% of Maharashtra’s population. The reproductive, productive and community roles borne by women has not been addressed by the state. There’s no investment for women’s unpaid care work and to encourage their participation in the economy,” she added.Soma Wadhwa of the IDF who manages the DISHA programme that aims to support underprivileged women in India learn marketable skills said, “For women empowerment, the challenge is to work toward overcoming internal barriers like personality and attitude drawbacks, lack of confidence and education deficiencies and external barriers like gender bias and stereotyping and absence of infrastructural, counselling, socio-political and economic support. We have to establish a continuum of services connecting education to skills, jobs, entrepreneurship, markets and growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-s-gender-budget-for-fy-2020-21-unfavourable-toward-women-empowerment/story-5jjJkV1dRX13aOy4Q2hWiK.html
12-12-2020||Pune||31 caught for illegal online betting on horse races in Pune||PUNE: The Pune police arrested 31 people for illegal online betting on horse races in the city on Friday. They were produced in a local court and remanded to one day in custody on Saturday.“Of these, 12-13 are bookies and the rest are placing their bets. We raided 8-9 locations and the illegal activity was going on in six places. Some were these people’s houses, some open grounds,” said Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 4, Pune.Most of the arrested are from affluent backgrounds. They were found placing and accepting bets by using SIM cards in other people’s names and from locations other than registered racing location.“These bookies are registered book-keeper who are supposed to take bets at the location of the race. However, they were doing it illegally from another location when they were caught,” said DCP Deshmukh.Six cases, three in Wanowrie, two in Kondhwa and one in Hadapsar, were registered against the 31 people on Friday and they were remanded to police custody for a day on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/31-caught-for-illegal-online-betting-on-horse-races-in-pune/story-RztheJe0QNSYBjH7gxS5TO.html
12-12-2020||Pune||30-year-old booked for sexual harassment of niece, abetting her to suicide||PUNE: A man from Aurangabad was booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for allegedly driving a minor girl to death by suicide by sexually harassing and sending her sexual messages.The teenage girl attempted suicide on September 6 and died of injuries on September 16. An accidental death report (ADR) was filed at the Bhosari police station. The man is a 30-year-old relative of the girl. She had visited his house during the summer break during which time he had touched her inappropriately against her will, according to the police.Months later, the girl died and left a note that her mother found. During the investigation, the police found the man’s texts in her phone. The man was sending her sexual messages which are believed to be the cause behind the drastic step she took, according to the police.“The mother says that this has been happening since 2018. She has left a note describing the incidents. Her parents are working at a private company. We have taken the note and a specimen of her handwriting for analysis. We are awaiting the results,” said senior inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station. A case under Sections 354(a) (sexual harassments) and 354(d) (stalking) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children form Sexual Offence Act was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/30-year-old-booked-for-sexual-harassment-of-niece-abetting-her-to-suicide/story-XavtY5tAhl1QFiqfiy4RqI.html
12-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP rubbishes TMC student leader’s claim of attack||TMC Student Council leader Dinesh Majhi has accused BJP workers of attacking his house with a petrol bomb and setting it on fire on Friday.The incident took place in Nishan Haat area in Durgapur. After a lot of effort, local people managed to control the fire, he said.Majhi stated BJP workers committed the act over a feat of anguish as he is associated with TMC. “Nobody can stop me from serving people as a TMC worker. I do not fear anyone,” added Majhi. He also accused BJP workers of beating him up two days ago.However, BJP leader Rajat Kumar Malik has nullified the accusations while clarifying that his party workers helped in extinguishing the fire after seeing it.Malik said, “It is very unfortunate that whenever there is anything wrong happens, TMC falsely frames BJP for it. It is not there in the culture of BJP to harm others. I request to the authorities to investigate the matter and punish the culprits.”Receiving information about the incident, a heavy squad of police personnel reached the spot and controlled the situation.West Bengal is due for assembly polls in mid-2021 and political violence in the state has been regularly catching the headlines. On Thursday, the convoy of BJP President JP Nadda was allegedly attacked and several leaders including Kailash Vijayvargiya were injured when protesters pelted stones on their vehicles in Diamond Harbour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-rubbishes-tmc-student-leader-s-claim-of-attack/story-Qtx4MRC0aeTltJSqh9YbtJ.html
12-12-2020||City||Man arrested in Pune for extorting people by holding their cargo||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch arrested a man for using the name of an established cargo transport company and duping people by holding their belongings and demanding ransom for its safe passage. The arrested was identified as Virendrakumar Ramkishan Poonia (25) of Transportnagri in Nigdi and a native of Rajgad in Churu district of Rajasthan, according to Krishan Prakash, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner. The police have identified at least 4-5 people who have been extorted by Poonia. He was arrested on December 10 and remanded to police custody till Monday. Poonia operated under an alias of Sonu Chaudhury. He was arrested in a case registered by a man who shifted from Pune to Mangalore in November and had hired the services of a private cargo company through their website. “We found 4-5 more such people from the social media page of the company. They packed and took the goods and once the owner had left, he demanded more money to deliver the goods. In most cases, he had taken extra money and then transported the goods. Nobody has lodged a complaint. However, this complainant approached the police. We found his two-wheeler and other goods in the place where the truck was found,” said senior inspector Uttam Tangade of anti-extortion cell of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station. The police followed the CCTV camera footage trail of the truck which left from Kothrud with the complainant’s belongings. It was traced to a godown where the driver was found and he led the police to Poonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-in-pune-for-extorting-people-by-holding-their-cargo/story-z8bk79x6oQvB2o8mdkniaK.html
12-12-2020||Lucknow||After PG, serve 10 yrs in govt hospital or pay Rs 1 cr: UP govt to docs||Government doctors who take up post-graduate (PG) courses under special provisions in the state medical institutes will now have to serve at least ten years at government hospitals after they complete the course. If they don’t do that, they will have to pay a compensation of Rs 1 crore, government officials said. An order in this regard was issued by the health department on December 9. The order states that government doctors after completing PG courses should return back to their native departments. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said this was a reiteration of the old order issued on April 3, 2017. The provision for government doctors to get seats in PG courses was initiated in 2014 to ensure that government doctors who have done MBBS get an opportunity to do PG courses to become specialists. For this special leave for three-years was granted to doctors who have served certain period in government hospitals, particularly in rural areas. The order (issued on December 9) also clarified that internship after completing the PG courses will not be allowed. Instead, internships can be done at government hospitals where DNB courses are conducted. Government doctors supported the 10-year order but said option for internship should be kept opened, which will be in the interest of the government. “By completing internship, the doctors will be eligible to become faculty at medical colleges,” said Dr Amit Singh, secretary provincial medical services association (PMSA) the body of government doctors. “A doctor who joins service has roughly 40 years to perform duty. If initial 5-years of service and three years of PG are taken out still over 30-years are there to serve at government institutions,” said Dr Singh. “Government is opening new medical colleges and these doctors can also become faculty in different colleges. And as per the order they can teach new students and even serve the patients while running MBBS/speciality courses,” said Dr Sachin Vaish, president of the PMSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-pg-serve-10-yrs-in-govt-hospital-or-pay-rs-1-cr-up-govt-to-docs/story-whDyRzbETQPi9TZUdLNwLM.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Railway employee dies in hit-and-run near Pune station||PUNE: A trackman working for railways was killed in a hit-and-run road accident in Pune on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Bhaupatil Pandharinath Nagre (37) of Shivajinagar Railway Quarters. He worked with the Central Railway office of the District Railway Manager (DRM) on Bundgarden road. He was riding a CBZ motorcycle towards Jehangir hospital to get photocopies of some documents when he was hit by an unknown vehicle, according to the police. “He was wearing a loose-fitting helmet. When the vehicle rammed him, the helmet came off. As the accident spot is not covered by CCTV camera facility, it is difficult to identify which vehicle hit the victim and there were not many people on the road at the time,” said sub-inspector Rahul Patil of Bundgarden police station who is investigating the case. As the opposite road to which Nagre was riding was closed, the police suspect the accused to be riding or driving on the wrong side of the road. A complaint was lodged by Ranganath AWhad (48) Nigdi and maternal cousin of the deceased. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 134(a)(b) and 184 of Motor vehicle Act was registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/railway-employee-dies-in-hit-and-run-near-pune-station/story-7qQg38BtraDTdMXseG4bdK.html
12-12-2020||Dehradun||Bihar youth’s arduous journey from working at snack factory to becoming Army officer||From earning Rs 50 per day in a snack factory in Odisha, becoming a sepoy in the Indian Army to graduating from the Indian Military Academy, it has been a long and arduous journey for 28-year-old Balbanka Tiwari from Sundarpur Barja village of Ara town in Bihar’s Bhojpur district. Saturday was a special day for him as he participated in the passing out parade with 325 other Indian Gentleman Cadets, as he met his daughter for the first time three months of her birth.Remembering his journey to proudly donning the officer’s uniform, Tiwari said that he had “struggled a lot” to see this day. Hailing from an economically deprived family, he had worked at a snack factory earning Rs 50 per day while pursuing school education and used work as a tuition teacher after completing high school to support his family. “My family’s financial condition was not so good. My father is a farmer and we used to live in a joint family. The only son of the two siblings (the other being daughter), I had no choice but to work after passing class X,” Tiwari said. He said, “To find work after passing matric, I went to Rourkela in Odisha in 2008. There, I first worked at an iron fittings factory for a few months, then at a snack factory earning Rs 50/day till class 12 which I passed from Odisha.”Remembering his days of struggle, Tiwari said that after passing high school, he also started working as a tuition teacher to earn some extra money which he could send back to his family in Bihar. He also got himself admitted in a local college for graduation and one day his uncle informed him about an army recruitment rally in Danapur area near his home in Bihar. Also read: Centre calls 3 top cops responsible for Nadda’s security back from Bengal“As my uncle was in the army as a sepoy, I also wanted to join the army to serve the nation as well as earn a reputable livelihood. I appeared in the test and passed in the second attempt and joined as a sepoy. My posting was at the army’s EME centre in Bhopal in 2012,” said Tiwari. While serving in Bhopal, he came to know about the Army Cadet College (ACC) for getting promoted to the rank of an officer from a sepoy. “I cracked the test and joined ACC in IMA in January 2017. From there, I finally commissioned as an army officer today,” he said. His achievement got him double joy as he met his newly born daughter for the first time after three months. “The day has become more memorable for me as I also met my daughter for the first time since her birth three months ago. I will now spend some time with her before joining my regiment,” said Tiwari. His wife, Ruchi, who had come from Bihar along with his mother to witness him being commissioned, expressed happiness on seeing her husband as an army officer.“He has struggled a lot in his life to see this day. I am now very happy to see him fulfilling his dream. I am sure he will make us and the country proud by serving as an army officer,” she said.Also read: All farmers’ leaders to go on hunger strike on Dec 14 as protests intensifyThe IMA had allowed only two family members to attend the IMA passing out parade because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the summer passing out parade, no family member was allowed.Son of tea garden manager becomes army officerAmong the newly commissioned officers, there was also 29-year-old Nilotpal Chakraborty from Silchar, Assam. Son of a retired tea garden manager, Chakroborty too became an officer from being a sepoy after getting admitted to the ACC. After being recruited as a sepoy, he served at the EME centre in Bhopal.“I am very happy to see this day as my father’s dream is fulfilled who always wanted me to see as an army officer,” said Chakroborty, adding that his father, Nilmoni Chakraborty, had tried for the army after his college but failed in the physical test. Nilmoni, while looking at him with immense pride, said, “After failing to get into the army, I always wanted my son to fulfil my dream. Today he has made me proud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/bihar-youth-s-arduous-journey-from-working-at-snack-factory-to-becoming-army-officer/story-72WCYycb421jgffctt6vWO.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Hsg soc seeks road digging charges from PMC||Pune: Unlike civic bodies like the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) that recovers road digging charges from telephone and other service provider companies, one of the housing societies in the city have sought road digging charges from the civic body. Mahatma Housing Society, one of the popular residential societies in Kothrud, has taken the decision as it wants to maintain the quality of its internal roads. Spread over 72 acres, the society that houses bungalows and apartment has 5.5 km of internal roads that it takes care of from the maintenance charges collected from residents. Mahesh Gole, president of Mahatma Society, said, “Our internal roads were constructed 10 years back and it is in good condition. We don’t compromise with quality. Few years back, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) had carried out some work at the society by digging roads. However, we observed that repairing did not bring the surface of the road in its original status and we had to spend money on it. Hence, we took the decision to charge money for digging so that we can repair or restore work and maintain the road in good condition. Recently, MSEDCL carried out another work. At that time, we demanded royalty and deposit for work and they gave us. After work, we returned the deposit.” Gole said that PMC wants to lay water pipelines for the 24x7 water project. “We have demanded digging charges and deposits from private companies for digging roads,” he said. Nandkumar Jagtap, superintendent of water supply department, PMC said, “The housing society has written to PMC, but there is no provision in the Municipal Corporation Act. If they are not allowing us, we have to act according to the Act and carry out work under police protection. Though it is private property, we are doing public work.” The civic body collects digging charges per running meter. It charges Rs 10,155 per meter for digging and restoration of road. For government agencies, PMC charges 50 per cent digging charges. It provides special concession in rate to agencies like MSEDCL, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) that is Rs 2,350 per meter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hsg-soc-seeks-road-digging-charges-from-pmc/story-BVKnfjrOmYmqHiMo1wtr9J.html
12-12-2020||City||3 MP Covid-19 patients die after power cut interrupts oxygen supply, CM orders probe||The MP state government has ordered an inquiry in connection to the deaths of three Covid-19 patients whose conditions allegedly deteriorated after interruption in oxygen supply due to power cut in government-run Hamidia hospital in Bhopal on Friday evening, said an official.The dead were identified as former corporator from Bhopal, Akbar Khan, 67, Babulal, 70, and Mohammad Khalil, 70.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday morning ordered an inquiry in the matter.Bhopal division commissioner Kavindra Kiyawat suspended a public works department sub-engineer as electricity generator tripped within 10 minutes after the power cut.A show-cause notice has also been served to the dean of Gandhi Medical College and superintendent of Hamidia hospital said the commissioner.According to a doctor of the hospital, 11 patients, including Khan, Babulal and Mohammad Khalil were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital.Also read: All farmers’ leaders to go on hunger strike on Dec 14 as protests intensify“Some of them were on ventilators while some were getting oxygen through high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machine but after a power cut, the oxygen supply got interrupted as the HFNC didn’t have any power back-up. Even, the ventilators stopped working after a few minutes due to low power back-up. The condition of patients deteriorated and the on-duty doctors provided oxygen to them through Ambu bags. But three of them died after a few hours. The electricity supply was restored after two hours,” said a doctor who didn’t wish to be named. Akbar Khan’s brother Mehmood Khan said, “My brother was recovering from the disease but mismanagement of the hospital claimed his life.”However, Bhopal division commissioner Kavindra Kiyawat said, “According to an initial inquiry report, there is a three-level system of power supply in Hamidia hospital. If the power supply is snapped from an electricity office, the hospital has generators as a power backup system. If the power backup system also fails, all the important machines, including ventilators, have inbuilt batteries which provide power backup of 2 to 4 hours.”“The power was resumed in two hours. It is wrong to blame the power cut for the deaths of Covid 19 patients. An on-duty doctor Tahir Ali was present in the ward and he checked every machine was working. However, the action was taken against sub-engineer as power backup system of the hospital failed due to technical glitch,” he added.Hamidia hospital superintendent Dr ID Chaurasiya said, “Akbar Khan was suffering from many diseases including cardiac problem, diabetes and high blood pressure. He died due to comorbidities. The other patients also died of the same reasons.”Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “The death of three patients is very unfortunate. The commissioner is holding an inquiry in the matter. Based on the report of the inquiry, further action will be taken.”MP Congress Committee (MPCC) spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta demanded the resignation of medical education and health minister.“Hamidia hospital is known as one of the best government hospitals in MP. The power cut interrupted oxygen supply and claimed three lives in the hospital. This exposed the poor health facilities in MP and failure of BJP-led state government. The health minister and medical education minister should resign from their posts,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-mp-covid-19-patients-die-after-power-cut-interrupts-oxygen-supply-cm-orders-probe/story-FZrzTcs3E5Q3OX2zlWgT8I.html
12-12-2020||City||Pasta, pizza, ‘pinni’…Ludhiana villages spoil farmers for choice||From pasta to pizza to ‘pinni’, the villages of Ludhiana are keeping the platter of farmers protesting on Delhi border versatile. Villagers are crowdfunding to send cooked food and raw material to the protest site, besides running pizza and pasta langars at the Delhi border.Latest consignment of khoya pinni, ghee, biscuits and 15-quintal milk was sent by five villages of Khanna. Kirpal Singh, president of Mahaser Gurdwara in Daheru, said the residents of Daheru, Harbanspura, Roopa, Gandhuan and Lalauri Khurd contributed to send essentials to Delhi on December 9 and 10. Also, 50kg of dry fruits, including almonds, cashews and raisins, were sent to Delhi.Jagjit Singh from Viveksar Gurdwara said announcements were made, asking people to contribute for the cause. “We received such a overwhelming response. Some contributed with cash, others brought milk, sugar, desi ghee; while women visitors to the gurdwara helped in making ‘khoya pinnis’,” he said. He said that it took three days to prepare and pack the food products.Rajinder Singh Benipal, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) activist from Khanna who donated milk, said after preparing the food, another challenge was to transport the products. “Then an NRI came forward and offered to fund for the fuel cost of 11 vehicles that would carry the food up to the protest site,” said Benipal.Also, residents of Barmi and Boparai Kalan villages have started a ‘langar’ of pizza and pasta for the protesters at Singhu border. “We thought why not offer pizza and pasta to youngsters who are camping at the protest site. So far, we have offered over 2,000 pizzas’ and over 20 kg of pasta among the youngsters,” said Sikander Singh of Boparai Kalan village.DOCTORS FROM LUDHIANA RENDERING SERVICES Doctors from Ludhiana, too, are visiting the protest site on Delhi border to offer their services to the ailing farmers. Indian Doctors for Peace and Development (IDPD) senior vice-president DrArun Mitra led a team of doctors visited the protest site. Another team comprising Dr Gaurav Sachedeva, Dr Balbir Singh, Dr HS Pannu and Dr Harpal Singh examined the ailing farmers. “Majority of the protesting farmers are elderly and many among them have forgotten to carry along their medicines. Many of them have hypertension and diabetes,” said Dr Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pasta-pizza-pinni-ludhiana-villages-spoil-farmers-for-choice/story-rWPw2akmeNca2oZ4tnCOpL.html
12-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cabinet minister Rekha Arya tests positive for Covid-19||Uttarakhand cabinet minister Rekha Arya tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday morning, informed the minister through social media.Arya took to Twitter on Saturday and said, “My corona test report came back positive. I am asymptomatic and am not facing any problem. I have isolated myself under the supervision of doctors. Those of you who have come in close contact with me in the past few days, please take care and get tested.”Before Arya, other cabinet ministers like Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat, Madan Kaushik also tested positive for Covid-19.Also read: Centre calls 3 top cops responsible for Nadda’s security back from BengalUttarakhand has reported over 81,000 Covid-19 cases with over 72,000 positive patients having recovered successfully. A total of 1,341 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the state. With over 5,900 active cases, the positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.45 per cent and death rate at 1.65 per cent. The state has a recovery rate of 89.87 per cent.Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 23,835 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (12,657), US Nagar (10,592) and Nainital (9,347). The state health department has so far tested 14.89 lakh people of which results of over 17,500 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cabinet-minister-rekha-arya-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-ys5gJ4Fr1YftR0JGPG86jN.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Smart City projects at Wadgaonsheri, Bibwewadi in Pune lie unused||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been developing amenity spaces under the Pune Smart City’s place making initiative, however, apathy by various civic departments has led to some projects lying unused. PMC implemented some of the place making concepts in Wadgaonsheri and Bibwewadi areas with the theme of ecology and innovation. However, after its construction, it is laying unused as neither the Bhavan department (which developed it) nor the garden department is taking responsibility of maintaining the place making projects. Now, the local corporator wants the space to be developed into a maternity home, which the civic body is not keen on. At Wadgaonsheri, the objective was to provide space for experimenting technological innovations for sustainable surroundings like urban farming and organic farming. This was also to encourage citizens to educate themselves with such practices as the area is surrounded by various IT firms. The area in Wadgaonsheri has been developed on 2163.75 square metres adjacent to the Pune-Ahmednagar highway near San Francis School by spending over Rs 1 crore. At Bibvewadi, e-Learning/skill development concept was replicated on 7,000 square feet. While both the place making projects were completed two years ago, there has been no use of them at all due to lack of maintenance. The Bhavan department had requested the garden department to take responsibility for maintaining and handling the project. However, the garden department refused to take responsibility stating that such projects do not come under their department. With no utilisation, the places are littered with anti-social elements and has been damaged by miscreants. Shivaji Lanke, head of Bhavan department, PMC, said, “It is true that we developed two places, which are not in use so far. We had requested the garden department to maintain. We also requested the security department to provide security to avoid damage and theft of structure. But, it did not work out. Now, we have decided to float tenders for maintenance, so that people can use it.” Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent of garden department, said, “Place making project does not come under the garden department. Bhavan department should have to looked at it. The area is small and not a concept garden at all.” Shewta Galande, local corporator of Wadgaonsheri area, said, “As the project is lying idle, we submitted a proposal to build a maternity home so that the space can be utilised. However, we have not received any written assurance. PMC has wasted public funds on place making projects and it is not useful for local people at all. PMC should develop amenity spaces for social purposes which is useful for the public.” What is place making? Place making is a multi-faceted approach to the planning, design and management of public spaces. Place making capitalizes on a local community’s assets, inspiration, and potential, with the intention of creating public spaces that promote people’s health, happiness, and well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/smart-city-projects-at-wadgaonsheri-bibwewadi-in-pune-lie-unused/story-vBGsfzBb5qYyRwWOT5ZKLM.html
12-12-2020||Kolkata||Will hand over matter to MHA if WB does not respond to complaints: NCW chief||National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma has said that the body will submit details of over 260 complaints from West Bengal to the Ministry of Home Affairs for further action if the state administration fails to respond on them within 15 days.Sharma was on a two-day visit to the state to inquire into “inaction” on more than 267 complaints, including suo motu cases.“The worrisome situation in West Bengal is police don’t reply, and no action has been taken on the complaints.Neither the director-general of police nor the chief secretary meets me, and this not the first time. They send their subordinates who are clueless about everything,” she told PTI.“In the last eight months, there have been more than 260 complaints, and no report has been sent to us,” Sharma added.She said that she will write to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and if the commission doesn’t get any response on the complaints within the next 15 days, then the matter will be forwarded to the Home Ministry.“We met governor during our visit this time. I am not saying the government can control things, but it can at least take action,” she said.The commission has raised concern about the “rising problem of trafficking of women” from north Bengal and tribal areas of the state.State Women and Child Development Minister Sashi Panja said women are safer in the state than any other part of the country.“The state government has taken all the steps for the security of the women in the state. The allegations against the state administration are baseless and politically motivated,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-hand-over-matter-to-mha-if-wb-does-not-respond-to-complaints-ncw-chief/story-0poDLW6Kv7A47jLQXEEiZI.html
12-12-2020||City||Atal Tunnel closed again after heavy snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal||Atal Tunnel across the Rohtang Pass has once again been closed for traffic after heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh on Saturday. The middle and lower hills of the state got widespread rain amid a fresh western disturbance in the region. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said that the road will be cleared soon and advised people to avoid venturing into snow-prone areas. Kothi received 30cm of snowfall, Keylong, the headquarters of the tribal Lahaul-Spiti district got 12cm of snowfall, Khadrala and Shilaroo received 10cm of snowfall each, Pooh in Kinnaur district and Dalhousie in Chamba district received 4cm of snowfall each and Kalpa in Kinnaur district received 3cm of snowfall. Palampur in Kangra district got 24.8mm of rainfall, Chamba 26mm, Kangra 20mm, Dharamshala 19.4mm, Mandi 17.2mm, Bilaspur and Una 16mm each, Paonta Sahib 15.8mm, Manali 12mm, Solan 10mm, Shimla 9.6mm and Nahan 8.6mm of rain. MINIMUM TEMPERATURE ABOVE NORMAL IN STATE State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that heavy snowfall and rainfall are likely to continue on Saturday and the weather will clear up from Sunday till December 17. “The minimum temperatures in the state are two degrees above normal,” he said. Shimla recorded a low of 3.6°C, while nearby Kufri was cold at 0.5°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 0°C, 5.6°C and minus 0.1°C, respectively. The minimum temperature in Una was 9.2°C, Solan 7°C, Bilaspur and Hamirpur 8°C each, Nahan 11.9°C, Mandi 9°C and Kalpa was cold at minus 1°C. Keylong was coldest in the state at minus 2.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-closed-again-after-heavy-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal/story-BfdkA8GjC74DtnnoraMI8M.html
12-12-2020||Bhopal||15 MP districts named drug hotspots, Chouhan orders crackdown on mafia||The Central government’s Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has reported high prevalence of drug trafficking in at least 15 districts of Madhya Pradesh, mostly in Malwa and Mahakoshal regions, leading to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordering a crackdown on the drug mafia.The state capital city Bhopal also figures in the list of the black list of districts, as per the state government’s spokesperson. CM instructed authorities to launch a special campaign against drug mafia and addiction from December 15 to December 22 as advised by the NCB, as per official information. The CM’s instructions came during a meeting with officials concerned on Friday.“Those who trade in drugs and narcotics are enemies of humanity. They should not be spared under any circumstances. Strict action should be taken against the drug mafia in the state. For this, a special campaign should be launched to attack their roots,” Chouhan is reported to have said. The districts with high prevalence of drug trafficking include Indore, Ujjain, Mandsaur, Neemuch and Ratlam in Malwa region, Jabalpur, Chhindwara and Narsinghpur in Mahakoshal region apart from Bhopal, Hoshangabad, Gwalior, Satna, Sagar, Datia and Rewa. Besides these 15, Vidisha and Agar-Malwa districts are also considered sensitive in the context of drug trafficking menace. Also Read: MP home minister meets Jaya Bachchan’s mother to reach out to Bengali community ahead of Bengal polls CM added that while there should be no leniency with drug dealers and those dealing in narcotics during the campaign, a sympathetic attitude should be adopted towards child addicts and efforts must be made to help them get rid of addiction with love. The police should not deal with them aggressively, added the CM. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, director general of police Vivek Johri and additional chief secretary Home Rajesh Rajora were among those present at the meeting. Chouhan also asked for strict action in cases of attempts to supply drugs and narcotics at gyms, pubs, clubs, college canteens, schools etc. He declared that Hookah lounges will not be operated in the state. Also Read: Doctors in MP protest in solidarity with the IMAHe added that a major case of chemical drug supply in Indore has come to light recently, while instances of smack-supply have been reported in Bhopal, Vidisha, Bhind, Ujjain, Ratlam etc.However, State Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “The state government woke up from slumber after a woman member of a high-profile drug mafia was arrested in Indore. The order for action and campaign is nothing else but an eyewash as the drug mafia flourished during the BJP regime from 2003 to 2018 and now in the present term.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/15-mp-districts-named-drug-hotspots-chouhan-orders-crackdown-on-mafia/story-ecaUEVTAFI5mQz2YN2FpXI.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stir||The Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city’s border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various areas on Delhi’s borders for the last 16 days and demanding that the legislations be withdrawn. The police have made adequate arrangements and these include multi-layered barricading and deployment of personnel. Measures have also been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience at places were protest are being staged, a senior police officer said.The Delhi Traffic Police has deployed its personnel across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and is constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle.The developments come after farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal to amend the new agri laws and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Yamuna expressway by Saturday.In a tweet, the traffic police on Saturday informed commuters about the closure of the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders.Since these borders are closed, it suggested that motorists take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad,Saboli and Singhu School toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. So, commuters have been advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway-44, the traffic police said. Due to the ongoing farmers’ protests, it said that both the Chilla and the Ghazipur borders are also closed for traffic from Noida and Ghaziabad.“The Chilla & Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests.People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders,” it tweeted.The Tikri and the Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement but the Jhatikara border is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement, the traffic police said in a tweet.Those going towards Haryana, can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders as they are open, the traffic police said.The government had asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the laws to address their concerns and said it was open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want.Farmers leaders on Thursday also announced they would block railway tracks across the country if their demands were not met by the government and would announce a date for that soon.At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws.The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/security-at-delhi-borders-increased-after-farmers-announcement-to-intensify-stir/story-uaz3uLGNmxBsEZFAihxxuN.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray wishes Sharad Pawar on birthday,calls him MVA’s pillar||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday greeted NCP president Sharad Pawar on his 80th birthday, describing him as the pillar of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.Thackeray said Pawar’s energy and enthusiasm were inspiration to all.“We hope that he continues to have the same energy and enthusiasm. We wish Sharad Pawar saheb, who is the pillar of MVA, a senior leader and guide, good health and long life,” he said in a statement.Pawar was instrumental in the formation of the NCP- Congress combine’s unlikely tie-up with the Shiv Sena last year, after the Sena fell out with its ally BJP following the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-wishes-sharad-pawar-on-birthday-calls-him-mva-s-pillar/story-wxm3cxkVmtfX7V2k5gmkcO.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||No immediate plan to open Mumbai local trains to all, say officials||Amid speculation that Mumbai local trains will soon be open to all, officials have reportedly clarified that there were no immediate plans to do so. Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had earlier said that a recommendation about permitting the general public to travel by local trains in Mumbai will be made after monitoring the situation after Christmas and New Year celebrations are over, according to news agency PTI.Also Read: Mumbai local trains start from today for people in essential services“Depending on the situation during Christmas and New Year’s Eve, we can take a decision about restarting local trains,” he said. He also warned that if people continued to defy the coronavirus restrictions, the government will be forced to impose a night curfew in the city, adding that he had written to the state government seeking a night curfew after seeing that some night clubs were operating overnight.“The government is not in favour of imposing a night curfew because it creates panic among people. Hence it has decided to wait and watch till December 25,” Chahal said.Also Read: Bombay HC upholds Centre’s decision to divert MPLAD funds to combat Covid-19Mumbai local trains, the city’s lifeline, was opened to people in essential services on June 15 after being shut for all since the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic in March. Instead of the usual 1,200 passengers, the trains were carrying only 700 essential service providers in order to maintain social distancing norms.Central and Western Railway had issued a statement in which it said workers considered to be essential service providers will be allowed to travel in local trains if they have their identity cards. Later, BMC issued an electronic pass with a quick response (QR) code in an attempt to ensure less crowding in the trains. Mumbai recorded 654 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on Friday, taking the infection tally to 2,89,343 and death toll to 10,959.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-immediate-plan-to-open-mumbai-local-trains-to-all-say-officials/story-tzmJ0UXAEdYY2gKOVkz8GN.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Several borders closed today as stir intensifies||The Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday informed commuters about routes closed for traffic in view of a large number of farmers camping at the Delhi’s borders.“Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders--Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet “ Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement,” Delhi Traffic Police added.The Chilla and Gazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida and Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders.“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK Road, NH 44,” Delhi Traffic Police added.. The farmers’ protest has entered its 17th day today. Meanwhile, with farmers gearing up to block the highway and picket toll plazas on the border to Delhi in response to a call from protesting farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the three agricultural sector laws, police personnel have been deployed in strength to protect toll booths and ensure smooth flow of traffic, the Faridabad Police said. As many as 3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas in the area, a statement said.The farmers’ unions threatened to block railway tracks. According to their earlier plan of blocking the Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Agra highway by December 12, more farmers are likely to join the protests and move towards the borders of Delhi.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has appealed to the protesting farmers to stop their agitation as talks are still going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-several-borders-closed-today-as-stir-intensifies/story-E34ZyciRkSS0N32fDBDnKL.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Light rain in parts of Delhi-NCR; air quality worsens||Light rain in certain parts of Delhi-NCR and calm winds led to the deterioration of air quality on Saturday with the air quality index (AQI) shooting up to 348, in the “very poor” zone, at 7am.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall AQI of Delhi was 295, in the “poor” category. On Thursday, the AQI settled at 284, also in the same category. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that with a western disturbance impacting the entire region, pollution levels are not expected to worsen much over the weekend. Winds are likely to pick up during the day and settle the pollution levels, he said. “The wind speed reduced to 6kmph and the direction also changed from north-westerly to easterly on Friday. Some areas in Haryana have received rainfall on Friday afternoon,” said Srivastava. He said that the average wind speed in Delhi is likely to remain around 8-10kmph on Saturday and Sunday, which means that the air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” zone till Monday. “The western disturbance will pass on Saturday and the wind direction will change back to north-westerly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-rain-in-parts-of-delhi-ncr-air-quality-worsens/story-w9zbRlvKCJ8whJjPHP8nSO.html
12-12-2020||Bollywood||Bollywood actor Arya Banerjee found dead at posh south Kolkata home||A 35-year-old actor Arya Banerjee, who appeared in at least two Bollywood films including The Dirty Picture, was found dead at her residence at a posh south Kolkata neighbourhood on Friday. Police said that Arya Banerjee was her screen name and her real name was Devdutta Banerjee. She was the daughter of late sitar maestro Nikhil Banerjee. Forensic experts found she was bleeding from her nose and had vomited. The body was sent for post mortem. According to the police, Banerjee lived alone in her house with a dog. Her sister lives in Singapore. Many empty liquor bottles were found in the room. Also Read: Torbaaz movie review: Sanjay Dutt’s dry spell continues with Netflix’s uninspired offering“Like every day her maid had come to work and when she didn’t get any response, she alerted her neighbours and the police were informed. The house was locked from inside. Investigation is on,” said a senior police officer. She had appeared in two films Love, Sex and Dhoka and The Dirty Picture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/bollywood-actor-arya-banerjee-found-dead-at-posh-south-kolkata-home/story-4FaFwx2ohThp729teABgPK.html
12-12-2020||Patna||Delay in cabinet expansion of Nitish Kumar govt raises eyebrows||The NDA government in Bihar led by chief minister Nitish Kumar is about to complete a month in office next week and the delay in the much-awaited cabinet expansion is raising eyebrows in political circles.Speculations are rife that the induction of new ministers has become a tricky issue between two major allies in the NDA, JD(U) and the BJP, over sharing of portfolios and ministerial berths.According to some, the JD(U), with only 43 MLAs compared to BJP’s 74, is not keen on a cabinet expansion at the moment due to apprehensions that it could stoke resentment among a section of party legislators, who may not be made ministers due to party’s claim on fewer cabinet berths this time.Party leaders aware of the developments said some key decisions including on cabinet expansion could be taken at JD(U)’s national council meeting on December 27.NDA insiders said the cabinet expansion was originally supposed to take place soon after the conclusion of the first session of the 17th assembly, held in the last week of November. BJP’s likely claim on key portfolios like rural development, rural works and few other field departments that have been with the JD(U), could also be causing the delay, they said.There is also lack of consensus on the number of new ministers to be inducted from both the JD(U) and the BJP, though it is understood that the national party will get a higher share of cabinet berths. Out of the maximum of 36 ministers, JD(U) could get 14 berths while the BJP could get 18-20.Right now, there are 14 ministers in the cabinet including the chief minister following the resignation of former education minister Mewalal Choudhary of the JD(U) following a hue and cry over corruption charges. Choudhary’s portfolio was allotted to building construction minister Ashok Choudhary. Currently, there are four ministers from the JD(U) and seven from the BJP with one minister each from HAM(S) and VIP, smaller allies in the NDA government.“There are internal dynamics at play with the BJP, now a senior partner in the NDA, bargaining hard for certain key portfolios and also in other matters like reshuffling in the state bureaucracy and putting its leaders in various committees. This is all taking time and an expansion would take place once these matters are sorted between JD(U), BJP and smaller allies,” said an NDA leader, wishing not to be quoted.Also Read: Fodder scam: No relief for Lalu this year as bail hearing deferred for six weeksHe added that the expansion had got delayed because of the BJP central leadership and top Union ministers getting caught up in the farmers stir in New Delhi over the contentious farm laws.“It is not a comfortable position for the JD(U) with depleted strength in the NDA and a decision cannot be taken fast. So, there is a feeling that delaying a cabinet expansion is the best solution as it could help in dealing with certain tricky issues over the period,” said a senior JD(U) leader.Many feel, if the cabinet expansion does not take place by December 15, it would be done in mid January, since the period of Kharmas--from mid December till January 14-- is not considered auspicious for undertaking new ventures as per astrological beliefs.Meanwhile, state president of the BJP, Sanjay Jaiswal, said the expansion would take place at an opportune time while calling the reports of certain contentious points between the JD(U) and the BJP holding it up as mere speculation.“The expansion will take place at the right time. Everybody would get to know about it,” he said. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said the expansion of the cabinet was a prerogative of the chief minister and a decision would be taken at the highest level of NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/delay-in-cabinet-expansion-of-nitish-kumar-govt-raises-eyebrows/story-OAihGlH6xlnChF94DxWMQL.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers lay siege to toll plazas in Haryana, allow free movement of vehicles||Farmers overpowered staff at several toll plazas in Haryana allowing toll- free movement of all vehicles from Friday midnight. Following a call by farmer union leaders, the toll plazas on Delhi-Chandigarh national highway 44 at Bastara in Karnal and at Panipat were put under siege along with Kaithal toll plaza on Hisar-Chandigarh national highway (NH 152), Milk-Majra toll plaza on Panchkula-Saharanpur highway in Yamunanagar and Gullarpur toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway.The farmers have also held protests at the toll plazas and accused the government of forcing the farmers to take such steps. While the district administrations issued prohibitory orders and imposed section 144 CrPC, but the police did not take any action to stop the farmers.The call to make all toll plazas free for a day was given by the farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws after several rounds of talks with the government remained inconclusive. “Exactly at midnight, protesters reached the toll plazas and asked officials to allow the movement of all vehicles without charging any toll. They removed the barricades,” said an official at the Karnal toll plaza, requesting anonymity. The toll officials were not ready to speak over the development on record. Also read: Farmers Protest Live Updates: 3,500 police personnel to be deployed at 5 Delhi-Haryana toll plazasThe protesters said that they will stay at the toll plaza for the next 24 hours to ensure the free movement of all vehicles. “We have made toll plazas free for all commuters from midnight and will leave after 24 hours,” said their leader, Sewa Singh Arya. Police deployed at the toll plaza could not stop the protesters. Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said police have been deployed at the toll plazas to ensure people do not disturb the law and order. “We will ensure that nobody violates the prohibitory orders in place and the deployment is being increased,” Punia said. On Saturday morning, when the farmers left briefly, the toll officials started charging toll, but the farmers returned after half an hour and again forced toll officials to allow vehicles to pass without paying.On Thursday, the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni, said that during meetings with the Union government they have made it clear that their agitation will continue till the three laws are revoked. “We have now decided that all farmers will port their (Jio) mobile phone numbers to other service providers and on December 12 all toll plazas will be made free for all for one day. On December 14, the agitation will be intensified by holding protests at all district headquarters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-overpower-staff-at-toll-plazas-on-chandigarh-delhi-highway-allow-free-movement-of-vehicles/story-hxe6t1eqdUYD142XATlpPM.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to light drizzle, AQI likely to improve||The national capital and its neighbouring areas received light drizzle on Saturday, as was the forecast by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD had forecast that Delhi and the neighbouring towns are likely to receive rainfall on December 11 and December 12. This is also likely to improve the air quality of the city.“Light intensity rain would occur over south-Delhi, south-west Delhi, Dwarka, and IGI airport during the next 2 hours,” IMD said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that Delhi and the neighbouring satellite towns are likely to receive light rainfall between December 11 and December 12, as a result of a Western Disturbance passing over the Himalayas. After the passing of this Western Disturbance, the minimum temperature in Delhi is expected to fall by at least three to four degrees Celsius.“From December 14, temperatures will start falling again. North-westerly winds from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, which have been receiving a good spell of snowfall, will be carrying cold winds. This will bring down the temperature here,” said Srivastava.He said that in the second week of November, the minimum temperature had fallen to 6.3 degree Celsius, but it rose again because of a few Western Disturbances that passed over Delhi-NCR in the last week of the month and the first week of December. He said that the frequent change in the wind direction to easterly had also caused the temperature to remain on the higher end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-light-drizzle-aqi-likely-to-improve/story-4rrAiv6AxSn5fL3g4ahO2J.html
12-12-2020||Lucknow||Minor accuses man of forcing her to convert in UP, FIR filed||A minor Hindu girl has filed an FIR against a Muslim man in Sahabad area of Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi district, accusing him of forcing her to convert her religion “if she wanted to marry him”. Police on Friday said the man has been booked under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Hardoi superintendent of police (SP) Anurag Vats said the FIR was registered against a person identified only as Azad in the FIR at the Shahabad police station. He said the complainant stated that she and the accused were in a relationship for the past two years and the man had promised to marry her. The SP said the girl alleged in the FIR that the man asked her to convert to Islam if she wanted to marry him just before the wedding on November 30. “The IPC section of rape was included in the FIR as she alleged that the accused sexually exploited her on pretext of marriage,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/minor-accuses-man-of-forcing-her-to-convert-in-up-fir-filed/story-TxJK3EbSdfZdQYxAmWJUwM.html
12-12-2020||Lucknow||Plea filed against UP’s ‘love jihad’ law in HC||A lawyer from Uttar Pradesh challenged the constitutional validity of Uttar Pradesh’s controversial ordinance against religious conversions by marriage, coercion or enticement before the Allahabad high court on Friday, arguing that the state had no role to play in the personal choice of individuals in matters of marriage and religion. The petition, filed by advocate Saurabh Kumar, also sought an immediate stay on the operation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, apart from directions to the state government to not take any coercive action against individuals, including registration of FIRs. The ordinance, said the plea, gives a license to police authorities to terrorise and harass inter-faith couples who want to exercise their right to marry according to their choice, under the guise of “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe a relationship between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. In February, the central government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.“The ordinance, which has completely failed to strike a balance between freedoms and mala fide conversions, has been passed and is being implemented in much haste and reckless manner without ensuring that the same does not curb one’s Fundamental Rights or hamper national integration instead,” added the petition. The petition came days after a division bench of the high court, in a case of an interfaith marriage, held that the right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion was intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty. The petition, citing this two-judge bench in addition to the Supreme Court’s rulings in the Kerala ‘love-jihad’ case on the need to respect choices and autonomy of adult women and the right to privacy case, contended that the ordinance, which was promulgated on November 28, led to an unreasonable intrusion into the domain of personal autonomy. According to the lawyer-petitioner, the state government assumed a ‘tone-deaf’ position when it chose to ignore all these pertinent judgments by the constitutional courts and went ahead with promulgating the ordinance. No date was fixed by the high court to take up this petition. Similar petitions have also been filed in the Supreme Court, which is also yet to examine any of these pleas. The Uttar Pradesh law outlawed religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement, and prescribed up to 10 years imprisonment for those found guilty. The law – under which at least 30 people have been booked and 10 people arrested -- includes a provision to void a marriage if it is solemnised primarily to convert a woman’s faith. The burden of proof is on the person who converted, and those who performed the conversion. The ordinance was cleared by the state cabinet days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath promised to end “love jihad” in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/plea-filed-against-up-s-love-jihad-law-in-hc/story-AtKdTegiZiVN1Tpe38ZlCL.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A tale of two times||Old Delhi and New Delhi. Old Gurugram and New Gurugram. In both cases the ‘old’ and ‘new’ parts stand very close to each other, and yet they are so different.In the National Capital Region, one place where you can witness this contrast between old and new very starkly is Gurugram’s Civil Lines. There, the Church of the Epiphany is located in a compound of lawns, flowers and playgrounds. But it’s the two church buildings, separated by a little garden, that grab all the attention.Wings of the same church, one is more than 150 years old. The other is a millennial—it was consecrated in 2009.Surely, the older building is instantly eye-catching because of its historical colonial-era architecture—it can easily pass off as a parish church in some sleepy village of Victorian England. Built for British officers serving in the district, the red brick structure sparkles as a souvenir with its tall narrow lancet windows, a tiny bell tower, and a gabled roof.The newer church is way larger, but less ostentatious. Elegant in its disarming simplicity, it is as if she was confident of her place in time and did not want to outshine its elderly counterpart. The front is all straight lines and sharp angles. The plainness is calming.Inside the old church, the ceiling rests on a frame of timber roof truss. The wooden beams crisscross like musical elegies to yesterday’s world. A red carpet stretches out to the altar. The stained glass panel behind the metal cross shows the crucifixion. While the scenes outside the windows seem like another planet. The sun barely percolates. In a dramatic contrast, the sunlight fills up every possible crevices inside the newer edifice. So sprawling, so airy. The new church’s subdued styling is amiably complimented by the white of the walls. On sunny noons, the daylight streams into the hall through the church’s wide glass door and its tall windows, including a round skylight near the roof. Among other things, the prayer hall has a Yamaha synthesizer and two pianos. When it is empty, the silence in the new building is so haunting that one fears to even think of anything unsuitable—what if the thought echoes out loud?The church(es) opens daily from 7am to 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-tale-of-two-times/story-VSn7gAPZAlWIn2EX1X91LJ.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Minor kills girlfriend’s kin, commits suicide||A 17-year-old boy knifed his girlfriend’s 68-year-old grandmother and 10-year-old brother to death in Maharashtra’s Nagpur city before ending his life by jumping in front of a moving train on Thursday night. The teenager stormed the house of the girl’s family and attacked the victims, slitting their throats and stabbing them. The crime was apparently a fallout of the family’s objection to the friendship between the teenager and the 20-year-old granddaughter. Following a complaint by the victims’ family, the local Gittikhadan police registered a case of murder against the teenager, who reportedly killed himself by jumping before a train. His body was found on tracks. Sunil Chavan, the investigating officer, confirmed the incident, saying that there had been repeated altercations between the teenager and his girlfriend’s family in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/minor-kills-girlfriend-s-kin-commits-suicide/story-u2DFV9pnrue2J3SaQCp4oM.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds Centre’s decision to divert MPLAD funds to combat Covid-19||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday upheld the central government’s decision to divert the funds allotted under the Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) Scheme to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) that had challenged the move. The PIL had challenged an April 8 circular of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MSPI), which had suspended the Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) Scheme for 2020-21 and 2021-22. The litigation had claimed that as the funds were required by the Members of Parliament (MPs) of each area for uplifting their constituencies, the suspension for two years should be set aside. The ministry, however, had justified the decision by stating that as the nation was trying to combat the pandemic, the MPLAD scheme funds were being diverted to the finance ministry for the larger public good, and hence the PIL should be dismissed. HC concurred with the ministry and held that the petitioner’s contentions were not in public interest, and hence, the litigants’ Rs1-lakh security deposit were forfeited and transferred to the Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while passing the judgment in the PIL filed by Neelima Vartak through advocate Shekhar Jagtap, held that the suspension ordained by the circular in question did not abrogate any legal right of a citizen that would warrant judicial intervention. The bench further held that though the petitioner had claimed that the suspension of MPLAD funds would adversely affect that citizens as well as MPs, neither had approached the court with such a grievance and hence, the petitioner’s claims did not have any merit. Justifying the suspension of the funds, the court in its order held, “For achieving another dominant public purpose, the government would indeed be within its power, competence and authority to rescind/suspend a scheme.” The court further said that as combatting the pandemic took centre stage, the decision of the government was justified. “In the given situation, the fight against Covid-19 has to take centre-stage over all other developmental works which are sought to be secured by utilising the MPLAD Scheme funds. The decision contained in the impugned circular is, thus, unexceptionable,” it held. In light of these observations, the court held, “This PIL appears to us to be misconceived because it seeks to impeach justifiable executive action and has no element of public interest in it, far less a genuine public interest. In such view of the matter, we have no hesitation to dismiss the same. It is ordered accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-centre-s-decision-to-divert-mplad-funds-to-combat-covid-19/story-YTrNWSInkh58TqwTSgR6PI.html
12-12-2020||City||11 years on, consumer body asks petitioner to approach court||It took 11 years for the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) to ask a Mulund resident, who had approached the panel in 2009 stating that her ornaments worth Rs1.30 crore were stolen from the locker of a nationalised bank, to approach a civil court with her grievances. “This matter, as discernible from the material on record and from specificities of the evidence involved, is not such as can be aptly adjudicated on merit in summary proceedings by a quasi-judicial forum like the consumer commission,” said NCDRC presiding member Dinesh Singh. NCDRC asked the petitioner, Saroj Dasani, to approach the civil court concerned, saying the matter is best undertaken by a civil court for its apt adjudication on merit and to do justice to it, as the matter required recording of extensive oral and documentary evidence. Dasani in her complaint had said that she had opened a locker at the Mulund (West) branch of the bank in June 2008, and had kept some important papers and valuables like diamond ornaments in the locker. When she visited the bank a month later, she had forgotten the keys to the locker on the desk of the bank’s locker in-charge. When she visited the bank the next time, she had found that her valuables were there in the locker. However, on November 17, 2008, when she visited the bank again and opened the locker, Dasani found the locker empty, said her complaint. She immediately lodged a complaint in writing with the branch manager. The complainant believed that someone had made duplicate keys of her locker when she had forgotten the original set at the bank, and had used them to steal her valuables. She stated that the locker cannot be opened without the master key, which is in the possession of a bank officer and hence, the bank was fully responsible for the theft of her valuables worth Rs1.30 crore. The bank had responded to the complaint, contending that the locker was also being operated independently by the complainant’s husband. The bank had also asserted that the matter required adjudication of issues that involve disputed questions of facts and therefore, the matter should not be adjudged in summary proceedings before the consumer commission, but by a civil court. This year on December 8, NCDRC accepted the bank’s contention and returned the complaint, with liberty to the complainant to knock doors of the competent civil court with her grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-years-on-consumer-body-asks-petitioner-to-approach-court/story-euBY10zZ2I82vlPbyPDmoJ.html
12-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan forms panel to probe death of 12 infants||The Rajasthan government on Friday constituted a four-member committee to investigate the death of 12 newborns at JK Lon Hospital in Kota in 48 hours, officials said.Nine newborns, all of them between one and four days old, died at the hospital on Thursday, within a span of hours, a year after the same facility had hit national headlines over the deaths of at least 100 infants in a month. On Friday, three more newborns -- two born just a day ago and another a month old -- died at the hospital, said its Superintendent Suresh Chand Dulara.According to state health minister Raghu Sharma, the committee, which includes medical education commissioner Shivangi Swarnkar and other officials, will visit the J K Lon Hospital and investigate every case of infant death at the health facility.Sharma said the committee will look into overall arrangements at the hospital such as requirement and availability of medical staff, availability of medical equipment, and medicines. It will submit its report to the state government in three days, he said.The Rajasthan health minister also directed all principals of all medical colleges of the state to take special care towards treatment of newborn children, according to a release.Rajasthan Human Rights Commission secretary B L Meena and registrar Omi Purohit will visit the JK Lon hospital on December 14. Kota–Bundi MP and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla called a meeting of district and medical officials at his office in Kota on Friday. “I have spoken to the hospital management and got a report on the matter. Whatever facts come out, I would discuss it with the state government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-forms-panel-to-probe-death-of-12-infants/story-kZXRVOKTIPyMYAaKDDK7wI.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||CBI books 2 Gujarat firms for duping banks of ₹72 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) Mumbai unit has booked two Gujarat-based companies for allegedly duping two erstwhile banks – State Bank of Patiala and State Bank of Mysore – of Rs71.88 crore by defaulting loan repayments. The probe into the case has revealed that the directors of the firms misused the funds for other purpose and not for the stated purpose of expanding their businesses, said officers. The accused have been identified as Paresh Dayaljibhai Patel, managing director of Sayona Colours Private Limited; and the directors of its associate firm Shamrock Chemie Private Limited. CBI’s banking securities frauds branch (BSFB) had recently registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused on a complaint filed by Jitendra Shankar, deputy general manager (corporate stressed asset management branch), State Bank of India. The complainant stated that the promoter and directors of Sayona Colours Private Limited, represented by Patel and managing director late Brijesh Jayantibhai Patel, as well as the directors of Shamrock Chemie Private Limited, and some unknown government officials entered into criminal conspiracy during 2009-2015 to cheat State Bank of Patiala and State Bank of Mysore by manipulation of books of accounts and diversion of funds. The complaint had stated that Sayona Colours Private Limited was enjoying various credit facilities from the two banks. The account of the company became a non-performing asset (NPA) on October 27, 2014, following which the State Bank of India conducted its forensic audit. The audit revealed that the firm had discontinued the production of its fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) products on December 31, 2013, and the production was transferred to its associate firm Shamrock Chemie Private Limited. The FIR had further alleged that the company had also transferred the entire plant and machinery, approximately worth Rs9.09 crore to Shamrock Chemie Private Limited in 2013-14 without seeking permission from the bank or informing it. It was alleged that Patel and Brijesh Jayantibhai Patel had diverted funds worth Rs23.16 crore, borrowed from the banks, to Shamrock Chemie Private Limited, to themselves and their family members during 2009-2015. CBI’s preliminary probe has disclosed that the accused had committed cognisable offences of criminal conspiracy through manipulation of records, cheating and criminal misconduct/abuse of official position. They have been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prevention of Corruption Act. Investigators said they would soon be calling the employees of the two companies as well as of the erstwhile banks, who were involved in facilitating the loans to these two companies, for questioning on the financial irregularities. Despite several attempts, the accused did not respond to HT’s calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-books-2-gujarat-firms-for-duping-banks-of-72-crore/story-eS9hzYkIzRdSciv0b6bgBO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body to continue protest over pending promotions||Despite screening of teachers from the arts faculty being scheduled by the varsity, Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) will continue to protest until all the pending promotions of teachers under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) are cleared.The association has said that a few teachers have received the letters of CAS screening on Thursday, but they will continue their protest at the university campus. PUTA members have been protesting for the last 22 days over the pending promotions of teachers under CAS. According to them, over 80 teachers are awaiting promotions.As per PUTA members, around 20 teachers from the faculty of arts have received the letters for the screening which will be held on December 19 and 20. However, they said the process should have been held sooner.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “Despite our continuous protest over the issue, we have not been given this information officially so far. We will not stop the protest until all the pending cases of teachers’ promotions under CAS are cleared by the university.In the wake of the PUTA agitation, vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar had also constituted a special panel to resolve the matter.PUTA has already written to Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU, requesting directions to the PU V-C to conduct the selection/screening committee meetings immediately for all the teachers whose cases are pending.CAS promotions for teachers has remained a key issue in the previous teachers’ elections with both the rival groups, who were contesting with each other, promising to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-to-continue-protest-over-pending-promotions/story-xBFJgp7NssR6Euq0ijyAQJ.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Will ask SHOs to hold monthly meetings with RWAs: Chandigarh SSP||UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal has vowed to ensure that all station house officers (SHOs) hold monthly meetings with the resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city.He made the announcement during his first public interaction since becoming the SSP of Chandigarh, which was held with the members of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) at Traffic Lines in Sector 29 on Friday.Chahal was present with superintendent of police (SP, city) Vineet Kumar and the heads of all three police divisions while the CRAWFED members submitted a memorandum to him raising concerns about the law and order situation in the city. The demand of monthly meetings was among the four points highlighted by CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri in the memorandum. To this, Chahal replied that he will ensure that the SHOs start meeting the RWAs and that he would also seek monthly reports from them regarding this.Chief spokesperson of CRAWFED, Anish Garg spoke about the other issues mentioned in the memorandum, including illegal vendors operating in the city, resumption of beat system to look after senior citizens and maintaining peace in the city.During the interaction, Chahal was also asked about the recent string of shooting incidents in the city to which he said that most cases had been solved and they were working on the rest of them. Rajwinder Singh Guddu, president of Sector 40-D RWA, asked the police to intensify their night patrolling, especially between 12am to 2am when most thefts take place. President of Sector 38 A and B RWA Joginder Singh highlighted how dark spots in parks were turning into places for anti-social elements to congregate in and were troubling the residents. General secretary of Sector 10 RWA Gurnam Singh asked the police to take care of people loitering outside the liquor vend.The SSP said they would hold another meeting with CRAWFED in the coming days to discuss what action has been taken on the grievances submitted by the members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-ask-shos-to-hold-monthly-meetings-with-rwas-chandigarh-ssp/story-L0yWeu4f0KCyEjqyPfwuRJ.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||NEP-2020 will make India preferred destination for global student community, says Pokhriyal||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Friday said that with the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP-2020), India will be promoted as a preferred destination for the global student community.The minister was speaking virtually during the inaugural session of the international conference on ‘Creating global perspective rooted in local values for sustainability’ organised by the Chandigarh University.“India has always been a global destination for higher education and with the implementation of NEP-2020 our nation will once again be promoted as a preferred destination for the global student community providing premium education at affordable costs, thereby helping to restore its role as a Vishwa Guru,” Pokhriyal said.During the conference, which was attended by international dignitaries, renowned academicians and research scholars from 20 countries and 31 universities, Pokhriyal said NEP-2020 will take Indian education to the global standards as internationalisation of higher education is of utmost importance which has been a salient feature of NEP-2020.He added that it will offer vocational and employment-oriented education from Class 6 onwards and will also provide the choice of subjects in multi-domains to the students.“Among the many important features of the NEP-2020 is transforming the Indian higher education in such a way that it meets the global standards on one hand and on the other advocates for propagating and preserving the rich Indian values and traditional knowledge,” Pokhriyal said.Chandigarh University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said, “The higher education sector has a huge potential to enhance the country’s global competitiveness and the internationalisation of higher education and research has become one of our key policy priorities as envisaged in the new education policy.”“NEP-2020 has taken a giant stride towards internationalisation of education by proposing a legislative framework that allows foreign universities to operate in India. It will also encourage Indian universities to set up campuses in other countries, paving the way for a two-way internationalisation of higher education,” said Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nep-2020-will-make-india-preferred-destination-for-global-student-community-says-pokhriyal/story-Rz8MK6QW4wkwQAJ8mSaOrO.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Share security details on bringing Lawrence Bishnoi to Chandigarh: HC to Chandigarh Police||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Chandigarh Police to furnish details of the measures proposed to be taken in case gangster Lawrence Bishnoi is brought to Chandigarh from Rajasthan. The police have also been asked as to how much manpower and vehicles would be deployed and whether any arrangement is possible for video recording the entire transit.The details have been sought by the high court bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill by December 21 on the plea of Bishnoi, who had submitted that he was actively involved in politics while in DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh. He had been active thereafter as well, on account of which he had a lot of political rivalry, leading to his involvement in a large number of cases in Haryana and Punjab.Bishnoi is now sought to be nominated as accused in some FIRs in Chandigarh as well, his lawyer, Prateek Gupta had told the court. Gupta added that Bishnoi has an apprehension that in case he is brought to Chandigarh on production warrants, he may be eliminated by way of some encounter as was done in the infamous case of Vikas Dubey, the UP gangster who was killed in an encounter earlier this year.Bishnoi had sought directions that his physical presence in May 2020 FIRs be dispensed with and he be interrogated through video conferencing and if still required to be taken out of jail he be handcuffed. Bishnoi is in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur jail for the past five years.Police want to bring Bishnoi on production warrants in the firing incident at hotelier-businessman Rakesh Singla’s Sector 33 bungalow on May 31. Police also suspect his role in other firing incidents and crimes reported thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/share-security-details-on-bringing-lawrence-bishnoi-to-chandigarh-hc-to-chandigarh-police/story-1FqzUd9agcF70mWL2vNguM.html
12-12-2020||City||Mohali gears up for Covid-19 vaccine rollout||The district task force for vaccine introduction has deliberated upon the administration’s storage and distribution plan as Mohali prepares for a smooth rollout of the Covid-19 remedy.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Friday that the vaccine is expected to be delivered to the district by December end or early in January 2021. Keeping this in view, training of the staff involved in the administration of the vaccine has been planned and vaccination sites have been earmarked.In the first round, 9,515 registered frontline workers from government and private institutions will be immunised. Primarily, the vaccine would be administered in health institutions since every beneficiary has to be kept under observation for about half an hour to monitor adverse event following immunization (AEFI), if any. If need be, schools, community halls, gram panchayat/ municipality buildings would be put to use with dedicated vaccination teams, the DC informed.The vaccine administration site or the session site will have three well-ventilated dedicated rooms/areas — waiting room for beneficiary line-up, vaccination room where the shots would be given and observation room for monitoring of AEFI.The IEC (information, education and communication) logistics have also been worked out since primary vaccine administration may or may not require follow up shots or the booster dose per beneficiary. “We are designing a fool-proof methodology so that each beneficiary gets requisite, timely, proper dosage of the vaccine as per the directions of health authorities,” said Dayalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-gears-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-rollout/story-jcKBJ2w1UgW6sMJhGLs03O.html
12-12-2020||City||MC polls: Haryana Democratic Front steps up campaigning in Ambala||Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) — the only party to have declared its mayoral and ward candidates yet for the Ambala municipal corporation (MC) elections — has intensified its poll campaign in the constituency.Seeking votes, the front’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara along with mayoral candidate Amisha Chawla and concerned ward candidates on Friday visited the colonies and markets in the area, as part of the HDF’s ‘Jansampark Yatra’.The HDF has been banking on the influence of former minister and four-time MLA from then Naggal seat, Nirmal Singh, and former MC and media coordinator to former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Dilip Chawla, alias Bittu.“Yes, we are asking for votes in their name as they are our star campaigners and experienced politicians. Other than this, we are here to raise and resolve issues of basic amenities like drainage, garbage collection, roads etc,” said Amisha, a one-time independent councillor, said.The front had announced Chawla’s name for the mayor post in November. HDF has so far declared 14 out of 20 candidates for the wards. None of them has filed nomination papers yet.Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Friday announced that they will also contest the MC polls in Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat.Addressing, a press conference at the party office in the city, state president Gurmukh Singh said that BSP will contest in all wards and for the mayor seat too.Major parties like the BJP and Congress are expected to declare their candidates on Sunday, it has been learnt.Day 1 devoid of nominations The nomination process for the elections kicked-off on Friday but no candidate filed the papers on Day 1, returning officer-cum-SDM (city) Sachin Gupta said.Seven officials have been assigned duties to receive the papers from different wards, he informed.“The paper filing process will continue till December 16, scrutiny will be done the next day and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is December 18,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-polls-haryana-democratic-front-steps-up-campaigning-in-ambala/story-xxxDMTBwYYS439HTVCC2qO.html
12-12-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka to promulgate ordinance against cow slaughter: CM||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday that the state government will promulgate an ordinance to enact the bill against cow slaughter, after the Karnataka legislative council got adjourned sine die without taking up the contentious bill.The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020 makes the slaughter of a cow or a bull or a buffalo under the age of 13 a punishable offence. Any violation will invite a jail term between three and seven years, and/or a fine between Rs 50,000 and Rs 5 lakh.The bill was passed by the assembly on Wednesday, amid din, with stiff opposition from Congress. The legislative council was adjourned sine die on Thursday, and the bill is yet to be tabled there for passage.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lacks the numbers to sail through the Legislative Council, a move necessary to make it a law. The party has just 31 of the 75 members. In order to have the bill passed in the council, the BJP would need the support of the 14 member Janata Dal (Secular). JD(S) leader and former CM H D Kumaraswamy said on Friday that the bill in its current form could lead to harassment of farmers. Earlier in the day, the chief minister held a special ‘gau puja’ (cow worshipping ceremony) at his official residence. “The whole world knows that Hindu dharma worships cows. We will promulgate an ordinance as the council did not cooperate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-promulgate-ordinance-against-cow-slaughter-cm/story-u6NTUQOqT9fc3uzDAbEV8K.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC questions state claim over Mumbai Metro shed plot||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday questioned the Maharashtra government’s claim of ownership over 102 acres of land at Kanjurmarg being used for the construction of a Metro car depot. The plot has also become a serious bone of contention between the state and the Central government.“In so many documents, the state government has admitted the Central government’s ownership of the land...MMRDA (Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority) has admitted that the land belongs to the Central government,” said the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni.The bench was referring to the December 2019 letter written by the additional chief secretary (ACS) of the urban development department (UDD) to the ministry of commerce, requesting the Central government to handover possession of the Kanjurmarg land to MMRDA.“The additional chief secretary has acknowledged the position that the land belongs to the Central government,” said the bench. “And, this is as late as December 4, 2019.”HC also referred to MMRDA’s admission that the land belonged to the Central government and had even offered to pay the market price for the 102-acre plot.In this backdrop, HC asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state government’s explanation to the admissions. Kumbhakoni responded saying that the ACS, UDD is not an official of the revenue department and does not know about the title of the land. Mere admission by a party does not confer the title of the land on some other person, he said, citing Supreme Court rulings in support of his contention.The advocate general said if the Central government is claiming ownership of the salt pan land, they will have to make out a proper case. “Admittedly, this land [102 acres at Kanjurmarg] was not part of any disputes or litigations, and therefore, any reference or admission of ownership by the Central government is irrelevant,” he added.Answering the court’s query about possession of the land, Kumbhakoni claimed there was absolutely no documentary evidence to show that the Central government was ever in possession of the land in issue. He said there was no mention of any activity undertaken by the Centre on this land nor did they raise any objection when part of the property was reserved for various public purposes under the 1967 development plan for the city.“The principle is that possession follows the title,” Kumbhakoni pointed out. “There is no record to show actual possession of the salt department,” he added.He further claimed that the Centre was claiming ownership over the salt pan land by virtue of three notifications issued in 1906, 1917 and 1920, for the acquisition of huge tracts of land in the belt for salt manufacturing. However, only one of them culminated in an award – for acquiring only 11 acres, and no award was passed in two other notifications – resulting in Lansing of the proceedings.Kumbhakoni was responding to a petition filed by the Central government seeking a stay on the Metro car shed work at Kanjurmarg.On Friday, senior advocate Milind Sathe, who represented MMRDA, urged the court to not stay the ongoing work at the site, claiming that the car depot and its timely completion was very crucial for the entire Metro project.Sathe pointed out that even the Central government was not averse to giving the land for the Metro car depot and pointed out the reply by the ministry of commerce to the letter written by ACS, UDD merely insisting on a joint survey of the land before it is handed over for the Metro car depot.HC has now posted the matter for further hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-questions-state-claim-over-mumbai-metro-shed-plot/story-MbGzci8wEqaYVxHLn0kA8O.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 34 protest: Singers granted interim anticipatory bail||The local court on Friday granted interim anticipatory bail to two Punjabi singers, who were booked following a protest by youth activists in Sector 34 on December 8.Sarbans Prateek and Sukhwinder Singh were booked for rioting and obstructing and assaulting public servants under the Indian Penal Code, besides the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Epidemic Act, 1897.Advocate Vikram Vohra argued that the duo was peacefully supporting a protest against farm laws in front of the Sector 34 gurdwara, and did not possess any weapon or inflict injury on the police teams. Allowing bail, the court directed the singers to join investigation and told the Chandigarh Police to file a status report by December 15.As many as eight cops and nearly 10 youth activists were hurt after the protest march had turned violent on December 8. As the protesters forcibly tried to head towards the BJP office in Sector 33, police had resorted to lathicharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-34-protest-singers-granted-interim-anticipatory-bail/story-3GGbdhLMjXWXHwi4CDRkKJ.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Smooth travel in Mumbai Metropolitan Region by 2030: It’ll have a familiar ring road to it||For decades, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) – an emerging metropolis with an area of 6,335sqkm (2.1% of Maharashtra’s total area), nine key municipal corporations and 36% contribution towards the state’s gross domestic product (GDP) – has remained poorly connected to the financial hub, Mumbai. The commute is heavily dependent on the overburdened suburban railways, while buses majorly act as a feeder system. By 2030, however, the struggle may be a thing of the past, as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the nodal authority for infrastructure projects in the region, has planned a multitude of road and Metro projects. The vision is to establish a signal-free ring road around MMR – the sixth largest metropolitan region in the world – to make the road commute smoother.Part of the vision are the 22-km Mumbai-Trans Harbour Link (MTHL), connecting Mumbai’s Sewri to Navi Mumbai, the multimodal corridor (MMC) stretching 128km from Chirner in Alibag to Navghar in Virar (which will connect to MTHL), a 5-km Vasai to Mira-Bhayander bridge and another sea link from Versova-Virar, both of which are being planned by MMRDA. “From Versova, the commuter can connect to the Versova-Bandra sea link and the existing Bandra-Worli sea link to the Sewri-Worli elevated connector, forming an entire ring road that is expected to be completed by 2030. It will be signal-free,” said MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev, as he recently spelt out the plan. MMR is to Mumbai is what the National Capital Region (NCR) is to Delhi. It includes Mumbai and the satellite towns of Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Ulhasnagar.According to the 2011 census, MMR’s population is 22.8 million, of which Mumbai’s population is 12.44 million, making it one of the most populous cities in India. Mumbai, however, is only 10.5% of MMR’s total area, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) comprehensive mobility plan 2016. The same study also states that close to seven lakh people enter Mumbai in morning peak hours for work daily. However, most of the projects in the vision are still in planning stages. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) said work on the Bandra-Versova sea link has started. The MMRDA, in October, handed over the work order for the 4.5 km Sewri-Worli connector. The MMRDA has also completed 35% works on MTHL, which will cut the travel time between Mumbai and Navi Mumbai to 40 minutes. The ambitious multimodal corridor project was handed over to the MSRDC recently. The Vasai-Bhayander bridge was first proposed in 2013. The 5-km bridge will reduce the travel time to 30 minutes from the current 50 minutes, say officials. “We are in the final stages of approval for forest and saltpan land, after which, tenders will be invited shortly,” said a statement by MMRDA.Radheyshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director, MSRDC, said, “We are in the process of land acquisition for the multimodal corridor, which will take at least a year, after which we will start the tendering process.”MSRDC is also looking at extending the under-construction Bandra-Versova link road (BSVL) till Virar. The 42.75-km sea-bridge will have connectors at Charkop, Uttan, Vasai and Virar. So with the coastal road connecting Navi Mumbai to the Bandra-Worli sea link, the Bandra-Versova sea link and the proposed extension to Virar, the travel time between south Mumbai and Virar in Palghar district, a distance of nearly 90km, will reduce to an hour from the current three hours.Apart from road projects, MMRDA is also executing a 337-km Mumbai Metro network, of which many lines connect to the MMR. This includes the 32-km Metro-4 connecting Wadala to Kasarwadavli in Thane, 24-km Metro-5 connecting three cities of Thane, Bhiwandi and Kalyan, an extension to Metro-7 till Mira-Bhayander, a 9-km Metro-10 that connects Gaimukh to Shivaji Chowk, Metro-12 that connects Kalyan, Taloja and Dombivli, Metro-13 from Shivaji Chowk to Virar and Metro-14 that will stretch from Kanjurmarg to Badlapur.Implementing the entire Mumbai Metro master plan will reduce traffic congestion from the current 137% to 33% in Mumbai by 2031, a study undertaken by MMRDA stated. The average speed on Mumbai roads will also increase from 17kmph to 30kmph by 2031, the study stated. Experts said this peripheral connectivity, along with the proposed east-west connections like the Goregaon-Mulund link road planned by the civic body, will help complete the regional grid. “However, there are still crucial links like the Panvel-Neral connectivity that need to be thought about,” said Pankaj Joshi, executive director of the Mumbai-based Urban Design Research Institute. “The Virar-Alibaug multimodal corridor is in itself a crucial ring road that was planned decades ago. It is good that we are seeing some of the plans taking shape on ground to strengthen regional connectivity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/smooth-travel-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-by-2030-it-ll-have-a-familiar-ring-road-to-it/story-0xB8IVKS6BBNConOhuKvFP.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: PIL seeking EWS quota for Maratha community filed in Bombay HC||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed by Congress leader and activist Dr Sanjay Lakhe Patil in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions to the state, to grant Economically Weaker Section (EWS) status to members of the Maratha community, as the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the benefits of the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) quota. The PIL has contended that as the case in the Apex court may take some time to be completed, the Maratha community should get benefits in the education sector under the EWS quota.The PIL filed through advocate SB Talekar has pointed out that after the HC had upheld the SEBC Act and the members of the Maratha community, which constitutes one-third of the state population, had got reservations of 12% in the education sector and 13% in the government employment sector, the HC decision was challenged in the Supreme Court (SC). The Apex court on September 9, 2020, had stayed the implementation of the SEBC Act.The petition states that before the SC stay, the Maratha community had already got reservations under the SEBC Act, hence after receiving complaints that the Maratha community should not get benefits under the EWS category at the same time, the state of Maharashtra in July, 2020, had clarified that the Marathas could not avail of the benefit of 10% reservation under the EWS quota.“The reservation provided in favour of the Maratha community, as belonging to SEBC cannot be availed by the members of Maratha community by virtue of the interim order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. As per the directions of the Supreme Court, the appeals pending before it would be placed before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for constitution of a larger bench,” the petition reads.As the constitution of the larger bench could take six months or even six years, the petition sought directions to the state government to stay the implementation of the July 2020 government circular and allow members of the Maratha community to avail of the benefits of the 10% quota under the EWS reservation in both education and state jobs till the time the Apex court decides the constitutional validity of the SEBC Act.Though the PIL was listed to come up for hearing before the division bench chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni on Friday, due to paucity of time, the PIL will be heard in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-pil-seeking-ews-quota-for-maratha-community-filed-in-bombay-hc/story-B0lXYQawwFXVH0LuVTvsgO.html
12-12-2020||Kolkata||Shah plans Bengal visit as row over attack on Nadda escalates||The attack on Bharatiya Janata Party chief JP Nadda’s convoy in West Bengal’s Diamond Harbour escalated into a massive political row on Friday, with Union home minister Amit Shah planning a trip to the poll-bound state next week and top state officials declining to follow a central government summons to discuss the law-and-order situation. Diamond Harbour is the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, and the war of words holds significance as the BJP is making a strong pitch to wrest power in the state next year. After stones were pelted at cars in Nadda’s convoy, an incident that the CM described as “staged by the BJP to draw public attention”, the Union home ministry on Friday asked chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and director general of police Virendra to appear before it on December 14. This drew a strong reaction from the Trinamool Congress (TMC), arguing that law-and-order was a state subject, and therefore outside the Centre’s remit. Chief secretary Bandopadhyay wrote back to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday afternoon, seeking relief from personal appearance. The letter said security cover was provided to Nadda on Thursday, action was being taken by the state police, and seven people arrested. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were among those hit by stones, the BJP said on Thursday. “Nadda was saved because he was in a bulletproof car provided by the local police. However, the rest of the claim about police deployment is a lie. We saw no policemen along the route,” Roy, said on Friday. In an interview to HT on Friday, Vijayvargiya said the CM and her nephew were “100 per cent” responsible for the incident. “The goondas were throwing stones in front of the police. We do any protest, they throw tear gas at us, or [fire] pellet guns. But when TMC people do this kind of goondaism, they just stand and watch. It means that it’s all happening with their consent,” he said. The state’s governor Jagdeep Dhankhar held a media briefing slamming the state government. “Finding the situation alarming, as my constitutional duty, I have sent a report to the central government about the extremely disturbing developments that do not augur well for democratic value...,” he told a press conference.The TMC, however, reacted sharply to his remarks, calling him a “conduit pipe” of the BJP. In an internal report, the contents of which were shared by TMC leaders, the state police on Friday informed the CM that a criminal case was registered against Rakesh Singh (a BJP leader) for provoking the agitators at Sirakhol. The incident of “vandalism” took place for 10-15 minutes and nothing happened at Diamond Harbour, said the note sent to Banerjee. Rakesh Singh, senior police officers said, was among the accused when a bust of 19th century social reformer and educationist Vidyasagar was vandalised in a Kolkata college named after him during a rally of Amit Shah prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The report sent to Banerjee also mentioned that Nadda was provided with a bulletproof vehicle and a pilot car in addition to the security cover by central police forces that he enjoys. The report added that four additional superintendents of police, eight deputy superintendents, eight inspectors, 30 officers, 40 rapid action force personnel were deployed along the route to the venue of the meeting that Nadda attended. Meanwhile, accusing the BJP-led government at the Centre of violating the spirt of federalism, TMC Lok Sabha MP Kalyan Bandopadhyay said at his party’s headquarters that there is no law under which the home ministry can summon DGP and chief secretary. “Law-and-order is a state subject. We are vehemently opposing this. Nadda was moving around with people having criminal background. Why were there so many cars in the convoy? Vehicles and motorcycles belonging to outsiders cannot be part of a convoy meant for a person having Z-category security,” he said.Experts, however, said the Centre did have the right to summon state officials under such circumstances. “The TMC is absolutely wrong. It is true that the Centre has no jurisdiction over the law-and-order in a state...but what the ruling party misses is that under Article 355 of the Constitution it is the responsibility of the Centre to look into internal disturbances in a state,” Former principal of Presidency College and an expert on the Constitution, Prof Amal Mukhopadhyay, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/shah-plans-bengal-visit-as-row-over-attack-on-nadda-escalates/story-ROaDJ1R37eL1cDDz8ZG70I.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s winter pollution more toxic in 2020; PM2.5 levels 25-30% higher than 2019: CSE||The average share of tiny pollutant particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments — PM2.5 — was higher across all cities in Maharashtra this winter with the maximum spike observed in Mumbai.This winter, air pollution set in almost two weeks earlier, indicating a change in pattern. The average PM2.5 levels were 25-30% higher in October and November for the Mumbai region compared to the same period last year. An analysis of winter pollution (till the first week of December 2020) in major cities of Maharashtra was carried out by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Delhi. Released on Friday, CSE’s analysis revealed that the clean air gains of the early months of lockdown and monsoon were offset by the reopening of the economy and winter weather.The share of PM2.5 in PM10 (larger coarser particles) this winter was 40% during October and 46% through November. It is generally lowest during summer and monsoon months (less than 30%) and highest on Diwali.“The share of tinier and finer particles (PM2.5) in the overall coarser PM10 concentration determines the toxicity of air. When the overall share of tinier PM2.5 in the overall coarser PM10 is higher, the air is more toxic as the tiny particles penetrate deep inside the lungs and cut through the blood barrier increasing the health risk,” said CSE in its analysis.As compared to the cleanest air quality week this year (in the week ending on July 5) for Mumbai, the weekly average increased 10 times during the week ending on November 15.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, CSE said, “Pollution levels increased during winter despite the geographical advantages and favourable meteorology for Mumbai. This indicates high local pollution and strong regional influences.”According to the analysis, overall average PM2.5 levels for just over 11 months (January to December first week) were considerably lower than those of 2019 due to the impact of the lockdown. However, PM2.5 concentration during winter rose beyond safe standards for Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra. October saw more polluted air across all cities, and Mumbai was the worst as its average PM2.5 levels were 25% higher than in 2019. It was 26% higher for Navi Mumbai and 28% higher in Kalyan. November was also more polluted with the monthly average being 7% higher in Mumbai, 21% in Navi Mumbai, and 31% in Kalyan. Cities outside the Mumbai Metropolitan Region also showed a similar or marginally lower trend.Chowdhury explained that thanks to better ventilation through the se brrese, suspension of pollutant particles was much was much lower in Mumbai than in the Indo-Gangetic plain in winter. However, pollution sources from vehicles, industry, construction, and biomass burning had helped bring winter pollution in almost two weeks earlier. “Reopening of the economy coinciding with the onset of winter allow PM2.5 levels to rise starting from October. It is clear that the Mumbai region cannot rely only on its locational advantage of proximity to the sea,” she said. So far, the most polluted areas in Mumbai include Worli, Vile Parle, Kurla and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSIA) where the 24-hour PM2.5 average was in the ‘very poor’ category on multiple days during November even as the city-wide average was in the ‘moderate’ category.Among solutions, CSE suggested strict enforcement of power plant standards across Maharashtra; minimise use of coal and other dirty fuels in the industry; improving emissions control; scale up public transport and vehicle restraint measures; and manage waste through zero waste and zero landfill strategy. “There is a need for deep cuts across all key sectors of pollution and across the entire region to reduce annual average levels and thereby avoid winter pollution peaks for Maharashtra cities,” said Chowdhury.WARNING FOR FURTHER POLLUTION SPIKE DURING CHRISTMAS, NEW YEAR: CSEAir quality in the city is usually at its worst around Christmas and New Year. Going by this trend, a further spike in air pollution may be expected said CSE. Kurla and Worli have the highest November averages in Mumbai, while Bandra, CSIA and Colaba have the lowest. Nerul in Navi Mumbai is the most polluted in the Greater Mumbai region. CSIA, despite one of the lowest monthly concentrations, has the highest daily spikes. CSE STUDY SHOWS DIWALI AIR WAS MORE POLLUTED THAN 2019The average PM2.5 level on Diwali day (November 14) in Mumbai was 76 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3), up from 53 μg/m3 recorded in 2019. There was a 75% higher rise in hourly PM2.5 concentration between afternoon and night of Diwali 2020 mostly due to firecracker bursting. The change in hourly PM2.5 concentration between afternoon and night of 2020 Diwali was 145 μg/m3, up from 83 μg/m3 in 2019. Diwali also occurred later in November than the previous year (October 27).HOW THE ANALYSIS WAS DONE?CSE did its analysis based on air quality data from 10 monitoring stations in Mumbai; three in Navi Mumbai; two in Chandrapur; and one station each in Thane, Kalyan, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad, and Solapur under the continuous ambient air quality monitoring system (CAAQMS) of the Central Pollution Control Board. This data is publicly available real time information from CPCB’s official online portal, Central Control Room for Air Quality Management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-winter-pollution-more-toxic-in-2020-pm2-5-levels-25-30-higher-than-2019-cse/story-yMV55Noonze99SBBH5FbxN.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to set up 48 centres, form 500 teams for Covid-19 vaccine distribution||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to set up at least 48 vaccination centres and form 500 teams for seamless distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine in the city.In the first meeting of BMC’s task force for vaccination on Wednesday, the civic body decided to form 500 teams of five members each. These teams will directly report to the task force headed by additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in charge of health at the BMC. BMC plans to vaccinate 1.25 lakh frontline workers in 15 days after the vaccine arrives, and the second dose will be administered in 15 days after the buffer of 28 days between the two doses is over. According to BMC officials, the first target will be to vaccinate frontline workers followed by the police force and conservancy workers in the second phase. In the third phase, all citizens above the age of 50 will be vaccinated. The civic body is also developing a mechanism where a text message will be sent to senior citizens to get vaccinated. The database collected during ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign will be used for sending text messages. The initial target, post frontline workers, is to vaccinate around one crore population of Mumbai. Further, it has been decided that the city will have a minimum of 48 vaccination centres by maintaining a ratio of two to three vaccine centres in each of the 24 administrative wards. The number of centres in each ward will increase or decrease depending on the size and population of a particular ward. Kakani said, “Once vaccination starts, we will start distribution in every corner of the city simultaneously. There will be no discrimination. Every ward will have two to three vaccination centres.”The city has 24 administrative wards across the island city western and eastern suburbs. According to BMC officials, they will use its dispensaries, civic hospitals and schools that will act as vaccine distribution centres in every ward. The distribution will take place in a close environment and not in open ground to ensure proper cold storage of vaccine doses. In the coming week, the BMC is expected to float bids for procurement of deep freezers for storage of vaccines. For now, the vaccine will be stored at the Central vaccine storage facility by the BMC in Kanjurmarg.Kakani added, “We will use a network of our municipal dispensaries, civic hospitals and civic schools where vaccine distribution centres will be set up. All wards have already identified such spots. Also, vaccination will be done in a closed environment, considering the vaccine doses will require certain temperatures to be maintained for which cold storage will be required.” According to BMC officials, final distribution plan will be decided post the Central government lays down its guidelines. Representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) were present the meeting. They have expressed satisfaction over the preparedness, said BMC officials.According to BMC officials, the final distribution plan will be decided post the Central government lays guidelines for the same. The number of distributions centres will also go up post private institutions are permitted for vaccine distribution, said BMC officials.The central government, two months ago, has already formed an expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions, and the state government has also announced the formation of a task force to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan – from the identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-set-up-48-centres-form-500-teams-for-covid-19-vaccine-distribution/story-jbiwmDZt7ClrVvZGZdQi3I.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rehab colonies’ rent dues mount to ₹20 crore, CHB starts sending notices||After waiting for several years for over 10,000 allottees of eight rehabilitation colonies to clear their rent arrears totalling over Rs 20 crore, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has started sending them recovery notices. “Many allottees have not been paying the stipulated rent for many years now. We had started a drive last year and recovered Rs 18 crore. But, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, arrears again piled up. The dues now stand at nearly Rs 20 crore,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB. While last year, CHB had even cancelled the allotment of around 250 allottees for the violation, Garg said this year, eviction will not be the immediate action. “We will be taking action against the defaulters as per law. But, in the wake of the pandemic, we will not be resuming their properties,” he added. In addition to issuing notices, the board has also put up the list of defaulters on its website and on the premises of its office. The flats in question were allotted under the slum rehabilitation scheme in different parts of the city. Allottees of one-room EWS flats are charged Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 per month as ground rent, which is increased by 20% after five years of allotment. Under the Chandigarh Small Flat (Amendment) Scheme 2020, if allottees do not pay the rent, they are liable to pay a penalty of 12% per annum. If paid on time, the yearly collection of rent will be around Rs 20 crore. While, CHB keeps 5% of the recoveries as administrative costs, the rest is deposited with the administration. Recoveries pending in commercial properties In October this year, CHB had served similar notices on more than 600 commercial establishments for recovering Rs 56 crore in outstanding dues. Many allottees have not been depositing ground rent, instalments and interest for several years. Most defaulters have been allotted CHB properties in rehri markets and motor markets in different sectors, and the grain market in Sector 26. The highest amount due from a single allottee is Rs 1.3 crore. “Recoveries from commercial properties have been slow so far. In some cases, allottees have moved court,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rehab-colonies-rent-dues-mount-to-20-crore-chb-starts-sending-notices/story-pPmVkbrIfRtLQE6F4fp8jI.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra blood crisis: SBTC to take action against blood banks if data is not updated online||The State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) has instructed all 340 blood banks in Maharashtra to update information on the availability of blood units at the Union government’s website, e-Rakt Kosh (www.eraktkosh.in), which connects blood banks across the country. Those who fail to do so within a week will face stringent action. Blood banks in the state have been reeling under an acute shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, Maharashtra has 21,000 units of blood. Bloodstock in Mumbai has fallen from 3,500 units on December 2 to 3,200 units on December 10. Running out of blood, most banks are relying on replacement blood, often resulting in relatives of patients having to hunt for donors.SBTC has warned blood banks that they must update their information on e-Rakt Kosh within a week. “Till Wednesday, 290 blood banks had updated their data, which can be viewed on the website. The general public can contact respective blood banks with their requirements,” said Dr Arun Thorat, director, SBTC, adding that defaulters will face action. A government resolution (GR) released on December 4 also says blood banks that refuse patients with blood disorders like thalassemia and haemophilia, despite having stock, will be fined ₹1,000. If blood banks charge patients, they will have to refund thrice the amount. Any blood bank found overcharging the processing service will have to refund five times the charge to SBTC. Health activists have welcomed the state government’s move. “Some hospitals, despite having blood, are harassing patients, including people with blood disorders. The government needs to come up with better alternative plans to stock blood and take stringent action against defaulters,” said activist Dr Abhijit More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-blood-crisis-sbtc-to-take-action-against-blood-banks-if-data-is-not-updated-online/story-8P6CSYnOlfbZEKKqGjY0GM.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for a week; crosses 48,000 fatalities||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 4,268 cases, pushing the case count to 18,72,440. The number of active cases has now slightly increased to 73,315. Around 3.91% of the total patients are currently being treated at various hospitals and Covid Care Centres in the state. Toll breached 48,000 mark as 87 casualties were reported. Of them, 38 occurred in the last 48 hours, 23 in the last week and the rest 26 deaths are from the period before that. The tally stood at 48,059, the health officials said.For the last one week, Maharashtra has been reporting less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases. Despite the anticipation of a potential second wave post-Diwali, the state has not witnessed any sign, except last week of November when a rise in cases was observed. However, officials are still worried as a surge in the number of cases is likely by January.The situation has slightly improved even in the case of casualties as it took the state twelve days to complete one thousand deaths. It has breached 47,000 Covid deaths on November 29. The state completed 45,000 Covid deaths on November 7 and in nine days crossed the mark of 46,000 deaths on November 16. It had taken 13 days to reach the 47,000 death-mark, the data released by the state health department shows.This can be further explained as total 1,171 deaths were reported in the first 11 days of November and this month, the figure has come down to 908.“More or fewer casualties have come down in the state and the case fatality rate (CFR) has declined to 2.57%. It would be difficult to bring down CFR below 2% because Maharashtra has a very high number of co-morbid patients as compared to other states. It can be achieved but will take much time,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients.Though there is a decline, Mumbai continues to record maximum cases in the state with 654 cases reported on Friday taking the case count to 2,89,350. Of them, active cases are 12,423. There were 13 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 10,955.Pune city contributed the second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it has recorded 294 cases, taking their tally to 1,83,893.Nagpur city recorded 276 cases, third-highest number of cases, pushing its case count to 90,749.The state has completed a total 1,15,70,137 Covid tests with 67,710 tests conducted on Friday. The positivity rate for the day recorded at 6.30% against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 16.18%.The number of recovered patients reached 17,49,973 with 2,774 recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 93.46%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-less-than-5-000-covid-19-cases-for-a-week-crosses-48-000-fatalities/story-9kGRzCY2vfE0wov0rzoloN.html
12-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC polls: BJP to finalise candidates in election panel meet today||To finalise the names of candidates for councillor and mayoral posts in the ensuing municipal council polls, the state election committee meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is scheduled here on Saturday.Senior party leaders, including Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, central ministers of Haryana government Ratan Lal Kataria, Rao Inderjeet Singh and Krishan Pal Gujjar, and former minister Captain Abhimanyu among others, will be attending the meeting.“The names of candidates will be finalised on Saturday,” said an official spokesperson of the party.The BJP has so far received 140 names for the post of councillors and 18 for the mayoral seat.Even Congress is likely to hold a selection committee meeting in a day or two to decide on the candidates to be fielded in the elections.‘No nominations on first day in Panchkula’Meanwhile, no nominations for the MC elections scheduled on December 27 were filed in Panchkula on Friday — the first day of filing the same. The last day to file the nominations is December 16. The official spokesperson of the Panchkula administration said, “Today many people took forms, but not a single nomination was filed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-polls-bjp-to-finalise-candidates-in-election-panel-meet-today/story-tfTkypsH4jBLwoXxnoEYxJ.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to launch a digital platform to help disabled||To celebrate 80th birthday of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, the state government on Friday announced to launch a digital platform where people with disabilities can register for their needs, such as hearing aid, battery-operated wheelchair, prosthesis, Braille kits etc. The portal will be called www.mahasharad.in, state social justice minister Dhananjay Munde announced on Friday. Earlier this week, a rural development scheme ‘Sharad Pawar Gram Samruddhi Yojana’, was cleared by the state cabinet after Pawar’s name, who is turning 80, on December 12. The veteran leader is considered as the guiding force of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government comprising three parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress.“A large number of generous people either from social service organisations, private companies and industrialists are always interested in helping those who genuinely are in need and sometimes don’t know whom to be contacted. On the other hand, so many people are suffering from disabilities and require modern equipment to live their lives with fewer difficulties. The website will bridge the gap between those who need help and those who are capable as well as believe in a noble cause,” Munde said.The portal will be launched during a programme organised to celebrate Pawar’s 80th birthday at YB Chavan Centre at Nariman Point on Saturday.‘Mahasharad’ is an abbreviation of Maharashtra System of Health Rehabilitation And Assistance for Divyang.“We have set a target of extending the benefit of the portal to 29 lakh disabled people. The portal will start from December 12 and its mobile application will also be made available at google play store from March 2021,” the social justice minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-launch-a-digital-platform-to-help-disabled/story-JOUZyf71PgBVaXhQxf1QIP.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Civic chief assures rehabilitation of affected parties of Kalyan Ring Road project||Work on the Kalyan Ring Road project will be delayed as the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, has assured rehabilitation of the project affected people (PAPs) before taking up the demolition of the structures along it.The said project will affect a total of 850 structures that include shops, farm lands and residential buildings. Of these, 590 are located at Durgadi, Atali, Ambivli and Titwala-Manda areas.The most-awaited ring road project is being undertaken by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) while the KDMC will help clear the spaces for the project by finishing land acquisition formalities and also by demolishing the structures along the project. Around 60 per cent of the road work has been completed. The residents of these areas had protested in January this year demanding rehabilitation after the civic body asked them to vacate the structures.“We have been following this up since the last two years with the civic body. Now, the commissioner has assured to provide rehabilitation to the affected people, which is a relief. We are not against the project but these are the people living here for years. They have invested in their homes. When KDMC asked them to vacate, they all were in panic,” said Pravin Supe, who represents the Atali-Ambivali Samajik Sanstha.“We have managed to acquire 80 per cent of the land, on which 60 per cent of work is completed. The demolition can begin only after acquiring the remaining land. Since the commissioner has given directives to rehabilitate, the demolition work will take time,” said Sanjay Pokharkar, surveyor for the project, KDMC.In 2014, the MMRDA proposed a 26-km ring road in Kalyan connecting Dombivli (W) to Titwala village. The four-phase project is being carried out by four different agencies. The road from Hedutane (Dombivali) to Titwala (Kalyan) will benefit lakhs of people who travel within Kalyan-Dombivli. Presently, the Kalyan-Shilphata Road, which is used to connect between Kalyan-Dombivli and Titwala, is the most congested route. The ring road will be a major impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-chief-assures-rehabilitation-of-affected-parties-of-kalyan-ring-road-project/story-z8GLiWkrrQSu7uTjuJ3suN.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department to revive fee regulatory panel to look into plaints of hikes||In a relief to several parents of private school students in Maharashtra, the state education department has decided to revive and strengthen the divisional fee regulatory committee (DFRC) in the coming days.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said the DFRC will be revived and will address various issues of parents soon. “We have received several representations from parents, demanding action in issues of fee hikes and overcharging by schools. We are thus trying to revive the DFRC,” said Gaikwad.In 2016, after the Fee Regulation Act was implemented in the state, only two committees were formed – one at the state level and another in Mumbai – to address fee-related disputes. In 2017, some schools challenged the decisions given by the committee in the Bombay high court (HC) which ruled that “parents disgruntled about school fees cannot approach the DFRC” and stated that only school managements can approach DFRC.The state government then formed a committee under retired justice VJ Palshikar to recommend amendments in the Fee Regulation Act in 2017. In February, the newly-appointed state government paved the way for the formation of eight DRFCs in the state.On Thursday, several parents protested against the government’s inaction concerning fee-related issues in private schools. Parents have planned to protest outside the minister’s house on Saturday. “We are going to sit outside the minister’s house demanding action on our complaints, and will continue doing so until we get a response,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-to-revive-fee-regulatory-panel-to-look-into-plaints-of-hikes/story-6GoLqg0SjWyygk7yOkiUcL.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||1,200 doctors in Thane join nationwide strike||More than 1,200 doctors from Thane city joined the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) nationwide shutdown against the Centre’s decision to allow post-graduate Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries.Around 100 of these protested at Court Naka outside Thane District Collector’s office on Friday morning while all non-emergency services for all clinics, dispensaries, OPDs were closed from 6am to 6pm. Around 200 hospitals and 300 clinics in Thane ensured their non-Covid and non-emergency services were shut on Friday until 6pm.Dr Santosh Kadam, president, IMA, Thane chapter, said, “We have 1,300 doctors associated with IMA Thane, out of which 1,200 showed solidarity to the protest, while 100 joined the Court Naka protest. These doctors formed small groups and were standing at various locations to maintain social distancing within the vicinity of Court Naka. Moreover, we also submitted their request to withdraw the notification by the Central government to the District Collector on Friday after the protest.”In a notification published in the Gazette of the Government of India on November 20 by Central Council of Indian Medicine, the body that regulates Ayurveda education, it was declared that Ayurveda graduates with BAMS in their post-graduate education will be given training in 58 surgeries from modern medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-200-doctors-in-thane-join-nationwide-strike/story-bK3ZY6uKI4Cl4qPWzA0xLI.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||1 in 3 Indians planning to travel during Christmas and New Year season: Survey||One in every three Indians is planning to travel and holiday during the upcoming Christmas and New Year season, revealed a survey conducted by goibibo. Among the surveyed, more than 70% are hoping to relax and celebrate this winter holiday season with their family, spouse or partner, while the rest are looking to end the year travelling with friends and colleagues. The findings showed that 60% of respondents who are willing to travel during the winter holiday season are planning to spend the year in the hills or on the beaches. According to the survey, only 20% of respondents are looking to wrap the year at bars or parties.The survey was conducted among more than 2,000 respondents between November 15 and December 5.The survey revealed that 70% of respondents want to spend time outdoors, doing adventure activities like rafting, hiking, water sports or sightseeing. As travellers also want to be safe during their trips, the respondents were seen giving the highest preference to sanitisation, hygiene and safety certification while choosing their stay option.Commenting on the travel trends, Rajesh Magow, co-founder and group CEO, MakeMyTrip Limited, goibibo, said, “Over the past few months, we have worked closely and creatively with the travel and hospitality value chain to raise safety standards and help customers make the journey from being homebound to being travellers again.”Bookings for the winter festive holiday season on goibibo indicate an increase in travel to domestic leisure destinations like Goa, Lonavala, Mahabaleshwar, Pondicherry, Coorg, Shimla, Manali and Darjeeling. “As we step into 2021, we are confident of a continued upward travel trend that will find more force as the mass vaccine rollout plan materialises,” said Magow.The survey also suggested that the winter holiday season will witness nearly 60% of leisure travellers booking a trip for two or more days, and long-distance leisure travel will make a strong comeback.“Fifty percent of travellers across all demographics and cohorts are willing to opt for air travel for the upcoming winter holiday season, signalling a strong boost in passenger confidence and trust in air travel for a holiday post-pandemic,” said a goibibo spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-in-3-indians-planning-to-travel-during-christmas-and-new-year-season-survey/story-uYMp3sBDIElS11PMdVfHQN.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai doctors participate in peaceful strike; no impact on emergency services||Thousands of doctors in the state on Friday joined hands with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and participated in a peaceful protest against the Centre’s decision to allow specified streams of Ayurvedic doctors to perform general surgical procedures. However, the emergency services at hospitals were functional.As a part of the nationwide protest, hundreds of allopathy doctors went on a strike, whereas, all non-essential and non-Covid services from 6am to 6pm were withdrawn. Many outpatient department (OPD) services, including elective services, were cancelled. However, IMA does not have the data about the total number of doctors who participated in the strike.“Considering the protocols of the pandemic, we didn’t hold any public demonstrations. But we gathered at different spots in the state with posters,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, IMA, Maharashtra.All emergency services including casualty, emergency room, critical care, intensive care units (ICU), Covid-19 care, emergency surgeries and labour rooms functioned normally.Also, many doctors did not participate in the strike and continued with their OPDs. “At our hospital, all the OPDs were functional. None of the surgeries was cancelled due to the strike. Everything went as usual without any hurdle,” said Dr V Ravishankar, chief executive officer (CEO), Lilavati Hospital.Similarly, at civic-run hospitals all non-emergency services were performed. “We are the factory and running the main machine of the healthcare system of the city. How can we close down our OPDs? We received around 2,000 patients on OPD and all were treated by doctors,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital.As per a notification issued on November 20, the Central Council of Indian Medicine authorised Ayurvedic postgraduation in Shalyathanthra and Shalakyathanthra to perform 58 general surgical procedures. It includes general surgery, urology, surgical gastroenterology, ENT, ophthalmology and dental medicine among others.“Just by giving some Sanskrit names, Ayurvedic doctors can’t perform surgical procedures. A doctor spends years to gain expertise before operating on any patient. Also, they need approval and registration with the Indian Medical Council. To raise among people about the issue, we decided to stop the non-Covid non-essential services on Friday,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra. “If an inexperienced doctor operates on a patient, it will be a risk to the patient’s life,” he added.The IMA has called this aa ‘Mixopathy’ practice which can increase calamities, as per a statement released by the association on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-participate-in-peaceful-strike-no-impact-on-emergency-services/story-bDKnNNYnKXY0nPDLUinW3L.html
12-12-2020||City||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya alleges TDR fraud; Mumbai civic body says no decision taken||Alleging that a group of private builders are being fraudulently allotted transferable development rights (TDR) worth ₹74 crore as compensation for a public road at Andheri which connects Mahakali caves, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Friday accused the civic body of facilitating a floor space index (FSI) fraud. Somaiya has claimed that this road was a private road until 1914, and was then handed over to the Archaeological Survey of India. As it is an existing public road, there is no question of granting it as compensation to current owners who recently purchased the adjoining land in 2016, said the former parliamentarian.“TDR cannot be granted to an existing road. It may be noted that in 1914, when the land was given to government, there was no concept of TDR. This area was not part of BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation). In the past 106 years, previous owners have never raised any objection or dispute about compensation. It was well settled,” Somaiya in a statement said on Friday.However, Vinod Chithore, chief engineer, development plan department, BMC, said, “The private builders who are the new owners of this land, have applied to BMC for granting TDR. However, the corporation is still examining the case, and no decision has been taken yet on allotting them the TDR. We will verify if there is merit in the case first.” According to the documents provided by Somaiya, an application made to the corporation on November 9 stated that an adjoining road admeasuring 1,364.58 square metres was already acquired by the civic body without payment of compensation to the land owners. Therefore, a payment of ₹74.07 crore is due toward the land owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya-alleges-tdr-fraud-mumbai-civic-body-says-no-decision-taken/story-m0C8TqJjNNko6HPdyUxVTO.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||14,000 Maharashtra gram panchayats to go to polls on January 15||Elections to 14,234 gram panchayats in 34 of the 36 districts in the state will be held on January 15 and counting will take place on January 18, the state election commission announced on Friday. The nominations will be accepted from December 23-30, while scrutiny will be done on December 31. The last date for withdrawal of nomination is January 4. The final electoral rolls will be published on December 14. “The code of conduct has come into force,” state election commissioner UPS Madan said in a statement. Of the total 27,881 gram panchayats, over half the local bodies are going to polls in January. The January 15 polls will be spread across five regions– Konkan, Western Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha and North Maharashtra. Konkan division has 798 gram panchayats going to polls, while Nashik division has 2,476, Pune division has 2,870, Aurangabad division has 4,134, Amravati division has 2,448 and Nagpur division has 1,508. Of these, elections to 1,566 gram panchayats were slated to be held on March 31, 2020, but were deferred owing to the Covid-induced lockdown. The election, however, will be held in the backdrop of the pandemic and the possibility of a second wave of infections in the state. The polls will prove to be a litmus test for the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) against the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to check their acceptance and popularity in the hinterland. The three parties – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – are expected to contest the gram panchayat elections in an alliance. However, there is no official announcement yet. The MVA recently contested the polls for the five seats of the legislative Council and got success in keeping the BJP out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-000-maharashtra-gram-panchayats-to-go-to-polls-on-january-15/story-ADN19ejxDuTb4asli9lv3K.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police files sixth FIR against Cox and Kings||The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police on Friday registered sixth first information report (FIR) against global tour and travel company Cox and Kings, its promotor, directors and other employees for allegedly duping Laxmi Vilas Bank of ₹35 crore.The accused allegedly availed loan from the complainant private sector bank and later defaulted in repayment.The banking (fraud) unit-2 of EOW booked Cox and Kings’s promotor Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, wife Urshila Kerkar and other directors, auditors and others on the complaint of Laxmi Vilas Bank.After carrying out a preliminary inquiry on the Laxmi Vilas Bank’s complaint, EOW officers concluded that prima facie a cognisable offence was committed. Hence, it was registered on Friday.The EOW is already investigating five FIRs against Cox and Kings group for alleged frauds involving over ₹1,950 crores. Of the five FIRs, four are registered by private sector banks. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers are also probing the irregularities of the company concerning the money laundering aspect, while EOW is looking into the criminal part.Officers at the banking (fraud) unit-2 of EOW are investigating the cases registered on Cox and Kings Group.Peter Kerkar and other senior executives of Cox and Kings are facing charges under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) 471 (using as genuine a forged) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code.EOW officers said that the accused travel company, its promoters, directors, auditors and other accused conspired together and fraudulently availed loan from various banks. “Forged documents were submitted to banks by Cox and Kings group to fraudulently obtain the loan. Later the loan money was diverted and used for other purposes,” said an officer.Previously FIRs against Cox and Kings were made by Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank and a private investment firm. The amount involved in the irregularities, as per these give complaints, are to the tune of around ₹1,950 crores.EOW officer probing Cox and Kings cases on Wednesday took custody of one of the accused in previous FIRs - Anil Khandelwal, the chief finance officer of Cox and Kings from Taloja jail. He is presently being interrogated by EOW officers. Previously, the ED officers had also questioned him.“Khandelwal is key accused in the case and was at the helm of the affairs,” said an officer.Another EOW officer said that soon custody of Peter Kerkar who was also arrested by ED last month and presently is in jail may also be taken by EOW.Peter Kerker too has filed two counter FIRs against some complainant banks and senior executives of his company for conspiring together and cheating the company. EOW is also investigating these two complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-files-sixth-fir-against-cox-and-kings/story-xU7KrxzptHzSp18Cp9shZP.html
12-12-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Ludhiana MC honours sanitation champions||A team of volunteers will be deployed alongside Buddha Nullah to stop people from throwing waste into the water body and will also spread awareness on the importance of keeping it clean, said mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu.The mayor was speaking during the sanitation champion honour ceremony organised by the municipal corporation, under the Swachh Bharat Mission, on Friday. He honoured the winners of the competitions with certificates, trophies, and plants.The competitions were held to motivate the residents to keep their premises and surroundings clean and to improve the ranking of the city in Swachh Survekshan 2021.Swati Tiwana, joint commissioner, MC, said that competitions were conducted between hotels, educational institutes, resident welfare associations, hospitals, and government agencies, and awards were given based on the swachhta rankings.Senior medical officer Amarjeet Kaur was honoured on the occasion. Swachh Bharat Mission nodal officer Ashwani Sahota’s team was also felicitated. Sweepers and sewer men were given the best-performing workers awards. Besides CSR to the best performing social workers, NGOs and self-help groups were also appreciated for their sanitation work. Tiwana briefed the guests on the work done in the field of sanitation and encouraged them to increase their participation in the ‘Swachh Survey-2021’ to bring the city to the forefront.MC secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon, corporation councilor Rashi Agarwal, chief sanitary inspector Jagjit Singh, Amir Singh Bajwa, Gurinder Singh, Baldev Singh besides, others were also present on the occasion.EPFO office secures third positionThe Employees Provident Fund Office (EPFO) ranked third in the listing under the government department category. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana felicitated the EPFO with a trophy and a certificate.Brijmohan Singh, regional provident fund commissioner 2, Anil Jha, senior social security assistant, and Neha Arora, social security assistant, received the trophy and the certificate on behalf of the EPFO. EPFO was honoured for ensuring proper segregation, disposal, and recycling of its office waste. Municipal corporation officials visited the office and checked the hygiene conditions and waste management in and around the premises. Blue and green dustbins for segregation of wet and dry waste were kept at various locations on the premises. Swachhta slogans, paintings, and graffiti are also displayed on the walls of the office to spread awareness about the importance of Swachhta among all stakeholders. As many as 72 participants took part in this programme under different categories. Dheeraj Gupta, regional provident fund commissioner 1, expressed his jubilation on getting the award and assured that more efforts will be made to maintain the highest standards of Swachhta in and around the office and residential premises of EPFO employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-2021-ludhiana-mc-honours-sanitation-champions/story-vWIrLVY6LkT55xKJXsJv2K.html
12-12-2020||Lucknow||UP govt plans to distribute tractors to 69 ‘lucky’ farmers||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest over Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws, the Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up to distribute tractors to dozens of ‘lucky’ farmers soon in a bid to cultivate goodwill with the farmers’ community in the state, sources dealing with the issue revealed.As many as 69 farmers belonging to different districts will be shortlisted for the free distribution of tractors through bumper lucky draws under the Mandi Parishad’s old scheme—the scheme had been in the cold storage for last around three years. In order to make the prize distribution a big event and turn the spotlight on the same, chief minister Yogi Adityanath will distribute tractors’ keys to around a dozen farmers at a function to be organised in the state capital while the rest of the shortlisted farmers will get keys from commissioners during the functions held at divisional headquarters simultaneously on the same day.The chief minister also heads the Uttar Pradesh State Agricultural Produce Market Board (Mandi Parishad) as its ex-officio chairman.Confirming the re-launch of tractor distribution scheme after some break, Mandi Parishad director JP Singh said tractors would be provided to the farmers under the old scheme called the ‘Mukhya Mantri Krashak Uphar Yojana’. The lucky draws under this scheme, he added, could not be held for the last two years or so due to various reasons, including the prevalence of pandemic since March this year.Also read: ‘Independent ties with countries’ - India pushes back against Russian minister’s comments“We have sought time from the chief minister to grace the function to hand over tractors’ keys to the first prize-winning farmers here,” he said, adding, “A total 69 tractors will be distributed, some by the CM here and the rest in divisions the same day.” The date of the event, he said, would be fixed as per the convenience of the CM. The government launched the Uphar Yojana as back in 2003 to encourage farmers to bring their agricultural produce to market produce committees (mandis) for the sale. The scheme sought to give prize coupons on monthly, quarterly and half-yearly basis to farmers on their mandi transaction worth Rs 5,000 and above.Currently, under the scheme that was amended and upgraded gradually with time, six-monthly bumper lucky draws are supposed to be held twice a year to distribute two tractors (35 HP) each in all the 18 divisions to the farmers winning the first prize. Sources said no bumper lucky draws had been held for around last three years and this time the government had decided to clear some of the backlog in one go. “At a time when the state government has suspended many schemes with financial implications due to the funds being diverted to fight the pandemic, the government’s decision to distribute tractors is certainly an attempt to send a positive message to the farmers,” they said. Singh, however, said that the move had nothing to do with the current farmers’ unrest. “In fact, we invited bids earlier to buy tractors and the tractor companies have offered 25 per cent discount to us on the price of the tractors we have decided to buy to gift the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-plans-to-distribute-tractors-to-69-lucky-farmers/story-veq6ZsGZW9CaCLClPeVfgI.html
12-12-2020||City||Stalemate between Punjab Agricultural University V-C, PAUTA president continues as latter’s hunger strike enters Day 3||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor BS Dhillon and PAUTA president HS Kingra continued to be at daggers drawn as the latter’s hunger strike entered its third day on Friday.The V-C, while addressing the faculty during a virtual meeting, indicated that Kingra’s post was unconstitutional.Without naming him, Dhillon said that an individual had occupied the post for over two years in violation of the constitution of PAUTA.The faculty elections, scheduled to take place after the stipulated term of one year, have not been conducted since 2019, said a faculty member.On the other hand, Kingra said that he had been attending the meetings convened by PAU in his capacity as the president of PAUTA until recently. He said that PAU officials were approaching him and persuading him to end the protest.On Thursday, the PAU employees’ union ended its protest after the staff and university authorities had agreed to redress their grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalemate-between-punjab-agricultural-university-v-c-pauta-president-continues-as-latter-s-hunger-strike-enters-day-3/story-VdAyVogxgAQNQQAKfC4oKL.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||At 28.1°C, Chandigarh records warmest December day since 2014||The city recorded a maximum temperature of 28.1°C on Friday, making it the warmest December day here since 2014, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) records. But, as rain is predicted on Saturday, to be followed by fog on Sunday and Monday, the mercury is likely to register a significant drop.At 28.1°C, the day temperature was the second highest for a December day this decade, after the 28.4°C temperature recorded on December 1, 2014. It was also five notches above the normal temperature expected at this time of the year. Chandigarh remained the hottest station in all of Punjab and Haryana, as per IMD.“Western Disturbances are active in the region. Although they didn’t bring in any rain on Friday, the winds were warmer, which caused the day temperature to rise. The sky was also clear, due to which there was sufficient sunlight,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh.Rain expected today, chill to follow“Rain can be expected in the city around afternoon on Saturday. With cloudy weather and rain, the day temperature will drop steeply and can go below 20°C as well in the coming days,” he added.IMD has also forecast moderate to dense fog in isolated pockets of the city on Sunday and Monday, which will keep the day temperature on the lower side. “Cloudy weather will trap the heat and keep night temperature from falling. However, in the next week, even the minimum temperature can fall by three degrees due to snowfall in Himachal Pradesh and cold northward winds blowing in from there,” Paul said.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 20°C and 21°C, while the minimum temperature will hover around 9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-28-1-c-chandigarh-records-warmest-december-day-since-2014/story-lCbPg1QviIvniU92hI1igM.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||NGO starts free electric foot massages at Singhu protest site||After two weeks of resorting to manual foot rubs, herbal oil, and painkillers for their joint ache and leg pain, protesting farmers at Singhu border were on Friday introduced to free ten-minute massage sessions with 25 foot massagers installed at the protest site.The 25 massagers that were set up at the protest site was introduced by Khalsa Aid, a non-government organisation. The facility is free for all protesters, and all they need to do is get a token number and then wait their turn.  “Our volunteers at Tikri protest site said that several of them were offering manual foot rubs to the farmers. This is what prompted us to arrange for these massagers. We have multiple ongoing projects and already had five such foot massagers which are used during events like kanwar yatra or amarnath yatras,” said Amarpreet Singh, Khalsa Aid’s director in India.Mandeep Kaur, 50, a nurse from Lehra Bet village in Ferozpur district, has been at Singhu border for a week now, protesting with her family. “The constant movement around the protest site and the winter cold can often leave old people with pain in their leg beside severe backache. The massage session helped in comforting me and I will ask my son to buy me these,” she said.Throughout the day, farmers lined up outside the tent with their allotted tokens to get the “electric massage” after word spread around the protest site. Till Friday evening, more than 350 farmers had availed of the services which started at 8am on Friday.Jagdiv Singh, 60, a resident of Amritsar, said, “Getting inside the trolleys and climbing down from them or even sitting for long hours has caused us extreme backache and joint-ache. Other farmers around our trolley told me about the foot massagers, so I came here to try it. Till now, I had been relying on massages given by other younger farmers at the spot,” he said.Two friends – Saab Singh, 63, and Lakhi Ram, 80 – from the Mundlana village in Sonipat district walked out of the enclosure smiling on Friday evening. “Every day, we walk from our trolleys to the stage area which is around 2km away. Sometimes, we do these trips twice a day. As a result, we were left with terrible pain. But the 10-minute massage session has helped. We will come back tomorrow as well,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngo-starts-free-electric-foot-massages-at-singhu-protest-site/story-S4DFfBjng2zmb7KHe0aPFO.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Tarpaulin sheets, waterproof tents: Protesters brace for rain and chill||As Delhi braces for chilly weather with the weather department forecasting light drizzle on Friday night and Saturday, farmers protesting the Centre’s new farm laws at Delhi’s Singhu border are making arrangements for themselves.While tractors and trolleys converted into temporary homes have become a symbol of the farmers’ protest blockade which began on November 27, many protesters have no option but to sleep in the open. Many farmers, especially the younger ones, also sleep in the small space below trucks or in tents.On Friday, groups of men started covering the flaps of the few large waterproof white tents with mud to ensure that people inside the tent are protected from the water and wind. Many bring essential supplies like blankets, warm clothes, and mattresses from home which may have been exhausted by the protesting farmers.Baldev Singh Wadala, a senior member of the Punjab unit of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “Though we had come prepared with tarpaulin sheets and several measures against the cold, there aren’t enough sheets to ensure that everyone has a roof over their head. We have called for more tarpaulin sheets and blankets from our villages in Punjab to shelter as many people as we can.”While the movement of farmers towards Delhi is restricted, several farmers from Punjab continue to arrive at the protest site every day. Many bring essential supplies from home which may have been exhausted by the protesting farmers.Jaskiran Singh, 20, a farmer who hails from Amritsar, said his group reached the protest spot on December 2 and has been staying in a waterproof camping tent since then. “We had brought these tents along with us. I asked my older brother to bring four-five more such tents when he comes so that we can accommodate more elderly people in case it rains,” he said.Suresh Malik, 48, from Madina village in Sonipat district, has been camping at the Singhu border since November 26. “We have parked several tractors close together and covered them with tarpaulin sheets to ensure temporary protection against the rain,” he said.Non-governmental organisations like Khalsa Aid have also set up makeshift enclosures with waterproof tents accommodating over 400 beds. “They were set nearly a week ago. We have brought in more tarpaulin sheets and around 500 commercial tents, which are waterproof, as a measure against the rain and chill,” said Amarpreet Singh, Khalsa Aid’s director in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tarpaulin-sheets-waterproof-tents-farmers-brace-for-turn-in-delhi-weather/story-OIqAVT6biDdSAJbjJOgeiL.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Govt alleges Rs 2,400 crore scam in North civic body||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain on Friday accused the north Delhi municipal corporation of misappropriation of funds to the tune of more than Rs 2,400 crore and said that the Delhi government had initiated a probe into it.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — which rules all three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) — immediately denied the allegations, calling them “politically biased”.“There has been misappropriation of funds to the tune of more than Rs 2,400 crore in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. It concerns payments between the north and south Delhi municipal corporations. We have ordered a probe into it which will be headed by an additional chief secretary-rank officer in charge of the urban development department of the Delhi government,” said Jain, who holds the health, home and urban development portfolios in Delhi government.He further said, “Rs 2,400 crore is a big amount and such misappropriation is unbelievable, especially when the municipal corporations claim that they are not being able to pay salaries to doctors, nurses, teachers, sanitation workers and other employees.”Jain’s allegations and the probe comes at a time when mayors of the three civic bodies have been protesting outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for more than three days to demand disbursement of funds which they claim the Delhi government owes the civic bodies.When asked about claims by the three municipal corporations that the Delhi government owes them ₹13,500 crore, Jain said that the Delhi government has always disbursed payments to the MCDs on time, with no instance of default or delay, in accordance with the applicable finance commission report, and it is the MCDs which owe money to the Delhi government.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, however, said, “This is nothing but a diversionary tactics by the government to not release our dues. There is no misappropriation of funds. The ₹2400 crore Jain is referring to is related to the rent of civic centre to be paid by the south corporation. The matter is being discussed by the two corporations. The south corporation has also facing issues related to fund. How will they pay if the government has not cleared their dues.”All the three municipal corporations are facing a crippling financial crunch with North corporation and the East civic body not being able to pay regular salaries to their staff. This has led to protests by municipal, engineers, doctors and other staff. The BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are politically biased statements. It is shocking that even after being in power for six years, Satyendar Jain does not know that in MCDs the commissioner independently brings the budget before the standing committee and it is up to the elected councillors to accept his proposals or reject them.” “The minister’s statement that Delhi government has no fund dues towards MCDs reflects the frustration of Kejriwal government due to public pressure building on it since the mayors have been sitting on a dharna demanding funds outside the CM’s residence,” Kapoor said. On Thursday, a group of BJP supporters had barged into the house of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, breaching the police cordon. The BJP workers claimed that they were angry over threats to the MCD mayors allegedly made by AAP leaders. The AAP, however, rejected the alleged video clip, in which the purported threat is being made, as doctored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-probe-against-civic-bodies-for-misappropriation-of-rs-2-400-crore/story-ucg6JfJUsucYkh4Mxvq4rL.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||BJP protests outside houses of ministers, meets L-G over funds||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday urged Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to direct the Delhi government to immediately release pending dues worth ₹13,000 crore to the municipal corporations even as the three MCD mayors continued their sit-in protest outside the CM’s residence for the fifth day. BJP workers also held demonstrations outside the residences of Delhi ministers Satyendar Jain, Gopal Rai, Kailash Gahlot, Rajender Pal Gautam and Imran Hussain.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, met the L-G and submitted a memorandum.Gupta said, “The mayors and councillors are sitting outside CM’s residence for the past five days, but he doesn’t have time for them. The corporation is unable to pay salaries to its employees and the CM is not bothered. Their leaders are threatening to kill the mayors. We have requested the L-G to intervene and direct the government to release the funds immediately.”The Delhi government has maintained that it has paid all dues to the MCDs as per the recommendations of the Delhi finance commissions. Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain reiterated on Friday that the government has always disbursed payments to the MCDs on time, with no instance of default or delay, and it is the MCDs which owe money to the Delhi government. The BJP, however, continued its attack on the AAP government. Party leaders said that instead of calling the corporation leaders for a discussion, the ruling party in Delhi is using diversionary tactics to avoid the problem. “The corporation is not asking for additional funds. They are asking for the government to pay what is due to them. It is the corporations’ money. The corporations are unable to pay salaries to corona warriors. In these tough times, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should rise above politics. But they are trying to mislead people,” said Bidhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-leaders-ask-l-g-to-direct-govt-to-release-pending-dues-of-corporations/story-yoViTaGYhBqLsAuv23MFTJ.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Inefficient MCDs affecting people: AAP||Continuing with its criticism of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the civic bodies of inefficiency. The BJP rubbished the accusations and said the AAP government is “frustrated” over the issue of non disbursal of funds to the civic bodies.“For the past 15 days, the mayors are busy protesting outside the CM’s residence and the MCDs are operating without leaders. While the commissioners are on leave, the BJP-led MCDs have failed to appoint officials in their stead. The sheer inefficiency of the MCDs is affecting the people of Delhi. Has the BJP already accepted their defeat in the upcoming MCD polls?” AAP leader and Kalkaji MLA Atishi said.The BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson responded, “Ms Atishi’s statements expose the frustration of the Arvind Kejriwal government over the fund issue. Today, people of Delhi know very well that the financial turmoil in civic bodies is due to the Delhi government’s biased style of functioning and its failure to release funds to the municipal bodies. It is more shocking because the AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal himself resorted to dharnas in 2014 and 2018 demanding certain powers (from the Centre) to function without hassle and, today, his party is objecting to peaceful dharnas. AAP leaders should rather convince the government to release funds.”Mayors of the three MCDs have been protesting outside the residence of CM Arvind Kejriwal demanding around Rs 13,500 crore in funds, which, they claim, the Delhi government owes to the civic bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcds-highly-inefficient-says-aap/story-8fKGqEtf74XHmqGfx6QZRK.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Will run office from protest site: Mayors||The three mayors of the city’s three municipal corporations — north south and east — said they would run their offices from outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence from Monday, as they continue to protest the alleged non disbursal of funds by Delhi government. The mayors said that the protest, which started on Monday, will continue till the AAP-run Delhi government releases Rs 13,000 crore to the corporations.Addressing a press conference from outside CM’s residence, North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have been sitting here for the past five days, but the CM has not bothered to even talk to us. We have decided that we will run our offices from the protest site (outside CM’s residence) from Monday. We will not leave from here till Rs 13,000 crore is released by the government.”South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh and East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said development works have suffered due to the fund crunch. The corporations are unable to pay salaries to its employees on time. “These people are working hard during the Covid pandemic. Instead of helping the corporations, the government is making things difficult.” In a statement, AAP said, “Even the mayors of BJP-ruled MCDs know that their protest is only an excuse by their high-command to harass CM Arvind Kejriwal and distract from the issue of nationwide farmers protests. The mayors are well aware that the Delhi government has given all the funds due and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the MCDs are facing financial ruin. Since they have decided to only protest rather than govern, it is best that they resign and let AAP run the MCDs. We will run the MCDs efficiently and within the same budget.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcd-mayors-to-work-from-outside-cm-s-residence-while-on-protest/story-msya71vO6tGapeRzSMCsDN.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Covid hospitalisations under 5k mark first time in 97 days||With fewer cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported in the city over the last fortnight, the number of hospitalisations dropped below the 5,000-mark on Friday for the first time in 97 days. The total number of hospitalisations in the city was 4,934 on September 5.Of the 71,679 tests conducted, 31,724 (44.2%) were done using the RT-PCR method — the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.On Friday, Delhi recorded 2,385 new cases of Covid-19 and 60 deaths due to the infection. So far, 603,535 people have been affected and 9,934 have died in the city.As on Friday evening, only 26% of the total 18,853 beds earmarked for Covid-19 were occupied and 46% of the 5,075 ICU beds were occupied, according to the Delhi Corona app. The ICU beds’ occupancy was over 86% during the surge in cases during November.The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that the “third wave” of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was waning in the state, with the positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive—remaining below 5% for 10 days consecutively. On Friday, it stood at 3.33%. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control when a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained for two weeks.“The third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi is going down. We can now say that the peak was on November 7 when a positivity rate of 15.26% was recorded. Now, the positivity rate has remained below 5% for 10 days,” said Jain in a press briefing.He said Delhi has been conducting one of the highest tests per million in the country with over 70,000 a day. As of November-end, Delhi reported the highest tests per million in the country at over 330,201. The national average stood at 100,159.Delhi was followed by Ladakh (241,355), Goa (237,626), and Andaman and Nicobar Islands (202,033), which have a fraction of Delhi’s population.“Currently, the situation seems to be under control. But people need to continue wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It is because people of Delhi have cooperated that we are seeing this result. I also want to thank the healthcare workers who have worked day and night,” the minister said.Delhi has tested over 71,741 samples a day on average during December, compared to an average of 53,579 during November. Nearly half of these tests were conducted using the RT-PCR method. In Delhi, the ratio of tests was skewed towards the less-accurate rapid antigen tests since they were rolled out in mid-June during the first surge in the number of cases.The number of RT-PCR tests was ramped up in the city in mid-November after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.“I agree that the reports for the RT-PCR tests, which should be given within 24 hours, are getting delayed in some places and we are trying to strengthen that. When we met with the centre, we were asked to double RT-PCR testing. We doubled our testing, but the reports were getting delayed. Now, the situation is improving,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-number-of-hospitalisations-in-delhi-drops-below-the-5-000-mark-for-first-time-in-97-days/story-gteJ8TKLktY6jS0qmIYEJP.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Man dies after being stabbed 22 times; three held||A man was repeatedly stabbed to death and two others injured, allegedly by two men and a juvenile person on Wednesday night, the police said. The three men were attacked while returning home from Safdarjung hospital where the two injured men work as contractual housekeeping staff. The attackers, police said, also used to work at the hospital but had been replaced by their contractor with the injured men. Police believe that this had motivated the attack on them. All three attackers have been caught, police said.The man who was killed was identified as Neeraj, and, according to police, he was stabbed 22 times.The injured were identified as Mukesh, who sustained 12 stab wounds, and his brother, Rakesh, who was stabbed at least five times. All three were identified only by their first names. The incident took place on Wednesday night around 10pm when Mukesh and Rakesh left the hospital after completing their shift and were accompanied by their friend Neeraj.“They had just reached a slum cluster near the hospital where two men, Krishan and Ravi, accompanied by a juvenile person, intercepted them. They had an argument with Mukesh and Rakesh which soon turned violent. As Neeraj intervened, Krishan, Ravi and the juvenile took out knives and stabbed him multiple times. When Mukesh and Rakesh tried to raise the alarm, they too were stabbed. As they collapsed, bleeding profusely, the locals and passersby reported the incident to the police. All three were rushed to Safdarjung hospital where Neeraj was pronounced dead while Mukesh and Rakesh are undergoing treatment,” said a senior police officer, not wishing to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said, “Our probe revealed that Mukesh and Rakesh had been replaced with Krishan and Ravi by their contractor and because of that, they were angry with the duo and that led to the fatal attack on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-dies-after-being-stabbed-22-times-his-friends-injured-three-held/story-aWs3hlnOLyzmPNxlwLjf8I.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Bureaucrat goes missing, probe on||A 49-year-old bureaucrat working with the Delhi government’s Information and Publicity department, who had recently recovered from Covid-19, was reported missing on Friday.Nalin Chauhan, the bureaucrat, was last seen by a security guard in front of his house in north Delhi on Thursday morning. Police said that the officer had recently recovered from Covid-19 and had been living in isolation in a flat next to his house. Police said they have registered a missing complaint and are searching for the man.Chauhan was posted as deputy director in the Directorate of Information and Publicity, Government of NCT.According to his family, he tested positive for Covid-19 on November 20. “Due to complication with his health, he was admitted in the Covid-19 ward of Lok Nayak Hospital. Later, as his condition got critical, he was shifted to an ICU and was also given plasma treatment,” a family member, who did not wish to be named, said.The family member said, on December 5, the government official was discharged and was living in isolation in a flat next to his house. “He used to eat home-cooked food, and we were constantly in touch with him. On December 10, between 11.30am and 12pm, he was not found in the flat. When we started making enquiries, we found that the security guard of the colony, who knew the officer well, had asked him where he was going when he left the flat on Thursday morning. He had told the guard that he would be back in a few minutes but hasn’t come home since then,” the family member said.The man’s family has also released his photograph and details on social media, which are being widely circulated.Police said the initial probe has revealed that the officer left the house on his own. “He left his mobile phone at home. There is no evidence of foul play so far,” a senior police officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said they have registered a missing complaint and search teams are working on the case.HT reached out to government spokespersons, but they did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-official-goes-missing-probe-on/story-SWwSM6sParEF7wzWMjO1xN.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Theatres reopen: Actor Prashant Damle to perform at Yashwantrao Chavan auditorium today||Actor and theatre producer Prashant Damle is busy with his final dress rehearsal, for Marathi play “Eka Lagnachi Pudhichi Ghosht,” with actor Kavita Medhekar, which will mark the reopening of theatres in the city after at least nine months.The well-known comedy play directed and written by Adwait Dadarkar is the first production to stage their opening show in the city at the Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha today (on December 12).A house full sign hangs near the ticket counter where many people return without tickets.“We will be operating at 50 per cent capacity and the tickets were all booked within an hour of opening the counter,” said Sameer Hampi, SH Enterprises, who has organised the show.The auditorium which has a seating capacity of 892 will be occupied 50 per cent as per the new norms.”The lead actors have taken a pay cut of 50 per cent while second lead actors have taken a cut of 30 per cent. Even the Government of Maharashtra has waived off the toll on the drama buses travelling to different cities, thus giving a helping hand for the theatre to stand on its feet,” he said.“We were a little apprehensive about getting a good response but true theatre lovers have proved time and again how much they value live performances,” said Hampi.Damle, who is known for his comic timings and also as a benevolent producer who during the lockdown had taken care of his entire crew by providing them care packages, had hinted on the social media about some “good news” for theatre lovers.”I will be performing in three shows over the weekend, starting with an inaugural show at Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha, and on Sunday, two shows, one at Balgandharva Rangmandir and Ramkrishna More Sabhagruha, Chinchwad,” he said.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken all necessary safety precautions to make sure the experience is good and safe for audience.“We have sanitized the auditorium and after the show, it will be sanitised again. At the entrance, we have sanitizer spray, oximeter check as well as a thermometer. People will have to wear face mask and follows the social distancing norms,” said Sunil Mate, incharge, cultural programmes and auditoriums, PMC.He said that tomorrows (Saturday’s) performance will determine the success of the forthcoming plays and events planned in the city.“We have noticed that plays with celebrity actors are picking up faster than some of the smaller production houses and we are hoping that good response from audience will help theatres to get back to business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/theatres-reopen-actor-prashant-damle-to-perform-at-yashwantrao-chavan-auditorium-today/story-NufJjft1oZXdHSJgXUa7wO.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||BJP plans drive against ‘misinformation’ on laws||Troubled by the massive protest by farmers at Delhi’s borders, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government is planning a communication outreach, covering all districts of the country, to counter what it termed a “misinformation campaign about the three recently passed farm laws”.As part of the campaign, the party has planned scores of chaupals (rural town hall meetings), press conferences and interactions to convey the message that the “contentious legislations” are, in actuality, quite beneficial to farmers and would significantly raise their incomes.BJP national general secretary Arun Singh told HT that most farmers supported his party though some have been misinformed by political rivals.“Our aim is to show that the Prime Minister wants to increase their incomes -- to double them. He is their Messiah. Farmers are with us but some have been wrongly informed, so we want to fix that,” he said.The senior BJP leader said his party will tell the people how the opposition parties were lying.“We will tell them about the Fasal Bima Yojana and all other schemes for farmers. In this effort, all MPs, all ministers and chief ministers will be involved. We will travel, spread the word and communicate,” Singh said.Singh said the BJP had done similar outreach programmers earlier as well, when it had brought in ordinances on the same subject. “We will do 100 sammelans (meetings) in every state, like kisan chaupals (farmer gatherings). We will start from Saturday and every district will see a press conference...,” Singh said.The head of BJP’s Kisan Morcha Rajkumar Chahar said there would be kisan sammelans across the country which will be held keeping in mind the restrictions in place in view of Covid-19.“The farmers are innocent. But some have done propaganda on the bills to mislead them. Our aim is to counter the propaganda…This is a big conspiracy against Modi ji’s popularity. The forces which are worried at his rise had earlier tried to hold protests on the revocation of Article 370 and the amended citizenship laws. Those did not succeed and they are now trying to mislead farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-plans-major-outreach-to-counter-misinformation-on-farm-laws/story-iEhbJqkFiI4rt3EksksizJ.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Singhu border: Farmers protest by day, watch religious films by night||After spending his day raising slogans, holding placards, and creating awareness among people about the farmers’ protest, Ranjodh Singh, 26, a dairy farmer from Jagraon village in Ludhiana district now spends his evenings watching devotional movies on the “big screen” at the Singhu border.“I stand near the stage holding these placards to create awareness among those visiting the protest site. With the speeches wrapping up by evening, there isn’t much to do after that,” he said. “But for the past two days, we have been watching movies on the big screen here.”On Wednesday, an 8x12-feet LED screen was set up near a langar spot a few hundred metres away from the green United Farmers Front stage set up at the Singhu border.For the past two days, hundreds of protesting farmers have been attending the screening of a two-part 3D animated movie called Chaar Sahibzaade directed by Harry Baweja. The farmers said the two-hour historical drama movie, popular in Punjab, is based on the sacrifices of the sons of Guru Gobind Singh.“We sit by the langar and watch the movie during dinner. It is a lot like having a meal at home with family. Through this movie, people will learn more about our culture and it will help in dispelling wrong notions about us or our struggles,” he said.The LED screen has been set up by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee to provide the protesting farmers with some relief.Maan Singh, who is in charge of the screenings held at the spot, said, “Though our focus is on films detailing the history of our culture, we also screen short documentaries on farmers or play shabad-kirtans. The attendees seem to enjoy it as it provides them with a break from the day’s protest activities.”Shoaib Malik, a volunteer at the spot who handles the equipment, said people came up to him on Friday and asked which movie would be screened at night.Eighteen-year-old Gurnool Singh, who hails from Amritsar, was among them. “We were walking towards the langar at night when we noticed the movie playing on the LED screen. We had seen the movie in the theatre when it released a few years ago. To watch it under the open sky with hundreds of farmers is a different experience. We want the organisers to screen more educational content related to farming and agriculture.”After videos of the screening were posted on social media, many labelled it a luxury. “These are attempts to discredit our movement somehow. If an organisation has set up screens and is playing inspirational movies, what is the harm in that?” said Sandeep Singh, a farmer who hails from Khai Phemeki village in Ferozepur district. “I couldn’t catch the complete movie for the last couple of days. But I will definitely visit the spot early today to see what movie they pick today [Friday].”Similar screenings have been held at Tikri border by independent artists and directors who have showcased their documentaries on farming and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-farmers-protest-by-day-watch-religious-films-on-big-screen-by-night/story-m0mCt2XvfrFnfMJ1wdXUUM.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Cops get tested for Covid-19 at Singhu||While farmers were busy chalking out strategies for the ongoing protest against the three farm laws that seek to open up agricultural trade, the police personnel stationed at Singhu border were busy queuing up for Covid-19 tests on Friday. The testing of personnel was carried out after two senior police officers – DCP Gaurav Sharma and additional DCP Ghanshyam Bansal – who were leading the police teams contracted Covid-19. It wasn’t clear where the officers had contracted the virus but Delhi Police asked the state government to hold tests at the borders, where police personnel are stationed in large numbers.“Tests were conducted only for the police personnel. The results will come tomorrow (Saturday),” said Ajit Singh Thakur, subdivisional magistrate (Alipur), under whose jurisdiction Singhu border falls.Additional DCP Jitendra Kumar Meena, who led the police team on Friday in the absence Sharma and Bansal, said, “Random testing of 78 police personnel was carried out at the Singhu border on Friday. No farmer was screened for Covid-19.”On Thursday, the Covid-19 testing of three officers was done at Chilla border after they showed symptoms of the disease.Another senior official in the revenue department said earlier this week, the district administration had sent mobile testing vans twice to the border area with rapid antigen test kits but none of the protesting farmers had voluntarily come forward to be tested.The protesting farmers and leaders held meetings at the four border points – Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla – throughout the day to discuss their next plan of action.With protester numbers swelling, the police also increased their deployment, especially in the wake threats by farmers to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Saturday.Nearly 300 farmers, including women, from Gujarat and Maharashtra on Friday joined the protest at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla. “We had left for Delhi on December 22, but were stopped by the police at many places. Since, we were adamant on proceeding to our destination, they could not hold us back for long. Hundreds of people from these two states will join us in a day or two,” said Pratibha Shinde from Maharashtra, president of Lok Sangharh Morcha (Maharashtra-Gujarat unit).Addressing the protesting farmers at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP gate) border, Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said the government is not “taking their agitation seriously” and hence, they need to “intensify the protest”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-farmers-make-plans-police-queue-up-for-covid-19-tests/story-AJu2MFHHVqPTohcpVRy97L.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Police on toes as farmers threaten to intensify stir||Delhi Police have decided to double down on security at the Capital’s borders during the weekend in wake of threat by protesting farmer leaders to intensify their agitation against three new farm laws passed by the Centre. The Delhi traffic police too have decided to increase their presence in border areas so that vehicular movement is not disrupted. Farmer unions leading the protests in Delhi said more farmers from Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab are expected to join their agitation from Friday night and on Saturday. As per All India Kisan Sabha’s Punjab general secretary Major Singh Punawal, the Jaipur-Delhi Expressway will be blocked on Saturday. Large protests will be held at toll plazas on Saturday and Monday, and the toll plazas will be made free across the country, he said. Senior officials of the Delhi traffic police said that though their priority will be to not let traffic movement within the city or around the borders be affected, the department is ready with a “contingency plan” to ensure there is no disruption. On Saturday, nearly 4,000 traffic personnel will be deployed across the city to man traffic movements. Majority of this force will be stationed at border points, the police said. “We are not releasing the contingency plan because we are not going to allow the protesting farmers to cause any kind of disruption. But in case they manage to reach the borders, we are prepared,” said a traffic official. On Friday , the Delhi traffic police had a meeting with local traffic units and with police teams from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to decide on a contingency plan. This included a plan of alternative routes to be used in case any additional entry point into the city is blocked. All the traffic circle inspectors were informed about their place of deployment and given a list of alternative borders and routes through which movement of vehicles between Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh can be diverted if the main borders are blocked by protesting farmers or workers of political parties and various unions that have supported the nationwide strike, said a traffic police officer. At present, seven border crossings into the national Capital have been completely shut by the protesters. These include Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mungeshwar in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi. Apart from these seven points, the Delhi-Meerut expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border is closed for vehicles coming to Delhi from the Ghaziabad side, while the opposite carriageway through which vehicles move towards Ghaziabad is open. The service road of NH-24 at the UP gate border is also closed, as protesting farmers have occupied it for the past 10 days. Traffic police officials said due to the closure of the seven borders, the available borders for movement between Delhi and Haryana would be Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera. “Similarly, motorists travelling between Delhi and UP are advised to take Apsara, Bhopra, Anand Vihar, Kalindi Kunj, DND, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli and Dallupura to avoid traffic chaos. In case, some of these borders are also disrupted, there are porous borders through which vehicles will be diverted,” said another traffic officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-on-toes-as-farmers-threaten-to-intensify-stir-block-jaipur-highway/story-iIH3qI0Fgdn2HTPPbzSKII.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||VIPs recommended for priority Covid-19 vaccine shot in Haryana||Public representatives in Haryana, including members of Parliament (MPs) and members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), have been recommended for priority inoculation of coronavirus vaccine by the state government. A December 10 communication by the state health department to the Union health ministry recommending inclusion of MPs and MLAs in the priority list said the public representatives are at a risk of getting exposed to the virus since they frequently meet people to hear their grievances. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will also write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure their immunisation on priority, officials said. “ The recommendation for including MPs and MLAs in the priority list primarily entails vaccinating 105 persons (10 Lok Sabha MPs, 5 Rajya Sabha MPs and 90 MLAs),’’ an official said. “The coronavirus vaccine administration will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially. For the first phase of vaccination, health care workers will be inoculated. That means they are the top priority. Frontline workers like municipal, sanitary workers, state and central police forces, civil, defence, armed forces will be vaccinated next. The third category is population above 50. The public representatives, if approved by the Centre, will be the next,” a health official said. Journalists, civil servants figure in listMedia persons registered with the district public relations offices also figure in the state’s recommendation for priority inoculation. Civil and revenue administrators such as deputy commissioners, additional deputy commissioners, sub divisional magistrates, tehsildars and patwaris etc have also been recommended for priority vaccination since they handle disaster management and are actively involved in public interaction. Besides, volunteers who were involved in Covid-19 vaccine trials and given placebos have also been recommended for priority inoculation, said the communication sent to the Union health ministry. Officials said a request has been made to the Centre to accord priority vaccination to these vulnerable occupational groups so that they who are providing services at the frontline are also protected on priority. The communication also said that during the serological survey conducted by the Haryana health department, a section of the population was found sero positive due to development of antibodies against Covid-19 infection. Frontline workers among the serological positive population may not be considered for priority vaccination in the first phase and instead may be considered for the second phase, it said. Besides, population below 50 but having comorbidities have also been recommended on the grounds that they are a productive group and are only 2.25 lakh in numbers. Thus, they can be easily accommodated along with people who are above 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vips-recommended-for-priority-covid-19-vaccine-shot-in-haryana/story-UBPB9wPvYfLQh0BAzCDhLO.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 652 new Covid cases, 12 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: The state health department reported over 652 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and 12 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.60 lakh Covid cases of which 3.36 lakh have recovered, 7,643 have been reported dead and 16,357 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune city reported 294 new cases taking the total count to 183,893 and five deaths taking the death toll to 4,344, while PCMC reported 155 new cases taking the final count to 90,583 and one death with 1,269 as death toll. Pune rural reported 203 new cases taking the final count to 86,445 and six deaths taking the death toll to 1,995, according to the state health department. The department reported that 2,774 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 17.49 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 93.46%. Also, 4,268 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 18.72 lakh. In addition, 87 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 49,152. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Of 11,570,137 laboratory samples, 1,872,440 have been tested positive (16.18%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 532,288 people are in home quarantine and 5,122 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-652-new-covid-cases-12-deaths-in-24-hours/story-XT1UdCU67iANKvR6gGtjpM.html
12-12-2020||Pune||State okays university status to COEP||The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) has finally received autonomy status, according to the state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant. The decision was taken at a meeting attended by state labour and excise minister Dilip Walse Patil, College of Engineering Pune officials and Sawant on Wednesday.After the act is passed at the legislative assembly, COEP will get the “university status”, which will be granted in four to six months’ time. “Though COEP was given the autonomy status, they had to depend on government officials for faculty recruitment, policy making and implementing decisions. In the past 15 years, COEP administration has raised funds of around Rs30 to 35 crore from corporates and alumni students. And they have also done considerable savings of Rs 25 crore, which is used for the development of the institution,” said Samant. “To improve quality education at COEP full autonomy was needed to be given and the Prof Sanjay Dhande committee recommendations are also important to be implemented in this case. So, permission was given for full autonomy to COEP and further proceedings will be done accordingly by the department,” said Prataprao Pawar, chairman of board of governors of COEP who was also present at the meeting.Also, maps and designs for COEP “Excellence Centre” at the 30 acres given by the state government at Chikhali were also approved in the meeting. Soon, tendering would start and work on the new campus at Chikhali for the benefit of students from Pimpri and Chinchwad areas will begin. Prof BB Ahuja, director of COEP said, “The vision and future plans of COEP and were discussed at the meeting. Till the university status act is passed at the legislative assemble, Samant has assured us to give complete autonomy and we appreciated it. It is basically giving more empowerment to COEP and they are also giving the first instalment of Rs 25 crore soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-okays-university-status-to-coep/story-vH92xmm7edQSGwM5T8w8MP.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Parcel delivery exec ‘loses’ bag with Rs5.5 lakh; case lodged in Pune||A parcel delivery executive from Ahmednagar was robbed of Rs 5,50,000, that he was carrying for his employer, on Wednesday morning.The complainant was identified as Mayur Vitthal Mulik (24) a resident of Christ lane in Kapad bazar area of Ahmednagar, according to the police.Mulik works for a private courier service in Ahmednagar. He was entrusted with the responsibility of carrying Rs 5,50,000 of the company to Pune.The money was in a nylon bag which was inside a grey colour backpack, according to the complainant. He was bringing the money from Ahmednagar to the Pune office.“Until the bus crossed Supe, he was sitting on the floor of the bus. After Supe, he went to the sleeping arrangement that was above the seats and took the bag as a pillow. When he woke up, the bag was gone,” said Police sub inspector Pratap Giri of Khadki police station who is investigating the case.A case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parcel-delivery-exec-loses-bag-with-rs5-5-lakh/story-cLgaKkcknQXFkWQ9tk1wEL.html
12-12-2020||Pune||BJP nominates Bidkar as leader of house in Pune civic body||As Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) picks corporator Ganesh Bidkar as the leader of house in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday, it receives flak from the opposition.The BJP appoints Bidkar replacing Dheeraj Ghate with municipal polls slated in 2022. Bidkar, who had lost in the 2017 municipal election, gained the favour of the party as nominated member in PMC.Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “By appointing Bidkar, BJP has certified that its 98 elected members in PMC do not have the capacity to rule in PMC. They were forced to appoint a nominated member as the leader of house. It is happening for the first time in the history of municipal corporation that a nominated member has got the leader of house post.”Shiv Sena city unit president Sanjay More said, “It’s sad that despite getting a clear majority and having 98 members, BJP appointed a nominated member. He himself would not have the power to cast vote in the house.”Opposition party members said that Bidkar’s appointment was a move to keep MP Girish Bapat away from the functioning of PMC as both are considered as rivals.BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “There is no law that states that a nominated member cannot be appointed as the leader of house. Bidkar is a senior leader and has played an important role in increasing the vote base in the Pune station area.”BJP spokesperson Sandeep Khardekar said, “It is the duty of oppositions to make allegations. They are doing their job. Bidkar is capable and would ensure that BJP would execute all the promises given in the manifesto.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-nominates-bidkar-as-a-leader-of-house-in-pmc/story-BsTgQIYrdwSv0KbK07yaGI.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Man killed in hit-and-run on Pune-Nashik highway||A man was killed in a hit-and-run on the Pune-Nashik highway, passing through Chakan, Pune on Wednesday midnight.The deceased was identified as Ramdulare Aitu Prajapati (30) a resident of Karuli in Khed, and a native of Bharatpur, Koriya district in Chattisgarh, according to police.The deceased man was crossing the highway on foot when an unidentified tempo rammed into him, according to the police.The body was discovered by passers-by on Thursday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ganeshprasad Aitu Prajapati (22) the younger brother of the deceased man who also lives in Kuruli.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 134(a)(b) of Motoe Vehicle Act was registered at Chakan police station. Police sub inspector S Dalvi of Chakan police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-pune-nashik-highway/story-iK4lJkFujfqrFZsxvqv1pO.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Memorial on legendary Marathi poet GaDiMa to come up at Pune||Pune: A monument (smarak) in memory of legendary Marathi poet Gajanan Digambar Madgulkar aka GD Madgulkar aka GaDiMa will become a reality on his 100th birth anniversary. While the decision to build a memorial was taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) three years back, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has taken the lead and it will be built at Kothrud. GaDiMa (October 1, 1919 – December 14, 1977), who was a poet, lyricist, author, playwright, actor and editor of a magazine, also took part in India’s independence movement. The followers of GaDiMa had staged an agitation for delay in setting up a memorial at Balgandharva Rangmandir in 2018. The poet’s relatives are also seeking a smarak for the past 40 years. Mohol said, “The land in Kothrud area was allocated in 2017. After that, tender was scrutinised. In February 2020, before the corona pandemic started, tender was sanctioned by the standing committee. However, work could not take off because of lockdown. Now, we have decided to start work and finish it as early as possible. The smarak will be constructed as per GaDiMa’s family members’ suggestions. The purpose of smarak is to conserve the contribution of GaDiMa in different fields such as culture, literature and films.” The chosen site is behind Wonder Society in Kothrud. It will be built on 6.27 acre. The proposed four-storey building will have an independent auditorium with seating capacity of 300 people, GaDiMa Smarak, exhibition centre and an aquarium. At the ground floor, the corporation will develop a cafeteria, besides separate parking area for two-wheelers and cars. The smarak will also include GaDiMa personal life journey, cultural and film contribution. PMC has given names to dalan (section) — Geet Ramayan Dalan, GDMa Sahitya Dalan, GD Ma Personal Dalan. PMC has allotted Rs 8.50 crore for the project. Shivaji Lank, superintendent engineer, PMC building construction department said, “It will take two years to complete the smarak. We have allocated funds to construct the smarak within the deadline. The smarak was announced in 2017.” Sumitr, grandson of Madgulkar said, “We have been seeking a memorial for for the last 43 years. Mayor Mohol showed a presentation of the plan. Finally, we are happy to see that smarak will be built. We don’t want only statues of GaDiMa, but people should see, listen and read his works, especially the younger generation.” Contribution to Indian cinema Gajanan Digambar Madgulkar created Geet Ramayana in Marathi language, a collection of 56 poems that were aired on All India Radio. He has written stories for legendary actor-director- producer V Shantaram like “Do Ankhen Barah Haath”, “Navrang” and “Goonj Uthi Shehnai”. He penned stories, screenplays and dialogues for around 157 Marathi and 25 Hindi films. He wrote more than 2,000 Marathi songs. Proposed exhibition centre Site: Survey number 70, Kothrud Fund allocated: ~8.50 cr Time of completion: Two yearsPlot area: 25,110 sqm (6.27 acres) Exhibition centre area: 7,169.82 sqm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/memorial-on-legendary-marathi-poet-gadima-to-come-up-at-kothrud/story-LHUTIU8kF33Y51zQZpMb9M.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Light drizzle likely to put chill back in night temps in Pune: IMD||PUNE A very light drizzle was witnessed in several areas in Pune on Friday morning. The cloudy weather continued till noon, as per the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The minimum temperature on Friday evening was 18.2 degrees Celsius, whereas the maximum temperature was 28.8 degrees Celsius. IMD forecast that the night temperature was expected to drop to 11.8 degrees Celsius. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that there is a trough - a weather system running through the southern parts of Gujarat, to Konkan and Goa.“This trough is the reason for unseasonal light showers in the city. And the cloudy weather in Pune. The cloudy conditions will continue till December 14. Very light showers are also forecast till December 13,” said Kashyapi.For the state, IMD has forecast light showers in northern central Maharashtra till December 13. “Along with light rains, thunderstorms are also likely in these parts till December 13. On December 14 and December 15, some parts of Vidarbha may witness light showers along with thunderstorms,” said the IMD officials.The minimum temperature on December 10 at Parbhani was 13.6 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature on December 11 was at Gondia, 14 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/light-drizzle-likely-to-put-chill-back-in-night-temps-imd/story-GGP4qISPxieslKgGBLX7fN.html
12-12-2020||Pune||Pvt doctors reluctant to sign up for Covid vaccination drive due to unanswered queries||Of the 5,000 private health facilities registered with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), at least 1,720 have not submitted names of staff for the Covid-19 vaccination. These numbers are as of December 5, and despite the administration’s repeated attempts to increase registration by extending deadlines, confusion about where to register and lack of clarity on the vaccination itself, has doctors hesitant to register. By mid-October, the central government directed all states to collect a database of all staff working in various hospitals - both private and public. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra chapter had raised several questions after the state government changed point number 8b of the government’s directive; the words “registered with the district” were introduced in parenthesis, while enumerating private medical facilities. This had led to confusion among private practitioners. In following meetings, the state government later confirmed that all private hospitals can register for the priority vaccination drive.With Prime Minister Narendra Modi declaring that the country would soon have a vaccine in the coming weeks, 25% of private health facilities and their staff are yet to register. The earlier deadline for the same was the end of November, which has since been extended several times till now. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Hospitals’ Board, IMA Pune, said, “Earlier there was confusion about where to register. We were asked to register on three platforms - one on the PMC’s centralised portal; second on the Maharashtra Medical Council portal; and thirdly at the local PMC ward-level. This is the clerical part. The medical apprehensions are that we do not know which vaccine will be approved. The safety and efficacy of a particular vaccine will only come out once the vaccine is approved and the results are out in public domain. Doctors are mainly concerned about how the vaccine would be administered, who will administer it, and who will give the dose and where it would be made available.”He added, “There are also reservations about safety and efficacy of the vaccine. There are debates and discussions among the medical fraternity about the vaccine for which a few doctors have decided that they will register for the second drive. The other issue is, whether a vaccinated person will have flu-like symptoms after being vaccinated? Or, that I may get a complication phase, or inflammatory phase, which kicks in on day 8. The third and most common concern is what of transmissibility post vaccination? So If a doctor does get infected and continues to remain a possible transmissitter and an asymptomatic carrier, then it will prove to be dangerous for his/her family?”With most vaccine candidates having carried out phase two and trials on the above-18 and healthy volunteers who do not have any comorbidities, seniors doctors who are most likely to have multiple comorbidities and the age factor itself, are also reluctant to get registered for vaccination. Dr Patil added, “The hesitancy among doctors might send out a wrong message to the general population on whether to be vaccinated or not. So we are sensitising our members to get themselves registered and most major hospitals have already sent out their details. These pending applications might be from smaller clinics or hospitals.”Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer, PMC, said, “Despite repeated attempts private hospitals are not registering themselves and only those registered would be applicable for the priority vaccination drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-doctors-reluctant-to-sign-up-for-covid-vaccination-drive-due-to-unanswered-queries/story-mYgAMHtiOHYIogplZoZ4KP.html
12-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives unseasonal light showers on Friday, minimum temperature still high||The city woke up to unseasonal, light showers on Friday morning owing to the presence of a low pressure weather system in the Arabian Sea. Though the showers did not bring any relief from the high minimum temperature on Friday, the city witnessed its coolest December day since 2014. The city is likely to witness cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain or thundershowers on Saturday. The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, received 3mm of rainfall from the early hours of Friday to 8.30am, while the Santacruz station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 0.2 mm of rain. Humidity levels were 92% in south Mumbai and 79% in the suburbs. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, light rain at 1.4mm was recorded in south Mumbai and at 0.7 mm in suburbs. It was mostly dry weather with a partly cloudy sky from afternoon. As a result of light showers and cloudy conditions, the maximum temperature in the suburbs was 28.8 degrees Celsius (4 degree Celsius below normal and a 4 degree Celsius drop since Thursday), making it the lowest maximum temperature for the month since 2014. On December 31, 2014, the city had recorded 27.8 degrees Celsius, but the lowest for the decade was recorded on December 13, 2010, at 26.5 degrees Celsius. South Mumbai on Friday recorded 28 degrees Celsius (5 degree Celsius below normal) as the maximum temperature. Conversely, the minimum temperature in the suburbs was 24.4 degrees Celsius, 5.6 degrees Celsius above normal – the second highest December minimum temperature in 10 years. The highest was recorded last year on December 5 at 25.3 degrees Celsius. South Mumbai recorded 24 degrees Celsius, 3 degree Celsius above normal, on Friday. Meanwhile, unseasonal rainfall was also recorded from parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, across Raigad district, and other areas along south Konkan between Thursday night and Friday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a forecast for light showers or drizzling for Friday, and revised the forecast at 8am to the possibility of thunderstorms for the rest of Friday and Saturday. “There are two reasons for this type of weather,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, adding that the first being the low pressure weather system over southeast and now adjoining southwest Arabian Sea, and cloud bands extending from it spreading right from south Gujarat, north Maharashtra, and over the Konkan coast. The second was the western disturbance extending from the northern parts of the country all the way up to northwest and western India. “As it passes, there is an interaction of westerly and easterly winds in and around the north Maharashtra region. This could result in light to moderate rains for north central Maharashtra and isolated areas along the Konkan coast,” he said. Rain during December is rare phenomenon for the city. However, last year 1.2mm of rainfall was recorded on December 5 owing to a weather depression in the Arabian Sea. Between December 5 and 6, 2017, Mumbai suburbs recorded 53.8mm rainfall, while south Mumbai recorded 82.2mm, as Cyclone Ockhi went past the city. It was also the all-time high December rain for Mumbai. Meanwhile, the city received rain two days after recording the highest maximum temperature in the country on Tuesday and Wednesday, according to IMD. From 36.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday to 36 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, the maximum temperature began dropping from Thursday to 33.8 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) was at 145 (moderate) with hazy conditions on early Friday but researchers said showers would help improve the AQI over the weekend. An AQI of 139 (moderate) has been predicted for Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-unseasonal-light-showers-on-friday-minimum-temperature-still-high/story-dhgQwAdOsCN047MZ0RroSJ.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Pvt unaided schools charitable institutions, must ensure online education for all, govt tells HC||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi high court that all private unaided schools, being charitable institutions, cannot resort to profiteering and they must ensure that in emergent situations, every student has access to proper education. To that end, it is the responsibility of schools to provide students with learning materials online without any discrimination or hinderance, the government argued.The Delhi government was responding to a plea by the action committee unaided recognized private schools, an umbrella body of 400 private schools, which had sought the quashing of two orders of the city government, issued on April 18 and August 28, restraining schools from collecting annual charges, development fee and any other fee other than the tuition fee.The government told justice Jayant Nath that the acute financial pressure and stress on the general public owing to the pandemic have not abated and, in such a situation, the attempt by the association to burden parents is “harsh”, “unjust”, “unfair” and “inequitable” to say the least.The government further contended that on examination of the fee statement of private unaided schools, it was found that in most cases, the expenditure incurred on salary and establishment infrastructure was approximately 40%-60% of the tuition fee charged by schools.“It was therefore considered expedient to allow the schools to continue charging only tuition fee as the same would have enabled the schools to continue imparting education to students during the unprecedented situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the document filed by advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government.It further said these educational institutions are bound to ensure that students are not harassed by the charging of any increased tuition fee or any other fee under a new head. It said some schools were found resorting to certain malpractices which were “inhumane”, especially in view of the outbreak of Covid-19.Advocate Kamal Gupta, counsel for the action committee, said “the government of Delhi’s liking for vote bank politics has marred its understanding of devastating consequences upon private education. Property taxes, insurance, maintenance of buildings and infrastructure etc cannot be met from tuition fee”.“What the government calls commercialisation in private schools, is in fact a fraction of cost of the education; the government’s per child expenditure is many times more than private schools. Annual charges and development fee, if not collected, would lead to closure of many schools,” Gupta said.The government told the court that some private schools were not providing online learning material/classes to students whose parents have not paid or not agreed to pay the “illegally hiked fee”. “Even though the tuition fee covered the cost towards salary, establishments, and curricular activities such as library, lab, science fee, computer fee, examination expenses, etc., some private schools were not paying salary to the teaching and non-teaching staffs in this ongoing lockdown or paying them less salary,” the affidavit filed on November 17 said.Aprajitha Gautam, from the Delhi Parents Association, alleged that the Delhi government is not taking action against the erring schools which have violated the rules laid down by the authorities.“The government’s stand in the court and on the ground is completely different. It is not taking action against several schools which continue to charge the development fee and annual charges. We had shared with the government a list of 76 schools which had violated the norms. However, no action has been taken against them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pvt-unaided-schools-charitable-institutions-must-ensure-online-education-for-all-govt-tells-hc/story-HqQtrd1SkCs9EubT35oRkN.html
