13-12-2020||Delhi||10,000 Delhiites now dead from Covid-19||With 33 new deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in Delhi on Sunday, the total number of people who have lost their lives to the viral infection in the Capital crossed the 10,000 mark – becoming only the fourth state in the country to do so.As of Sunday, the infection has killed a total of 10,014 people from the 607,454 people infected so far, according to government health bulletin.The grim landmark, however, comes at the time when the outbreak in the city appears to be under control for the third time. Sunday’s new deaths were the lowest single-day fatalities reported in Delhi in 45 days, or since October 29, when 27 new deaths were reported.Los Angeles mayor sounds alarm on rising Covid-19 deathsThe hospital bed occupancy is lowest in three months, according to state health minister Satyendar Jain. Of the total 18,807 hospital beds earmarked for Covid patients in Delhi, 4,446 are occupied as on Sunday. “Delhi has the least case fatality ratio at 1.6, comparatively, Ahmedabad is at 4.0, Mumbai at 3.8, Kolkata at 2 and Chennai at 1.8. Because of improved health infrastructure and continued monitoring of home isolation, Delhi has been able to achieve 96% recovery rate,” Jain said in a tweet on Sunday.In absolute numbers, however, Delhi remains one of the worst-hit regions in the country. For every million residents, the Capital has seen 505 people die from the viral infection – twice the national average (110 deaths per million population).Indian defence forces to stock weapons, ammo for 15-day intense warDelhi’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of confirmed cases that have died due to the disease — is 1.65%, significantly higher than the national CFR of 1.45%. Among the major states, only four — Punjab (CFR of 3.17%), Maharashtra (2.57%), Gujarat (1.84%) and West Bengal (1.74%) — have seen a higher proportion of those infected die from the disease.On average, 53 people have lost their lives to Covid-19 every day in the past week. This is the lowest the seven-day average of deaths has been in 37 days (since November 6). At the peak of the third wave, which is currently ebbing, 116 people were dying every day on average in Delhi for the week ending November 24. This was the highest death rate since mid-June (to be sure, deaths in this period were artificially inflated as Delhi retrospectively added fatalities that had been erroneously not attributed to Covid-19, according to the Delhi government). Since then, however, as cases have declined, deaths have been falling as well.Delhi, which was one of the earlier hot spots for India’s outbreak is the only region in the country that has seen three distinct waves of infections. The first started in mid-June, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This receded by the end of July when it dropped to around 1,000 daily cases. The second wave started at the end of August, rising until mid-September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 for the week ending September 17. This again dropped to 2,574 in the week ending October 9, before the onset of the third wave. The third wave raged through October and November, leading to the largest surge seen so far. The seven-day average of new cases peaked on November 14, when it touched 7,341 – the highest recorded so far. Since then, however, cases have started receding almost steadily.A Delhi government spokesperson said: “The people of Delhi have fought a courageous fight against Corona over the last 9 months. At 1.65%, Delhi’s fatality rate is the lowest among all large cities in India. The credit goes entirely to our Corona warriors — our doctors, nurses, paramedics and all health officials who have worked day and night over the last 9 months to save countless lives.”Experts say that Delhi’s low hospital occupancy means that better care can be provided to patients that are critical, which means that the number of deaths may remain low in the coming weeks.“The number of deaths recorded per day is slowly going down now. And it should be seen with other parameters such as increased tests, lower number of new cases surfacing each day and the low positivity rate. Overall, it shows that the situation has improved. It is likely to witness further improvement in the weeks to come. Low occupancy rate of hospital beds also reflects that number of severe cases which requires the patients to be hospitalised are decreasing,” Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said. Delhi, however, remains one of the most fatal Covid-19 regions in the country as experts attributed the relatively high CFR to factors like poor air quality which can worsen the impact of respiratory disease like Covid.“Compared to other metropolitan cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, etc. Delhi has a bad air quality problem, which contributes to respiratory diseases. This year, the festive season, which witnessed massive crowds across the city, coincided with the bad air-quality days. That period also witnessed extremely high number of cases, which eventually led to an increase in the death numbers. Secondly, Delhi also witnessed high number of cases arriving from other states. Most such cases were severe and they arrived very late. Such cases contributed to high death toll in the city. But the situation seems much better now,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-000-delhiites-now-dead-from-covid-19/story-3EQBJ5YJhTXyqRMXmJS59L.html
13-12-2020||City||Fadnavis terms Maharashtra government a failure; Opposition boycotts tea party||Alleging that the Uddhav Thackeray- led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is running away from debates on various contentious issues, including the agrarian crisis, reservations to various communities, rising crimes against women and its “failure” in handling the Covid-19 pandemic, the prime Opposition in the state, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), vowed to corner the administration “in public interest”. In protest, the Opposition boycotted the government’s customary tea party on Sunday on the eve of the session. Leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday also alleged that Maharashtra has been driven towards an “undeclared emergency-like situation”. He said that owing to the “arrogance of power”, the Thackeray government has been taking action against the people talking against the government. He added that the government wants to send out a message to its critics by doing so. Citing the action taken against Mumbai Cooperative Central Bank, of which leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar is chairman, Fadnavis said the government was not ready to correct its act despite a “tight slap by court” in the Arnab Goswami and Kangana Ranaut cases. “Maharashtra’s farmers are in grave trouble today, either due to the hailstorms or drought, and multiple failed crops. But they have not received any concrete help from the government despite its tall promises. Similarly, Marathas are deprived of their reservation, women and children are subjected to the rising criminal cases, and the development projects in Mumbai have been halted. We want to debate on these issues plaguing the state and want the government to respond to them, but the debate is denied by curtailing the period of the session,” he said. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters in Mumbai, Fadnavis also alleged that the government has failed to handle the virus outbreak in the state. “Maharashtra has the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19, and so far, over 48,000 people have died due to the infection, contributing to 30-35% of the country’s Covid-19 deaths. The government is patting its own back when it has failed to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state,” he said. Fadnavis also accused the government of corruption in its Covid-19 preparedness, and said a panchnama needs to be done of how the government performed while checking the outbreak. Accusing that Thackeray was visiting the infrastructure projects rolled out by his government, Fadnavis lashed out at MVA government for shifting the Metro-3 car shed to Kanjurmarg from Aarey. He said the decision has delayed the completion of the project by four years, and subsequently caused many cost escalations, which will also affect the ticket price for commuters. “The decision has been taken without any thought or study,” he said. He also pointed out at the contradiction within MVA over the Other Backward Class (OBC) reservation. “Ministers in the state are conducting protests for OBC reservation, while the government has not clarified its stand on the matter. Ministers should voice their demands in the cabinet to ensure that OBC reservation is not affected. It also appears that the government wants to deprive the Maratha community of its reservation. The government failed to take a pressing stand in the Supreme Court and it resulted in interim stay to the reservation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fadnavis-terms-maharashtra-government-a-failure-opposition-boycotts-tea-party/story-sftb1yeadSMoUoaaL3zYwN.html
13-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Burglars steal car, scooter; abandon bike on spot||A gang of burglars stole a car and a scooter from a house in the Sun City Colony of Haibowal on Saturday night.Complainant Rajesh Kumar , who runs a grocery shop on the ground floor of the house and resides on the first floor with his family, said the burglars took the key to the shop and stole a mobile phone from his house. They then took the keys to the car and the scooter from the cash box of the shop and drove away. He learnt of the incident on Sunday morning. On checking the CCTVs, it was found that the burglars had turned up there on a motorcycle and had abandoned it near the house when they fled.On being informed, the Haibowal police initiated an investigation and seized the motorcycle bearing different number plates.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmel Singh, who is investigating the case, said that it is suspected that the burglars had stolen the motorcycle. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-burglars-steal-car-scooter-abandon-bike-on-spot/story-KKYJmZT72pVqDxnQ190LUJ.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,717 Covid-19 cases, 70 deaths; tally 1,880,416, toll 48,209||Maharashtra on Sunday reported fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 infections for a ninth straight day, taking the count to 1,880,416. The state clocked 3,717 new cases, while also reporting 70 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 48,209, at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.56%. There are presently 74,104 active cases in the state. On Sunday, 3,083 patients in the state were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 1,757,005, at a rate of 93.44%. Of the 70 deaths, 48 were in the past 48 hours and 18 were in the past week. The remaining were from before last week.Despite a lower CFR in comparison to March and April, Maharashtra ranks 2nd in the country, behind only Punjab, which has a CFR of 3.17%, according to the Medical Education and Drugs Department’s daily report. Although other key parameters, including positivity, doubling and growth rate are under control, the fatality rate has been hovering around 2.6% for the past few months.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The death rate from the beginning was very high. The current death rate is significantly lower, in terms of sheer numbers, but the old baggage is still there, which is why we are seeing a high CFR. What is hurting our death numbers are the numbers that occurred in March, April and May, pushing our overall CFR higher.”Dr Joshi said one of the main factors is also insufficient testing in the state despite a high testing capacity. Also read: Mumbai civic body to develop app for Covid-19 vaccination“There are many places in Maharashtra that are not testing at full capacity. Moreover, the stigma around Covid-19 is still there, so symptomatic patients are not testing on time. When you test late, you get medical attention late, and the chances of death in comorbid patients increase significantly,” Dr Joshi said.So far, Maharashtra has conducted 11,702,457 tests, of which 64,121 were conducted on Sunday. The positivity rate in the state is 16.07%.Cities in Maharashtra like Mumbai, Pune, and Nagpur, among many other smaller cities and towns, have a higher prevalence of comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, and obesity, according to Dr Joshi, along with a high population density, high chances at mobility and migration, which impact covid case numbers.Mumbai on Sunday reported 606 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, taking the count to 290,636 and toll to 10,977, with a CFR of 3.77%. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “If we see, the weekly CFR in the state is 1.77% for the past few weeks. This is a good sign. The cumulative CFR is 2.5% due to the load of earlier deaths. Mortality is more in urban Maharashtra, such as Mumbai, Pune and Thane, that are taking up to 60% of the load. Moreover, the dynamics of population density also factor into the equation. Once infection rate increases due to high population density, high-risk groups are at a higher chance of contributing to mortality.”However, authorities said the overall picture in Maharashtra is positive. Awate said, “We were expecting an increase in cases post Diwali, but that has not happened, and that is a good sign. Our positivity rate has reduced too.” Regarding not testing to full capacity, Awate said, “Number of tests is an indirect reflection of positivity rate. Contacts of patients are tested, so when cases per day decrease, tests decrease too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-717-covid-19-cases-70-deaths-tally-1-880-416-toll-48-209/story-cBBkJ4N2alv1oOsfO5PAlO.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Will enforce only CAA,’ says Vijayvargiya as BJP takes U-turn on NRC in Bengal||Months after campaigning in Bengal in support of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday took a U-turn, saying it would not be implemented in the state which goes to the polls next year. Till the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP’s national and state leaders had maintained that the NRC will be prepared in all states, including Bengal. During a visit to the headquarters of the Matua Mahasangha at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas on Saturday, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told the Matua community’s young face and local BJP Lok Sabha member Shantanu Thakur and others that the Centre will implement the new citizenship law as per the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) but there will be no NRC exercise in West Bengal like Assam. Vijayvargiya is in charge of the BJP’s organization in the state. He went to Thakurnagar to discuss Union home minister Amit Shah’s possible visit. Shah will arrive in Bengal on December 19 on a two-day trip. The Matua community, which migrated from Bangladesh to escape religious persecution before and after the Independence is the single largest Namashudra or Dalit Hindu community in the state. It can influence the outcome of elections in many assembly segments along the Indo-Bangladesh border. For the Matua community, which hosted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first election campaign in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, permanent citizenship is a longstanding demand. Also read: Date for next round of talks with farmers soon - Union ministerThe BJP will start campaigning from January for the implementation of the new citizenship law, Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy announced at a public meeting in Kolkata on December 6. BJP national president JP Nadda also said during his recent visit that CAA will be enforced once the rules are framed. However, till Saturday, no leader said that there will be no NRC in Bengal. “The BJP is confused. Its leaders are scared of preparing the NRC in Bengal after what happened in Assam where more than 12 lakh Hindus did not find their names in the draft list,” Bengal’s minister of state for parliamentary affairs, Tapas Roy, told HT. “NRC was a political slogan for the BJP. Now it has backtracked because numerous Hindus in the state will face trouble if the exercise is carried out. I have a feeling that the government will not be able to enforce the CAA as well,” said Kolkata-based political science professor and current affairs analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay. TMC tackles rebelsConcerned by rumblings among senior leaders before the crucial assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership on Sunday held talks with disgruntled state forest minister Rajib Banerjee in a bid to bridge differences while expelling a close aide of heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari who resigned from the cabinet last month. The expelled leader, Kanishka Panda, was secretary of the TMC unit in East Midnapore district where the Adhikari family represents two Lok Sabha seats, an assembly seat and heads a civic body. TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor held an hour-long meeting with the forest minister at Chatterjee’s residence. While Chatterjee remained tight-lipped, Banerjee claimed that the talks covered “political strategy.” Also read: How much Covid-19 vaccine will be shipped in USLeaders close to the minister, however, said he raised issues such as corruption and nepotism by some leaders in Howrah district, where Banerjee represents the Domjur assembly seat while talking to Chatterjee and Kishor. “I attended the meeting as a party worker. We discussed strategy for the coming days. I cannot share anything more with the media. In a party, there can be disgruntled people and there can be people who are over-satisfied. These things are sorted through discussion. I will be available if I am called for more talks,” the forest minister said. Posters in support of Banerjee and Adhikari are appearing across West Bengal, including Kolkata, since last month, stoking speculations that the two popular and comparatively younger leaders, may leave the TMC. Posters, with images of Banerjee and the words, “symbol of honesty,” written in Bengali, appeared in Howrah on Sunday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-enforce-only-caa-says-vijayvargiya-as-bjp-takes-u-turn-on-nrc-in-bengal/story-1pnfZQIqKYN0Pi7ZeBtyDK.html
13-12-2020||City||Punjab State 3X3 Basketball Tournament: Ludhiana Basketball Academy registers win||The Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA), Guru Nanak Club, and Kapurthala Club recorded wins in different categories during the final matches of the Punjab State 3x3 Basketball Tournament held at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Sunday. In the under-17 boys’ finals, Kapurthala Club defeated Mansa Club by 1 point and was declared the winner. The latter was declared the runner-up. The final match in the under-17 girls’ category was played between Guru Nanak Club and Punjab Stealers team. Guru Nanak Club defeated the Punjab Stealers by 10-5 and won the match. Punjab Stealers bagged the runners-up title. Ludhiana Basketball Academy won the final match against SSM College, Dinanagar, by 10 points in the under-19 boys’ category. SSM College was declared as the runner-up. In the women’s category, players of Guru Nanak Club, Ludhiana, were declared winners and Ambala Club as runners-up. While in the men’s category, the final match was played between Z Black, Kotakpura, and Gymkhana Club, Ludhiana. In the action-packed match, Z Black emerged victorious and, Gymkhana Club was declared the runner-up. MLA Kuldeep Vaid presided over the closing ceremony and gave prizes to the winning teams. Gurpreet Singh Toor, ‎deputy inspector general, was the guest of honour. He appreciated the players for their spectacular performance in all the matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-state-3x3-basketball-tournament-ludhiana-basketball-academy-registers-win/story-onPBYewfgCvyFu8qzyLFSM.html
13-12-2020||City||NCB arrests 3 with hashish worth ₹2 crore in Mumbai||Officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have busted an inter-state drug smuggling racket and arrested three people from Lokmanya Tilak Terninus (LTT) in the case. The trio — Aftab Ali Hishamoddin Shaikh, Sabir Ali Azhar Sayyed and Shamim Bano Quereshi — were allegedly carrying 6.6kg of Kashmiri hashish (charas) worth more than ₹2 crore. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede has said that the high-quality hashish was smuggled to Mumbai from Kashmir. The accused, who are Kurla (East) residents, have allegedly been getting drugs from Kashmir to the city to sell it to other peddlers in Mumbai, said NCB. “They gang travels with children and inducts women to avoid raising any suspicion,” said an officer. The agency had received specific inputs about the accused and was keeping an eye on their activities from a long time, said officers.The trio have been arrested under the relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. NCB claims that it has carried out two major operations in a week to hit the supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncb-arrests-3-with-hashish-worth-2-crore-in-mumbai/story-uGS47Id2RbzFm0B8GOnvTL.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Vandana Sharma is BJP’s mayoral pick for Ambala MC elections||The district chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee, Dr Vandana Sharma, is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) mayoral candidate for the Ambala municipal corporation elections, the party announced on Sunday. She’s married to state party spokesperson, Dr Sanjay Sharma.The names of 15 BJP ward candidates out of 20 were also announced with party ally Jannayak Janata Party contesting five seats. Dr Sharma, 53, is also a practising BAMS (bachelor of ayurveda, medicine, and surgery) doctor in Ambala while Sanjay Sharma is considered close to the state president OP Dhankar. On her selection, Dr Sharma said, “What we have always learnt is that the politics is just for public service and with this announcement, I’ll ensure that the seat is credited to the party. If elected, we’ll work for the development of Ambala and on the ideals of the party.”The wards other BJP candidates are contesting from are: Gurvinder Singh, 1; Yashpal, 2; Manish Anand, 3; Gurvinder Singh Saggu, 4; Ravinder Kumar Gupta, 5; Archna Chibbar, 6; Monika Mal, 7; Meena Dhingra, 8; Ramesh Devi, 9; Nitika Grover, 12; Yatin Bansal, 13; Shobha Puniya,15; Hitesh Jain,16; Soniya Rani Sharma, 17 and Satya Prakash Goyal,19. The JJP announced its candidates earlier in the day from wards 10, 11, 14, 18 and 20. The BJP announced the names for Panchkula and Sonepat seats on Saturday. Discussions over the Ambala candidate took time as all the three names in the reckoning, Dr Sharma, Parveen Kumari, wife of former district chief Jagmohan Kumar and Shelja Suchdeva, wife of BJP leader Sandeep Suchdeva, were strong contenders for the post. BJP had won only one out of 11 wards in the last MC elections (2013-2018) and the party’s lone corporator Harish Sharma had also sought a mayor’s ticket for his wife. The Congress had won nine seats then but former mayor Ramesh Mal switched over to the BJP in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vandana-sharma-is-bjp-s-mayoral-pick-for-ambala/story-qoK5IBgRV38j569jsNexNM.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||2 men held for stabbing friend in south-east Delhi’s Sunlight colony||The police have arrested two men for allegedly stabbing and critically injuring a man in southeast Delhi’s Sunlight Colony area after he refused to bring liquor for them on Saturday. The suspects worked as housekeeping staff at the Central Government Office Complex in Lodhi Colony, police said.Police identified the two arrested men as Rahul Kumar, 25, and Rohit Kajaniya, 25, both residents of Ashram in south Delhi. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said on Saturday they received a call reporting that twop people had stabbed a man in Siddharth Basti area. The caller said the injured man had been taken to hospital where the victim, Rohit Arora, told police that around 5.30pm, when he along with Kajania and Kumar were drinking liquor at Dhobi Park, the former asked him to get some more liquor for them, but he refused.“This sparked an argument between Arora and the other two. When he tried to leave, the two held him and stabbed him in his back. As Arora collapsed, the two men fled,” Meena said, adding that a case of attempt to murder was registered on Arora’s complaint.The DCP said multiple raids were then conducted at the hideouts of the two suspects and on both of them were arrested on Sunday.“Kajania said he always kept a knife with him and on Saturday during the argument with Arora he was outraged. He said when Arora tried to run away he and Rahul caught him and stabbed him,” Meena said, adding that the knife was also recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-men-held-for-stabbing-friend-in-south-east-delhi-s-sunlight-colony/story-PipF1OQSFbOYKrwlkpEjNK.html
13-12-2020||City||Miscreants rob elderly man of scooter, cash in Ludhiana; return Rs 200 for ride back home||An elderly man was robbed of his scooter and Rs 1,800 cash at gunpoint by three armed men near Eldeco Estate, GT Road, on Saturday night. Victim Pradeep Kumar, 65, a resident of New Pratap Nagar, who works in a vernacular daily, stated that he had gone to a marriage bureau seeking a suitable match for his son and was returning home when the incident took place. Pradeep added that around 9 pm when he was crossing the Eldeco estate area, three masked men who were already present there stopped him and robbed him at gunpoint. He did not resist and handed over his belongings to the accused, including a wallet containing Rs 2,000. When the accused were fleeing the spot, the complainant asked them how he was supposed to return home, in response to which they returned Rs 200 to him for cab fare. The victim filed a complaint with the Salem Tabri police after the miscreants fled the spot. ASI Jatinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that the police are scanning the CCTVs installed in the area to trace the accused. A case, under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54, and 59, of the Arms Act, was lodged against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-rob-elderly-man-of-scooter-cash-in-ludhiana-return-rs-200-for-ride-back-home/story-K2OnDqMojUGPGYYLjwAk5K.html
13-12-2020||Noida||More than 25K debtors owe bad loans of over ₹3,500 crore to GB Nagar banks||Gautam Buddh Nagar district banks have declared outstanding loans worth ₹3,549 crore as non-performing assets (NPA).A bank classifies a loan as an NPA when the beneficiary fails to repay after 90 days. According to official figures, 25,141 loan accounts were declared NPA. A majority of these accounts were of micro, small and medium entrepreneurs. Not only that, due to lack of proper equilibrium between the deposits and advances, the credit-debit ratio (CDR) of the banks in the district, has gone down to 56.15%, which is less than the ‘healthy’ CDR of 60%. GB Nagar district lead bank manager (LBM) Ved Ratna said, “Recovery of NPA is never an easy task for banks as most of these loans come under litigation at later stage.”The LBM said banks have already initiated the recovery process of these ‘bad’ loans. “At first, they will start the recovery of these defaulted loans without recourse to judicial process, under which the banks will issue notices to debtors and ask them to make payments of dues on their heads. If the borrower is cooperative, their assets charged to banks will be sold by private negotiations or by auction. If they do not co-operate, the banks will take legal course and the loans will be recovered through legal process by the orders of the courts,” he said. About the CDR of the banks, the LDM said that while the deposits in different banks of the district have been recorded ₹1,08,474 crore, the advances given to the customers have gone down to ₹60,926 crore. “It is mainly due to heavy push of deposits into government accounts, which has caused imbalance between deposits and finance. The government has deposited heavy funds of over ₹4,000 crore in its bank accounts as many upcoming projects like Jewar airport and Smart City will come up soon. On the other hand, we don’t have as many entrepreneurs here, who seek funds from the banks. As a result, the CDR has gone down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/more-than-25k-debtors-owe-bad-loans-of-over-3-500-crore-to-gb-nagar-banks/story-UtljyYC3d0X9dy6SaLUmdM.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Three former employees of ATM cash loading firm steal nearly ₹11 lakh, FIR filed||Noida: Police have registered a case against three former employees of a private firm, which provides ATM cash loading services, for allegedly stealing nearly ₹11 lakh from several ATMs in Noida. The suspects have been identified as Manish Kumar, a resident of Raghunathpur village; Arun Kumar, a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Ghaziabad; and Vipin Kumar, a resident of Jhundpura in Noida Sector 11. Sandeep Jangra, branch manager of CMS Infosystems, filed a complaint against them at Sector 24 police station on December 10. In the FIR, he stated that the company deals in loading cash in ATMs of different banks. “We had engaged three custodians for loading the cash in the machines. All the three suspects were working in Noida region. The three persons manipulated the machines and stole ₹10.70 lakh from different ATMs,” he said. When contacted, Jangra refused to share details about the case. Manish Kumar, one of the suspects, said that he had worked for the company for almost 18 months. “During the lockdown, the company sacked a number of employees including me. They cleared my dues and took over the charge from me. I left the firm and found a job in another company. I do not know why the company has filed a complaint against me after six months,” he said. Prabhat Dixit, in-charge of Sector 24 police station, said that based on the complaint a case has been registered against three suspects under Section 420 (cheating) and Sector 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC. “We have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-former-employees-of-atm-cash-loading-firm-steal-nearly-11-lakh-fir-filed/story-mupGH9050zQAHdqxQahRFP.html
13-12-2020||City||Noida: Webinar on waste handling and sustainable living||NOIDA: The Noida authority has appealed to residents to participate in a webinar on “best waste management practices and sustainable living”, with an aim to encourage them to treat their waste at home or residential premises, thus contributing in making Noida a clean city. During the webinar, to be held on December 15, an appeal will be made to residents to avoid the use of plastic carry bags, and other such environment-friendly practices that can do wonders in helping keep the city clean.“It is an awareness webinar towards waste segregation, and better waste management at the household level and the society level. Our motive is to spread awareness about benefits of a responsive civil society and engage the public in sanitation efforts for better results,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Greater Noida authority.The webinar is scheduled from 12 pm to 2pm on Tuesday. All top officials of the Noida authority, as well as representatives from residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations (AOA) and other social groups are due to take part in this webinar, which will discuss on ways each individual can do his or her bit to make sanitation efforts of the administration better, and help the city perform better in the upcoming Swachhta survey 2020-21.The authority has been engaging all social groups with its campaign to help the city score better, well in advance of the survey. The survey is likely to be started next month by the ministry of housing and urban development.In 2019, Noida had ranked 25th in the country in the 10 lakh population category and first in the state. To achieve a better rank this time, the authority is engaging social groups, which also give feedback to the survey teams during the process.“It is our city and it is our duty to play a role in improving the sanitation services. If Noida is ranked better and is able to score higher in the cleanliness index, it will be a matter of pride to all of us,” said Rajiva Singh President, Noida federation of AOA, an umbrella body of AOAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-webinar-on-waste-handling-and-sustainable-living/story-UDI2pETk0nHI8SCuVHKKCP.html
13-12-2020||City||Man booked for raping, impregnating 14-year-old neighbour in Ludhiana||A labourer was booked for allegedly raping and his ailing neighbour’s 14-year-old daughter for seven days. The accused, Suresh Kumar, had been looking after the victim when he raped her. The victim’s mother said she had been admitted to a hospital in April and her husband had stayed with her. As there was no one at home to take care of their daughter and five-year-old son, they had asked Suresh to do so. The family found out that the girl was eight months pregnant when they took her to a hospital for treatment of an enlarged stomach. On being asked, the girl said that the accused had raped her in her parents’ absence. He had threatened to kill her and her brother if she told anyone about it. Later, the family lodged an FIR against the accused. Sub-inspector Jagdeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-raping-impregnating-14-year-old-neighbour-in-ludhiana/story-G2haOxofHp4osItNqkid1J.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Man booked for cheating 50 candidates on pretext of govt jobs||Noida: A group of job seekers on Sunday filed a complaint against a man, accusing him of employement fraud in Noida’s Sector 22. Police said that the suspect allegedly ran a placement agency in Sector 22. They said he had allegedly received money from about 50 candidates ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000, and promised government teacher’ and legal advisors’ jobs at the block-level, based on the candidates’ qualifications.Prabhat Dixit, the in-charge of Sector 24 police station, said a group of candidates has filed a complaint against the suspect.“The suspect used to provide training for two-three months on the pretext of facilitating government jobs. He used to charge money from each candidate. The job seekers said that some of them were also handed over offer letters of jobs as government teachers. These teachers were also made to work at some schools in Western UP. However, when they did not get the salary, they suspected foul play and approached the police,” Dixit said.When the candidates reached the suspect’s office, they found him absconding and the office closed. Charu, a resident of Ghaziabad, told the police that the suspect had promised her a job as a teacher. “The suspect used to call her to some government offices to instill faith that he had networks in the government,” she alleged.Police said that they are investigating if these candidates had worked in some government school or in private school. “We sent a team at the suspects’ institute and found him absconding. We are investigating the matter from all angles. A case will be registered after a primary investigation is conducted,” Dixit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-booked-for-cheating-50-candidates-on-pretext-of-govt-jobs/story-Ad8PjFSDddh3KlVgUpvRkK.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Orange alert for fog for next two days, mercury to fall||Noida: The mercury fell by two degrees over the past 24-hours in the region, with the weather department forecasting dense to very dense fog till Tuesday. Analysts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that due to the mixing of winds from two directions – easterly and north-westerly – the region will see foggy mornings.According to analysts, visibility during the morning hours is likely to drop below 50 metres and at some parts, below 10 metres. It will begin to improve from Wednesday as fog density will shrink to the moderate level, officials said.“There is an orange alert for the next two days for fog. At present, temperatures are low, humidity is high and while wind speed is good, they are variable. The north-westerly winds are cold and dry, and easterly winds are humid. This leads to fog in the morning hours, around 5am to 8am. From Wednesday onwards, winds will not be variable and be north-westerly, which will improve visibility,” said an official from the IMD.On Sunday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 13.5 degrees Celsius, against 15.5 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature for the National Capital Region, based on the data from the Safdarjung observatory, was 11.1 degrees Celsius. The humidity levels oscillated between 70 and 100%.On Monday, the minimum temperature is likely to hover around 9 degrees Celsius.“Winter chill is already being felt, however, the temperature will drop further by three degrees Celsius by Tuesday. There will be fog on Monday and Tuesday in isolated and open areas for a short duration,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/orange-alert-for-fog-for-next-two-days-mercury-to-fall/story-kFlmRwVG9GnV2ygfCnxPCI.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Short breather for Noida, Ghaziabad as air quality improves||Noida: The residents of Noida and Ghaziabad received a short respite as the air quality improved due to ventilation of pollutants, brought about by an increase in wind speed.Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, which were in the “severe” category of pollution on Saturday, improved to “very poor” category on Sunday, while Noida improved to the lower end of the “very poor” category on Sunday, from the higher end of this category on Saturday.The air quality this month has so far oscillated between the “very poor” and the “severe” category, according to the air quality index (AQI) data of the Central Pollution Control Board. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a weather monitoring agency of the central government, the AQI is likely to improve towards Monday but may deteriorate on Tuesday.“The overall air quality is in the “very poor” category. Surface-level winds are moderate and west-north-westerly and moderate winds and better ventilation conditions are forecasted for the next two days... AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and on the lower end of the “very poor” category on December 15 (Tuesday),” said SAFAR statement on Sunday.The air quality index of Noida on Sunday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 322, against 393 on Saturday, and 324 on Friday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 332 on Sunday, against 404 on Saturday, and 330 on Friday, while the AQI of Ghaziabad was 318 on Sunday, against 415 on Saturday, and 377 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor” and above 400 is considered “severe”.The fine particle or pollutant levels improved on Sunday, yet they are still three times the safe limit.The pollutant PM 2.5, for the past 24 hours in Noida, was recorded at 186.47 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) against 244.40µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM 2.5 for Greater Noida was 212.41µg/m3 against 261.79µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM 2.5 for Ghaziabad was 216.22µg/m3 against 274.22µg/m3 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM 2.5 is 60µg/m3. Experts said they believe that wind speed will be high till Monday, which will lead to better ventilation. “Wind speeds on Sunday were around 16 to18 kmph towards the afternoon, against less than 10 kmph on Saturday. Also, Sunday saw comparatively clearer skies, and all these factors lead to better ventilation and improvement in air quality. Weather conditions will be similar on Monday, leading to further improvement,” said Mahesh Palawat, head, private weather forecasting agency Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/short-breather-for-noida-ghaziabad-as-air-quality-improves/story-KiUjVKU93PVLkgyvwe83dL.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: New, improved Byculla station by January 26||The 160-year-old Byculla railway station will get back to its heritage glory in 2021. The first phase of the restoration work at the station will be completed and open for public on January 26, 2021, followed by the beginning of the second phase of work for the restoration.The heritage building of Byculla railway station comprises historical architecture at the entrance and includes stained designed glass windows, walls, grills in the interior and exterior of the station premises. The restoration, which began last year, includes beautification of the entrance of the railway station, restoration work of the roof in the heritage wing, facade and lighting at platform number one of the station. Restoration work of walls, benches and beautification of the garden area outside the station will be undertaken soon. Vehicle parking facilities will also be developed on the east and west side of the station.“The interior design structure of the station premises will take you back to the British era. The station building has historic architecture that is being restored. The building is also one among the oldest railway stations on the Indian railways,” said a senior Central Railway (CR) official. CR along with non-government organization (NGO) I Love Mumbai and Minal Bajaj, trustee of Bajaj Group, have undertaken the restoration work which is being carried out by conservation architect Abha Lambah.“The restoration work is being done to revive the old glory of the railway station. We have worked throughout the year and will open the first phase for Mumbaiites in January 2021,” said Shaina NC, trustee, I Love Mumbai. In 2017, the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Review Committee had recommended revamping of Byculla and Raey Road railway stations of CR. Byculla station was one of the first stations constructed during the British era in the early 1860s.CR officials had, in 2017, decided to preserve the historical aesthetic of Byculla railway station under corporate social responsibility (CSR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-new-improved-byculla-station-by-january-26/story-ZF0bJQqcDfLquv931nQMaN.html
13-12-2020||Noida||100 BJP workers booked for organising ‘welcome rally’ in Greater Noida||Noida: The Dadri police have registered a case against over 100 workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for allegedly organising an unauthorised rally on Sunday. According to the police, the workers allegedly gathered in Dadri in the afternoon, travelled to Bulandshahr and violated social distancing norms, in place due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic.Police said the “welcome rally” was allegedly for a newly appointed party functionary, Pundit Ashish Vats, who was appointed as chetriya mantri for BJP’s western Uttar Pradesh wing on Saturday.Rudra Pratap, a sub-inspector, filed a complaint at the Dadri police station in this regard. He said that a police team was deployed at the Luharli toll plaza since the morning. “At 12.45pm, Vats, along with a group of BJP workers, reached the toll plaza in eight to 10 cars. These cars were overcrowded and violated social distancing norms. Some of them were not wearing masks, which is mandatory for the prevention of coronavirus,” he alleged in the FIR.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that a case has been registered against Vats and his 100 supporters under IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant.), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), Section 270 (rash driving), and Section 3 the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.“There is enforcement of Section 144 of the CrPC in the district, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area. The BJP workers had violated the law and a case has been registered. The police are investigating the matter,” Pandey said.A video of the alleged “welcome programme” also surfaced, in which the party workers were purportedly seen travelling in cars, sitting on the cars’ windows sills, and also standing up in the moving, convertible cars. Some of the vehicles were also equipped with sirens and pressure horns, which created traffic nuisance on the way.Vats was not available for a comment while BJP GB Nagar president Vijay Bhati’s mobile phone was switched off. Pundit Karamveer Arya, BJP’s Gautam Budh Nagar media in-charge, said that he was not available in the city on Saturday and has no information about the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/100-bjp-workers-booked-for-organising-welcome-rally-in-greater-noida/story-SiyjN815RBkp8gj0Lp9kHM.html
13-12-2020||City||Harassed by neighbour, Ludhiana woman hangs self with 14-year-old daughter||A woman and her 14-year-old daughter who were being harassed by a neighbour and her male accomplice on social networking sites hung themselves in their home in Raghubir Park of Haibowal on Saturday. While the woman died, her daughter is in a critical condition. The woman’s husband found the 30-year-old hanging from a ceiling fan on the first floor of the house while his teenaged daughter was found hanging on the verandah outside the room. A suicide note was found where the woman blamed her neighbour, Anu, and her accomplice, who is yet to be identified, for abetting the suicide. The accused have been booked but are on the run. The teenager was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.The police are waiting for the teen to gain consciousness to record a statement. At the time of the incident, the victim’s mother-in-law, father-in-law and five-year-old daughter were present on the ground floor of the house.The mother-in-law said in the evening the victim came downstairs and handed her daughter to her and went to her room. She had no clue that her daughter-in-law and granddaughter would hang themselves.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Malkit Singh, Jagatpuri Police post in-charge, said the police were unsure if the woman had convinced her daughter to hang herself or she had ended her life after hanging her daughter. A manhunt has been lodged for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harassed-by-neighbour-ludhiana-woman-hangs-self-with-14-year-old-daughter/story-ZRK1yCBhseqz9ua6VIbMTO.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Focused testing finds 249 positive cases between Dec 1-8||Ghaziabad: More coronavirus (Covid-19) cases have been traced during the district’s health department’s focused testing drive in high case-load areas in December, as compared to focused testing done during the pre-Diwali and post-Diwali period.Officials said that focused testing is different from the regular testing being taken up daily at the various testing centres in the city. The drive was initiated on the directions of the Uttar Pradesh government, which directed officials to map high incidence areas and take up testing drives there to trace infected persons.As per health department data, the results of the drive from December 1 to December 8 have indicated that 13,226 tests were conducted and these resulted in 249 positive cases, with a positivity rate of about 1.88%. These included 9,494 tests through rapid antigen kits (which gave 142 positive cases) while 3,732 were taken up through the use of the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) (which gave 107 positive cases) method.Meanwhile, pre-Diwali focused testing was conducted by the district health department from October 29 to November 12, during which a total of 20,852 tests were conducted which resulted in overall 139 positive cases, with a positivity rate of about 0.66%.Likewise, about 21,801 overall tests were conducted during the post-Diwali period, from November 19 to November 30, and these yielded a total of 257 positive cases, with a positivity rate of about 1.17%.“The idea of this drive is to filter out cases which have a potential to infect others. The drive will continue in high incidence areas and certain pockets have been identified where additional testing teams have been deployed. Although the positivity rate is comparatively less than the overall positivity, cases being traced are large in numbers and need to be isolated,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to officials, the testing teams are conducting tests in Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Karhera, Sahibabad, Kavi Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Vijay Nagar, among others, from where officials have found most Covid-19 positive cases from March to November.“For conducting focused testing, we have deployed additional teams in these high case load areas and these teams are conducting tests after getting in touch with local residents’ welfare associations and councillors. This focused testing is different from the regular testing done at our static testing centres across the city. During the eight days’ period, we found about 249 cases, which is a big number considering the impact if such infected persons were left unattended, and they could have possibly passed on the virus to others,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“We conducted focused testing on ‘super spreader’ groups before and after Diwali festival, and the positivity rate was low. During focused testing in high incidence areas, the positivity is higher. So, the results are encouraging and such testing will continue,” he added.The ‘super spreader’ groups included groups of staff of malls, sweet shops, beauty salons, vehicle workshops and observation homes, inmates of Dasna jail and auto drivers, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-focused-testing-finds-249-positive-cases-between-dec-1-8/story-Qb127tDV1qJw0EgaskeCYL.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Towel left in Ludhiana woman’s womb, inquiry marked||In a shocking incident, doctors who carried out a caesarean operation at the Civil Hospital on December 8 were accused of leaving a towel inside a woman’s womb on Sunday. The matter came to light after the woman’s husband, Ravinder Singh, accompanied by his relatives and other social activists staged a sit-in protest outside the mother and child unit of the civil hospital and demanded stringent action against the operating doctors and the staff for gross negligence. Taking serious note of the incident, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga has marked an inquiry into the matter.“These are serious allegations. We have marked an inquiry and constituted a committee to probe the incident,” said Bagga.The complainant, Ravinder, a resident of Shimlapuri said his wife was rushed to the civil hospital on December 7 after she experienced labour pain. “The doctors suggested a caesarean operation after carrying out a few tests. The surgery took place on December 8, though the baby was healthy, my wife was writing in pain and was unable to urinate. We consulted the doctors and showed them swelling on her stomach but she was only given a sedative.” “When the pain did not subside for two days, I urged the hospital to refer us to a private hospital but they encouraged us to go to Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Finally, I took her to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) on December 11 where the doctors operated on my wife and found a towel in her womb. Their negligence could have led to my wife’s death,” said Ravinder.After staging a protest for nearly an hour, he lodged a formal complaint against the doctors and staff that had carried out the operation.SIMILAR INCIDENT It is not the first time that the civil hospital has been accused of gross negligence. In May 2019 , the staff of Mother Child Hospital had wrongly transfused A+ blood to a patient who was B+. On the basis of the report submitted, action was taken against four Diplomate of National Board (DNB) residents, a blood transfusion officer, one staff nurse and a matron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/towel-left-in-ludhiana-woman-s-womb-inquiry-marked/story-lnQCxudEMe2Vl0725cHVoI.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs Maharashtra government to deposit ₹5 lakh as compensation for custodial death of minor||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently directed the state to deposit a sum of ₹5 lakh which can be withdrawn by the parent of a 16-year-old who was allegedly a victim of custodial violence at Shirdi police station and died on March 31, 2016. The teenager was picked up by Shirdi police from the Saibaba temple premise on the suspicion of pick-pocketing. However, when the minor’s father and brother went to the police station, they were not allowed to see him, and later the police rushed the body to the hospital where the father was informed that his son was dead. The father approached the HC seeking ex-gratia compensation as well as an inquiry against the officers responsible for the death of his son. The court, while granting the compensation, said that the state could recover the amount from the errant police officers. A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice Shrikant Kulkarni, while hearing the criminal writ petition filed by Ashok Rokade, was informed by advocate SS Chapalgaonkar that his client was the father of the 15-year-old who had died while he was kept in lock-up at Shirdi police station on March 31, 2016. He informed the court that as the deceased was a minor and had died while in lock-up, his client was seeking ex-gratia compensation and an inquiry against the officers who put the minor in lock-up without inquiring about his age, and also assaulted and tortured him, which resulted in his death. As per the documents submitted by the police through additional public prosecutor OG Wattamwar, Rokade’s son was allegedly caught in the Saibaba temple premises while he was stealing the purse of a woman. He was handed over to two police personnel who were assigned security duty at the temple. The minor was taken to Shirdi police station where he was handed over to the police station officer who put the suspect in lock-up without finding out his age or following due procedure of informing the family of the suspect or taking him for a medical test. Later, when the Rokade reached the police station, he was not allowed to see his son and was asked to leave. While waiting outside, the father saw police personnel taking away a body which was covered in a blanket. When the father followed the police and reached the hospital, he was informed that his son was dead. Chapalgaonkar submitted that when Rokade tried to lodge a complaint against the police personnel on April 1, 2016, he was ignored and only after he approached the higher authorities, a complaint was lodged against assistant police inspector (ASI) Sangita Ramdas Raut, police hawaldar Shaikh Ayyub Babu, ASI Shaikh Rajjaq Abdul Behram, police naik Rajendra Bhagchand Avhad and police naik Harischandra Baburao Mane. Chapalgaonkar further submitted that a post-mortem was conducted after much persuasion and the report stated that the minor had died of an abrasion on the neck. However, Wattamwar refuted the allegations and said that the suspect had died by suicide and hence, the police were not to be blamed. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the police had not followed proper procedure while arresting the minor, and as CCTV footage was not available and the post-mortem report indicated custodial death, it was directing the state to deposit a sum of ₹5 lakh towards ex-gratia compensation in the court, which could be withdrawn by Rokade. The court further directed the state to recover the amount from the errant police personnel and said that the other prayers of the petition could be decided by the trial court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-maharashtra-government-to-deposit-5-lakh-as-compensation-for-custodial-death-of-minor/story-U1bhYW2x6LzdaQlRugw4MK.html
13-12-2020||Noida||About 68% Covid-related fatalities in Ghaziabad suffer co-morbid conditions||Ghaziabad: As the district comes close to the figure of 100 Covid-related fatalities, an analysis by the health department indicated that about 68% patients who died of Covid-19 had co-morbidities. According to the state control room records, Ghaziabad has reported 98 Covid deaths so far. However, the analysis has been done for 97 deaths, officials of district health department said. The officials said that of the 97 fatalities analysed so far, 66 cases were those which had co-morbid conditions. Of the major co-morbid conditions analysed, there were 39 patients suffering diabetes, 34 had hypertension, six were those who suffered chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), five were found with asthma while another four had renal disorders. “These co-morbid conditions were majorly found in cases of fatalities and it is also possible that one case was suffering more than one co-morbid condition. So, the analysis indicates that patients with co-morbid conditions need special care and must take all precautions,” said an officer from the health department. The age group having the highest fatality rate was of people over 60 years with 35 deaths so far. The second highest age group in terms of fatality was of people aged 46-60 years with 33 deaths so far. The age group 31-45 years suffered 18 fatalities while those aged 16-30 years accounted for a total of nine deaths in the district, showed the health department’s analysis. Age group 0-15 years had two fatalities so far. “We are taking all precautions while dealing with Covid-19 patients having co-morbid conditions. They are immediately referred to L2 or L3 category Covid facility. If they stay in home isolation with very mild co-morbid conditions, there is an extra wing at the Covid command and control centre which monitors their health status regularly. Likewise, we are also monitoring elderly people as well as pregnant women whose condition may complicate, in case they are found positive for infection,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Even all hospitals, including the private hospitals, have been directed to take extra care of cases having co-morbid conditions,” he added. According to the official analysis, about 14 of overall fatalities have taken place in areas of Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Vaishali while 13 have taken place in segment of Vijay Nagar/Kaila Bhatta and another 13 in segment of Muradnagar, among others. Overall, 81 of 97 fatalities have taken place in urban segments, while 16 in rural segments in the district. At present, the overall case fatality rate in the district is 0.4% while it was about 4.04% in the month of June when maximum of 50 fatalities took place. Ever since, eight deaths have taken place in July, seven in August, nine in September, three in October, 10 in November and three in December so far. One death took place in the month of April and another six in May. The analysis indicated that of the 97 patients who died of Covid-19, 58 of them were men while 39 were women. Experts said that those suffering co-morbid conditions and also those in old age need to take extra precautions against Covid. “If possible, they should avoid moving out unless absolutely necessary. It is generally seen that the most affected are those who have diabetes and this doubles chances of fatality. In case people have added co-morbidities like hypertension or heart ailments combined with diabetes, the risk increases up to four times. So, extra precaution is needed for such people,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “Further, those in old age and also those who suffer compromised immunity should also take extra precaution,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/about-68-covid-related-fatalities-in-ghaziabad-suffer-co-morbid-conditions/story-whWtZ14EtKZET5aLlizCUO.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Lalbaug cylinder explosion: Death toll rises to six||After 16 people were injured in a cooking gas cylinder explosion at Lalbaug a week ago, the death toll rose to six on Sunday while the condition of seven others is still critical.The sixth death was reported on Saturday evening as 57-year-old Vinayak Shinde succumbed to his injuries at KEM Hospital in Parel. According to the hospital, the bodies of all the six deceased have been handed over to their relatives after autopsy. Of the 16 injured people, three are admitted at KEM Hospital and four are admitted at Masina Hospital. Three others were discharged following the incident.“Three patients are admitted in the intensive care unit under the plastic surgery department. Two of them have sustained around 30% burns while a female patient has got 80% burns,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean, KEM Hospital.The incident took place at a ground-plus-four-storey structure, Sarabhai building, at Ganesh Galli around 7am on December 6. The blast took place at a room occupied by Rane Caterers, where its owner Mangesh Rane was staying. Building residents said the room was being used to prepare food for guests as some wedding preparations were underway at the Rane household. Reportedly, several cooking gas cylinders were kept in the room where the blast took place. The fire, followed by the blast, started around 7.30am and gutted four rooms on the second floor of the building. The fire was doused in around 30 minutes after the incident took place. Sushila Bangera, 62, was the first person to succumb to the injuries and later, 45-year-old Karim, one of the catering staff, also died. Following the incident, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced ₹2 lakh assistance to the families of those who lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-lalbaug-cylinder-explosion-death-toll-rises-to-six/story-xBk3tYjPxmJsLMzY7C5VaL.html
13-12-2020||City||Greater Noida authority plans to take over stuck projects of bankrupt realty firms||GREATER NOIDA: In a move that can benefit thousands of aggrieved homebuyers, the Greater Noida authority has decided to take over control of some stuck projects of bankrupt realty firms through proper channel, and ensure their timely completion. The authority aims to take over such projects by participating in a process underway at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), officials said. According to the Greater Noida authority’s estimate, there are at least 36 realty firms which are facing trial at NCLT. “We will submit our resolution plan in order to take over defaulted realty project with an aim to deliver the same and benefit homebuyers. We have got information that some companies are being taken over at very low valuation causing loss to homebuyers. To protect their interests, we will step in those cases, where the valuation of a defaulted company is less than the market rates,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Bhooshan further said that if, for example, a defaulted company is getting a rate of ₹100 per square metres when the rate should be ₹500 per square metres, then the authority will come forward to protect the interest of homebuyers and the government.Under section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016, financial creditors can drag debt-ridden real estate companies to NCLT. Subsequently, NCLT appoints an interim resolution professional (IRP), who then invites resolution plans from interested companies, including the government agency, in order to revive the defaulted company. All stakeholders, including homebuyers and banks, vote for a new company who have better resolution plan to take over the bankrupt realty firm. “If a realty firm is not valued properly by participating bidders, then it affects our interests as well as homebuyers. Therefore, it is better that we take it over through the process and develop it,” said Bhooshan. Homebuyers have been demanding that the government entities must take over the defaulted realty projects.“We have written to the UP government and the UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) to make sure the government bodies come forward to take over defaulted projects through IBC provisions because the private firms are not valuing such projects as per the market rates and the interest of homebuyers is not safe,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association.The Greater Noida authority is also keen to take over the defaulted projects because it is struggling to recover around ₹7,000 crore financial dues from the realtors, who have defaulted on payment of land cost amid the slowdown in the realty market, the officials said.UP-Rera also feels that it will be a landmark decision for the real estate sector if the authority comes forward to take over the stuck projects of defaulted realty firms.“It is a major policy decision, and will certainly benefit the sector as a whole and also of course the homebuyers,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera, a government body formed to safeguard the rights of homebuyers and the real estate sector.Sunil Kumar Mishra, a senior lawyer, said, “In the past cases on trial in NCLT, we have observed that very few companies turn up to take over the defaulted firms. And those which turn up value the defaulted group at a low price thereby affecting the investment of all those, who have stake in the debt-ridden company. But if the government bodies participate in bidding, then it will start a healthy eco-system and help in safeguarding the rights of homebuyers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-plans-to-take-over-stuck-projects-of-bankrupt-realty-firms/story-4vpywBWQCvEJEnNlwmSpBK.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Noida-Delhi side at Chilla border opens for traffic; farmers continue protest||Noida: The Noida-Delhi carriageway at Chilla border, which had been closed by a group of farmers for the past 12 days, was reopened for traffic early Sunday morning. The traffic is now open on both sides at the Chilla border, senior police officers said.The development comes after members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union-Bhanu, who had blocked the traffic since December 1 in protest against the Centre’s new farm bills, met with defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi on Saturday evening. Thakur Bhanu Pratap, president of BKU-Bhanu, said, “A number of commuters faced problems due to traffic diversion. On Saturday, we met defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Tomar. The two ministers have assured us that the farmers’ issues will be addressed. Besides, the police officials in Noida requested us to clear the road and allow traffic towards Delhi. We do not want to trouble commuters and hence we have cleared the road.” However, Pratap said that this does not mean the protest has ended. “The protest and traffic movement will continue parallelly,” he said.Meanwhile, the farmers led by BKU-Bhanu’s state president Thakur Yogesh Pratap are continuing protest along the central verge on the same route. Yogesh Pratap also started a hunger strike from Sunday. A ‘havan’ was also performed at the Chilla border on Sunday by the protesting farmers. A spot visit on Sunday showed that the protesters were still stationed along the central verge under a tent. The police have placed barricades at some distance which narrowed the traffic to one lane and reserved some space for protesters. The BKU-Bhanu workers have also parked several SUVs and cars on the road for safety of protesters at the spot. “The police personnel convinced my father to clear the Noida-Delhi road. But farmers have planned to intensify the protest till the demands are met. I am observing hunger strike from Sunday,” Yogesh Pratap said. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the Noida-Delhi route has been cleared. “We have placed barriers to guide the commuters to Delhi. The traffic police personnel have been deployed to ensure smooth commuting. The Delhi-Noida traffic is already functional,” he said.Teams of the Delhi Police have also been deployed on the Mayur Vihar side, the Noida police said, adding that the traffic movement on the DND Flyway and the Kalindi Kunj route, both connecting Noida to Delhi, was also normal on Sunday.Meanwhile, the BKU (Lok Shakti) members at the Dalit Prerna Sthal said that they will hold a hunger strike on Monday. Dr SK Giri, general secretary and spokesperson of BKU (Lok Shakti), said, “We will continue our protest against the farm bills. We will sit on a hunger strike on Monday.”The farmers from different organisations have been protesting at various borders with Delhi against the Centre’s three new agri bills -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-delhi-side-at-chilla-border-opens-for-traffic-farmers-continue-protest/story-qSQp7xEczpdNAPFTdsI68H.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||BMC forms teams to take action against Mumbai nightclubs violating Covid-19 rules||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has formed two teams each across all 24 administrative wards of Mumbai to inspect and take action against nightclubs violating Covid-19 guidelines and operating overtime. The move comes after the civic body recently found many clubs violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and operating till 4am on the weekend. The BMC found over 2,000 people gathered in spaces of fewer than 4000 sq m, not wearing masks, and not maintaining social distancing. According to the act, more than 50 people are not allowed to gather at a location at a time. At present, restaurants, eateries, bars and pubs in the city are allowed till 11.30pm, according to BMC’s unlock plan. Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code is still imposed in the city, in effect since the start of the lockdown in March. Now, the civic body has directed all assistant commissioners of the 24 wards to randomly raid nightclubs in the city starting this week. Civic officials said the teams will comprise officials from the health department, fire brigade and clean-up marshals. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “All wards have been directed to ready their teams for inspections at night clubs. Police officers will also be part of the teams. The teams will act on complaints and will also proactively carry out inspections in their respective areas. From social distancing to fire compliance, everything will be checked by the teams. Clean-up marshals will be part of the inspections, which will also fine people not wearing masks.” On Saturday last week, BMC raided three clubs in Bandra and Lower Parel, after a tip-off that they were operating overnight. Subsequently, at least 1,000 people were forced out by BMC officers during the raid. According to municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, BMC fined everyone who were not wearing masks at this time and FIRs were lodged against the clubs. Mumbai has seen a drop in daily Covid-19 cases since November. Civic officials said all safety norms should be maintained although cases were low. Kakani added, “We want to avoid any risk that could lead to another surge in cases. Even though fewer cases are being reported daily, citizens should continue to follow all precautionary measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-forms-teams-to-take-action-against-mumbai-nightclubs-violating-covid-19-rules/story-grd4bNvGdreubtsVGYkWqJ.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Tankers being used to drain water from Uran wetlands; more security cabins set up at Panje||Following a site visit to Uran in Navi Mumbai on Thursday, environmentalists have revealed that unidentified persons are drying up wetland patches using water tankers to drain large water bodies. The unidentified persons are also creating bunds inside the wetland to restrict water from flowing out and ensuring that it gets evaporated. The techniques were identified by the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed wetland and mangrove grievance redressal committee member Stalin D and environmentalist Nandkumar Pawar. Additionally, 10 new security cabins at the threatened Panje area in Uran have been set up. Both environmentalists took photos of the violations and shared them in a complaint before various bodies of the Maharashtra government on Friday. The alleged destruction of wetlands was highlighted a day after the Raigad district administration informed the HC-panel on Wednesday that there were no wetlands in Uran taluka as per the definition of the new 2017 wetland rules. “Emboldened by the collector’s stand that there are no wetlands in Uran, the land mafia is working overtime to destroy all traces of wetlands in Uran. Despite 13 wetlands being identified by scientific experts and the National Wetland Inventory Atlas, Maharashtra 2011, today only five remain (two sites at Belpada, and one each at Bhendkhal, Sawharkar, and Panje), which are also being squeezed further,” said Stalin, adding, “Time has run out for Uran wetlands only due to inaction of the collector and active support from the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco).” In a separate letter to the Konkan divisional commissioner on Friday, Stalin pointed out that about six years ago, the then chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell) N Vasudevan had submitted a report to the Bombay HC that the Bhendkhal wetland was being reclaimed, and needed to be protected. “Though the reclamation had stopped for a while, the site has been destroyed and only a fraction is in existence today. Illegal truck parking and industrial units have come up on the wetland. We seek removal of all encroachments and debris that from the site,” said Stalin. Nandakumar Pawar, head of environmental group Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan, said he was aghast to see 10 security cabins cropping up at Panje which according to him are either set up by a private company to restrict the entry of birders, environmentalists or local residents. During his visit on Thursday, he found strict security and a board proclaiming the place as private property. “How can a wetland be somebody’s private property,” he asked the security guards preventing bird watchers and local fishing community from entering the wetland. He said the HC-panel had specifically directed Cidco and the Raigad district collector to ensure that Panje is protected and conserved. Environmentalist Aishwarya Sridhar, who has been regularly photographing the condition of Panje, said, “The wetland is purposely dried off-and-on by vested interests with a view to showing that it is not a wetland, and open it up for real estate and commercial development.” Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari said she was not aware about the complaints or methods being alleged by the HC-panel member, but clarified that the district was working to protect Panje. “We are examining how the Panje area needs to be protected, based on directions by the government. If we are sent a list of more such locations, we will verify and examine the need for their protection,” she said. Pramod Patil, nodal officer, Cidco, said he was awaiting directions from the collectors’ office on site visits to study the possibility of declaring wetlands in Uran, but denied that he knew anything about security cabins being set up at Panje or the use of tankers to drain water at other sites in the taluka. “Panje belongs to a private company and we have asked them to ensure the area is protected,” he said. Meanwhile, another environment group, NatConnect Foundation, requested the Maharashtra government on Friday through a letter to take stern action against the Raigad collector and other officials for defying environment minister Aaditya Thackeray’s previous directions to stop construction at Panje. “With more security cabins and recent developments before the HC-panel, there are serious lapses on the part of the collectorate and Cidco that have ensured that the minister’s instructions of no fresh construction at Panje are not followed,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-tankers-being-used-to-drain-water-from-uran-wetlands-more-security-cabins-set-up-at-panje/story-OaWhtZPi7ESypJbOqIZ9zH.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana as cold as Shimla, undeterred farmers march on||Snowfall in the Himalayas left the plains shivering with the district’s maximum temperature at par with Shimla at 13.7°C on Sunday. However, neither the bone-chilling temperature nor the dense fog was able to dampen the spirit of farmers heading towards the Delhi border to join their comrades protesting against the contentious farm reform laws. The farmers were observed taking a break and warming themselves up with tea at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza.As per the meteorology expert, the maximum temperature dropped by eight notches. However, the minimum temperature was 10.5°C, which was 4 degrees lower than the normal temperature. Besides the dip in temperature, the visibility shrunk to 100m in the morning, endangering motorists. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) meteorological expert Dr KK Gill said, “Snowfall in the higher reaches has intensified the cold wave. However, the weather is expected to remain pleasant come Monday.”PAU researchers back farmers In solidarity with the farmers demanding roll back of the farm reforms, PAU research fellows were seen holding encouraging placards outside the varsity. They also served farmers with refreshments such as tea, pinni and rusk at the toll plaza. A man was also spotted distributing ice-cream among farmers.A protester, Gursharan Singh, who is principal of a Gurdaspur school, said his jatha (group), which comprised 30 youngsters was heading to Delhi.“We are going to the Delhi border in shifts. Now, the elderly will return and the young will stage protest in their stead. The bitting cold cannot dampen our spirits!” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-as-cold-as-shimla-undeterred-farmers-march-on/story-XWdDXn8Sec3zxrnvX7ntiK.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Parel’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital staffers attack medical superintendent over internal issues, 3 arrested||The medical superintendent of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Parel was assaulted by staff over an internal dispute. Kalachowki police have booked six staffers for assault, and three of them have been arrested. The arrested accused, Chandrasekhar Shetty, Praveen Gamare, and Shankar Lambade have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The complainant Shankar Vasant Rivankar, 54, the medical superintendent of the hospital, on Friday took the elevator to the second floor of the hospital.The accused attacked the complainant Shankar Vasant Rivankar, 54, the medical superintendent, saying that he did not do their work. They also hit him with a blunt object and kicked and punched him. Rivankar sustained multiple injuries, said police.The security guard then rushed to Rivankar’s help and took him to KEM Hospital in Parel for treatment. “The incident is the outcome of an internal matter of the hospital, a sort of dispute between the administration and its employees’ union. We have registered an offence and arrested three accused. The investigation is on,” said Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parel-s-mahatma-gandhi-memorial-hospital-staffers-attack-medical-superintendent-over-internal-issues-3-arrested/story-GGzlj6IapXCTvth6ecg2cN.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Man held for setting wife on fire in Nallasopara near Mumbai||Tulinj police on Saturday arrested Musibal Rehman Nadak, 30, for allegedly setting his wife, Ayesha Nadak, 25, on fire in Nallasopara on Friday. Ayesha, a mother of two children, is undergoing treatment at BYL Nair Hospital as she has suffered around 55% burns. Police are yet to arrest three other accused in the case.Nadak works as a helper in a catering firm while Ayesha works at a factory in Vasai, said assistant inspector Shashikant Awaghade of Tulinj police station. Nadak would allegedly often demand money from Ayesha, which would lead to arguments. The incident took place when a similar argument ensued over money for groceries. Nadak left home and returned with his brothers Shakeel, Akhil and Sohail and again an argument started. Nadak then poured petrol on her and set her ablaze. Locals rescued her and took her to a local hospital. She was later shifted to BYL Nair Hospital. Her condition is critical, said Awaghade.“We have arrested Nadak under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 498(a) (harrassing a married woman) of the Indian Penal Code and produced him before Vasai court which remanded Nadak in police custody till December 15. We are yet to arrest the remaining accused,” said Awaghade adding that they are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-held-for-setting-wife-on-fire-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai/story-z6Ih4yjmZd2nkwCszPmZyK.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||Two Bengal BJP workers killed in 24 hrs, three held amid stir||Saikat Bhawal, president of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) polling booth-level committee at Halishahar in North 24 Parganas district, was killed in an attack by motorcycle-borne men on Saturday evening, police said. Bhawal and three others were attacked by about a dozen men when BJP workers were visiting voters to carry out the party’s outreach programme in the Barendragali area. Three men were arrested on Sunday morning in connection with the murder. In a second incident reported on Sunday morning, body of Sukhendu Pramanik, a BJP worker, was fished out of a pond at Chandpara village in the Purbasthali area of East Burdwan district. Pramanik’s family and local BJP workers alleged that he went missing two days ago after taking part in a rally held by the party’s youth wing. The party alleged that Pramanik was murdered and the body was later dumped in the pond. “We have registered a case of unnatural death. A probe is on,” an officer of the Purbasthali police station said on condition of anonymity. Also read: Google’s iconic white-coloured Search page is finally changingAt Halishahar, Bhawal was allegedly beaten up with the wooden handle of a shovel. He and three others were rushed to JN Memorial Hospital at Kalyani in adjoining Nadia district. Bhawal died at the hospital. The FIR was registered at Bijpur police station. “Four people were named in the police complaint. Three of them were arrested in the morning and charged with murder, attempt to murder, assault and criminal conspiracy. They will be produced before the Barrackpore court in the afternoon,” an officer of Bijpur police station said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to brief the media. “The three arrested men faced criminal charges in the past,” the officer added. Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar accused the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) of targeting his party’s leaders and workers and carrying out well-planned attacks. “Both these workers were victims of political violence. We urge the Centre to take necessary action so that Bengalis can live safely like citizens in other states,” said Majumdar who led the funeral procession with Bhawal’s body on Sunday evening. Parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy said, “All deaths are unfortunate. But the BJP has started passing off all deaths as killings by the TMC. They also demand CBI probe at the drop of a hat. The state police will definitely find out the truth.”Partha Bhowmik, TMC legislator from Naihati, said his party was not at all involved in the attack at Halishahar. “The violence was the outcome of an internal feud between two local groups,” said Bhowmik.BJP has claimed that more than 120 of its workers and leaders have been murdered in West Bengal in recent years. The party started an agitation outside Bijpur police station on Sunday, condemning Bhawal’s murder.Although the agitation started peacefully, the BJP workers got into a scuffling with policemen around noon. They broke through barricades and surrounded the Bijpur police station compound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/two-bengal-bjp-workers-killed-in-24-hrs-three-held-amid-stir/story-Fv8qFcuiaq8Wm2UMnCHjmK.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Despite inching deadline, pet registration garners tepid response in Ludhiana||Six months after the Ludhiana municipal corporation made it mandatory for residents to register their pets with the civic body, few residents have followed up on the notification. Only 474 residents have registered their dogs with the civic body while no cats have been enrolled so far. Of those who have registered their pets, only 190 collected the brass tokens that are to be fastened on the pets’ collars.The deadline runs out three in weeks, after which defaulting pet owners will have to shell ₹4,000 as fine. The pet registration drive began in June and despite mayor Balkar Sandhu’s encouragement, most pet owners are yet to register their cats and dogs. Residents must pay ₹400 annually for pet registration or a penalty will be imposed after December 31. Authorities so far do not have a tally of pets in the city. However, a thorough drive will be carried out in January to fine violators.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “It is mandatory to tie a token around the neck of a pet and ferocious dogs must be muzzled while being taken for a walk.”“In addition to the ₹4,000 penalty, owners of unregistered pets will have to pay ₹100 a day to MC as the civic body will take on the pets’ custody and care till the animal is registered. Should the pet attack anybody, the owner must bear the expenses,” said Dhalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-inching-deadline-pet-registration-garners-tepid-response-in-ludhiana/story-PMcWuIxfRPQJvndQyq5OsI.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to develop app for Covid-19 vaccination||Following the footsteps of the Union health ministry, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to develop a real time monitoring Covid-19 mobile application to regulate the vaccination process for the 2 crore population in Mumbai.When the pandemic started in India, the Union health ministry launched Aarogya Setu app to keep a track on infected patients and area-wise concentration of Covid-19 infection. Now, as the government is expecting to roll out the first Covid-19 vaccine next year, they have launched a new app — CoWin-20 — which will be the go-to app for Covid-19 vaccine distribution.Considering the huge population of Mumbai, BMC, in a meeting held on Friday, decided to develop a similar app which will be the digital arm of its Covid-19 vaccination programme.“We have an experience of providing vaccine to children, but not to adults. So, it will be challenging for us to regulate such a huge adult population for vaccination. For this, we are planning to design a centralised app which will help us to procure the data digitally,” said an official from BMC’s immunisation programme.The vaccine will be given in two doses with the second dose to be administered after 28 days of the first one. According to officials, the main challenge will be arranging the second dose without missing out on anyone.“This app will have all the updated data which will be connected to our systems. The users will have to link their Aadhaar number and mobile number. Alert message will also be sent to them regarding the next vaccine,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. He is currently heading the vaccine task force of the civic body.BMC will sync the data of recovered patients from Aarogya Setu app with their own mobile app.Till Friday, the state has uploaded data of nearly 1.91 lakh healthcare workers, who will be given vaccine on priority in the first slot, on CoWin app. “We want to finish vaccinating healthcare workers within 15 days of the roll out of the vaccine,” Kakani added.For the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai, a total of 1,365 vaccinators have been identified from the civic public health department. Each vaccine centre will be capable of vaccinating 1,200 beneficiaries per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-develop-app-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-lr4DGBt7OdAkDTsIfugiPM.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Coaching classes await clarity from Maharashtra government on reopening||More than six months after the education department allowed schools in various parts of the state to reopen, coaching classes are still awaiting guidelines from the government.While several coaching class associations have repeatedly written to the education department, an announcement regarding their reopening is yet to be made.Recently, the Coaching Classes Teachers’ Federation, a pan Maharashtra body of classes has written to the department urging them to allow classes to reopen. “There are several challenges with online learning and we thus hope that physical classes will begin soon. Even as all the other businesses are allowed to reopen in the state, classes are still not granted permissions,” said Bandopant Bhoyar, president of the federation.Parents said that they would be willing to send their children to classes at least for a few days. “Doubt solving sessions are necessary especially for science students, and that cannot happen effectively over the phone or online. We hope the government allows classes to reopen at least partially,” said Amita Shekhar, a city-based parent.Officials from the education department said that a decision in this regard is awaited from the state government. The coaching classes have been closed for more than nine months now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coaching-classes-await-clarity-from-maharashtra-government-on-reopening/story-P4YjD4L3yJpvydfeKqmTPM.html
13-12-2020||City||Mumbai: Theatre in Kalyan open to full house on Day 1||The Acharya Atre Natya Rangmandir in Kalyan opened for its first show post lockdown on Saturday. At 50% capacity, the theatre was almost full on the first day. “After maintaining the 50% seating capacity, we had a provision for 425 people in the audience; almost 300 turned up on the first day of the play – Tu Mhanshil Tasa. We also had a good response on the second day for the performance of a classic, Sant Tukaram. We followed all Covid norms. The audiences and staff were provided with sanitisers. Temperature checks were also done before the audience entered the auditorium. We have more bookings lined up for the coming weeks,” said Manik Shinde, manager of Acharya Atre Natya Rangmandir. This is the first auditorium within Mumbai Metropolitan Region to open up for a play.Actor Subodh Bhave expressed gratitude towards the audience for a positive response. “Marathi audiences love to watch plays. They have been confined to their homes for the longest period. The response we received in Mumbai and Pune was overwhelming. We are motivated to present more shows,” Bhave said.Santosh Kanekar, president, Maharashtra Theatre Producers Guild, said, “It is not the right time to come up with new plays as it will be a huge investment risk. It would be right to focus on showcasing classics and well-known plays for the timebeing. Our focus currently is to ensure that there is an income generated among those who work backstage or with the auditoriums.”“Currently we are performing in Mumbai, Thane and Pune areas. It will take some time for us to get contracts to perform in other places,” added Kanekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-theatre-in-kalyan-open-to-full-house-on-day-1/story-qGR1KYL5C8an3gvDJUUDbN.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Despite heavy smog, city air quality remains stable||Despite the presence of dense smog on Sunday morning, the city’s air quality for the day remained in the “poor” category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s(CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin, for the third consecutive day. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, nearly four degrees below Saturday’s 14 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature stayed at 21 degrees, same as the previous day. On Monday, the minimum temperature is expected to settle at 9 degrees Celsius, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weekly forecast. A partly cloudy sky is expected to prevail on Monday, with another episode of dense to very dense fog expected in the earlier hours. Delhi-NCR may continue to see foggy mornings till Tuesday, as per the IMD. Sunday’s AQI was 239, down from 296 the previous day. Officials attributed fog in the early hours to a steep dip in the minimum temperature triggered by isolated rainfall over parts of Delhi-NCR.This also led to an uptick in pollution levels. However, with northwest winds blowing at a speed of about 12kpmh through the day, the smog was quickly dispersed and gave way to cleaner air in the afternoon, data from Gurugram’s air quality monitors showed. At Vikas Sadan, for example, PM2.5 levels touched as much as 389ug/m3 around 4am, but had dipped to as little as 79ug/m3 by 4pm. Similar improvements in particulate matter levels were seen across all four air quality monitoring stations operated by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board in Gurugram.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to remain in poor category on 14.12.2020 and poor to lower end of very poor category on 15.12.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in poor to lower end of very poor category till 17.12.2020 and marginal deterioration is likely to start from 18.12.2020.” Winds are expected to blow from the northwest of Delhi at speeds of up to 10kmph,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/despite-heavy-smog-city-air-quality-remains-stable/story-cPgOO7Lgwb0LCDfLtofjsJ.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records fewer Covid-19 deaths; cases fall below 300 for third day in a row||With the slowdown in new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, the past week has recorded a relative dip in the frequency of Covid-related mortality, shows health department data. Based on the last seven days’ data, the death rate in Gurugram now stands at 0.6 percent — down from 1 percent the week prior. From 25 Covid deaths in the week ending on December 6, the number dipped to 12 in the week ending on December 13. In estimated terms, from about five deaths a day in late November, the district is now seeing between one and two deaths per day, said health department officials. The district also recorded fewer than 300 cases of Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Sunday, with the day’s tally standing at 275 new reported infections. Gurugram also reported 228 new recoveries and two new deaths, taking the total death toll to 331. A total of 3,739 new samples were tested for Covid-19 in Gurugram on Sunday, of which seven percent came back positive. Both daily and weekly test-positivity rates have remained under 10 percent for well over three weeks, even dipping to five percent on Saturday, when 276 positive cases were detected from 5,794 samples tested.“This is a significant improvement. We were not entirely sure how things would play out because the weather is still unfavourable, but things have stabilised after the initial boom triggered by the onset of winter and due to Diwali. Once again, around the New Year, we will see increased public movement and also colder temperatures. As such, we have to be prepared for a possible fourth wave of cases,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram. Sharma added that a slight uptick in the death rate may also be anticipated around mid-January. While the positivity-rate has remained consistently low, the absolute number of tests conducted has been declining over the past three weeks. From 56,007 tests conducted in the week ending November 29, only 37,053 samples were tested in the week ending December 6. This further fell to 29,354 samples. Health department officials said this was a considered move, given the dip in the positivity rate. “We have to use the our resources carefully,” said Sharma.The total number of active patients in the district stands at 2,250 — down from 2,872 a week ago. These comprise just under five percent of Gurugram’s total Covid-19 caseload (52,024) infections so far, indicating a recovery rate of 95 percent. Of the active cases, 2,046 are currently in home isolation, while 196 are in hospitals. Another eight active patients are under observation at district Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-fewer-covid-19-deaths-cases-fall-below-300-for-third-day-in-a-row/story-s5z53TAy7QLoSowDGGMXII.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Low visibility due to fog leads to two accidents on expressway||Low visibility due to fog led to two minor accidents on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on early Sunday morning, said Gurugram traffic police officials.In the first incident, a MUV hit a sedan from behind at the Jharsa Chowk flyover around 5.15 am. No injuries were reported. In the second incident, a hatchback collided with a motorcyclist at Rajiv Chowk around 5.30 am. The motorcyclist, who has been identified as Ajay Kumar, is a resident of Mahipalpur in Delhi and was heading home from Bilaspur when the incident took place. He suffered minor injuries.As per police officials, both accidents occurred due to poor visibility as the areas were covered in a thick blanket of fog. In both incidents, no cases were registered.Heavy early morning fog also added to the woes of commuters. Residents who travelled during the early morning hours said that for the most of their journey they drove with hazard lights on and, even when driving on the national highway, they did not accelerate above a speed of 50 kmph.“There was zero visibility for most part of my journey. At several points, I thought of returning back to my parents’ home or stopping on the side of the road for a brief period until the visibility improved. I realised that stopping on the side of the road may be extremely unsafe due to poor visibility. A driver may not been able to spot a stationary car and could collide with it. Hence, I decided to continue driving at a slow speed and finish my journey,” said Gaurav Bansal, a resident of Sector 31, who was travelling back home from Central Delhi.Coincidentally on Saturday, Gurugram traffic police had updated commuters over social media that they are installing reflector tapes at key points across the city to assist drivers when they are driving during low visibility. On Friday, they had also issued a safety advisory to motorists over social media listing precautions they need to keep in mind when driving during low visibility. These included, keeping lights of the vehicle on low beam for better visibility, driving at low speeds, using roadside reflectors to navigate, keeping a safe distance from the vehicles ahead and avoid overtaking.“Over the last week, we have identified key stretches across the city where there are blind spots that can result in accidents during fog. At all such points, reflector tapes have been installed, medians have been painted to ensure commuters can navigate through these stretches during low visibility. In addition, we have also issued a fog advisory for residents.It is vital that they follow them to keep themselves and others safe while driving,” said DK Bharadwaj, DCP traffic, Gurugram police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/low-visibility-due-to-fog-leads-to-two-accidents-on-expressway/story-eSxmwoqp9nqH9towWasi9J.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Manish Tewari questions ‘delusional grandeur’ of Modi govt||Congress national spokesperson and Sri Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Sunday took a jab at what he said was the “extravagant and delusional grandeur” of the Modi government while imposing exorbitant taxes on the people. Questioning the rationale behind building the Central Vista when the country was facing a serious economic crisis, Tewari said: “On the one hand the government has stopped the MPs local area development funds and on the other hand it is going to spend hundreds of crores of rupees for a new parliament building,” which was nothing but “delusional grandeur.” Reacting to the steep increase in the prices of petrol and diesel, Tewari said the National Democratic Alliance government was imposing heavy taxes on petrol and diesel, both currently the most expensive in the entire south Asian region. This, he said, was being done to fill the government’s coffers which were running empty, thanks to its ill advised economic policies. “A litre of crude oil costs ₹21.61. Even if you add three odd rupees as processing cost, it would come to 25 rupees a litre, while the sale price of petrol is ₹83.71 in Delhi and diesel is ₹73.61 in Chandigarh,” Tewari tweeted, while asking why the government of India was fleecing the people of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manish-tewari-questions-delusional-grandeur-of-modi-govt/story-E14sAKmp6hIOhBFdIp6BTM.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Water parity for new sectors from Jan 1 as Mohali MC takes over GMADA areas||Come January 1,in a major relief for around 35,000 families in sectors 66 to 69 and 76 to 81, 88 and Aerocity, water tariff will be reduced as municipal corporation (MC) will take over supply from the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) . People in the new sectors under GMADA are currently paying five times the regular charges of Rs 5.25 per kilolitre compared to other sectors under MC with rates of Rs 1.8 per kilolitre. “We have already sent a proposal to the local bodies department of Punjab and it will be approved in a week’s time. We will implement it from January 1,” an MC official said on condition of anonymity as he’s not authorised to speak to the media. Calling it a “big relief” for the affected families, former Congress councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi thanked Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for “getting it done.” A senior GMADA official said the authority was ready to hand over supply to MC and it would involve “only a day’s work.”Locals and political groups have been campaigning for water parity for long with former Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors even moving the Lok Adalat. “We have been fighting for parity for the past two years and paying excessive charges. The delay was due to the Congress and now they will take credit for it before the upcoming MC elections,” said former SAD councillor Surinder Singh. The MC house had approved the agenda in June last year to take over the water supply system of new sectors from GMADA, following which on July 16, the local bodies department of Punjab approved municipal corporation agenda of taking over the water supply system. Later, GMADA asked MC to also take over maintenance of the sewer and storm sewer systems in the new sectors. Shinderpal Singh (Bobby Kamboj), former BJP councillor, said despite the MC passing a resolution to take over the water supply the government failed to take a decision on time and the residents had to pay exorbitant rates for water than those in other sectors. WHY IT MATTERS The Mohali MC collects Rs 1.8 per kilolitre for water supply and GMADA is charging fivefold rates (Rs 5.25 per kilolitre) in 12 sectors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-parity-for-new-sectors-from-jan-1-as-mohali-mc-takes-over-gmada-areas/story-IdxTO2T8I0rJEVycEJRveK.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Ambitious parking policy could have its drawbacks||So there was good news last week, that the Chandigarh administration, after endless debates, finally notified the parking policy with the aim to decongest a city with the highest density of privately owned vehicles in India. How and when the proposals are cleared could be debatable because some of these are very controversial: Such as levying a charge for congestion and linking availability of parking space with vehicle registration. Who will decide how much is to be charged and when? Also can a person be denied his or her right to own a vehicle? Community parking is also recommended in each sector by using neighbourhood commercial and institutional parking lots on rental basis. Interestingly, these lots are to be run by the registered Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs). Using parking lots of educational institutions post their operational hours has also been proposed in the policy that aims at maximising utilisation of existing parking spaces through community parking. Other suggestions include creation of new parking avenues by allowing multi-level, even underground, parking lots. Also, though green belts will not be converted to parking areas, construction beneath the parks will be allowed. Other important points include two main gates in the front boundary and stilt parking on the ground floor of the house. In group housing societies, commercial and institutional buildings three-level basement parking can be built. Formulated by the urban planning department, the policy doesn’t have any mandatory clauses, and the onus of its implementation will be on various government agencies, particularly, the municipal corporation and the UT transport department. While some of the points are achievable, some key issues include convincing people to cough up congestion tax or deciding how RWAs, some of which cannot even handle collection of maintenance charges from residents, will handle community parking spaces.The failure of the parking agreement between and the municipal corporation and a private contractor is a case in point. How well will the tie-ups be managed?Space raceWill UT’s new parking policy work?What are the pros and cons of the parking policy notified by the Chandigarh administration? Which ones will work? Send your responses with photographs to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by December 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-ambitious-parking-policy-could-have-its-drawbacks/story-CkQyl9kCerkNoUDSDlv30K.html
13-12-2020||Lucknow||For 3rd day, UP sees more recoveries than new cases||Sixteen fatalities push state’s toll to 8,072; 6 die, 209 test positive in LkoLUCKNOW For the third consecutive day on Sunday, the number of Covid patients discharged in Uttar Pradesh was more than the fresh cases even as the state’s infection count reached 5,65,556 with 1,441 fresh cases. Sixteen fatalities pushed the toll due to the virus to 8,072, according to the health department. During the day, 1,441 cases were reported while 1,770 patients were discharged. On Saturday, there were 1,520 fresh cases while 1,761 patients were discharged. On Friday, 1,613 new cases were reported and 1,875 patients were discharged. So far, 21415257 samples had been tested in the state. Lucknow reported 209 fresh cases, Ghaziabad 152 and Meerut 95. The state capital also saw the maximum deaths – six while Varanasi recorded two. So far, 1056 people had succumbed to Covid in Lucknow. Fresh cases were reported from Indira Nagar 27, Alambagh 11, Hasanganj 11, Gomti Nagar 22, Rae Bareli road 12, Chowk 10, Jankipuram 12, Mahanagar 11 and Talkatora 14. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 94.53%. Till now, 75,025 cases have been reported, of which 70,926 have recovered,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. During the day, 249 patients were discharged while samples of 9,602 people were taken under the contact-tracing exercise. Lucknow had tested over 12 lakh samples so far and the positivity rate was around 6.7%. The health department conducted a signature campaign for Covid awareness at a mall in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar area. People were made aware about the Covid infection while samples of visitors having symptoms were collected. “People came to the help desk and asked questions about safety, prevention and treatment. Many asked about correct use of mask too,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson, office of CMO, Lucknow. During the campaign, head of respiratory medicine department at KGMU Prof Surya Kant gave a public lecture. “It will take months before the vaccine arrives and all are vaccinated. Till then, wear mask and wash your hands. For washing hands outside homes, carry a few paper soap strips,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/for-3rd-day-up-sees-more-recoveries-than-new-cases/story-XyBGZS2dZftbodH3Yca6LL.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Outdoor air purifiers for Chandigarh to control pollution||Finally, a man-made remedy is being tested to check the city’s worsening air quality due to increasing traffic and cooler temperatures. Yes, 10-foot outdoor air purifier towers will be set up at key points in the city to enable people to breathe freely again.The UT administration will be setting up around 10 towers in different locations with very poor air quality. These will “reduce pollutants at specific spots and help improve air quality,” said a senior UT official privy to the development. This is part of a solution UT adviser Manoj Parida sought from the Central Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) sometime back. Chandigarh is one of the non-attainment cities in the country according to National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) norms, which means it has over a five-year period not consistently met the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for harmful PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter), PM 2.5 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide).After remaining “satisfactory” and “moderate” during the lockdown period and a few months after, the air quality index (AQI) again turned “poor” for the first time this year in November. CPCC has floated tenders inviting firms to install the purifiers. “It is being done on a pilot basis. After examining its effectiveness we will be deciding on expanding the project to other parts of the city,” the official said. The company that is selected will install, operate and maintain the purifiers. PATHOGENS, VIRUSES WILL ALSO BE FILTERED “The effectiveness of the Delhi experience with the outdoor purifiers hasn’t been very positive. So, we have decided to avail better and latest technology for the purifiers to be installed in the city,” the official said. The purifiers will have gas neutralisation systems and filters for different categories of pollutants such as PM 10 and PM2.5. A UVC system will nullify the micro-organisms, pathogens and viruses present in the air. LOCATIONS BEING IDENTIFIED The administration is yet to finalise the locations for the purifiers. “We are in the process of identifying them, and might choose areas with heavy traffic density all day long, such as rotaries or traffic light junctions,” the official said. Any places with traffic congestion such as schools with cars and buses picking up and dropping children through the day can also be selected, he added.Towers are also likely to be set up in parking lots of markets and tourist spots (Sukhna Lake or Rock Garden).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/outdoor-air-purifiers-for-chandigarh-to-control-pollution/story-quHQXSK5hPsE4t20I0IfEM.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,984 fresh cases; death toll crosses 10,000 mark||Delhi recorded 1,984 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday which pushed the infection tally to 6.07 lakh, while the death toll crossed the 10,000 mark with 33 new fatalities.These fresh cases came out of 72,335 tests conducted the previous day, including 35,611 RT-PCR tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The case positivity rate on Sunday stood at 2.74 per cent, authorities said. It was 4.96 per cent on December 3, 4.78 per cent on December 4, 4.2 per cent on December 5, 3.68 per cent on December 6 and 3.15 per cent on December 7.However, on December 8 the positivity rate rose to 4.23 per cent, falling to 3.42 per cent on December 9 and 2.46 per cent on December 10. It had risen to 3.33 per cent again on December 11 and fell to 2.64 per cent on December 12.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday asserted that the positivity rate has been below 5 per cent for 11 days.Thirty-three more fatalities were recorded in a day, pushing the toll in the national capital to 10,014, the bulletin said.On September 21, as many as 32 deaths and 2,548 cases were recorded. The highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases was reported on November 11.The tally of active cases on Sunday dropped to 16,785 from 17,373 the previous day. The bulletin stated that the total number of cases has climbed to 6,07,454, while the recovery rate stood at over 95 per cent.The number of containment zones in Delhi dropped to 6,388 on Saturday from 6,451 on Friday.According to the Sunday bulletin, out of the total 18,807 beds in Covid hospitals, 14,361 are vacant.It said that 64 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights.The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few weeks, with the count on several times crossing the 60,000-mark. On Saturday, 35,611 RT-PCR tests and 36,724 rapid antigen tests were conducted, the bulletin said.The number of tests done per million, as on Saturday was over 3.8 lakh while the total number of tests stood at over 72 lakh.The bulletin said that 5,80,655 Covid-19 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation dropped to 9,964 on Sunday from 10,382 the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-984-fresh-cases-death-toll-crosses-10-000-mark/story-qyQbeoa8INK8tJLLDGZC2M.html
13-12-2020||Jaipur||Congress ahead of BJP in Rajasthan civic body polls||The Congress in Rajasthan is ahead of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the elections to 50 urban local bodies in 12 districts of the state whose results were declared on Sunday. The results come a few days after the BJP performed better than Congress in rural local body elections in 21 of the state’s 33 districts. Results for urban local bodies show that independents will be kingmakers in the formation of boards in most districts. Of 1,775 municipal wards, results were declared for 1,774 on Sunday; the Congress has bagged 619, independents 597, BJP 547 and the rest others. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot congratulated all Congress candidates. He said in a tweet, “I thank all the citizens who showed their trust on Congress and because of which the party won. I thank all the Congress workers. Because of their hard work party has won.”Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra claimed that out of 50, their party is going to form board on at least 41 councils. “As a part of strategy, the Congress has planted independents in many seats to defeat the BJP which had the misconception that they are the party of the urban areas. Last time, out of 50, they had formed board on 34. But this time they cannot form board in more than nine councils,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareekh said that it is too early to claim who will form how many boards. “In local elections, anti-defection law is not applicable and on 35 per cent seats, independents have won. Time will tell who will form how many boards,” he said. Also read: Some just oppose - Tomar slams opposition again over farmers’ stirAnalysis of the results shows that in Jaipur, out of 10 municipal councils, the Congress will be successful in forming board in six municipalities, including Chomu, Bagru, Shahpura, and Virat Nagar. In Bharatpur, independents have dominated the polls. Out of 255 wards, independent councillors bagged 187 seats; BJP got 45, Congress 22, and BSP 1. Independents in Dholpur city council also spoiled the mathematics for the Congress and BJP. Both the parties won 22 seats each, while the independents bagged 15 seats. The Congress is set to form board in Rajkheda municipality. Congress has won 20 seats and BJP was reduced to 11. In Sawai Madhopur municipal council, the Congress won 27, BJP 22, and Independents 10. Independents won 60 seats in Gangapur city municipality, BJP 27, and Congress 21. In Sri Ganganagar, elections were held for eight municipalities in which the Congress won four and BJP two. The Congress, which was able to form board in two municipalities in the last election, got an absolute majority this time in four municipalities - Kesarisinghpur, Srikaranpur, Padampur and Gajsinghpura. The BJP, which formed boards in 6 municipalities in the last election, got a majority in Anupgarh and Sadulshahar. The voting to elect representatives of 1,775 wards in 50 municipal bodies was held on December 11. Amid Covid-19 restrictions in the state, 79.90 per cent voter turnout was recorded. The highest turnout, 90.32 per cent, was recorded at Bharatpur’s Nagar municipal body. The lowest turnout, 64.39 per cent, was recorded at Sawai Madhopur Nagar Parishad. Out of 14,35,000 voters in 12 districts, 11,46,000 voted on Friday. The Congress had suffered a setback in the Rajasthan rural body elections. Recently, elections were held for Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad seats in 21 of the state’s 33 districts. Of 4,371 panchayat Samiti seats, the BJP won 1,989 and Congress 1,852. New members will elect heads of panchayat samitis. Of the 636 Zila Parishad (district council) seats, the BJP won 353 and Congress 252. Political experts believe, a day after the ruling Congress suffered a major jolt in Panchayati Raj and Zila Parishad elections, the results of urban local bodies have come as face-saving for the party, which has won on the majority of seats, pushing the BJP on third position with independents coming on the second position. The results surprise many as the urban voters have reposed faith in Congress party, which is contrary to the general trend where the urban voters are considered to be inclined towards BJP and the rural towards the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cong-ahead-of-bjp-in-rajasthan-civic-body-polls/story-jgLZPJvxEOPPAbekYZubzH.html
13-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt studies past 100-year flood data to mark flood-prone areas||In a bid to protect the population living in the Alaknanda-Mandakini valley of Chamoli and Rudraprayag districts of Uttarakhand, the state government has now started a study of floods reported from these areas in the past hundred years. The study is being conducted by the district administrations of Rudraprayag and Chamoli, where flood protection measures will be taken in respective areas by finding areas with maximum frequency of flooding. The study would cover Mandakini river’s stretch from Kedarnath to Rudraprayag and Alaknanda river’s stretch from Badrinath to Rishikesh. Manuj Goyal, district magistrate of Rudraprayag, said that the study is being undertaken following the guidelines of Uttarakhand Flood Plain Zoning Act. “Under the Act, demarcations are made based on flood level data ranging from 25-100 years. Officials from the irrigation department are studying the flood data from all past years and after the study, new demarcations will be made in flood-prone areas,” said Goyal. Also read: Delhi-Jaipur highway partially opened amid farmers’ protestHe added that after the study is completed and the areas are notified as flood plains, zones will be identified where protective work can be done and areas where limited level of development work should be done. Due to periodic flooding in the rivers originating from the Himalayas, the population living on their banks have suffered a heavy loss of life and property. “Many times, locals build houses in sensitive areas which later get affected due to natural calamities. Such kind of a study with demarcations will help us avoid disasters in the future and prevent losses incurred by locals,” added the district magistrate. In Chamoli district, the district magistrate said that the work has almost been completed in Tharali and Chamoli blocks. Swati Bhadouriya, district magistrate Chamoli said, “Identification of flood plain zones have been done in Tharali and Chamoli blocks. It is being done for the whole of the Alaknanda valley, with the aim of sustainable development for the future. After completing the study, the details will be sent to the state government for the next course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-studies-past-100-year-flood-data-to-mark-flood-prone-areas/story-jEdbY5PPviqGKTfiScHsrM.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Restaurant, organic food at eco-friendly women’s haat in Sirmaur||With employment opportunities at historic lows during the Covid-19 pandemic, a village haat (market) run only by women will open on December 17 at Bagh Pashog village in Sirmaur district, which is known for its high literacy rate. A work in progress for the last one year, the market will operate out of a building made of poly bricks filled with plastic waste and have water harvesting and solar power plants.To be run by 25 women, She Haat has been set up by the district administration in collaboration with the tourism department to economically strengthen rural women. It is located on the busy Nahan Kumarhatti road.The market, which will be virtually inaugurated by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on December 17, will have a restaurant serving Himachali cuisine. “The objective is also to popularise the state’s food, particularly askali, which is similar to the south Indian idli and pattande, made from flour. The two dishes are very popular,” says Usha Kumari, 44, the secretary of She Haat.The locals were sceptical initially about women running She Haat, “but we have been trained and are confident that we will achieve our objective,” says Kumari. The women workers are from different age groups and come from different backgrounds and sections of the society. “ All the food and pahari cuisines will be prepared in a traditional chulha,” she adds.“The whole project will be run by 25 self-help group (SHG) women to empower them for self employment. As ‘her wings will grow, she will reach the sky with district administration Sirmaur,’ says RK Pruthi, the district’s deputy commissioner. Natural organic produce will be showcased and sold here, with the atta freshly ground at the flour mill on the site. A machine will mould biodegradable pattal (leaf) plates.Crops grown locally such as wheat, rice , coriander, buckwheat, citrus fruits and vegetables will be sold here.She Haat also has a two bedroom guest house. The solar power plant and rainwater harvesting system will ensure that environment friendly practises are promoted. Battery operated rickshaws will also run here. Meenakshi Sharma, 27, who drives one of the rickshaws, is excited. “I think I will be the first woman to drive auto in Himachal, it’s a great venture,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/restaurant-organic-food-at-eco-friendly-women-s-haat-in-sirmaur/story-wLy9uc2fGX2r7esPgIkL0I.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Sanitation crisis amid Covid? Civic body leaders seek funds from Delhi govt||On the seventh day of their protest, Mayors of the three municipal corporations on Sunday said that the delay in release of funds by the Delhi government will result in a sanitation and medical crisis, especially during the coronavirus pandemic, in the city.Mayors said that due to lack of funds, the corporations have not been able to release salaries and pension to its employees on time. The employees have been threatening to go on a strike.The mayors and office-bearers of the three municipal corporations have been sitting on protest outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence since December 7, demanding immediate release of Rs 13,000 crore to the corporations.North Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said, “The three corporation have 70,000 sanitation staff and we lift close to 10,000 metric tonnes of waste and 100 metric tonnes of biomedical waste. But we have not been able to pay them salaries on time. Does the AAP government want a sanitation crisis in the midst of a pandemic? How will these people run their homes without money? We are unable to pay salaries due to shortage of funds.”Hitting out at the CM, Jai Prakash said, “We have been sitting here for the past seven days and the CM is just not concerned. He has not even called us for a meeting. They are just playing politics at a time when we all need to work together.”The AAP government has ordered an inquiry into the alleged misappropriation of funds of more than Rs 2,400 crore in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. AAP leaders also demanded a CBI inquiry into it.Naveen Kumar, media head of Delhi BJP, said, “They are levelling baseless allegations. The government has ordered an inquiry. We want them to complete the inquiry in the next seven days and if any misappropriation of funds is found, then our mayors will resign. But if they don’t find any misappropriation of funds, then the Kejriwal government should resign.”Meanwhile, all the three mayors said that they will run their offices from outside Delhi CM’s residence from Monday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sanitation-crisis-amid-covid-civic-body-leaders-seek-funds-from-delhi-govt/story-X6RSO91UJLt9NiITWhmvOI.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s famed ‘Poush Mela’ to be called off due to Covid restrictions||The annual ‘Poush Mela’, a heritage cultural event attracting lakhs of travellers to West Bengal’s Santiniketan, will not be held this year due to Covid-19 restrictions, an official said.The over-a-century-old handicraft, handloom, art and music festival, is usually held in December-end.“We are not sure about getting the nod from the local administration in view of the Covid-19 situation. Most students, an integral part of Poush Mela, are not coming to the campus.“Keeping all these factors in mind, we had to take this unpleasant decision for public health safety,” a member of Visva-Bharati’s executive council said.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting of the executive council.Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s father Maharshi Debendranath Tagore had first organised the fair in 1894 and Visva-Bharati, the university founded by the bard, started organising it from 1951.The ‘Poush Utsav’, including prayers and singing of devotional songs in the varsity campus, will, however, take place (on December 23 this year), he said.The fate of the Poush Mela has been a subject of conjecture in the last few months, with an official of the council claiming in July that Visva-Bharati authorities had decided to scrap the event, citing recent “bitter experiences” in organising the winter carnival amid a tussle with traders to comply with National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines.But in late August, the varsity had said that the central university is ready to organise the fair if it gets financial help from the Union government.The Visva-Bharati will observe its foundation day on December 24, which will be attended by the Union education minister and the West Bengal governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-s-famed-poush-mela-to-be-called-off-due-to-covid-restrictions/story-OKseopKGL8KiPqBNWWjc6I.html
13-12-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Pune residents unite to protect Vetal tekdi||While the MIT educational institute states that the road built on the Vetal tekdi green belt is their land and it will be used by its students and public in general to walk up the hill, PMC took action only after public outcry. The civic administration’s late response exposes its accountability. With greenery count losing to rapid urbanisation, residents list out steps that the authorities should take to sustain ecological balance in the city...Residents have emotional attachment with hillsWe are grateful to PMC for stopping work on the illegal road built by MIT on Vetal tekdi and trust they will not give any permissions in future for construction activity here or on other parts of the tekdi. Twenty five thousand people signed an online petition opposing the road in just a few days, and a weekend signature campaign on the tekdi by some youngsters garnered 5,400 signatures. This stands testimony to the emotional attachment people in Pune have for Vetal tekdi. This part of the hill may officially belong to MIT, but the tekdi itself, the grasslands and forests on it and the precious aquifers it contains benefits all Punekars – and we all have a stake in preserving this tekdi as a natural heritage site for future generations. The vital role of urban forests and grasslands in mitigating climate change risks is well recognised now. Several studies have shown the benefits of urban green space in fostering physical and psychological well-being of citizens. We may have won this battle, but the war continues. We plan to petition the CM to start the process for identifying “Deemed Forests” in Maharashtra and to notify tekdis in Pune as natural heritage sites in the Development Plan. This, we feel, will keep the tekdis safe to some extent from the relentless threats of construction activity in the name of development. Sushma DateThe tekdi is the heart and lung of the cityThe main issue is not the purpose of the road or the action of PMC. It is that Vetal tekdi is a cohesive area stretching from Chatuhshrungi up to Chandani chowk. It is the heart and lung of the city which needs to be protected at any cost. Thousands of people are regular visitors there and people don’t wish that Pune, the city of tekdis (hillocks), should lose one. It is the responsibility of each and every stakeholder to respect this wish and follow the laws and guidelines of city and state governments. Every stakeholder should have a broad view of environment and not just a narrow vision of land rights. The civic authorities have full support of the citizenry. The government should follow the constitutional principle of equality before law, public trust doctrine. The hill top rules and other regulations should be applied and executed.Anay PetheApathy in destruction of hillsAttempt by anyone to deviate from protecting the environment, causing irreversible ecological imbalance to the few remaining natural green spaces in the heart of the city, damage natural aquifers, and home to rare flora and fauna must be alerted and opposed. And the area groups and citizens who reported this serious breach must be applauded. Any such human intrusion on bio-diverse zones and hill tops/hill slopes will eventually lead to encroachments, hawkers, food stalls, hutments, amusement areas, after which the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) will put up their hands for not being able to control the illegal explosion. What is most disheartening is that an educational institute, to drive home its point is behaving as if no violation has taken place. However, it cannot be denied that senior PMC officers of the said area and said department have been alert enough to take immediate cognizable action. It is a result of non-accountability. The Bombay High Court in the matter of PIL no. 156 of 2006 for another road on the same tekdi (hill), emphasised the doctrine of public trust under which the government has the responsibility to protect natural resources for the general public. As such, it remains the irrevocable duty of the state to protect and improve the environment under Article 48A of the Constitution of India.Even if privately owned, all tekdis are the lungs of Pune and belong to all Punekars. So, no permission must be granted, even in retrospect to MIT for any construction activity of laying a 20 feet wide road from Paud going to the top of Vetal tekdi through the hill slope of survey no. 123, that too in hill top/hill slope zone. Blatant violation has been ignored since this tekdi figures on the draft list of 46 natural heritage sites identified as per state government notification dated 27/09/2000 was sent along with PMC commissioner’s covering letter dated 25/04/2002Development Control Rules 2017 for hill top hill slope zone (HTHS) lists categories that are not allowed for roads, gazebos, meditation centres, restaurants. It defines the importance of maintaining biodiversity to restore and protect hills in and around Pune Qaneez SukhraniThere are deep-rooted issues regarding saving hills As a regular tekdi-goer for the past 22 years, I know the number of times since 2005 up until now that I have begged people to support me for protecting the Vetal tekdi against destruction. As a citizen, I can say a few things. Ecological balance is something very, very deep. The reasons why there is such a rapid growth of builders and politicians grabbing the tekdi are not only just about greed, profitability and utter shamelessness. There are other deep-rooted problems associated with it, like daily transport, population control, modernisation in villages, and accountability of a higher power/a governing body, for so far, we have battled with political parties, officials, builders and the likes for the tekdi. An interesting aspect is that every single political party becomes one when it comes to destroying the tekdi. Of course everyone has a stake in that profit when it is so neatly rigged by builders. Despite the High Court orders, encroachments, destruction and illegal digging has systematically been taking place on the hills of Pune. Where is the accountability in all this!? How many times must ordinary citizens rise to protect the tekdi that they love, because these politicians multiply like cockroaches in taking bribes for profitability, and rely on public fatigue? Despite laws, politicians are clearly above them and there is absolutely no accountability here, when several crores are dangled in front of their filthy noses. In a very recent example, around 70 of us had fixed a meeting with a local corporator. It resulted in a screaming match with her, with the 70 of us yelling about protecting the tekdi, shoving forest laws down her throat which she and her husband clearly refused to even consider. We’d come to respect her over several years. Now, all that trust we had has vanished. Another example is the Bavdhan hills, where a builder built a 10+ storeyed apartment, which now can no longer be occupied because he got a stay order, since that building is illegal. But the forest land had already been destroyed for building it. Asira LeleResidents have to always fight to save hillsI am a regular tekdi-goer since I was in kindergarten. Vetal tekdi has always been a place close to my heart. Pune city has many hills, may it be Taljai, Waghjai, Parvati or Vetal hill, almost all of them have fallen prey of our unending greed for development. Vetal tekdi is not only the largest hill in the city, but it is the only hill having a natural water body, a grassland and forest. It is the most popular hill among youth and it is also famous among bird watchers and wildlife enthusiasts. It is really disheartening that, every time something happens to tekdi, all tekdi goers have to stand there carrying awareness drives and signature campaigns to protect the hill, while those having power and resources simply fail to understand the environmental importance of our hills. The incidence of a gaur sighting at foothills of Mahatma hill is really an eye-opener. We are not just disturbing the hills, we might be destroying the movement corridors used by wildlife, every time we build a road across some hill. Of Nobody is against development, but we all tekdi lovers fail to understand, “Why our path of development always passes through one of the very few green spaces left in the city?”Niteesh SaneAuthorities must take responsibility Vetal tekdi does not belong to MIT. They have no ownership rights on so called their side hence stop accepting their wrong claim. The forest department in Pune is completely silent despite their duty to stop any unlawful and destructive activity despite claims to the contrary by a third party. They are responsible to ensure that hills and forests are protected from harmful activity. Why are they silent and not taking any action against MIT? PMC corporators have revived plan to fleece us of our forests, forestlands, grasslands, hills, streams, aquifers held by them in their trust, which will be slow death of all fauna and flora.Nandinidevi Pant PratinidhiGive bird sanctuary status to hills The population and species diversity is great in hills as the area is ideal for vegetation. Avian frequency is great. Many bird sanctuaries in India have a small area. Likewise, Vetal hill complex has nearly 10 sqkm area, extending from Bavdhan to Vetal tekdi. Many ornithologists and naturalists have the actual species records along with proofs. Private land owners having plots on hills should be made aware about conserving greens and the forest department should appoint guards to ensure there is no encroachment on hill slopes.Arnav GandheCompiled by Prachi Bari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-pune-residents-unite-to-protect-vetal-tekdi/story-5nzog1bIopVbhe16WerNhO.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC talks to disgruntled minister Rajib Banerjee, expels rebel Suvendu Adhikari’s aide||Concerned by rumblings among senior leaders prior to the crucial assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership on Sunday held talks with disgruntled state forest minister Rajib Banerjee in a bid to bridge differences while expelling a close aide of heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari who resigned from the cabinet last month. The expelled leader, Kanishka Panda, was secretary of the TMC unit in East Midnapore district where the Adhikari family represents two Lok Sabha seats, an assembly seat and heads a civic body. TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor held an hour-long meeting with the forest minister at Chatterjee’s residence at Naktala in south Kolkata on Sunday afternoon. While Chatterjee remained tight-lipped, Banerjee claimed that the talks covered “political strategy.” Leaders close to the minister, however, said he raised issues such as corruption and nepotism by some leaders in Howrah district, where Banerjee represents the Domjur assembly seat while talking to Chatterjee and Kishor. “I attended the meeting as a party worker. We discussed strategy for the coming days. I cannot share anything more with the media. In a party, there can be disgruntled people and there can be people who are over-satisfied. These things are sorted through discussion. I will be available if I am called for more talks,” the forest minister said.Also read: Arvind Kejriwal says will fast in support of farmers tomorrowPosters in support of Banerjee and Adhikari are appearing across West Bengal, including Kolkata, since last month, stoking speculations that the two popular and comparatively younger leaders, may leave the TMC. Posters, with images of Banerjee and the words, “symbol of honesty,” written in Bengali, appeared in Howrah on Sunday as well. Tussle between Banerjee and senior leaders in Howrah over alleged nepotism and corruption first surfaced in public in July this year. “The rectification drive initiated by Mamata Banerjee will not succeed if action is taken against small fish and the big ones are allowed to go scot-free,” the minister said in July. Making things tough for the party, Mihir Goswami, the legislator from the Cooch Behar South constituency in north Bengal, recently joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while Shilbhadra Dutta, the lawmaker from Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district, voiced his dissent and declared that he will not contest in 2021. “I do not know who are putting up these posters. I have nothing to do with it,” Rajib Banerjee said on Sunday and refused to be put in the same bracket with Adhikari. “Please do not link me with Adhikari. His contention is his personal issue and the same applies to me. Differences can be democratically discussed in the party,” said Banerjee. He insisted that contrary to common perception, he has not distanced himself from activities of the TMC or the government. Significantly, Adhikari’s father, Sisir Adhikari, is the eldest among the TMC’s Lok Sabha members. He is also president of the party’s East Midnapore district unit. Mamata Banerjee, while virtually addressing party leaders last week, asked him to expel all rebels immediately. After his expulsion was announced, Kanishka Panda spoke out against the TMC and said he felt relieved. “Mamata Banerjee will understand in the coming elections what price a party has to pay for ignoring a popular leader like Suvendu and listening to Kishor’s advice. I am facing the wrath for protesting against comments made against Suvendu,” said Panda. Akhil Giri, the legislator from Egra in East Midnapore and a known detractor of Suvendu Adhikari, said, “Panda should have been expelled long ago for anti-party activities.” Goswami and Dutta have already spoken in public against deploying I-Pac, Kishor’s company, and organizational decisions taken on its advice. Senior TMC leaders told HT last month that Adhikari was specifically unhappy with organizational decisions taken by Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor, who was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Also, Adhikari, who was earlier appointed election observer for several districts, including Murshidabad, demanded that leaders of his choice be fielded next year from around 65 assembly seats. This was unacceptable to the leadership. Adhikari and Abhisek Banerjee even took potshots at each other without taking names at recent public meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-talks-to-disgruntled-minister-rajib-banerjee-expels-rebel-suvendu-adhikari-s-aide/story-b6yp7QSNIcvpodn8lTkjFJ.html
13-12-2020||Pune||Pune civic body audit finds 66% bills inflated, corrects amount of 632 Covid patients||A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) audit of Covid medical charges issued by private hospitals has found 66 per cent bills inflated, as per the data shared by civic officials. Rubal Agrawal, additional commissioner with PMC, said that till December 10, 955 bills were scrutinised in the past four months and amounts in 632 bills were reduced after scrutiny. “We have started bill audit to check if private hospitals are overcharging. There are many patients who approach us with complaints. We have also identified many hospitals who have overcharged patients during the Covid pandemic,” said Agrawal. She said that many hospitals have stopped overcharging once a complaint is filed against them. “We have observed that flouting hospitals start issuing inflated bills after a while. In such cases, we don’t take any concrete action. In such difficult times, we urge private hospitals to refrain from such practices. However, many big names in the city are repeatedly seen overcharging patients,” said Agarwal. PMC has started auditing inflated bills above Rs 1.5 lakh since August following complaints of overcharging from patients by private hospitals. The senior official said that private hospitals adhere to the price capping done by the state government through general resolution and notifications. “We have time and again reminded private hospitals to adhere to the price capping by the state government, but we do come across overcharging cases,” said Agrawal. Asked if PMC will take any concrete action, Agrawal said that the decision will be taken next week. “We have a few big hospitals in the city that are frequently named by patients for overcharging. We will soon take a decision on what action can be taken against them,” said Agrawal. PMC started auditing bills of Covid patients from August 14 to check overpricing. The civic body has formed a committee of auditors to verify bills from across private hospitals in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-audit-finds-66-bills-inflated-corrects-amount-of-632-covid-patients/story-oxy4EKuXe7cRyVk7VTv78J.html
13-12-2020||Pune||Concretisation work complete on 2.6 km stretch leading to Sinhagad fort in Pune||Tourists driving down to Sinhagad fort can now experience a smooth ride from the foothills till the fort top as the Maharashtra Public Works Department (PWD) has completed the cement road concretisation work which covers 2.6 km of the fort road.The total cost of road concretisation in the area is Rs 5 crore.Jayant Kakade, sectional engineer (South), incharge of the road project, said, “We have got the inspection done of 12 spots along the Sinhagad fort which are vulnerable to landslides. We have carried out work at four spots and work at reaming spots will be taken up after we receive the remaining fund amount.”“We got Rs 3 crore from the forest department for the project. The twelve spots require rockfall protection works and laying iron net, which is being done to enhance road safety and protect the lives of the visitors,” he said.Located 30 kilometres from Pune, Sinhgad fort attracts thousands of tourists regularly and is a big draw during the monsoon and weekends. However, following incidents of landslides and poor road conditions, the forest department had in 2018 closed the final two-kilometre road stretch for vehicles which led to the fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/concretisation-work-complete-on-2-6-km-stretch-leading-to-sinhagad-fort-in-pune/story-YlefkqUFl2AyIgzs6DUFDO.html
13-12-2020||Pune||Tourists defy safety norms, throng Sinhagad fort in Pune on weekend||As tourist places open its door for public after almost nine months (on December 8) people made a beeline at Sinhagad fort on weekend, however many were see flouting the Covid-19 safety norms.Anil Hole, senior citizen, who had scaled the fort since early morning said, “I use to come with the morning group of trekkers but we had stopped coming here due to the restrictions. As the ban has been lifted, I decided to hit the trail and it is an enjoyable experience. However, I request the tourists to follow social distancing norms and wear a face mask as it is in their interest.Aniruddha Pandit, a tourist who had come with his family, said, “The forest department is taking good steps and allowing a limited number of four-wheelers so that there is chaos at the peak of the fort.”“I have come here to enjoy the scenic beauty of the fort after a long time,” he said. Kailas Kulkarni, an avid trekker who works with a private firm said, “It was a refreshing and rejuvenating experience for us.”The forest department officials, meanwhile, said they will start taking action against violators soon.Deepak Pawar, range forest officer, said, “We will initiate action soon. The first three to four days are being utilised to spread awareness among masses. We will start taking action against those violating norms soon.”The revellers had arrived in two and four-wheelers early in the morning (on Saturday). The heavy traffic of four-wheelers forced the forest department to spot traffic some four kilometres before Sinhagad fort and upon clearance of congestion on the hilltop allowed the cars to proceed.However, the policemen meant to enforce discipline were completely missing from the site with the forest department and local villagers committee enforcing rules on its depleted strength of six persons and a few forest guards. The forest guards, however, provided necessary directions and assistance to the visitors with dedication and zeal.Balasaheb Jiwade, forest guard, said, “We are taking all necessary steps at the fort. The village volunteers are assisting the forest department in smooth conduct of release of tourist cars so that there is no overcrowding. We have received a good response from the citizens and they are co-operating with the norms of the state government.”Jiwade and four volunteers are manning the traffic at the entrance of Sinhagad fort.Pawar said that policemen are summoned only when there is a very heavy rush of tourists and if there is traffic jam in the ghat section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tourists-defy-safety-norms-throng-sinhagad-fort-in-pune-on-weekend/story-cHeHCtsdEe1ZoFN9qGONIO.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||NGT directs Delhi government to keep vigil against burning of plastic||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi government to keep a continuous vigil against the burning of plastic and other waste for the protection of environment and public health. The tribunal was hearing pleas filed by Mundka village resident Satish Kumar and Tikri-Kalan native Mahavir Singh alleging pollution caused by burning of plastic, leather, rubber, motor engine oil and other waste materials and continuous operation of illegal industrial units dealing with such articles on agricultural lands in Mundka and Neelwal villages.The green panel noted that the matter relating to air pollution has been pending for more than seven years and it does not find it necessary to keep it so for an indefinite period.“ It is for the statutory authorities to continue further steps for enforcement of environmental norms as per law.“Accordingly, we close the proceedings with hope and expectation that the concerned authorities will take the necessary steps for maintaining environmental norms. There has to be continuous vigil against causing of pollution, particularly burning of plastic and other waste for the protection of environment and public health,” the tribunal said.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said the amount of compensation recovered from violators must be properly utilised for the legitimate purpose with the approval of the CPCB.“If there is any violation of environmental norms, the aggrieved party will be free to take remedies as per law, as and when necessary,” the bench said.The tribunal had earlier directed the Delhi chief secretary to co-ordinate with the municipal and police authorities and other officers to ensure compliance of its previous orders at the ground-level.  It had asked the chief secretary to hold a joint meeting with the persons considered responsible for compliance and till the orders remain un-complied, continue to hold such meetings at least once a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngt-directs-delhi-government-to-keep-vigil-against-burning-of-plastic/story-OwBXaQItCkkTmLUB71xoqK.html
13-12-2020||Bhopal||Gang selling ‘substandard’ plasma busted in MP, could be tip of the iceberg||Madhya Pradesh police on Saturday late night arrested four people for illegally supplying substandard plasma which claimed the life of a Covid-19 infected patient in Gwalior, said police. The arrested include Ajay Shankar Tyagi, an employee of a private pathology lab along with Jagdish Bhadkariya, Mahesh Maurya and Hemant, all three employed with different private hospitals in Gwalior. The accused were arrested under section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “A Covid-19 infected patient Manoj Gupta, resident of Datia died three days ago. He was administered plasma in a private hospital before his death. The family blamed the plasma for Manoj’s death since the short post-mortem report said Gupta’s blood was infected due to administration of substandard plasma, which was not packed as per standard norms, affecting its quality,” Gwalior superintendent of police, Amit Sanghi said. The police officer added that an organised gang was involved in supplying plasma for Covid patients. “In the investigation, police found that an organised gang was involved in fraudulently supplying plasma in the name of Jaya Arogya Government Hospital (JAH),” said the SP. Explaining their modus operandi, the police officer said employees of a couple of private hospitals in Gwalior had formed a network with a private pathology lab employee and targeted stressed family members of patients requiring plasma for a hefty price.“The gang also targeted Gupta’s family in an orchestrated manner. When doctors asked Gupta’s kin to arrange plasma, one of the hospital employees, Jagdish Bhadkariy, offered to help and shared the mobile number of a middle man named Mahesh Maurya, who was also employed with another private hospital. Maurya then introduced them to one Ajay Shankar Tyagi. Tyagi claimed to be employed with the pathology lab at JAH. He charged the family Rs 18,000 for the plasma and also gave them fake slips of JAH,” said Satendra Singh, additional superintendent of police (ASP). Also Read: Another HC judge succumbs to Covid-19; Justice Vandana Kasrekar of Madhya Pradesh HC passes awayPolice investigation found that Tyagi is the brother of an employee of the pathology lab at JAH and had been arrested in January in a case of fraud. After he was released on bail in May, he started the illegal business of supplying plasma. “Police are now trying to ascertain the source of the plasma. Tyagi revealed he used to purchase plasma from an employee of a private pathology lab in the city. Police are trying to nab the person and other members of the gang, found to be active in many private hospitals in Gwalior and to have supplied plasma to more than 100 patients,” said the ASP. A team of police, doctors and district administration has been formed to collect data of patients, who were administered plasma supplied by this gang, and to investigate the role of private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/gang-selling-substandard-plasma-busted-in-mp-could-be-tip-of-the-iceberg/story-Y7TOvZYuAcMIviqlmoWu2J.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||3 held in Bengal for BJP worker’s murder; internal feud, claims TMC||Three men were arrested in the Halishahar area of West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district on Sunday morning in connection with the murder of a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker on Saturday, police said. The deceased, Saikat Bhawal, was president of the BJP’s local polling booth-level committee. He and three other BJP workers were attacked by about a dozen motorcycle-borne men around 5 pm on Saturday. The BJP workers were visiting voters for party’s outreach programme when the attack took place in the Barendragali area of Halishahar. Bhawal was allegedly beaten up with the wooden handle of a shovel. He and three others were rushed to the J N Memorial Hospital at Kalyani in adjoining Nadia district. Bhawal died at the hospital. The FIR was registered at Bijpur police station. “Four people were named in the police complaint. Three of them were arrested in the morning and charged with murder, attempt to murder, assault and criminal conspiracy. They will be produced before the Barrackpore court in the afternoon,” an officer of the Bijpur police station said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to brief the media. Also Read: There will be ‘Hindu raj’ in Bengal, says BJP MP Pragya Thakur, calls Mamata Banerjee ‘frustrated’“The three arrested men faced criminal charges in the past,” the officer added. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh accused the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) of targeting his party’s leaders and workers and carrying out well-planned attacks. “This has become the TMC’s policy in the run-up to the Assembly polls,” Ghosh said. Partha Bhowmik, TMC legislator from Naihati, said his party was not at all involved in the attack. “The violence was the outcome of an internal feud between two local groups. This has no link with politics. The police are taking action,” said Bhowmik. Although the agitation started peacefully, the BJP workers got into a scuffling with policemen around noon. They broke through barricades and surrounded the Bijpur police station compound. “This agitation is to demand for a neutral investigation. What you are witnessing is the anger of BJP workers,” said Subhrangshu Roy, the local BJP legislator and son of national vice-president Mukul Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/3-held-in-bengal-for-bjp-worker-s-murder-internal-feud-claims-tmc/story-1xFcjDdmGi9F3mmapWi7ZI.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha, Atishi and other AAP leaders detained ahead of planned protest against NDMC||Four Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders, including Raghan Chadha and Atishi, were detained on Sunday while they were on their way to stage a protest outside home minister Amit Shah’s residence in New Delhi. The AAP leaders had planned to hold a protest against Shah’s residence against alleged misappropriation of funds by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).Atishi was detained near the residence of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. She had planned to hold a demonstration outside his residence.Apart from Chadha and Atishi, Sanjeev Jha, Rituraj Govind and Kuldeep Kumar were detained at police stations located in their respective constituencies, a senior police official said. Delhi: Police detain AAP leader Atishi Marlena from near residence of Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.She was to hold a demonstration outside the residence of Lt Governor against alleged misappropriation of funds done by North Delhi Municipal Corporation. pic.twitter.com/YBKnBDIJvvEarlier, the Delhi Police had rejected Chadha’s request to hold a demonstration outside Shah’s residence in view of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines over prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) situation. “...Any type of gathering is not allowed outside the residence of Hon’ble home minister of India. Your request has been considered but rejected. You are requested to co-operate with the Delhi Police,” it said.“Moreover, promulgation of Section 144 CrPC is already in force in the area of New Delhi district,” the letter to Chadha from the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, New Delhi district, stated.Also Read: Delhi Police rejects AAP’s request to hold dharna outside Shah’s residenceThe AAP had on Saturday demanded a CBI inquiry into an alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore in the North Delhi and South Delhi municipal corporations - which are led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Addressing a press conference, party spokesperson Atishi had demanded strict action in the case by saying that the unpaid doctors, nurses, medical staff and teachers along with other Covid-19 warriors would have been paid their salaries with this Rs 2,500 crore.The allegation has been refuted by the BJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-says-party-leader-raghav-chadha-detained-ahead-of-planned-protest-outside-shah-s-residence/story-UbAMDbAgvXTWFmyFrsQ2iM.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers lift Chilla border blockade, traffic open on both sides||Traffic was restored at Chilla (Noida-Delhi) border early morning on Sunday after senior police officers spoke to farmers’ groups camping there for the past two weeks land requested them to vacate the site. One carriageway of the highway that connects Noida to Delhi was closed by farmers while the other that leads to Noida was open. The traffic is now open on both sides, senior police officers said. A senior officer said traffic was restored around 5 am as farmers cleared the road after the dialogue with the police on Saturday night. Traffic is running as usual, according to the police.Singhu and Tikri borders, however, remain completely closed while Ghazipur border is closed partially due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.“The Gazipur borders is closed for traffic from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests.People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via chilla, Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders,” Delhi Police tweeted on Sunday morning. In south Delhi, traffic was reported to be smooth. With farmers’ groups expected to arrive at the Delhi-Gurugram border to block the traffic, the police have made adequate arrangements to ensure law and order. “The situation so far is normal with traffic moving smooth. There’s no gathering. We have sufficient arrangements at the border areas connecting south Delhi to Haryana,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-lift-chilla-border-blockade-traffic-open-on-both-sides/story-y6QyCYMGoSJ0guFT17ZGpM.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC workers attack BSF jawan in Bengal, call him ‘insane’||Workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district allegedly beat up a BSF jawan on Friday evening and branded him insane. The victim’s family lodged a police complaint; however, no one has been arrested till the reports came in last. The victim has been identified as Biswajit Sahani, 32. He was posted with the 169 battalion at Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir and had returned home before the lockdown for treatment. Sahani was returning home riding his motorcycle on Friday, when he tried to overtake a TMC rally which was in the way, leading to an altercation between him and some TMC workers. The situation soon took a violent turn and he was beaten up with wooden clubs and his two-wheeler was damaged. Later, some locals rescued him and rushed him to the hospital. “My brother had returned home this February for some treatment from Jammu and Kashmir. On Friday afternoon, my brother went to Kandi for some work. When he was returning home TMC-men thrashed him,” said Rajesh Sahani, the victim’s elder brother. Locals said that the TMC rally was being led by Apurba Sarkar, the TMC’s president of Kandi block. Sarkar accused the victim of being ‘insane’ and claimed that the party had arranged for his treatment.“The BSF jawan is insane. He entered our rally intentionally and triggered the trouble. It was an unfortunate incident. The jawan’s family is our supporter. We are arranging for his treatment,” said Apurba Sarkar, TMC spokesperson of Murshidabad district. Also Read: TMC MP claims pulling out 3 IPS officers from Bengal akin to ‘indirect emergency’ The BJP, however, lashed out saying Bengal had become lawless under the TMC rule. “There is lawlessness all over West Bengal. Thrashing a BSF jawan proves that TMC workers are anti-national. They have no respect for the soldiers who are protecting our country,” said Murshidabad (North) BJP president Gourishankar Ghosh.The jawan’s family, too, has hit out at the TMC for calling him insane. “My brother and I are both serving the nation as BSF jawans. But after the brutal attack, no one from the police came to record his statement even though we have lodged a written complaint with Kandi police station,” Sahani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-workers-attack-bsf-jawan-in-bengal-call-him-insane/story-4LTwSgxiZaXMGEiABomnwO.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police rejects AAP’s request to hold dharna outside Shah’s residence||The Delhi Police has rejected Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha’s request for permission to hold a demonstration outside the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah in view of the coronavirus pandemic.AAP was planning to hold ‘dharna’ outside home minister Shah’s house on Sunday against alleged misappropriation of funds by New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).“...Any type of gathering is not allowed outside the residence of Hon’ble home minister of India. Your request has been considered but rejected. You are requested to co-operate with the Delhi Police,” the Delhi Police said in its reply.“...all social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/political functions/other gathering are prohibited up to 31.12.2020 throughout NCT of Delhi in order to prevent and control the outbreak of pandemic disease namely Covid-19,” the order said.On Saturday, Raghav Chadha has written a letter to Delhi Deputy Commissioner of Police requesting for permission to hold a “peaceful demonstration” outside the residence of home minister Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-rejects-aap-s-request-to-hold-dharna-outside-shah-s-residence/story-242gHYwWeikgUUu1197LDK.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||At 361, AQI in Delhi remains in very poor category||With Saturday’s rainfall increasing moisture in Delhi’s air, pollution levels were pushed deeper into the “very poor” zone on Sunday morning. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 361 at 7am on Sunday, which is categorised as “very poor”. On Saturday, the AQI was recorded 356, also in the “very poor” zone. This was a deterioration from Friday’s 295, which is categorised as “poor” in the AQI scale. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that as an aftermath of Saturday’s western disturbance, high moisture availability with higher air holding capacity and dense fog formation are expected over Delhi, mainly during early morning hours. “This can trigger heterogeneous aqueous reactions to form secondary aerosols (pollution particles converting into secondary aerosols with the help of water content in the air), which can lead to deterioration of AQI. AQI is likely to deteriorate to the higher end of very poor by Sunday evening. It is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ zone on December 14 and December 15,” the Safar forecast read. India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that dense fog was also likely early Sunday, which could reduce visibility levels drastically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-361-aqi-in-delhi-remains-in-very-poor-category/story-0ZbEq5GNkVN19bIcZBctmN.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||CAA will be implemented in Bengal soon: Kailash Vijayvargiya||The Citizenship Amendment Act will be implemented in West Bengal soon, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya Saturday said.Vijayvargiya, the BJP Bengal minder who was talking to reporters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district which is largely inhabited by backward Matua community, did not say anything on the contentious National Register of Citizens.Also Read: After a year’s break, fresh anti-CAA protests begin in Assam“Even if the West Bengal government opposes the implementation of CAA we (Centre) will go ahead in implementing it. If the state supports the implementation it will be fine,” he said.BJP national president, J P Nadda during his recent visit to the state had said that rules for implementation of the Act are being framed. CAA will be implemented in letter and spirit after it.To a categorical question about implementation of NRC, Vijayvargiya replied curtly “We are talking about implementation of CAA here.” BJP MP from Bongaon Shantanu Thakur, a member of the Matua community later told reporters “We will be looking forward to Union Home Minister Amit Shah making the announcement on implementation of CAA during his visit to Thakurnagar.Also Read: Court stays UP govt’s move to recover damages from anti-CAA protestorsMatuas, who have a sizeable population in the state, are lower caste Hindu refugees who migrated to West Bengal from neighbouring Bangladesh (erstwhile East Pakistan) during Partition and in the subsequent decades. Permanent citizenship has remained a longstanding demand within the Matua community.Party sources said Vijayvargiya and Thakur held discussions about Shah’s proposed visit to Thakurnagar, the community headquarters, soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/caa-will-be-implemented-in-bengal-soon-kailash-vijayvargiya/story-6cUJztADWcmK190usg2tvN.html
13-12-2020||Dehradun||Pak using heavier artillery for LoC violations: Army vice chief||The number of ceasefire violations at Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu & Kashmir have increased with an escalation in the calibre of artillery used by other side, said Vice Chief of Army Staff (CoAS) Lt Gen Satinder Kumar Saini in Dehradun on Saturday. Lt Gen Saini was interacting with media persons on the sidelines of Passing out Parade of the autumn term of Indian Military Academy(IMA) in Dehradun where he was the reviewing officer. IFJ lists 5 countries including Pakistan ‘most dangerous countries for practice of journalism in the world’“In comparison to last year, there has been an increase in number of ceasefire violations at LoC by the other side with an escalation in artillery being used to attack our civilian population. It has resulted in casualties in our side but we have also been giving them a befitting reply,” said Lt Gen Siani. The Vice CoAS also spoke on the reports stating China setting up villages near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and said it is “not of concern to the Indian army as the development is on the Chinese side of the border.”“There are no new villages or structures created inside our territory, it’s on their side of the boder. As you are aware that there is a continued development of infrastructure on the other side of the LAC that has been going on for last many decades. Therefore, it is not a matter of concern for us,” he said. On the ongoing dialogues between Indian and Chinese side to solve the border dispute he informed that the Indian side is in touch with the Chinese counterparts at both diplomatic and military levels. “We hope that through this dialogue process, a solution would be found and the status quo as of April this year would be restored. However, while we seek a resolution through dialogue, we are committed to ensure the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the territory,” said Lt Gen Saini. UN human rights experts raise concerns over scourge of enforced disappearances, torture in PakistanDuring his media interaction, he also stressed on strengthening of the ties between India and Nepal citing the recent visit of CoAS General Manoj Naravane to Nepal. “We have civilizational and historical links with Nepal. Also, many Nepalese citizens are in the ranks and file of Indian army. So our linkages are unshakable and the visit of CoAS only shows that these linkages will remain unaffected and would be strengthened further,” he said. Earlier during the event, while reviewing the parade as its reviewing officer, he congratulated the IMA staff to hold the event amid the pandemic while following all the Covid-19 guidelines. The passing out parade which adhered to the precautions like wearing of masks and maintaining extra distance by the Gentleman Cadets (GC)s during the parade, witnessed a total of 395 GCs passing out as commissioned army officers. Among the total 395 GCs, 325 were Indian while remaining 70 were from nine friendly foreign nations. Out of the Indian GCs, maximum--50 were from Uttar Pradesh followed by Harayana and Bihar with 45 and 32 GCs respectively. Among other states, 24 were from Uttarakhand, 18 from Rajasthan and 15 from Punjab. Out of the total 70 GCs from friendly foreign countries, maximum 41 were from Afghanistan followed by 17 from Bhutan. During the event, the coveted sword of honour was awarded to GC Watandeep Singh Sidhu from Ludhiana, Punjab. The gold medal for the GC standing first in the order of merit was awarded to GC Majji Giridhar from Andhra Pradesh.Similarly, the silver medal for the GC standing second in the order of merit was presented to GC Nidesh Singh Yadav of Haryana while the bronze medal for the GC standing third in order of merit was awarded to Shikhar Thapa from Uttar Pradesh. The silver medal for the GC standing first in the order of merit form technical graduate course was awarded to GC Jasminder Pal Singh Sidhu from Bhatinda, Punjab. In the GCs from friendly foreign countries, the silver medal for the gentleman cadet standing first in the order of merit from foreign GCs was awarded to Tandin Dorji from Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/pak-using-heavier-artillery-for-loc-violations-army-vice-chief/story-2aY1eSb1c27EnbV7REFISP.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Agitating farmers allow reopening of Chilla road at Noida border||A key road connecting Noida to Delhi, which remained obstructed since December 1 due to the farmers’ protest, reopened late on Saturday night, officials said. The Noida-Delhi Link Road was closed due to a sit-in demonstration by some farmers at the Chilla border.Those who believe in status quo can’t make history: Narendra Singh Tomar These protesters are against the three new farm laws and have demanded their withdrawal.Classify social media as news media, subject them to journalistic standards, says SC judge “The farmers have agreed to vacate the protest spot and the road would be completely open. As of now, some protesters are still on one carriageway but they would clear the road soon,” Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh S told PTI around 11.30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/agitating-farmers-allow-reopening-of-chilla-road-at-noida-border/story-6wrLEhBLxHyYWJz9WQ8GBJ.html
13-12-2020||City||Panchkula: Two Delhi men held in ₹55 lakh extortion case||Probing into a Karnal man’s complaint of extortion against police and some other men, the crime branch of Panchkula police have arrested two Delhi residents. Kushwinder Sharma and Ashish were arrested after the Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) on Thursday set up a special investigation team to look into allegations by the Karnal resident that two men and some policemen had extorted Rs 55.5 lakh from him and threatened to falsely implicate him in a case.Earlier, a case was registered under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 5 police station on December 8.The victim, Kunal Chopra, had marked his complaint to the Haryana home minister, which was forwarded to the Haryana DGP.Chopra had told the police that he had spoken to a Delhi resident, Sanjeev, about his plans to buy a house in Panchkula. Sanjeev had asked him to speak to Kushwinder Sharma of Panchkula. “I called Kushwinder, who assured me that he could get me the house of an NRI at half the price, but I would have to pay Rs 50 lakh in advance to the caretaker,” he alleged.On November 26, Chopra reached Hotel Sartaj in Sector 5 with Rs 55.5 lakh, where Kushwinder arrived with two constables and five other men, who took his bag after accusing him of gambling.“When I rushed after them, I saw them sitting in a Mahindra Bolero on which SHO (station house officer), Sector 14, Panchkula, was written,” Chopra alleged.He said when he went to the police station, he was threatened that he will be implicated in a false case and asked to leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-two-delhi-men-held-in-55-lakh-extortion-case/story-WiLOEYt5PvPpM9dtlKnkAL.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kulbhushan Goyal is BJP’s mayoral candidate for Panchkula MC polls||Everything appears to be set for the Panchkula municipal corporation elections scheduled later this month with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) naming Kulbhushan Goyal as its mayoral candidate and the Congress likely to announce Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia as its nominee on Sunday. Haryana chief minister Manohal Lal Khattar, BJP’s state in-charge Vinay Tawde, state president Om Prakash Dhankhar and other senior leaders were part of the state selection committee that met on Saturday to finalise the mayoral candidate and councillors.On Goyal’s selection , a BJP leader said, “All names were considered, but the one who has more chances of winning was chosen.”Though the Congress too held its selection committee meeting, the official announcement of the candidate is likely on Sunday. A senior leader not wishing to be named, however, said, “Ahluwalia’s name has been finalised, but the final call will be taken by Kumari Selja and she will announce the list of candidates on Sunday.”Ahluwalia has been actively associated with Congress since 1988 and has contested elections since 1995. Before becoming the first mayor of the Panchkula city. Goyal, 60, is a real-estate developer. He is the managing director-cum-CEO of Amarnath Agarwal Group of Companies and also president of the Aggarwal Sammelan, Haryana, Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College, Sector 46, Chandigarh, and secretary, Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, Panchkula. In the 2014 Haryana Assembly elections, BJP”s Gian Chand Gupta had defeated him by over 44,000 votes. JJP to contest from four wards||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kulbhushan-goyal-is-bjp-s-mayoral-candidate-for-panchkula-mc-polls/story-ikBywcPn0QsRq96nat1iEK.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Review 25 years of Chandigarh MC, former MP writes to Badnore||Former city MP and senior BJP leader Satya Pal Jain has urged the UT administrator to review the working of the municipal corporation over the last 25 years. In a letter to VP Singh Badnore, Jain has sought a concrete decision on amending the MC Act on various issues including electing the mayor directly by all electors of Chandigarh, as in Haryana and other parts of the country. Jain has recommended giving powers of writing annual confidential reports (ACRs) of MC employees to the mayor; making provision of anti-defection law applicable to the members of the MC; election of the mayor by secret ballot or open voting etc.Jain said that the term of the mayor needs to be increased to either two and a half years or five years. “Various states including Haryana have adopted the pattern of direct election of the mayor for five years, which needs to be considered in Chandigarh, also. Similarly, there is a need to divide the duties and powers between the administration and the MC.”Jain said that it will be better if the administrator constituted a committee of 10-15 people, including officials and public representatives, who may objectively consider all suggestions for amending various provisions of the MC Act, which can then be forwarded to the central government.Jain said that a few years ago, the UT administration had prepared a draft suggesting various amendments in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation Act, which had got lost somewhere in files later on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/review-25-years-of-chandigarh-mc-former-mp-writes-to-badnore/story-5vHGtkugWQVciFtrAogMfK.html
13-12-2020||City||12,000 voters excluded from list by Cong: Dera Bassi MLA||Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma has alleged that Congress has murdered democracy by modifying the voters’ list as per their sweet will. He also levelled allegations against Congress MLA aspirant Deepinder Singh Dhillon to have excluded around 12,000 voters’ names from the final list.Sharma alleged that even the names of sitting councillors had been deleted from the list. He produced documentary evidence and the physical presence of voters whose names had been struck off from the voters list in support of his statements.Sharma said, “This is a political vendetta against Shiromani Akali Dal. If the list is not amended then we will stage a protest against SDM Dera Bassi, MC executive officer and other officials for working at the behest of Congress.”He said that the names of SAD candidates who had been winning continuously like former councilor Parveen Sharma, Jagtar Singh Tiwana, Teji Sidhu, Hanumant Bahuguna, Ajaib Singh and many more had lost their voting rights as their names had been cut from the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-000-voters-excluded-from-list-by-cong-dera-bassi-mla/story-7CgIA7BB3LDfz60LCCo5YJ.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula youth third of family to pass out from Indian Military Academy, Dehradun||A 22-year-old resident of Panchkula, Lieutenant Adhiraj Singh Sidhu, who passed out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on Saturday, became the third generation officer from his family to pass out from the elite academy.Sidhu is also the sixth generation officer from his family to join the army. He joins 21 Rajputs, a glorious and illustrious regiment of infantry. He said, “I am proud to continue the family tradition; joining the army was a dream for me.”His father is a Colonel. His grandfather was a Brigadier, great grandfather a Major, great great grandfather a Captain from the famous 36 Sikh, now 4 Sikh. His grandfather, Brig Pritam Singh Sidhu, was a pass-out of the third IMA course; father Col Sarup Singh Sidhu was from the 79th IMA course; Lt Adhiraj Singh Sidhu passed out from the 147th IMA course. Sidhu is also the fourth person from his family to join the infantry.As many as 392 cadets graduated from the IMA and the passing out parade was held on Saturday including 322 Indians and 70 from friendly foreign countries.Mohali resident Lt Yashasavi Sharma, 23, was also among those who passed out from IMA on Saturday. Sharma, who is an ex-cadet of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute, has been commissioned into the Armored Corps, third cavalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-youth-third-of-family-to-pass-out-from-indian-military-academy-dehradun/story-jAJGeh81bMKHSaq8LwrqmL.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Component in mouthwash effective against Covid: Panjab University-IMTECH study||An experimental study carried out by the researchers of the Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital of Panjab University and CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) has concluded that a component in the most routinely-used mouthwash is effective against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Chlorhexidine gluconate is widely used in germicidal mouthwash. Besides, the study has also found povidone-iodine to be effective in inactivating the virus.The chlorhexidine gluconate mouth rinse in 0.2% concentration has been found to be most effective, inactivating more than 99% of the virus.The research, conducted by professors Ashish Jain and Vishakha Grover of PU’s dental institute in collaboration with Krishan Gopal Thakur of IMTECH and others, has been submitted to a major scientific journal for publishing.‘Results need to be verified with clinical studies’Professor Ashish Jain said, “Our work suggests that chlorhexidine 0.2% which amounts to the most widely-used mouthwash can be an effective regiment in the war against Covid-19. However, these are initial results from lab studies and need to be verified via clinical studies; commercial samples available in the market that contain other additives need to be tested against this claim.”The study has found that 0.2% chlorhexidine gluconate, at merely 30 seconds of contact time, achieves immediate inactivation of the virus. At 0.12% concentration, the component was also found to be effective, but its effectiveness was marginally lesser. Povidone-iodine has been found more than 99.9% effective at 60 seconds contact time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/component-in-mouthwash-effective-against-covid-panjab-university-imtech-study/story-tlHL5NC60pzUH1g673cgrN.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ ongoing agitation hits BJP’s prospects of spreading its tentacles in Punjab||The prospects of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to spread its base in Punjab have taken a hit in the wake of the farmers’ ongoing agitation as many of its leaders, including Sikh faces, have resigned against the Centre’s agriculture laws. Thousands of farmers from the state are camped at the entry points to the national capital for over a fortnight, taking the anti-BJP sentiment to a new high. The passage of bills by the Narendra Modi-led government led to widespread protests by Punjab farmers, which now are spreading to other parts of the country. It triggered a sharp reaction among the Sikhs in the saffron party, particularly at a time when the political stocks of the panthic party—Shiromani Akali Dal—were dwindling. Earlier, the BJP was being dubbed by some as a viable political alternative in Punjab’s political landscape. It was flexing its muscles in the state to win the 2022 assembly polls on its own. The things, however, seem to have changed as the party is receiving a stiff opposition in the rural belt. To make the matters worse, the activists of farmer organisations are gheraoing the BJP leaders, restricting their movement. Nearly two dozen Sikhs holding key positions in the party’s state and district bodies have resigned. Not only Sikhs, others leaders have also quit, with some shifting their loyalties to other parties. “The new laws are against the agrarian community. I had been opposing since the ordinances were passed in June month, but no one listened. So I was left with no choice but to quit,” said Malwinder Singh Kang who resigned as general secretary of the BJP’s state body. Party’s kisan morcha in-charge in Moga Tarlochan Singh, Yuva Morcha state general secretary Barinder Singh Sandhu, former district president (Amritsar) RP Singh Maini, former Gau Sewa commission chairman Kimati Bhagat, who also was former general secretary of party’s SC Morcha and Ajay Kumar, president of the party’s youth wing of in Fatehgarh Sahib, also resigned after the protests began. “No one listened to our concerns, so I resigned,” said Bhagat, who joined SAD. A number of councillors from civic bodies in Gurdaspur, Abohar and Bathinda have also quit the party in the recent days, severely impacting the BJP’s plans to strengthen its base. Many leaders from the district units in Sangrur, Bathinda, Moga, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur have also put in their papers. Harjeet Singh Grewal, who is associated with the BJP for many years, differed, saying there was no adverse impact on the party’s popularity. “A large number of Sikhs are still associated with the party,” he claimed. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said more people are joining the party in Punjab. “Our party has acceded to the demands of farmers and is ready to listen to their concerns. The party is as strong as ever,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-ongoing-agitation-hits-bjp-s-prospects-of-spreading-tentacles-in-punjab/story-RDbkkGzWgRcpqmQaqDWwWM.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents will have to register for Covid vaccine||Residents willing to receive the Covid-19 vaccine will have to register for it first, as outlined in Chandigarh’s vaccination plan.The UT health department will be giving the vaccine to healthcare workers first, followed by residents aged over 50 and those having comorbidities. While the healthcare workers are already being identified, the remaining population will have to register in advance on the CoWin-20 mobile app.“After the health and frontline workers, registration of all residents above 50 years of age and comorbid population will be started. While everyone in these categories is eligible for getting the vaccine, it is not mandatory. We are awaiting central government instructions on the registration protocol for them,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, UT.Registration will be done through three methods – bulk registration, self-registration and registration through survey. Health and frontline workers are being registered through the bulk method.“People other than health and frontline workers are likely to be registered through self-registration and survey,” said Dr Kang. Vaccination sites, sessionsFollowing registration, an SMS will be sent to the beneficiaries with details of the vaccination session site, date and time. For now, the vaccination sites are planned at GMSH-16, GMCH-32 and the civil hospitals. These may also be set up at government schools and community centres as the programme is scaled up.“The SMS will be sent to both the beneficiary and the health officials. If a person misses a scheduled appointment, a second SMS will be sent automatically with a renewed appointment,” said Dr Kang. The session sites will have separate entry and exit points. “There will be three rooms for the vaccination process. In the first room, the registered person will be medically examined, while the vaccine will be administered in the second. Thereafter, the person will be under observation for 30 minutes in the third before being allowed to leave,” she added. Post vaccination all beneficiaries will get online certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-chandigarh-residents-will-have-to-register-for-covid-vaccine/story-GoSugE0CQ3MVydhP8QqrEM.html
13-12-2020||City||Ambala MC polls: Former Congressman Venod Sharma declares 14 ward candidates from his party||Former Union minister and Congressman Venod Sharma on Saturday made public a list of 14 candidates of his Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) who will contest in the Ambala municipality polls.Sharma, a two-time Congress MLA from Ambala City constituency, addressed a press conference at his Model Town residence and declared 14 out of 20 names for the wards. He said the party had decided to contest the polls to serve residents. “For the last five-six years, the citizens of Ambala have been devoid of jobs, cleanliness and better roads. I can assure my voters that we will do more work than we did earlier,” Sharma said.Sharma’s wife Shakti Rani Sharma is expected to be the mayoral candidate for the party. However, Sharma has deferred the announcement for now. Sharma was in touch with another stalwart of the region, Nirmal Singh, for an alliance with the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF). This was confirmed by HDF’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara who had said that “his conditions didn’t suit us and we’ve to move on”. However, Sharma denied any talks and called the meeting(s) personal.Sharma’s son Siddharth Vashishth, alias Manu Sharma, a convict in the infamous Jessica Lal murder case of 1999 who was serving a life sentence, walked out of Delhi’s Tihar Jail in June after he was granted an early release.HDF’s mayor candidate files papersAmisha Chawla, the mayoral candidate for HDF, filed her nomination papers to the CEO of zila parishad, Anurag Dhaliya, at the ADC office on the second day of the process. This is the first nomination in two days.Major parties like the BJP and the Congress are yet to go official with the names for mayoral candidates.After filing the papers, Amisha said, “I’m confident that with the support and blessings of the residents, HDF will win the mayor and all the wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-polls-former-congressman-venod-sharma-declares-14-ward-candidates-from-his-party/story-h3LhEW9glKWkpa9s7q7ssO.html
13-12-2020||City||Saka Nankana Sahib centenary: SGPC to seek Centre’s nod for sending 5,000-member Sikh jatha to Pakistan||With the centenary of the massacre of Sikhs at Nankana Sahib, popularly remembered as Saka Nankana Sahib, being marked on a large scale in the birthplace of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is set to request the Union government to permit it to send a large jatha of at least 5,000 pilgrims from India to Pakistan. SGPC honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said, “The Pakistani authorities and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) have issued statements in the media that their government had offered 10,000 visas to the Indian devotees for participation in the centenary event. Though we have not received any letter in this regard from them yet, we will seek permission for sending 5,000 pilgrims.” “Planning and preparations for marking the centenary on a large scale are underway. We will make arrangements for the centenary like we did while celebrating the 550th Parkash Gurpurb of Guru Nanak,” PSGPC president Satwant Singh said on phone. Even as the SGPC has not started the process for the same yet, it has already invited the applications from the devotees for the annual jatha to be sent to the neighbouring country to attend the celebrations of the foundation of the order of Khalsa, also called Baisakhi festival, in April next year. This festival is celebrated at Gurdwara Panja Sahib at Hasan Abdal in Pakistan. The massacre of 260 Sikhs took place on February 20, 1921, at Gurdwara Janam Asthan at Nankana Sahib which at the time was in British India by a mahant and his mercenaries. As per the Nehru-Liaquat Pact, a bilateral agreement signed on April 8, 1950 to guarantee the rights of minorities in both countries after the Partition of India, nearly 3000 Sikh pilgrims are allowed to visit the Sikh shrines in Pakistan on four religious occasions in a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centenary-of-saka-nankana-sahib-sgpc-to-seek-centre-s-nod-for-sending-5-000-member-sikh-jatha-to-pakistan/story-h1kyIpifOxM44ABwv4HfSL.html
13-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC, BJP lock horns as MHA calls 3 IPS officers back on deputation||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre of waging political vendetta, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal on Saturday hit out at a move by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to call three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers back on central deputation.The allegation is part of a new verbal war between the Centre and the state government sparked by an attack on BJP president JP Nadda’s convoy by stone-throwing TMC activists when he was on a visit on Thursday to Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “The Centre is indirectly trying to impose emergency and is keeping IAS {Indian Administrative Service} and IPS officers under coercion. The three IPS officers were on duty that day, and yesterday (December 11) they received letters from the MHA. The vindictive attitude is clear,” said Kalyan Banerjee, senior advocate and chief whip of the TMC in the Lok Sabha. The home ministry on Saturday called the three IPS officers responsible for Nadda’s security back on central deputation from West Bengal. “The convoy of a person enjoying Z-category security has a pilot car and a tail car. If any other vehicle wants to enter that convoy, the local police needs to be informed and permission needs to be taken. Here no permission was taken,” said Kalyan Banerjee. Leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit hit back at Kalyan Banerjee. “Who is Banerjee? Is he someone from the state government? No. Is he someone from the Centre? No. He is a MP of the state’s ruling party. What is he trying to prove? Is it so that the chief minister has no answer and that why she is asking her MP, who is not related to the matter, to respond,” BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar said. The Centre had on Friday asked chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and director general of police Virendra to appear before it on December 14. This drew a strong reaction from the TMC, which argued that law and order was a state subject and outside the Centre’s remit.“Under no law can the Centre summon the officers. The executive powers of the Union government can only be exercised only in cases under the Union list and concurrent list. Law and order is in the state list of the seventh schedule. The executive power can’t be exercised here,” Kalyan Banerjee added. The TMC MP has sent a letter to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla protesting the MHA’s letter, which asked the state chief secretary to release three IPS officers for central deputation. He alleged that it was an instance of political vendetta, saying that the Union home secretary wanted to meet the state’s chief secretary and director general of police on the instructions of Union home minister Amit Shah. “It is shameful and dangerous that all laws have been thrown out in the river by your action at the instance of Amit Shah, BJP leader and home minister of India. Your every path suffers from mala fide exercise of power,” Kalyan Banerjee wrote in the letter sent to Ajay Bhalla, the Union home secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-bjp-lock-horns-as-mha-calls-3-ips-officers-back-on-deputation/story-4Rl6IMoQ72mXCR0c6eVzhJ.html
13-12-2020||City||FIR against landlords if they fail to ensure verification of tenants: Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar Commissionerate||Sadanand Date, the commissioner of the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate has directed estate agents and landlords to verify their tenants and send the details to the respective police stations in their jurisdiction. Failing these steps, the landlords or agents can be booked for ‘hiding tenants’ information’, said Date.“Criminal activities are rampant in the twin cities of Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander, and so MBVV has applied Section 144 (which prohibits the gathering of four or more people in an area) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc), 1973, and made tenement verification process compulsory. Earlier, a minor online process was conducted for the verification when the cities were under the Thane rural police. But now the process has been tightened. We will also the landlords, property owners and estate agents under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) if they breach the law,” said senior police inspector Sanjay Hazare from Kashimira police station. He said the police have directed landlords and estate agents to provide all the details of the tenants in the prescribed format via emails and registered post to the respective police station within three days after the contracts are signed. “This method will also help MBVV to track suspects and control crime, as well as to identify their hideouts in case of lack of photographs, documents and other evidences,” said Hazare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-landlords-if-they-fail-to-ensure-verification-of-tenants-mira-bhayander-vasai-virar-commissionerate/story-onyNOsNZF5e4AEvGqISYhL.html
13-12-2020||Lucknow||UP, Centre move top court against Kafeel’s release||The Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government have appealed in the Supreme Court against quashing of Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention order under the National Security Act (NSA). Khan, a paediatrician whose brush with controversy began with the 2017 Gorakhpur hospital tragedy in which more than a hundred children died reportedly due to shortage of oxygen and he was suspended, was booked under the NSA last year over an allegedly inflammatory speech against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). After severely indicting the state government for booking Khan under the NSA, the Allahabad high court had in September quashed the detention order and allowed the habeas corpus petition filed by his mother, Nuzhat Parween. Khan was released after spending seven months in jail. Challenging this order by the high court, the central government and the Uttar Pradesh government have jointly filed an appeal, maintaining that Khan flouted prohibitory orders and delivered a provocative speech to AMU students with an attempt to disturb law and order in Aligarh by inciting Muslim students against other communities. The petition added that Khan’s speech, on December 13, 2019, incited about 10,000 AMU students to march towards Aligarh city. “Had the violent students not been talked to stopped, this crowd would have disturbed the public order and the communal harmony of the district by entering Aligarh city,” it said. The plea further stated that Khan has a history of committing various offences, which had led to disciplinary action, his suspension from service, registration of FIRs against him and the invocation of the NSA. The petition said it was not open to the high court to examine the detention order on merits since it was based on subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate, Aligarh, who had sufficient reasons to pass the detention order. The appeal is likely to be heard on December 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-centre-move-top-court-against-kafeel-s-release/story-64NOGd3ew75q4BupaHzC5H.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps TISS for irregularities in admission to masters course||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday came down on Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) for irregularities in admissions to Master in Arts (MA) in Applied Psychology course. “You (TISS) have committed fraud against the entire society,” said the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni. “You have admitted somebody against seats for OBC category, but the candidate does not belong to OBC category,” the bench added. The judges were irked to note that admissions were given to some open category candidates on vacant OBC category seats for the course and then admission of some of those candidates were cancelled while some were asked to join the course at the institute’s Chennai campus.“There is something very fishy about this,” the bench commented after additional solicitor general Anil Singh pointed out some errors in the first round of admissions to the course. He also pointed out that the number of seats was increased by 13 in order to fulfil the commitment to the students already admitted.“Whose commitment is this,” the judges asked Singh and questioned as to why the admissions were not cancelled after the so-called errors were detected. “We don’t know... Perhaps that was done deliberately,” the bench added.The court was hearing a petition filed by Pune resident Anshruta Deepkumar who wants to pursue the course and had therefore appeared for TISS common entrance test. She has moved HC through advocate Akash Menon questioning the admission process.Deepkumar has filed an application seeking direction to TISS to carry out admission process afresh and forthwith admit her for the course. In the application, she claimed that she had secured a rank that was above the cut-off marks set by the institute for admission to the course at both Mumbai and Chennai campuses, and therefore, she was entitled to be admitted, especially after the seats were increased by 13.She added that she was denied admission as the institute limited intake of open category candidates without giving rhyme or reason.TISS has, however, maintained that the petitioner was 12th on the waiting list and that all open category seats at both the campuses were completely filled. The institute also claimed that the studies for the said course started way back in August 19, and the first semester course is almost over.“It is difficult to make up the lost time for anyone who joins at this stage,” TISS said in an affidavit filed in response to the petition. “Further, anyone joining now would also fall short on the attendance norms,” it added.The HC has now posted the petition for further hearing on Monday with a direction to TISS to inform the court how the Institute proposes to fill some vacant seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-tiss-for-irregularities-in-admission-to-masters-course/story-s5Y2Zvpjzzsechp7g3r9JP.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ASI succumbs to injuries in Raikot hit-and-run||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) deputed at NRI Police Station in Jagraon who was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Barnala Chowk in Raikot on December 10 succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. The victim, Baljinder Singh, 50, was returning home from work and was waiting for a bus near Barnala Chowk around 9.30pm, when he was run over, his son Saganpreet Singh said. Passersby rushed him to a private hospital in Barnala from where he was shifted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana. After struggling for his life for two days, he succumbed to his injuries.ASI Baljinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the unidentified driver. Police have been scanning closed-circuit televisions to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-asi-succumbs-to-injuries-in-raikot-hit-and-run/story-xbLWy4EWHG8rVU2FKKKs5J.html
13-12-2020||City||Leaders must be firm on ideology: NCP chief Sharad Pawar during 80th birthday celebrations in Mumbai||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar turned 80 on Saturday. The party celebrated the birthday of the veteran leader by holding several virtual rallies and a slew of events, including blood donation camps and job fairs.A celebration was organised at YB Chavan Centre in Nariman Point with a limited number of guests. The event was attended by Pawar, along with his family and friends. Speaking on the occasion, the veteran leader said political workers should never compromise on ideology. He also spoke about creating a next generation of political workers who will help in strengthening the country’s future. “It is important for political workers to be firm on their ideology. The progressive ideology of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar needs to be passed on to the next generation of political workers for them to follow the paths of these leaders,” he said while expressing his gratitude for the support he has got during his public life.The former chief minister (CM) also remembered his mother Shardabai Pawar on the occasion. “She taught us not to neglect the responsibilities of family while doing social and political work,” said Pawar. “When you start working for the last person in the society, you get to learn a lot. It also gives clarity about the path you want to follow,” he advised the gathering. Many senior NCP leaders such as Chhagan Bhujbal, Dhananjay Munde and Eknath Khadse attended the gathering live virtually. Bollywood actor and Shiv Sena leader Urmila Matondkar also reached YB Chavan Centre to wish the NCP chief. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Uddhav Thackeray also extended their wishes to the veteran leader. State NCP chief and water resources minister Jayant Patil said around 2 lakh people attended 400 to 500 virtual rallies across 36 districts. “Some people had said that Pawar’s political era is over. Let me ask them to leave their car and bodyguards provided by the government and visit any district. They will come to know the truth,” Patil dared former CM Devendra Fadnavis, without taking his name. To commemorate Pawar’s birthday, the state launched a digital platform — www.mahasharad.in — where people with disabilities can register for hearing aids, battery-operated wheelchairs, prosthesis, Braille kits etc. Earlier this week, a rural development scheme named Sharad Pawar Gram Samruddhi Yojana was launched to commemorate the most senior political leader of the state. The scheme will be implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNRES). Pawar is seen as the force holding together the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, comprising his own party, the Shiv Sena and Congress. Forming the three-party coalition government in the state to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) away from power was his brainchild. Both, the NCP and the Congress, were facing mass exodus last year and the coalition was seen as a survival strategy. Pawar has been a big factor in Maharashtra’s politics and a key leader in national politics for five decades now. He has been a three-term CM of Maharashtra and has also handled the defence and agriculture ministries at the Centre. Currently, he is a Rajya Sabha parliamentarian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leaders-must-be-firm-on-ideology-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-during-80th-birthday-celebrations-in-mumbai/story-IBFyte9GRkInsesS895kPL.html
13-12-2020||Lucknow||7-yr-old gang raped in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two men in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Saturday. The minor had gone missing for some hours, after which her family started searching for her. She was found unconscious and bleeding on the roof of a nearby house in the village under Budhana police station limits on Friday evening, they said. A case has been registered against the two men under Indian Penal Code Section 376D (gang rape) and the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Circle Officer (CO) Girija Shanker Tripathi told PTI. The two accused were arrested, the CO said. In his police complaint, the minor’s father alleged that the accused took her to a nearby house and raped her. He said they left her on the roof of the house in an unconscious state. The family members rushed her to hospital, the girl’s father stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/7-yr-old-gang-raped-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar/story-UHCsc37yXvYqp1diV82d9L.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew a party pooper, rescind orders: Hotel association tells Punjab government||Reeling from heavy losses amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab has demanded immediate roll back of the Punjab government’s decision to extend night curfew till January 1, saying the decision was adversely affecting their businesses so much so that they may have to close their establishments. After remaining closed for nearly five months amid the lockdown, hotels and restaurants were allowed to open in September albeit with certain restrictions. The restrictions were further relaxed in October but reimposed in December after a resurgence in cases. Association president Amarvir Singh said, “The night curfew and orders capping the number of guests should be scrapped immediately.” The state government had recently fixed the ceiling for guests at 100 for indoor guests and 250 for outdoor gatherings: “Extremely harsh measures are being taken against the hospitality industry in Punjab as compared to Haryana, Delhi and Chandigarh. The hotel industry has suffered a major losses. At present, we are only getting 30% business as compared to last year,” said Amarvir.‘Guest limit should be increased to 500’ He suggested upping the guest limit to 500. “With the Punjab government restricting timings, residents are already planning New Year celebrations in other states. Advance bookings have already been made in hotels and restaurants of Chandigarh, Delhi and Haryana,” said Amarvir.“The government is taking selective measures to control the Covid pandemic. If 500 people can work in a factory unit, why are there restrictions on an assembly of over 100 people in a hotel?” he asked.Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab general secretary Davinder Singh Nanda asked why different rules pertaining to Covid were being applied in different states. “Covid is at its peak in Delhi and Haryana. However, the respective governments have not taken such stringent measures,” he contended. “Does the virus only spread after 10 o’ clock and not during political parties’ public rallies?” asked Nanda The association’s chief advisor Amarjeet Singh said such incidents have a detrimental effect on the state’s economy and will lead to unemployment and loss of revenue. Virus claims 4 patients, 57 more test positiveFour people, including a 38-year-old man, succumbed to the coronavirus disease and 57 more people tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 23,853 and death toll to 932. The number of active cases in the district stand at 700. The deceased, include three men aged 60, 57 and 38, who were residents of Jawaddi, Halwara and village Ladhowal, respectively and a 73-year-old woman, who resided in Gurdev Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-curfew-a-party-pooper-rescind-orders-hotel-association-tells-punjab-government/story-ZnzyjLBxwNpm0TPnPa2yAL.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Petition in Bombay HC questions earmarking of open category seats by meritorious reserved category students||The process of earmarking seats in the open quota for meritorious students from reserved categories has been questioned time and again and this year, a Nanded-based lawyer has once again filed a writ petition in the Bombay high court (HC) against it.The public interest litigation (PIL) was filed at the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC on Friday. Filed for ‘Save Merit, Save Nation’, an organisation working against reservation, the petition explains the need to rethink the earmarking process in professional admissions at government as well as private aided and unaided institutes. According to this rule, a student from the reserved category can opt for a seat in the open category on the basis of merit. However, his seat in reserved category still remains under the same category, leaving fewer seats for students in the open category. “The earmarking process breaches the constitutional ceiling of 50% reservation in seats as per the reservation policy of India, by occasioning undue benefits to the candidates belonging to reserved categories while entailing unwarranted loss to the candidates belonging to open category,” states the petition. Several parents and students from the open category across the state are in support of this petition. “This happens every year and until recently, students from the open category didn’t question the rule. But for the past two years, the government has introduced new reservation quotas in the form of economically weaker sections (EWS) as well as socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) which has eaten into open category seats. And the earmarking system still persists, leaving open category students with very few seats,” said Pankaj Sharma, father of an MBBS aspirant. He added that seats in the open category pool has been shrinking for past few years, forcing more and more open category students to opt for seats in neighbouring states as well as deemed institutes due to lack of choice.At present, admissions to undergraduate medical and dental seats are ongoing with the second seat allotment list scheduled to be released on Sunday. Registration for admissions to engineering, law and architecture courses are currently underway on Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/petition-in-bombay-hc-questions-earmarking-of-open-category-seats-by-meritorious-reserved-category-students/story-99t4mA695VaE5fo46ENiPO.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra prepares to vaccinate 3.25 crore people in six months||Maharashtra is preparing to administer Covid-19 vaccine shots to 3.25 crore people over three phases in six months, according to officials. However, it is still unclear whether it will be free or not.The vaccination drive is going to be conducted in a systematic manner with people having to register online and they will be asked to be present at a vaccination camp on a specific date and time, the officials revealed.In the first phase, the state will be administering shots to health workers, second phase will be for frontline workers and in the third phase, citizens above the age of 50 and having comorbidities will be given vaccine shots. The state has already started registration of health workers, said a senior state health official.“Following directives of the Central government, we have started preparations to start a vaccination drive, assuming it will be available from January. The drive will be conducted at district hospitals, rural hospitals and primary health centres. A team of four to five people will conduct the drive and their training programme has also started,” he said.“Each person will have to register to get a vaccine shot at a designated website. He or she will get a text message and be asked to come at a specific date and time, along with their identity card. The people available at the camp will check their registration and identity; the vaccinator will give the shot and the person will be kept under observation for at least half an hour. If there is no complication, then the person will be allowed to go if not then further treatment will be given,” the senior official said.“We still have no idea whether the vaccination will be free for all or people will have to pay against each shot. The decision has to be taken by the Centre,” he added.He further said that the state health staff has already completed a vaccination drive for measles-rubella only two years ago in 2018, hence they are hoping that there won’t be any hassle as the staff has experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-prepares-to-vaccinate-3-25-crore-people-in-six-months/story-eyZEFgbH9i8F8dj6nyTbOO.html
13-12-2020||City||Yamunanagar MC inspector caught taking bribe||Yamunanagar MC sanitation inspector Anil Nain, along with one Deepak, was arrested by a vigilance team late on Friday for allegedly taking a bribe of ₹2 lakh. The duo was presented in a court on Saturday, vigilance officials said. Nain had allegedly asked for ₹3 lakh for clearing some objections for a sanitation tender of the brother of a BJP leader, Jangsher Singh. Jangsher said his brother Jindal Kumar, a contractor, had already given ₹1 lakh to the accused and before giving the pending amount, he filed a complaint. “My brother had applied for a new tender with all required documents. Nain sought bribe in the name of his seniors,” he added. DSP Om Prakash Sharma, who was a part of the raiding team said, “We arrested Nain and his friend Deepak from Sasoli Road with the amount. Nain was sent to two-day police remand and Deepak to judicial custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-mc-inspector-caught-taking-bribe/story-VPkwVk3GGDbvnJox8JQvPI.html
13-12-2020||City||Centre should withdraw farm laws as soon as possible: MP Manish Tewari||Member of parliament (MP) from Sri Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari has appealed to the Union government to withdraw the new agriculture laws as soon as possible in the interest of the farmers.Tewari said the Congress party had been opposing these laws from the very beginning when they were ordinances, when they were passed by the Parliament and even when they were sent for the President’s approval. Tewari was talking to reporters on the occasion of the opening of a five-km stretch of Kharar flyover.Replying to a media query, Tewari said that the Congress party believed these laws to be against the farmers and has strongly opposed them. He appealed to the Union government to repeal these laws as soon as possible fearing that the agitation would spread across the country and may have serious repercussions.Chairman of Punjab Large Industrial Development Board Pawan Dewan, SDM Himanshu Jain, tehsildar Puneet Bansal and Kharar deputy superintendent of police Rupinder Sohi were also present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-should-withdraw-farm-laws-as-soon-as-possible-mp-manish-tewari/story-Z7pGA441cXGPi6dH60Ze3L.html
13-12-2020||Jaipur||PM Modi condoles deaths in Rajasthan road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a road accident in Chittorgarh in Rajasthan.His office said in a tweet quoting him, “Pained by the loss of lives due to an accident at Nikumbh, Chittorgarh. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery: PM @narendramodi”.At least seven people were killed and several others injured on Saturday in a collision involving a jeep and a trailer truck in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district, police said.The accident occurred near Sadulkhera on Udaipur-Nimbahera highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/pm-modi-condoles-deaths-in-rajasthan-road-accident/story-CcD75OFGRyCaUl51Q8x6FM.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Appoint Class IV employees on contractual basis: Maharashtra Edu dept to schools||The Maharashtra education department has asked schools in the state to make all the upcoming appointments of Class IV employees on contractual basis. In a circular issued on Friday, the department stated that once the current staffers on these posts retire, new appointments should be made by the school on contractual basis. Employees under Class IV include peons, cleaning staff, security guards, laboratory attendants etc. While appointments to these posts were conducted by the government so far, henceforth schools will have to complete them at their level. The appointed staff will only be contractual employees of the school instead of being permanent staff of the government. The government shall give a fixed allowance to schools for every vacant post depending on the school’s location and the cost structure drawn out by the government. For cities such as Mumbai and Pune, the allowance will be ₹10,000 per month for each post whereas for schools in other corporations, it would be ₹7,500 per month. For schools in the rural areas, a monthly allowance of ₹5,000 has been set. Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals Association, said the government’s decision was shocking and unacceptable. “The allowance given by the government will be really less (than required) and we are worried that schools will not get good people to work with no job security and such little money. We urge the government to rethink its decision,” he added. Schools said that the government’s recent guideline allowing only two peons per 500 students was also unjust. “Schools are already short-staffed as teachers and non-teaching staff are not recruited despite vacancies. And to add to this, the government has now curtailed appointments in Class IV jobs,” said the principal of a school in the western suburbs. Officials from the education department did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/appoint-class-iv-employees-on-contractual-basis-maharashtra-edu-dept-to-schools/story-fONmXj1JBMsFifUMidiDEJ.html
13-12-2020||City||Will be happy to see Pawar as UPA chief, says former Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde||Senior Congress leader and former Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said he would be happy if Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar becomes the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chief. “He [Pawar] has seen many ups and downs in his political career of over 50 years. He has worked with a lot of people and is widely experienced. I would be happy if he gets the position of UPA chief,” Shinde told news channel TV9 Marathi.Shinde also said that the NCP chief’s memory is “incredible”. “He can remember people by their names after meeting them once. He is easily accessible and the only leader after Yashwantrao Chavan (former Maharashtra chief minister) who has cordial relations with everyone across parties,” Shinde said. Meanwhile, senior NCP leader Praful Patel said his party wishes to see Pawar lead the country as the Prime Minister. “Though he [Pawar] is not in the position where he wants to see himself now, it can happen. The entire state needs to support him. If (West Bengal CM) Mamata Bannerjee can get 36 MPs (Members of Parliament) and (Andhra Pradesh CM) Jagan Reddy has 25 MPs, then Pawar can also get 44 MPs from the state, and the day is not far away when he [Pawar] will be in the position where we want to see him. I am sure he would be leading the country when we will be celebrating his 85th birthday,” Patel said at the veteran leader’s 80th birthday celebrations at YB Chavan Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-be-happy-to-see-pawar-as-upa-chief-says-former-union-home-minister-sushil-kumar-shinde/story-IT24OOBqK9jrgbtCrjI3YK.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Mandale depot works for Mumbai Metro-2B awarded at 14% higher cost||After ousting two contractors over delayed works, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has awarded the Mandale depot works for Metro-2B to a new contractor at ₹530.32 crore, which is 14% higher than the estimated cost of ₹464.75 crores.The Mandale depot work for Metro-2B (DN Nagar-Mandale) was earlier awarded to a firm at ₹390.43 crore in January 2018. However, according to MMRDA, even 24 months of after awarding the work, only 7% of the overall work was completed. According to the minutes of the meeting of the recently-held executive committee meeting of MMRDA, “The duration of completing the works was around 42 months from the date of awarding the contract.”Earlier in January this year, MMRDA terminated the contract, following which new bids were invited. MMRDA had also terminated the contract of another firm for delaying the works along Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E). HT had earlier reported that MMRDA had awarded the pending works along Metro-7 at a higher cost than estimated. While the authority received bids from six contractors for Mandale depot, three were finalised, of which the lowest was quoted by Ahluwalia Contracts Pvt Ltd. Among the various reasons for quoting higher than the estimated costs, the bidder had also stated that owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, there is an increase in cost of labour too.While Metro-7 is expected to be made operational by May 2021, MMRDA is looking at operationalising Metro-2B by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mandale-depot-works-for-mumbai-metro-2b-awarded-at-14-higher-cost/story-V7UNz7jXWh6LnpVB75DebK.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||Detractors in Congress denied Sharad Pawar PM post twice: Praful Patel||On two occasions, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar had the opportunity to become prime minister, but was denied by his detractors in Congress, said NCP leader Praful Patel in an article written on the occasion of Pawar’s 80th birthday. The article was published by Shiv Sena mouthpiece, Saamana, on Saturday.“After Rajiv Gandhi’s unfortunate death during the Lok Sabha elections of 1991, the Congress party was in a state of shock. There was a demand to make Pawar party president to handle the situation, but some drawing room politicians conspired to block this. They did not want a strong leadership for the party and made PV Narasimha Rao the Congress president,” Patel wrote in the article.“After the results of Lok Sabha elections, Congress was close to forming a majority [in Parliament] and again there was a demand to choose Pawar as prime minister. However, the same people [as before] misused Sonia Gandhi’s name to make Rao the Prime Minister,” he further wrote.“There has been a conspiracy against Pawar since 1989 when he was chief minister of Maharashtra. I have witnessed how conspiracies were hatched against him in Delhi. I have seen how he lost the prime ministership when he was within striking distance of it,” Patel wrote in the article, adding that Rao was prejudiced against Pawar. Patel also wrote about the 1996 Lok Sabha elections in the article. “Congress won 145 seats. HD Deve Gowda, Mulayam Singh Yadav and leaders of the Left had shown willingness to be part of the government if Pawar replaced Rao as Congress nominee for prime minister. Rao was not willing and so Congress had to extend outside support to Deve Gowda,” Patel has claimed.Later in 1997, after Congress president Sitaram Kesari withdrew support of Deve Gowda government, Patel says 125 Congress MPs had gathered at Pawar’s residence in a show of support. However, Pawar chose to prevent a split in Congress. “It was the second time that he lost an opportunity to get the prime ministership,” Patel has written. In the article, Patel has also written that Pawar was continuously targeted by his detractors in Congress, which led to Pawar floating NCP. At the time of going to press, Congress had not issued any official response to Patel’s allegations.On condition of anonymity, a senior Congress leader and former Union minister said, “In 1991, the party’s top brass wanted a nominee who had experience of handling Central government portfolios. Rao and Arjun Singh were the frontrunners. As such Rao was chosen. Pawar had returned to the Congress just a few years ago so the top brass was not comfortable with him. They also considered the fact that the majority of newly-elected MPs of the party were from the south.” On the decisions taken after the 1996 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress leader said, “Congress had lost the election and the third front parties had more MPs than us. So the party decided to respect the mandate and support Deve Gowda.”Significantly, in an article published in Marathi daily Loksatta on Saturday, veteran Congress leader Ulhas Pawar said that Pawar could have reached the highest positions in Congress and at the Centre had he remained with the party. He has also appealed Pawar to return to Congress’s fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/detractors-in-congress-denied-sharad-pawar-pm-post-twice-praful-patel/story-IV1p9Njp1Z7Gp2iynA1yvM.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Noida: 24-year-old arrested for hiring scribe for CAPF exam||Greater Noida: The Ecotech 3 police have arrested a man for allegedly hiring an impersonator to give the entrance exam for the sub-inspector post of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) in his stead. The suspect was identified as Ajay Kumar, 24, a resident of Rohtak in Haryana. Police said that a solver (hired scribe) had allegedly appeared in the written examination on his behalf in November 2019 in Delhi. However, Ajay had appeared in the physical examination on December 7, 2020 in Greater Noida, when he was arrested. Raj Kamal, assistant commandant, CISF Battalion Sutiyana, had filed a complaint in the matter at the Ecotech III police station on December 7. He had alleged that the government had organised a physical exam for the recruitment for candidates who had cleared written exams. “On December 7, a candidate had appeared in the physical test whose photo and biometric fingerprint did not match with the person who had appeared in the written test with the same roll number,” he alleged in the FIR. Bhuvnesh Kumar, SHO, Ecotech III police station, said that a team reached the spot after getting information and detained Ajay. “During interrogation the suspect admitted that a solver had appeared in the written examination in Delhi on his behalf. When his name was cleared in the written exam, he came to Greater Noida to appear in the physical test,” the SHO said. Police said that the suspect had allegedly met a gang which runs a recruitment racket in Delhi, which had promised him recruitment by sending a solver. The SHO said that the gang had used a mobile app to allegedly merge the photo of the candidate and the solver to generate a doctored photo, which resembled both. “Interestingly, the gang had also prepared a thin fingerprint membrane of the solver, used in the written exam, and gave it to the candidate to put in on his finger for the physical test. However, this membrane was not read by the fingerprint scanner in Greater Noida and the suspect was arrested,” he said. Police said that based on the complaint a case has been registered against the suspect under sections 417 (cheating), 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We are investigating the matter to arrest more people involved in the recruitment racket,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-24-year-old-arrested-for-hiring-scribe-for-capf-exam/story-4vNMOIXAkuI7AfkawUboCP.html
13-12-2020||Noida||Noida receives light rain; mercury set to drop from Sunday||The city and its adjoining regions saw a light rain on Saturday morning, leading to drop in temperature with the meteorological department expecting the mercury to fall further from Sunday onwards. The weather forecast also warns of very dense to dense fog during the morning hours for the next three days. On Saturday, Noida saw one mm rainfall, leading to spike in humidity and a drop in the temperature. However weather experts said that the rainfall was not strong enough to wash away pollutants in the air. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the mercury will sharply fall on Sunday by four degrees and will keep falling for the rest of the week. As per the automatic weather station, the minimum temperature for Noida on Saturday was 15.5 degrees Celsius against 13.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature was recorded at 20.1 degrees Celsius as against 26.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature for entire NCR on Saturday was 14.4 degrees Celsius as against 11.3 degrees a day earlier. According to the meteorological department, the minimum temperature is likely to drop to 10 degrees Celsius on Sunday and 8 degrees by Monday. “Temperatures fell due to the rain, although Saturday saw a slight rise in the minimum temperature. But the maximum temperatures fell due to rains and because of the cold winds and clouds that blocked the sunlight during the day. From Sunday onwards, the maximum temperatures will start falling,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (IMD). Due to the occurrence of a western disturbance – a weather phenomenon that leads to snowfall in the mountains and rains in the NCR – the northern Himalayan states have received snowfall. From Sunday onwards, the wind directions will turn north-westerly, which means that it will start blowing from the mountainous regions. “Currently, the region is seeing variable south-westerly and westerly winds at the speed of 8 to 10 kmph. By Sunday, north-westerly winds will start blowing, which will lead to a drop in the mercury in NCR,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-receives-light-rain-mercury-set-to-drop-from-sunday/story-4H6l7e6UxEu6rP7MYCdVDK.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Mercury to dip, dense fog to prevail, say weather experts||Dense fog is likely to prevail in the city on Sunday along with a dip in the minimum temperature, as per weather experts. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 14 degrees Celsius on Saturday while the maximum temperature stayed at 21 degrees. On Sunday, the minimum temperature is expected to settle at 11 degrees, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the temperature would start dipping from Sunday onwards. “The temperature will fall marginally on Sunday and dip further next week. It can come down to eight degrees Celsius by next week. The air quality will also deteriorate with the dip in temperature,” said Srivastava. He added that dense fog was likely to prevail on Sunday during the morning hours. “A western disturbance has just passed due to which there is the availability of moisture and there are chances of dense fog. Visibility can go below 200 metres,” said Srivastava.Air quality in the city remained in the “poor” category on Saturday, with 296 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was up from Friday’s reading of 256. Experts attributed the poor air quality to the accumulation of airborne pollutants. Gurugram was the least polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR) as the AQI in the neighbouring Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad stayed in the “very poor” and “severe” categories. The level of ultra-fine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant was 210.35 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve but remain in the lower end of “very poor” to “poor” category on Sunday. The air quality is likely to remain in the “very poor” category next week as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mercury-to-dip-dense-fog-to-prevail-say-weather-experts/story-CydddrqxafCCGLTHC0LqoN.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records low footfall at sample collection booths on extensive testing day||The district health department on Saturday administered nearly 6,100 Covid-19 tests — a number that fell slightly below the expected target of 7,000 tests. Complying with the state government’s directive to conduct extensive Covid-19 testing on every Saturday, the health department held camps across the city. Senior officials, however, cited that footfall at the sample collection booths has been gradually declining. Data shows that the daily testing count has come down to 4,775 over the last six days as compared to 6,000 tests done on an average in the last week of November, leading to a steady downfall in the weekly test positivity rate – number of positives out of the total samples collected.On Saturday, at least 20 camps were held across the city, including the Kapashera border, which connects Gurugram with the adjoining national Capital. At least 6,144 tests were administered, out of which 5,794 were through Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and only 350 through Rapid Antigen Tests. “Camps are held for people to walk in voluntarily and get tested. Our health workers do not force people to get tested. The gradual decline in overall cases has impacted the footfall of people at the sample collection booths,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to him, the target was to administer almost 7,000 tests on the extensive testing day. “Following the directive of the state health department, maximum Covid-19 tests are to be administered on every Saturday of the month. It is for this reason, on December 5, at least 10,000 tests were done,” he said. Data shows that even after increased testing, less than 400 new cases were confirmed. According to Yadav, special Covid-19 testing drive will continue to keep a control on the number of active cases, which has seen constant upward trajectory for the last two months, followed by a relative decline in the past few days.As per the district health bulletin, at least 276 new infections were confirmed on Saturday out of the 4,519 tests administered on Friday. The weekly test positivity rate remains at seven percent. With new infections, the total Covid-19 tally has reached 54,330, out of which 2,205 are active cases. Last time, the district recorded such a low count of active cases was on September 13 (2,232). On an average, 356 new cases were recorded this week, while 580 recoveries were reported. Currently, the recovery rate is almost 95 percent.Out of the current active cases, only 6.8 percent (150 people) of the seriously ill patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals. Eight of the patients are in Covid care centres, while 2,047 are home-isolated. The Covid-19 death toll stands at 329, with one death being recorded on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-low-footfall-at-sample-collection-booths-on-extensive-testing-day/story-MXT6GZLaW0i6Od1r55I5LM.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers from Haryana and Rajasthan to march towards Capital||Farmer groups from Rajasthan and Haryana are likely to march towards Delhi via the Delhi-Jaipur Highway (NH-48) on Sunday. Earlier this week, on Thursday, farmers had said they would block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12 and hold a nationwide protest on December 14 if the government did not roll back the farm laws. Azad Khan, Haryana vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union, said that state farmers will be joining their counterparts from Rajasthan and proceeding towards Delhi on Sunday. “Farmer groups from Rajasthan are coming towards Haryana. We will join them and gather at Shahjahanpur in Alwar near the Haryana-Rajasthan border by Saturday night and proceed towards Delhi on Sunday,” said Khan. He added that there was a lot of pressure from the administration and the government with heavy police deployment in the region. However, the farmers would strive to march peacefully. “We will continue to protest peacefully despite the pressure. More and more farmer groups have started joining the movement since the government refuses to listen to our demands,” said Khan. Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav also tweeted that farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana would gather at Kotputli in Rajasthan on Saturday and proceed for Delhi on Sunday through Delhi-Jaipur Highway (NH-48) as part of the “Dilli Chalo” initiative. Farmer groups from Nuh and other districts such as Bawal are also expected to join the march.“Thousands of farmers will travel in the direction of Delhi along with hundreds of vehicles from Rajasthan-Haryana border of Shahjahanpur (Behror) on NH-8 at 11 am on December 13. The farmers of Rajasthan and Haryana will be joined by national-level farmer leaders,” said a spokesperson from Samyukta Kisan Morcha (a union of farmers). In view of the farmers’ movement, preventive measures are being taken in Gurugram. Around 100 farmers heading towards Gurugram were stopped by Haryana police at Bilaspur on Saturday. A few farmers were also detained by the police as a precautionary measure while most turned back on their own, said police officials. Across Gurugram, more than 2,000 police officials have been deployed and more than 120 checkpoints have been set up. Around 68 duty magistrates appointed by the district administration on Friday for the blockage of the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway also surveyed areas along KMP, NH-48, and routes connecting to Pataudi, Farrukhnagar, Jhajjar, Badli, Mewat, Faridabad and Delhi to check preparedness measures and spot possible farmer gatherings. On Saturday, Gurugram traffic police also prepared route diversion plans for multiple points on NH-48 such as Sirhaul toll, IFFCO Chowk, Bilaspur Chowk, and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway to re-route traffic if the farmers’ block the highway. DCP traffic DK Bhardwaj said that traffic police officials have already been stationed at all the diverted routes from Saturday onwards to direct commuters to the nearest and correct routes if there is any congestion or blockade on the national highway. In Nuh, the district administration on Saturday imposed Section 144, restricting the gathering of more than five people at public places. As per the prohibitory order issued by Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata, no individual is allowed to travel with lathis, sticks, spears or weapons of any kind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-from-haryana-and-rajasthan-to-march-towards-capital/story-Y1LA6DryBWpk84wk2GQSrJ.html
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police prepares diversion plans in view of farmers’ protests||The Gurugram traffic police on Saturday said that they have prepared route diversion plans for multiple points on the national highway(NH)-48, including Sirhaul toll plaza, Iffcco Chowk, Bilaspur Chowk, and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway. These diversion plans will be put into effect if the farmers block the highway as part of the ongoing agitation against three farm laws passed by the Centre.DK Bhardwaj, DCP traffic, said, “We have identified several points along the highway where route diversions can be made to ensure that traffic movement is not hampered and people can reach their destinations. At all the diverted routes, traffic police personnel have already been positioned to guide the commuters towards alternative routes and ensure that there is no congestion.”Earlier this week, the farmers have announced that they would block the Delhi-Jaipur highway after their talks with the Centre failed to yield any solution.Bhardwaj said that Gurugram traffic police will update commuters over social media about the congested and blocked points. It will also list alternative routes so that people can travel accordingly.Bhardwaj said that if the Sirhaul toll is congested or blocked, then the traffic police will divert vehicles heading towards Delhi from Shankar Chowk via Cyber City towards Aya Nagar along the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road on one direction, and through Udyog Vihar and Kapashera border on the other side.In case of congestion at Iffcco Chowk, he said that the vehicles will be diverted via MG Road, Aya Nagar, on one end, and through Sukhrali, Old Delhi Gurgaon Road towards the Kapashera border. If the Bilaspur Chowk is heavily congested, than traffic will be diverted through KMP, Farrukhnagar, Pataudi Road, Himgiri Chowk, towards Hero Honda Chowk.Bhardwaj further said that if the same situation occurs on KMP expressway, then the traffic police will divert traffic through Farrukhnagar, Dhankot, Basai Chowk, Himgiri Chowk towards Hero Honda Chowk.Overall, more than 2,000 police officials have been deployed across different parts of the city for managing law and order as well as traffic at key points.On Saturday, 68 duty magistrates, who were appointed by the district administration for a possible blockade of the Delhi-Jaipur expressway, also accompanied traffic police officials in civilian clothes and travelled along KMP, NH-48, and all roads connecting to Pataudi, Farrukhnagar, Jhajjar, Badli, Mewat, Faridabad and Delhi to assess the preparations made by the police as well to look out for possible farmer gatherings, said traffic police officials.Gurugram Police said at least 128 vehicles were randomly stopped at the Sirhaul toll and checked.“The checking of vehicles was done on a random basis as a precautionary measure. No person was arrested or detained during this, and they were allowed to proceed ahead,” said Astha Modi, DCP(headquarters), Gurugram Police.The police said they were prepared to take measures for any untoward incident and were standing along the expressway with barricades, batons, shields, to take immediate action.At the Sirhaul toll, around 100 Gurugram Police and Delhi Police officials were stationed on the carriageway carrying traffic from Manesar towards Delhi.Gurugram Police officials were deployed just before the Rajokri subway while Delhi police were stationed just ahead of the structure. More than 50 barricades were also put together at the vacant land adjoining the service lanes of the expressway.At the Kherki Daula toll plaza, there was a heavy presence of Gurugram police officials, along with a fire tender of Gurguram fire department and Haryana Roadways buses, which transported them to the point.Traffic at both these points moved without any major hindrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-prepares-diversion-plans-in-view-of-farmers-protests/story-UNMYnKvB7ZYb3OhwJ3neXP.html
13-12-2020||Mumbai||No decision yet on making Covid-19 vaccination free: Mumbai civic body||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), India’s richest civic body, on Saturday maintained that no decision has been taken on making Covid-19 vaccination free for citizens. Mumbai mayor and Shiv Sena corporator Kishori Pednekar said the BMC will wait for state government guidelines, but as a mayor, she feels that citizens should not be charged for Covid-19 vaccination.According to BMC officials, it is almost clear that there will have to be two doses of vaccine for every individual, but clarity on whether vaccination will be free or not will be decided after guidelines from the Central and state governments. On Friday, the BMC’s task force for vaccination in the city held its first meeting to prepare a strategy for vaccination of over 1.24 crore citizens in Mumbai.In the meeting, it was decided that the first dose will be administered to 1.25 lakh frontline workers in 15 days after the vaccine arrives, and the second dose will be administered in 15 days after a buffer of 28 days. According to BMC officials, the first target will be to vaccinate 1.25 lakh frontline workers, followed by the police force and conservancy workers in the second phase, and in the third phase, all citizens above the age of 50 will be vaccinated.Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “Whether the Covid-19 vaccine will be administered for free or not is something I cannot comment at this stage. Central and state governments will come out with their guidelines in the same context, and we will take a decision after considering it.”Kakani added, “For now, the focus is on vaccinating frontline workers, and the logistics required for it, including trained manpower. We are going to take help from non-governmental organisations (NGO) when it comes to manpower.”BMC had on Friday decided to form 5,000 teams, wherein each team will have five members for vaccinating the whole city. The BMC has also decided to have two to three vaccination centres in each ward. For now, BMC is in the process of procuring deep freezers and has set up a central vaccine storage facility in Kanjurmarg.Commenting on the same, Pednekar said, “We are bound by the guidelines of the state government, and we will follow it when it comes to giving free vaccination or charging citizens. However, as a mayor, if you ask me, I feel Covid-19 vaccination must be given to all citizens free of charge to ensure every citizen has access to the vaccine.”Meanwhile, India is banking on four to five vaccines, for which trials are being conducted or will be started in the coming days. These include the US pharmaceutical giant’s Pfizer vaccine, one by Oxford University, Russia’s Sputnik V, and India’s Covaxin by Bharat-Biotech.On the pricing end, Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be priced at ₹500-₹600, Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India, had told Hindustan Times on November 19. Pfizer has maintained it will have different rates for its Covid-19 vaccine for different countries, as the company aims to make the vaccine available across the world. The price bracket for other vaccines is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-decision-yet-on-making-covid-19-vaccination-free-mumbai-civic-body/story-9tRMTNTODoE1hnN3bhJ1FL.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers feel the chill at borders||With the sun playing hide-and-seek on Saturday, and a spell of light rain in the morning, farmers camping at Delhi’s four border points for the past 17 days, to protest against the new farm laws, have started feeling the chill as they dug in for a long winter standoff. Although the temperature did not actually fall in Delhi, protesters said the light rain left them shivering. At the Safdarjung observatory, the minimum temperature was recorded 14.4 degrees Celsius, up from 11.3 degrees Celsius on Friday and six degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 21.8 degrees Celsius.Srinagar receives season’s first snowfall, people share breathtaking picsAnticipating that their protests may continue for long at four borders points of Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla, farmers said they have stocked up on wood for bonfires, as well as blankets and woollens.“Many tractor trolleys and truck that have arrived from parts of Punjab and Haryana over the last two days have brought with them wooden planks, gur (jaggery), peanuts, dates, gajjaks (peanut/walnut bars), and roasted grams, apart from ration and warm clothes. We will not step back until the government accepts our demands,” said Nishan Singh, a farmer from Mansa in Punjab.At Singhu border, where the maximum number of farmers have gathered, many vendors from Delhi and Haryana were seen selling woollen coats, jackets, and trousers to protesters, who have turned their parked tractor trolleys and trucks into makeshift homes.Dense fog, spike in pollution likely todaySitting next to police barriers, Mohammad Sahid from Delhi’s Jama Masjid sold warm clothes priced between ₹200 and Rs 400. Several farmers were seen standing around, checking the quality of the clothes and bargaining with Sahid.“I usually sold these items near Jama Masjid. But considering the change in weather and the presence of thousands at Singhu border, I decided to shift my business here. This is my first day and business is good. I have sold 40-50 jackets since morning,” said Sahid.The light rain also had Good Samaritans rushing to these borders with boxes of woollen clothes, blankets and food items. One such group from Haryana’s Kaithal brought 500 blankets in a tractor trolley and gave them all to farmers. Ajay Kumar from the group said people of his village contributed money .On Friday, Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava visited Delhi’s border with Bahadurgarh to interact with security personnel deployed there. “They are doing a commendable join this harsh winter,” Shrivastava tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-after-saturday-shower-farmers-at-borders-feel-the-chill/story-89t7vM1VkrVJrwBO5Q0KmI.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Dense fog, spike in pollution likely today||Parts of the national capital received light rainfall on Saturday morning but it did not do much to bring down the temperature or clean the city’s air. Data from India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed that the minimum temperature on Saturday was 14.4°C, highest for the month of December since 2015. At the Safdarjung observatory, whose readings are taken as representative of the city, the minimum temperature rose to 14.4°C from 11.3 on Friday, six degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 21.8°C. IMD records showed that on December 9, 2015, Delhi had recorded a minimum temperature of 15°C.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The minimum temperature is recorded early in the morning and today (Saturday) morning, we received rain. Since the temperature tends to rise during rainfall, we recorded a high minimum temperature.” IMD also warned that because of high moisture content in the air, there is a possibility of dense fog on Sunday morning. With the light rainfall, the pollution levels also took a nosedive on Saturday. CPCB data shows that the overall AQI reading of Delhi was 356, in the “very poor” zone, a deterioration from Friday’s 295, in the “poor” zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dense-fog-spike-in-delhi-s-pollution-levels-likely-on-sunday/story-YhaUvaaUeEbY7nfHr7qVUK.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Woman gang raped by 3, hunt on for suspects||A 22-year-old woman was allegedly gang raped by three unidentified men at Shakur Basti railway station late on Thursday night, prompting the police to register a case and form teams to identify and nab the suspects. The woman was sitting alone on one of the platforms of the station, when the three men allegedly forcibly dragged her to an isolated place and forced themselves on her, the police said. Police are probing the identity of the men and checking if any of them knew the survivor.Deputy commissioner of police Jitendra Mani Tripathi, who is looking after the charge of DCP (railways), said case of gang rape has been registered but no arrests made so far. A police officer said the woman lived near the railway station with her family. On Thursday , the officer said, she left home after an altercation with her family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-gang-raped-at-shakur-basti-station-by-three-hunt-on-for-suspects/story-aSkD6cqZgenG2DJLnugjAJ.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 47 Covid-19 deaths, lowest since November 2||Delhi recorded 47 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, taking the total toll of the infection to 9,981. The death toll reported in Saturday’s government health bulletin is the lowest since November 2, when 42 deaths were reported. Delhi saw its third and worst surge in the number of cases and deaths in November. “Number of deaths in Delhi are on a decline. Lowest 47 deaths since 2nd Nov. I Request you all to observe all precautions for this trend to decline further,” tweeted Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. According to the bulletin, of the 73,413 tests conducted, 32,578 (44.3%) were done using the RT-PCR method — the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.A total of 1,935 fresh cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 605,470. Jain said the average number of cases reported daily is also declining.“7 days average per day cases now are 2275 one month ago this was 7196. Cases are continually on a decline for a month in Delhi,” the minister tweeted. The dip in cases has also led to a decline in the number of hospitalisations. On Friday, there were 4,631 patients admitted to hospitals, 24% of the total beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 were occupied, as were 44.3% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds, according to the Delhi Corona app. “Bed occupancy for Covid-19 patients in Delhi hospitals is continuously reducing. Today, over 75% of beds reserved for treatment of Covid-19 are vacant. The number of vacant ICU beds has also increased,” said Jain in a press briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reports-47-covid-19-deaths-lowest-since-november-2/story-wPz0rT9TqWLhMWj6zDLg6K.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Teen, abducted by man who lied about his name, faith, found after nearly 2 months||Nearly two months after a 15-year-old girl was reported missing from her west Delhi home, police on Saturday said they found her in Badarpur, southeast Delhi. They said she had been abducted in October by a man who had lied about his name and faith on social media. Police have arrested Shoyab Khan, 18, who allegedly abducted her after meeting her on Facebook. They said Khan had posed as SK Sinha on the social media website, adding that he had abandoned the girl in an auto-rickshaw in Badarpur on October 26, three days after he took her away by promising to marry her. Minor accuses man of forcing her to convert in UP, FIR filedDeputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said police filed a case of abduction on October 23 after the girl’s father informed them she was missing. During the investigation, police checked the call details of the girl’s cellphone and her social media accounts.“We found that she had been frequently receiving messages from one SK Sinha. We collected details of the account holder from the service provider, and discovered that it was created by one Shoyab Khan of Alwar, Rajasthan,” said DCP Purohit.Police said the man took her to different places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and abandoned her three days later after learning that police were looking for him. Delhi Police officers said they found the girl in a house in Badarpur, where she had been working since October 26. She told police that she was afraid of returning home. Plea filed against UP’s ‘love jihad’ law in HCPolice said that to find the teenager, the investigating team camped in several parts of Mewat region in Haryana and Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi for 46 days, suspecting that she may have been abducted by human traffickers.The investigating team raided Khan’s home, but he was missing, along with his family and relatives. The police said that one of the investigators was stationed in Mewat region to look for information on the whereabouts of the suspect. The rest of them carried out raids and scanned CCTV camera footage.The team also visited Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh after technical surveillance of the suspect’s cellphone indicated his presence there. Two of his Facebook friends in both cities confirmed that the suspect had stayed at their homes with the girl.“The suspect told his friends that he had married her. But when they found out that the girl was a minor and they were not married, they refused to shelter them anymore,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named.The first breakthrough in the case, the officer said, came on December 8, when they located Khan and arrested him from Delhi’s Badarpur border. He then told the police that he had abandoned her in Badarpur.Police then launched a search operation to find the auto-rickshaw in which Khan had abandoned her. On December 9, the police found the auto-rickshaw and spoke to its driver, who claimed that he had dropped the girl near Badarpur Extension. After six hours of a door-to-door search operation, the police found her, the officer said. “Khan, who is a college student in Rajasthan, has been booked for abduction and criminal conspiracy. He has been sent to jail. If the girl levels other allegations, he will be booked under those sections too,” the officer added.Investigating officers said Khan is not part of any organised gang that endorses interfaith marriage or forces minors into changing their religions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-teen-abducted-by-man-who-lied-about-his-name-and-faith-found-after-nearly-2-months/story-mACCrmIm7emyHmjlFaIGbJ.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Farmer protests: Traffic smoother, Chilla border reopens||Delhi police on Saturday said that the Delhi-Noida border at Chilla would be opened before midnight even as farmers continued protesting against the new farm laws.One carriage of the border between Delhi and Noida had been closed for the last two weeks after a group of farmers sat on protest. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said that the farmers protesting at the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) have agreed to clear the carriageways and restore the movement of vehicles between Delhi and Noida. Meanwhile, the Delhi-Jaipur highway blockade on Saturday, as announced by famers on Friday, did not impact traffic flow on the road as only a few farmers turned up for the blockade. A senior Delhi traffic police officer said the department was prepared to handle the situation even if more farmers had turned up. Also on Saturday, the vehicular movement was lower than usual.“We had a contingency plan in place, but because we are constantly putting out traffic advisories on our social media pages and warning commuters to avoid the borders and adjacent roads, people are wary of these areas,” the officer said.But Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been actively involved in the farmer protests, said on Saturday that farmers have started from their respective states to reach Delhi via the Delhi-Jaipur highway. “The presence of these farmers will be seen by Sunday,” he said.At present, with the ongoing protests, seven borders are completely closed. These are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mungeshpur in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi. Apart from the seven, the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) is also closed to vehicles coming to Delhi, while the opposite carriageway is open. The service road of NH-24 at the UP Gate border are also closed.Addressing protesters at the Ghazipur protest site on Saturday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said questions over the “funding” of langars at protest sites were misleading. “We were eating at home as well. Our family members sent us here with food and told us to eat there and fight for our rights. When these gurdwaras fed people during the lockdown, they were praised. Now suddenly, they and their funding are being questioned.” Tikait also stressed that attempts to divide farmers group would be unsuccessful.The BKU spokesperson said if anyone at the protest sites was found resorting to “anti-national activities”, the police and intelligence agencies should catch them. “We haven’t come across any such person and if we do, we would send them away,” he said, while responding to statements made by two Union ministers, who had said the farmers’ protest has been hijacked by “leftist, Maoist elements” and “anti-social elements.” But social activist Medha Patkar, who joined farmers at Ghazipur on Saturday, said, “The government always tries to malign mass agitations like these. But that will not affect anything. This is a satyagraha and any citizen of the country can join in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-smoother-delhi-s-chilla-border-may-open-by-midnight/story-6wtqhm4VhJLGFtaa7LUQTK.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Mayors camped outside CM’s residence bang thaalis to register protest||The mayors of the city’s three municipal corporations — north, south and east — along with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors continued their protest outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Saturday by beating thaalis (plates). A statement issued by the three mayors read that this was done to “wake the Delhi CM up from his slumber” and to make him listen to their grievances. AAP wants CBI to probe ‘fraud’ in civic bodyNorth Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said that the three mayors of Delhi municipalities had been sitting on a protest outside the CM’s residence for six consecutive days now with a demand that the government releases Rs 13,000 crore funds that it allegedly owes to the corporations. “The CM has not tried to meet us once. Because of this, we decided to bang plates today to make him listen to our grievances,” Prakash said. Security up as farmers’ stir likely to intensifyHe added that the mayors will continue their protest till the money is released by the Delhi government. Reacting to the protests Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and legislator Atishi on Saturday said that AAP leaders will protest outside L-G Anil Baijal and Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence demanding a CBI inquiry on North civic body for misappropriating funds to the tune of over Rs 2,000 crore.The state government has also ordered an inquiry into the alleged fraud. The North civic body denies all the allegations. On Friday, the mayors had said that they will continue to run their offices from outside Kejriwal’s residence from Monday onwards. The AAP in a statement on Friday had said the mayors’ protest outside the chief minister’s residence was done to harass the CM, and distract attention from the farmers’ protest. The party said the mayors were aware that the government had given all the funds, but it was because of corruption that they were facing financial problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-camped-outside-delhi-cm-s-residence-bang-thaalis-to-register-protest/story-E7yn34baznvL6bwBBMq1eO.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||AAP wants CBI to probe ‘fraud’ in civic body||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said they would stage a sit-in protest demanding from the Centre a CBI probe into alleged misappropriation of funds of more than Rs 2,400 crore in the north Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD). The sit-in will be staged from 11am on Sunday in front of the homes of Union home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant governor of Delhi Anil Baijal until the Centre permits an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged MCD scam, AAP MLA and senior leader Atishi said during a press conference. “The way the Delhi Police has allowed BJP councillors to sit outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, I am sure they will allow us to sit outside the L-G’s and home minister’s residence, that too along with full protection.” The party said that on one hand, the BJP-run North MCD claims they do not have money and are incapable of paying salaries, but on the other, they can waive off Rs 2,500 crore payable by South Delhi MCD. “If you check the accounts of South MCD of the last many years, they clearly state that Rs 2,500 crore was the payable rent for the SDMC office at Civic Center which is owned by the North MCD. But in this year’s budget, the rent payable is shown as 0. The question is, where is this Rs 2,500 crore?” Atishi said.On Friday, senior AAP leader and Delhi minister Satyendar Jain said the state government has ordered a probe against North MCD on charges of misappropriation of the money. The BJP denied the allegations. Its Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “There has been no misappropriation of funds. The south MCD owes the rent since 2012 when the trifurcation of the MCDs happened. In the current budget of the MCDs, there is a provision for waiver on the rent payment that is due, but it is awaiting approval of the House.”The north civic body’s mayor, Jai Prakash had on Friday denied the allegations and said that the inquiry was a diversionary tactic. “This is nothing but a diversionary tactic by government to not release our dues,” he said.By night, the party released two letters written by Atishi and AAP leader Raghav Chadha to Delhi Police seeking permission to stage the protest “on similar lines as it allowed to BJP leaders to protest in front of the CM’s house.”The party said Chadha and AAP MLAs Sanjeev Jha, Kuldeep and Rituraj Govind will protest outside Shah’s home. Atishi and three leaders of opposition in the MCDs— Vikas goel, Manoj Tyagi and Prem chauhan — will protest outside the L-G House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aap-wants-cbi-to-probe-alleged-fraud-in-north-corporation/story-4pwfySbBsteVrB9FjlgOdP.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Security up as farmers’ stir likely to intensify||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday met a large delegation of farmers from Haryana who said they favoured farm reforms even as thousands of cultivators already protesting three laws to liberalise the sector drew up plans to scale up their demonstrations, beginning with a blockade of the Jaipur-Delhi national highway on Sunday.Thousands of policemen were, meanwhile, deployed at the Delhi borders to thwart plans by anti-farm law agricultural unions to turn up the heat on the government by ramping up the scale of protests. The police also stopped protestors from blocking the main highway from Delhi to Agra. Protestors, backed by the Bharatiya Kisan Union, occupied toll plazas and allowed commuters to drive past without paying toll fees. Agitating farmers allow reopening of Chilla road at Noida borderPro-reform farmer organisations said they would lose out on opportunities if the laws, which the protestors say would promote corporate interests over those of the agricultural community, were scrapped and they too must be heard. Protesting farmers are concerned that they would be at the mercy of big corporations and that the system of minimum support prices (MSPs), which assures them guaranteed prices for staples, would be dismantled..Leaders of large farm unions opposed to the laws, on the other hand, prepared to intensify their agitation by blocking all highways into Delhi, beginning with the Delhi-Jaipur expressway, and occupying toll plazas, but said their demonstrations would be peaceful.Those who believe in status quo can’t make history: Narendra Singh TomarThe union leaders will sit on a hunger strike on December 14, said Jagmohan Singh of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of farmers spearheading the protests.“Thousands of farmers will begin a tractor march tomorrow at 11 am from Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan and will block the Jaipur-Delhi main road. After our nationwide call, all toll plazas of Haryana are free today,” Kamal Preet Singh Pannu, another farm leader, said.In their meeting with the farm minister, farmers supporting the laws said they would pressure the government to uphold the Acts“We are progressive farmers representing farmer producer organisations. The reforms will bring big opportunities for us. Our voice should matter too,” said Jagat Ram of Prakritik Kheti Samaj of Karnal in Haryana.Delhi Police stepped up deployment of its personnel and placed concrete barriers at various border points as farmers prepared to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway and the Yumuna Expressway.“Farmers’ ‘Delhi march’ on Jaipur-Delhi highway will not start today and it will begin from Shahjahanpur border tomorrow. Today, farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana will congregate in Kotputli and Behror,” Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, a prominent face of the agitation, tweeted in Hindi.Meanwhile, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has planned a campaign across the country to publicise the three laws, planning over 100 press conferences and 700 farmers’ meetings.Farm minister Tomar on Saturday yet again appealed to protesting farmers to restart talks, which the protestors abandoned on December 9, to find a solution. .In Uttar Pradesh, several farmers’ leaders were confined to their houses by the police after an alert over the farmers’ unions’ call to disrupt toll plazas across the state on Saturday in protest against the new farm reform laws, the police said.They said the heavy contingents of police were deployed at around 130 toll plazas on highways and expressways across the state to ensure that no road was blockaded. Uttar Pradesh director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said no violence had been reported anywhere and peace prevailed.In Meerut, a farmer leader, Chaudhary Diwakar Singh, said he was placed under house arrest in Faridpur village of Amroha on Saturday after he called the district magistrate of Moradabad over the phone to seek an appointment with chief minister Yogi Adityanath during his visit to the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-security-up-as-farmers-stir-likely-to-intensify/story-CUjdtUj5R5JFTSFRA0mRmI.html
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Friday night was Chandigarh’s warmest in December since 2011||After recording the warmest December day in six years on Friday, few hours later the city also experienced the warmest night in nine years with a minimum temperature of 15.2°C.This was the highest since December 2011, when the night temperature had gone up to 15.6°C on December 9. Friday’s minimum temperature was also nine notches above normal and the highest in the region, despite 5.4mm rain overnight. In fact, the last time that the night temperature went this high this year was on October 25 (15.6°C).Speaking about this, Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul said, “The day was sunny on Friday, following which clouds appeared at night. Clouds act as a blanket, trapping heat from escaping at night. Rain supplements this, especially during winter nights.”Paul said the sky will be clear from Sunday onwards and a fall in temperature was on the cards. “There was snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, so northwards winds will bring in cold winds, which will cause the night temperature to fall dramatically below 10 degrees in the next few days. Due to higher humidity, chances of fog in the morning and evening will also be there till Tuesday. This will bring down the day temperature by a couple of degrees,” he added.IMD has also issued a yellow warning for dense fog in the city on Sunday and Monday. Yellow is second of the four-level warning system used by IMD, which goes up to red. At yellow, people are advised to stay updated about the situation. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature reduced from Friday’s 28.1°C to 23°C on Saturday due to the rain and partly cloudy weather. In the next three days, highs and lows of around 22°C and 11°C are expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/friday-night-was-chandigarh-s-warmest-in-december-since-2011/story-snggLYhg9usajabQYqJSAO.html
13-12-2020||City||Kharar flyover’s Ludhiana link finally opened for public||After missing several deadlines over five years, the Ludhiana link of the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover project was finally thrown open to traffic on Saturday, while the Rupnagar link is expected to get completed by January 15 next year. Anandpur Sahib member of Parliament Manish Tewari inaugurated the link in presence of Kharar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain.“We opened the Ludhiana link over the Kharar bus stand at 11.30.am. But, due to some confusion among commuters, we closed it for nearly two hours and reopened it later. The Rupnagar link will also be opened by January 15,” said SDM Jain. The 1-km Balongi stretch (called the Balongi flyover) was the first to be opened in October. With two links of the flyover now open, the project is 91% complete. It entails widening of the road between Balongi and Kharar T-point and construction of two flyovers and three minor bridges. The total length of the flyovers (divided into three parts) is around 10km. The national highway where the flyover is located connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck, as about 50,000 vehicles cross the stretch on an average daily. The Rs 368-crore project, being executed by Larsen & Toubro, was initiated in November 2015 and has missed six deadlines, after initially slated to be completed in three years by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and mostly recently workforce issues amid the Covid-19 pandemic were the main reasons for the delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-kharar-flyover-finally-ludhiana-link-opened-for-public/story-2MutectczXBRKsv76cmHHJ.html
13-12-2020||Pune||Meet Pune’s people whisperer who is on a mission to relieve your lockdown loneliness||Working to make the world a much better place which listens, 22-year-old Raj Dagwar is a young engineer on a mission. Standing in front of the eateries on Fergusson College road, the student from PICT, holds a placard with the message, tell me your story and I will give you Rs 10. Dagwar spends at least five hours on the footpath listening to people tell their stories. He remembers the names of all the people who have spoken to him and also their stories. “I am a good listener and some of them really enjoyed my company when they were feeling low,” said Raj.“Everyone has problems, big or small, and it’s not easy to speak about them. The lockdown forced several people to live alone and also feeling lonely, which led to many keeping their emotions locked within themselves, thus leading them towards depression,” says Raj, who finished listening to a young girl, who thanked him profusely.Raj has heard over 50 stories a day, sometimes spending more than an hour listening to a person. He spends his evenings on FC road between 6pm and 11pm. “It feels good when a complete stranger comes up to me and starts telling me what he or she is going through. I know the feeling, I have experienced it first hand, when I was going through depression and was feeling all alone,” said Raj. I have had moments in my life in 2019, where I felt I was not up to the mark and that I was failing in my efforts to be like my father who is also an electrical engineer and living in Dubai. There were times when I simply could not open up to my parents, or interact with issues that I had with my younger brother. It was then that I sought professional help and overcame my problems,” says this shy young man.It has not been easy, standing out on the pavement as some people stare, some criticize, and some are often curious. “All, I do is smile from behind the mask and slowly ask the question, tell me your story. If I can help them relax or ease their thoughts, I feel as if I have achieved one good thing,” he adds.“Being a good listener means giving your entire attention to the person, making him/her comfortable and possibly relieve them of their stress. I recently met a grandmother who was visiting her grandchildren and felt the need to talk to me about not being able to understand them or how distant it has become. By the end of the talk, the granny had tears in her eyes and she felt good and blessed me,” said Raj.Mental health and counselling is usually looked upon as a stigma or like having a disease, but Raj wants to help remove this label by urging everyone to speak up about their problems. Swaroopa Barve, a psychologist in Karvenagar, said, “The young man has taken up a good initiative. He is offering those who cannot talk freely, a chance to express themselves, however, as a mental illness professional, if he gets better guidance or sensitized to help identify those who really need professional help, it will alert him better or raise a red flag to refer that person to professionals for help. There is a tremendous need for people to talk openly especially after the lockdown for people to get used to the new normal. We, as a professional community, are trying to reach out to people and destigmatize therapy and the term psychology, although the new generation is much more open to seeking therapy. Ravindra Shelar, a coordinator for an educational institute recalls his meeting with Raj. “I had a bad day at work and was walking aimlessly on FC road when I saw this young boy standing with a board. I approached him and started talking to him. I am a diabetic and during the lockdown, I was afraid of stepping out and hence, was very upset when I resumed work. I live with my wife and son, but you cannot talk to them about everything, so when I met Raj, I spoke to him about all my concerns, fears and felt relieved at the end of the conversation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/meet-a-young-man-on-a-mission-to-listen-to-your-thoughts-and-relieve-some-of-the-lockdown-loneliness/story-M7j5IUgqKCEePBMcZ2Pz1J.html
13-12-2020||Pune||Schools in Pune will not reopen till January 3||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday issued order that private and public schools in the city will remain shut till January 3 in view of the Covid pandemic. The order was released by Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. “As per the earlier decision, schools were closed till December 13. Now, all private and government-run schools will remain closed in Pune city till January 3,” said Kumar in his order.The latest decision has come as most schools had not submitted their report of preparedness, as reported by Hindustan Times on December 12. The school department of Pune civic body had carried out basic preparation of sanitising premises considering that schools may reopen from December 14. However, PMC received negative response from various private schools’ administration and parents on reopening the premises. According to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, civic body will review the situation next month and take a call on restarting schools. “It was decided to reopen schools in Pune from December 14. We were taking undertaking from parents about sending their children to schools. However, we received a poor response. Considering this, we have decided to keep school closed till January 3. On January 3, PMC will review the Covid-19 situation and take a call to reopen schools or not,” Mohol said. Parents have welcomed the move to deferring the decision to restart schools. Pravin Gaikwad, a parent from Pune said, “The decision to reopen schools in January is a welcome decision. We hope Covid cases may lessen by that time and it will be safe for children to attend schools.” According to Mohol, the pandemic situation in the city is in control. As on December 11, Pune city reported a total of 183,893 positive cases with 4,344 deaths. Since the past one week, the city is reporting around 300 cases daily. “Even as situation is under control, we cannot claim that all is well. Even parents are not ready to send their kids to school,” he said. Meanwhile, schools from rural parts of Pune district, which had already reopened last month, has seen a steady rise in student attendance over the past two weeks, according to zilla parishad authorities. Class 12 exam forms to be submitted online The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education in its circular issued on Friday has stated that regular students appearing for Class 12 examination can fill up forms for exam to be conducted in summer 2021 between December 15 and January 4. For repeaters, the dates are January 5 to January 18. The forms are to be submitted online, according to the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-in-pune-will-not-reopen-till-january-3/story-hPXFOmNsbHox4ePsxoJJiO.html
13-12-2020||Pune||‘Second wave not severe in Pune as first wave developed antibodies among many people’||Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, spoke to Hindustan Times on the city’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Salunkhe, who was the former director general of health services, Maharashtra and WHO chief of Indonesia, added during interview that Pune was not hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic, as the first wave had already affected a lot of the population of the city as revealed in the sero surveys. Q: The first case of Covid-19 in Pune was reported on March 9. What is your observation of how Pune handled the pandemic? A: It is true that no one anticipated that the situation would get so bad. However, I do believe that in February when we had the state committee meeting on communicable diseases, which I had chaired in the presence of secretary health, Maharashtra, I had predicted that we will have serious problems and we should be prepared. No one anticipated even in the US or India that we would be hit so hard by the pandemic. Compared to March 2020, a lot of water has flown under the bridge. Pune could have saved lives and reduced the number of positive cases too. The picture today is a combination of the natural factors and the intervention carried out by the administration. Q: Pune fortunately has not been hit hard by the second wave as much as Delhi or even Mumbai post Diwali season. What could be the reason for the same? A: The credit cannot be attributed to the interventions by the administration alone or the citizens responsible behaviour, as we did see large crowds rushing towards the market during the festive season. The truth is that the Sero survey, both in Pune and in PCMC, showed more than half the population in congested areas were already hit and there was high prevalence of antibodies, however, small the scale of the study was. In simple words, we can say that the first wave of the virus already did the damage that it could, which is the main reason why the second wave did not hit us so hard. Now, we need to maintain this plateau and without much fluctuation in the numbers, if we can maintain this till December end, then by June we will be in a much better situation, unless there is some change in the virus strain. Also the district administration did consider our interventions, Pune was the first in the state to form the technical task force. Also, a task force by the divisional commissioner involved communities and so Pune did undertake such measures to curb the virus spread. Q: What does Pune’s health infrastructure need right now? A: I have been in touch with the PMC commissioner and am now working on a universal public health plan when we found that we have three or four sectors which need to be addressed like water supply management, waste management, pollution and other departments. These need to be attached to health planning. If we can provide better water to citizens, we can avoid many diseases like jaundice. Secondly, we need to strengthen the primary health centres which will play a major role in avoiding epidemics and pandemics. We do not necessarily need a 500-bed tertiary care to meet our health requirements, but a vast network of PMC clinics with manpower and infrastructure. We also need private hospitals, but we need a law in place to ensure that they do not exploit the poor or the middle class. Q: Do you think that we will be in a better position if a new virus would hit us again next time? A: If we do not learn from the mistakes that we made during this pandemic, then we will be equally hit by the next disease. The government of India will now have to totally restructure the health infrastructure of the country. Every district level hospital must be manned to have specialists and ensure that every required human resource is trained for public health and curative functioning even at block level and villages level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/universal-covid-19-vaccination-for-everyone-is-not-necessary/story-quT8IPhHqSlx86xMqvNtdK.html
13-12-2020||Pune||Students seek reopening of hostels in Pune||It is not easy for Prashant Bandal to return to Pune and resume studies. Reason: His family is facing financial crisis because of the Covid situation. Bandal is a second year Commerce student of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and was staying at a private hostel in the city. Now, he cannot afford to pay the hostel fees. Bandal’s plight is similar to thousands of students who were staying at SPPU and other college hostels, but now have to opt for private rooms or flats. They have been demanding reopening of SPPU and other prominent college hostels once offline college lectures resume. “My parents are farmers living at a remote village in Solapur district. Before the lockdown, I returned to my village and am stuck here. Few of my friends have returned to Pune, rented a flat, but are unable to survive after two months of stay. If the university hostels are reopened, we will get the rooms at less rent and can resume studies without thinking about the financial aspects of hostel charges,” said Bandal. Another student Satish Gore said, “I returned to Pune when the lockdown was relaxed. As SPPU hostels were closed, we four friends rented a flat at Sinhgad road. Now, we are finding it difficult to pay room rent. We request varsity administration to reopen hostels with Covid guidelines, at least for some needy students.” SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said, “We are yet to get any instructions regarding reopening of hostels from the state government. Once colleges resume offline classes, we will restart hostel facilities. As of now, we are maintaining the hostel rooms and telling final year passout students to collect their belongings so that rooms are made vacant.” Fergusson College principal Dr Ravindra Pardeshi said, “The threat of Covid is not over yet and we cannot risk students when they return to campus. In principle, we do agree that hostels should be reopened, but at the same time safety of students is also of utmost importance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-seek-reopening-of-hostels-in-pune/story-X3jerisa0Odvosq6hugudI.html
