14-12-2020||Noida||Data of Noida tech firm leaked, suffers ₹50 crore loss||A sector 39 based IT firm suffered losses of over ₹50 crore after unidentified persons hacked mails of various employees, said police.Elcom Innovations claimed in its complaint that its services were availed by military and paramilitary forces and hence their data were sensitive in nature. The alleged hack was discovered in February and the cybercrime cell investigated the matter following which an FIR was registered on Saturday. The delay in registering the FIR is not unusual in such cybercrimes.“The company has incurred heavy losses and irreparable damage to its reputation after my email and those of several other people in the department were hacked. We deal primarily in contracts with the defence forces, paramilitary forces and other intelligence agencies of the country,” said the firm’s senior vice president in his complaint to Noida police.He said that most of the company’s electronic communication was of sensitive nature and substantial financial value as the products being designed by the company were customised.“The hackers got hold of our bidding prices for various government tenders. They exposed our intellectual property rights leading to duplication of our products and diverted our contracts to other firms,” read the complaint.The company has further alleged that information was also shared with international clients leading to delays and withdrawal of contracts. Suppliers were also provided with profit margin information causing a hike in prices, the complaint read, resulting in a loss of over ₹50 crore.Based on their complaint, a case was filed at the sector 39 police station for cheating (section 420 of the Indian Penal Code) and relevant sections of the IT Act. Police officials said that the company suspects the role of one person and a probe in the matter is underway.“There is evidence indicating it to be an insider job but the investigation is going on for now on all possible aspects and as soon as we have proof, we will take the necessary action against the suspects,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/data-of-noida-tech-firm-leaked-suffers-50-crore-loss/story-qttRbpJHBeDsPR95DEGNtI.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Ghaziabad crosses 25,000 mark||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad district crossed the 25,000 of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases reported so far since March, with the state portal, which is updated real-time, reflecting 25,010 overall cases till 7.35pm on Monday. The state control room figures on December 14 stated that only three cities in Uttar Pradesh – Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj – were among those who have crossed the tally of 25,000 cases so far. The first case in the district was detected on March 5, about 284 days ago. Though Ghaziabad district has a high overall tally, the state control room figures of December 14 indicated that it also has a high – 95% – recovery rate, with 1,148 active cases on Monday. “With regular testing, tracing and early referrals, we have been able to isolate infected cases and have been able to keep the fatality rate below 1%, which is about 0.39% at present. To check any further rise and to isolate more cases, we are conducting focussed testing in high incidence areas. This will help us track more cases and check the spread of Covid-19,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to the figures of the district health department, , the share of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara to the total tally of about 24,826 till December 13 was about 24.69%. The three areas continue to be on the list of high incidence localities. Individually, till December 13, Indirapuram had 3,135 cases, Vaishali had 1,506 while Vasundhara had a total of 1,491 Covid-19 cases since March. “Focussed testing should continue in high incidence areas to break the chain of transmission. The discharge rate of 95% and fatality rate of 0.39% indicates that efforts are on by the doctors and healthcare staff in government and private setups. However, we must continue to follow Covid protocols and take all precautions for another couple of months, till a vaccine becomes available,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. On the other hand, the officials of the district health department said that they have completed about 597,599 tests till December 14. They also added that the sample positivity rate of the district in the first 13 days of December has shown a minor decline of 0.3%, as against 4.14% in the month of November. The official figures stated that overall sample positivity rate of the district till December 13 was about 4.9%, with overall 27,755 positive tests reports of patients emerging out of total 566,676 tests conducted, the number of test reports being more than the number of cases as one case may have been tested more than once. The district had the highest positivity rate in June, when the rate was about 19.93%. In July and August, there was a considerable decline and the rate again climbed to 5.92% in September. It was at 4.03% in October and 4.14% in November. The trend now shows a decline in December so far– 3.84%. The official figures, however, revealed that the district is conducting about an average of about 3,500 daily tests this month while the daily average tests were about 4,057 in November and 4,065 in October. “We will ramp up testing further but we are concentrating more on focussed testing in high incidence areas. We want that the positivity rate should come down further. The focussed testing during pre-Diwali and post-Diwali period also helped us isolate a number of positive cases. So, all efforts are being taken up to find positive cases and this will help us break the chain of infection,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-ghaziabad-crosses-25-000-mark/story-a7foak0mU8tT5G171bRDnL.html
14-12-2020||City||SIT submits report in leaseback scam to government||The special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate into alleged land leaseback scam case on Monday submitted its report to the UP government.Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh led the team that investigated the case in Greater Noida’s Bisrakh village. Singh refused to comment on the matter.The case dates back to 2009-’10 when residential land was leased back to people from different states who were allegedly not farmers. As per rules, the Greater Noida authority could have leased-back housing land to local farmers, whose housing land was wrongly notified and acquired by the government.There were at least 150 such cases in Greater Noida’s Bisrakh village.Sources said that the probe established that there were violations in leaseback.“As per the rules a farmer can get land residential land against his land acquired for the development at one place for the use of his family. But in Bisrakh more than one plots were leased back to a farmer,” said an official of Greater Noida authority, not authorised to speak to media.In 2017, then divisional commissioner (Meerut) Dr Prabhat Kumar had appointed Singh to conduct a probe into this alleged scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sit-submits-report-in-leaseback-scam-to-government/story-2ZSOvKZBgIFG5DIF1kQuaI.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Live streams, pictures, videos: Farmers use social media to counter media, send news home||Ghaziabad: Nitin Sengar, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) activist from Agra, is busy relaying live streams on social media through his mobile phone on the ground-level situation at the UP Gate protest site to his friends back home. He says that there have been a lot of “controversies” created on social media, so he is giving live updates in hopes of clearing the air. “Social media is abuzz with farmers’ protests but there are certain posts which try to create controversies. I have become more active on the internet now and am live streaming the ground-level situation over the internet. Our farmers are still here and are holding peaceful protests. Everyone who has not been able to join us here needs a regular update,” he said. Hundreds of farmers are busy with ongoing protests at UP Gate since November 28, and have been joined by scores from Uttarakhand and Punjab.“We are also creating posts on various social media platforms and apprising people about the issues with the new farm bills. We also upload videos and pictures of events, whether it is about voicing issues of farmers or giving updates about performance of singers here. We also show how the food is prepared in langars (community kitchen) here and how children of nearby slums are also being served food here, as well as about the police personnel deployed,” said Baldeep Singh, from Moga in Punjab, who is a priest. His friend Jagjeet Singh, who is also a priest from Tarn Taran in Punjab, said that various controversies have been created online which claim to show the “real picture” of the farmers’ protest. “What is being held here and at other borders with Delhi is a massive movement. It is not possible to monitor everyone who comes here. However, it is going on peacefully and it is a protest by farmers. My family is at Singhu border and our groups there are also uploading a lot of videos from there,” he added. The UP Gate protest site is abuzz with activity. Different groups of farmers are tasked with different daily activities – be it holding langars or distribution of water bottles and fruits, or be it keeping an eye on outsiders. With a majority of farmers possessing smart phones, video-calling and giving live updates to kith and kin is a daily normal. “I have uploaded about 20 live videos over social media so far and am regularly updating my family and friends about our activities here. They also like it and share it with others. In this way, even a small video or picture from here can reach hundreds of people. Besides, it also serves the purpose of not having to rely purely on the media to report on every activity that is taking place here,” said Sunny Jagtap, a youngster who arrived from Muzaffarnagar. Apart from social media activities, which have become quite popular at the protest site, a group of children came with their family from nearby Trilokpuri in East Delhi and performed charkhi and daang dances, which are popular performances for Baishakhi and other festivals. “My sons as well as my daughter performed the charkhi and daang at the UP Gate site. They are still in school and we came here after their online classes got over. They learned these at a local Gurudwara and were very happy to perform at UP Gate. It was the nearest protest site to us so we came along with my 60-year-old sister, who lent a helping hand in readying vegetables for the daily kitchen here,” said Santokh Singh, who is from Jalandhar in Punjab and lives in Trilokpuri. On Monday, tonnes of fresh vegetables along with fruits such as kinnu, apples and bananas were brought in at the site. In langars, cooks also prepared loads of jalebis and gajar ka halwa, while another food camp of the BKU prepared kheer for visitors. Apart from regular food which also includes noodles, bread-pakodas, pakodis and tea are regularly served. “We have every food item available, be it different vegetables, fruits or even items such as biscuits, water bottles or fruit juices, among others. We ensure that food is served to everyone who comes. It is also helping us continue our agitation,” said Gurjeet Singh, a farmer who came from Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/live-streams-pictures-videos-farmers-use-social-media-to-counter-media-send-news-home/story-UMLrVlpqCzDt54GioO937M.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Traffic crawls at Chilla border amid continued farmer protest||Noida: Though the Noida-Delhi road at the Chilla border was opened on Sunday by protesting farmers, traffic came to a crawl on Monday due to a hunger strike and demonstrations in the area. The Chilla border, which had been closed to the public since December 1 due to farmers having blocked the thoroughfare, was opened following talks between farmers’ representatives and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on December 12.“Even though the traffic was moving, it was slow. There were barricades placed after every few feet. There was a lot of police force and the farmers were present on the central divider and along the roads. The on-foot movement was also causing the vehicles to move slowly,” said Shweta Bhandari, a Noida resident.Commuters said they fear that with the protests continuing, the border may be re-sealed. A senior Noida police official, asking not to be named, said that they are prepared to block the route again in case the farmer agitation escalates. But for now, the status quo is being maintained.Farmers have occupied the central verge of the road and were camped at the road side, with some of them on hunger strike.“We met Rajnath ji on Saturday but nothing is being done to accept our demands. We will continue on hunger strike indefinitely till the government takes notice of our plight,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).He had started the strike on Sunday and was joined by at least 12-15 farmers. Nearly 60-70 farmers are present at the border where they said they will continue to remain until definite conclusions are reached.A smaller group of protesters from the BKU’s Lok Shakti faction was present at the Dalit Prerna Sthal, where they are on an indefinite hunger strike. Their representatives mimicked the three monkeys of Mahatma Gandhi as a symbolic protest.“The government has become blind to our struggles, is refusing to listen to our issues and demands, and is not speaking on our behalf, all the while not letting us speak as well. We will stay here for as long as it is needed and will continue with our protest,” said Shailesh Kumar Giri, national spokesperson, Lok Shakti.Meanwhile, Noida police said they are on high alert.“Increased forces have been deployed at Chilla border as a precautionary measure. Even the barricades are placed to ensure that there are no issues. Some force is present at the DND Flyway as well as a cautionary measure,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Police said they are prepared to take necessary action in case the agitation escalates again.“We are monitoring the traffic situation. The intensity of the movement today was slightly slow, though it did not stop. The DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj border areas were better. There were no law and order issues in the city and we are continuing to provide support to the public and farmers alike,” said the DCP.A group of farmers had also gathered at the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate’s office in Surajpur on Monday afternoon, from where they were dispersed after handing over a memorandum of demands to officials.Meanwhile, members of various political parties in the district, going to lend their support to the farmer’s protest at Chilla border, were stopped by Noida police at separate points.“We reminded them about Section 144 that is imposed in the district, along with the Covid-19 regulations, which prevent them from any unlawful gatherings. They were warned that if they protest, action can be taken against them,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-crawls-at-chilla-border-amid-continued-farmer-protest/story-y1rZ4P4MNv2iNsqlTczVrM.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Amid propaganda and controversies, we will continue with peaceful protests, say farmer leaders on fast at UP Gate||The talk of certain farmer unions meeting the central government and lending support to the three new farm laws is just propaganda, said farmer leaders agitating at UP Gate in Ghaziabad.They said they would continue with their “dharna” to press for the roll back of the laws, which they claim are detrimental to their interests. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Monday said, “We will continue to protest peacefully here. Certain groups meeting with government representatives is just a propaganda to weaken the farmers’ protest. We have already said that this protest is of farmers and we will not allow any outsiders to be a part of it.” “There have also been attempts to stop our people from joining protests here. It is on government’s instance that the borders are getting closed and getting opened,” he said further while referring to the opening of the Chilla border in Noida. On Sunday, a delegation of more than 100 farmers from Uttarakhand extended their support to the laws. Before that, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday to extend their support and threatened to protest if the laws were repealed. Also, several pictures and videos emerged from the Tikri border with Delhi, another prominent protest site, in which a group of protesters were shown holding posters of intellectuals and activists in jail, accused in different cases. “This is also a part of propaganda to weaken our protest and create confusion,” said Tikait. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmers’ leader from Uttarakhand, said that more farmers and their groups were coming to support the protest at UP Gate. “More farmers and groups from Uttarakhand, UP and other states are coming in and supporting us. Our December 12 and December 14 protest calls had been successful and further course of action will be decided by our core committee,” Bajwa, added. As of now, the farmers’ groups and the government have held about six talks among them but the deadlock over the three new farm laws has continued. On Monday, the farmers had given a call for protests at respective district headquarters and handing over memorandum of demand to respective district magistrates. A group of farmers including Tikait and Bajwa were among those who were on day-long fast at UP Gate along with others. They said that they were on fast from 8am to 5pm. The BKU and farmers from Uttarakhand, Punjab and UP have been staging protests at UP Gate since November 28 and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the National Highway-9 since December 3. On Monday, a group of protesters at the site jumped to the other, Delhi-Ghaziabad, carriageway and blocked it for about 10-15 minutes before they were called back. As a result, thousands of commuters were left stranded while trying to enter Ghaziabad. “The protesters blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway for about 10-15 minutes but they went back and normal traffic was restored. It created long jam but we soon diverted the traffic coming from Ghazipur towards Kaushambi,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amid-propaganda-and-controversies-we-will-continue-with-peaceful-protests-say-farmer-leaders-on-fast-at-up-gate/story-C0BIwu3oB1pIPqNJecGHeN.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three-year-old girl killed in roof collapse in Khajoori Khas||A three-year-old girl was killed after a portion of the roof of a single storey house she lived in with her family collapsed on her in north-east Delhi’s Khajoori Khas on Monday morning. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot to rescue the injured girl from the debris, but despite their best efforts she could not be saved, fire officials said.The girl Manvi (single name) lived with her parents Vikas and Jyoti, and grandfather, Chaner Pal in their single storey home at E-block in Khajoori Khas. The grandfather works as an ambulance driver and owns the house that was constructed many years ago and needed repair work on the roof. The family had also planned to construct one more floor and had hired some labourers to store the construction material on the roof.The workers were in the process of storing the construction material on the roof when it collapsed under the additional weight, said additional deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Devesh Kumar Mahala.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said the roof collapsed on the girl who was inside the house. The other family members were outside the building at the time of the incident. The rescue teams and the locals took nearly half an hour to rescue the girl from the debris and rush her to the hospital, the officer said.“She was trapped under the debris and was rescued by locals with the help of a team from the fire department and the police. The injured girl was rushed to Jag Pravesh Chandra hospital, where she died during treatment,” said the officer.“Since the girl’s grandfather himself was carrying out the construction work and had not involved any contractor, we registered a case of death by negligence against him,” Mahala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-three-year-old-girl-killed-in-roof-collapse-in-khajoori-khas/story-SRr2ktrg84odKDZWOk6LyI.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Collection agent shot dead, Rs 1 lakh robbed; one nabbed||A 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly shooting dead a 29-year-old collection agent of a footwear factory and then robbing his cash bag in north Delhi’s Pratap Nagar near Gulabi Bagh on Friday afternoon, the police said.The arrested suspect’s three accomplices from Uttar Pradesh, who were with him during the crime, are still absconding. The suspects had targeted the collection agent hoping that his bag would contain Rs 35-40 lakh. They shot him in his chest after waylaying him on the road and fled with the cash bag. They later found that the bag only contained R1 lakh, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.One motorcycle used in the crime and R23,500 of the looted money has been recovered from the arrested man, identified as Harish Kumar, a resident of Delhi’s Ghonda, police said. Kumar worked as a commission agent for readymade garments wholesalers in Chandni Chowk.DCP Alphonse said that on December 11 (Friday) around 2.30 pm, the police were informed about a man having been shot in Pratap Nagar. A police team reached the spot and rushed the injured man to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The dead man was identified as Vikas Garg, a Narela resident, who worked as a collection agent for a footwear factory in Mangolpuri. A murder case was registered and investigations taken up.During the probe, the DCP said, it was learnt that Garg was carrying a bag containing R1 lakh at the time of his murder but the bag was missing. The investigating team scanned the footage of CCTV cameras installed around the crime scene. The police also found a witness who told them that while driving he had seen four men snatching a bag from the victim and then firing at him.“The witness gave us some details about a bike, that the suspects had used in the crime. The owner of the bike was traced and it was found to be registered in a woman’s name. We questioned the owner and her husband. They said the bike was being used by her brother-in-law Harish Kumar. We interrogated Kumar and he confessed to the crime. We then arrested him,” said DCP Alphonse.During the interrogation, the DCP said, Kumar disclosed that while working as a commission agent, he had noticed Garg coming to the Chandni Chowk market for collection often. Kumar assumed that Garg carried huge sums of money in his bag. So, he planned to rob Garg and roped in three men from Uttar Pradesh to execute the robbery.“They tracked Garg’s movements for a few days. On Friday, they executed the plan anticipating that they will get nearly Rs 40 lakh in cash. When Garg resisted their robbery attempt, they shot him and fled with the bag, which contained only Rs 1 lakh,” the DCP said, adding that raids were on to nab the absconding suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/collection-agent-shot-dead-rs-1-lakh-robbed-one-nabbed/story-sCRK99T0XlDUJjRrbb0FxH.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi:Two goldsmiths among 4 held for stabbing and looting 4kg gold worth ₹2 crore from Karol Bagh jeweller||Five days after a jeweller from Karol Bagh was stabbed and robbed of four kilograms of gold ornaments, worth around ₹2 crore, the police on Monday said they have arrested four persons, including two goldsmiths known to the jeweller, for allegedly planning and executing the armed robbery.The suspects had melted the stolen gold and made gold rods, which they had distributed among themselves. Nearly 1.9 kilos of gold rods have been recovered while two more suspects are on the run with the remaining gold, the police said.On December 9, the jeweller, Champak Gayana, was travelling towards Anand Vihar bus terminal in an auto-rickshaw with his employee, Saurabh (single name), when the suspects waylaid them on the busy Vikas Marg near Laxmi Nagar and tried to snatch the bag at gunpoint. When the jeweller held on, one of the suspects stabbed him multiple times in his thigh and fled with the bag, said additional commissioner of police (crime) Shibesh Singh.A case was registered at the Shakarpur police station and multiple teams were formed to the crack the case, even as news of the robbery created panic in the neighbourhood. During the probe, the crime branch team collected information about gangs that operated on a similar modus operandi. The team scanned the footage from CCTV cameras and also activated their informant network.“A CCTV camera footage from where the Gayana and Saurabh had left showed two suspects following them on a motorcycle. Our efforts to trace the motorcycle and the riders led us to a gang led by Mukesh alias Golu and we came to know that they were behind the crime,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh.Golu and his associate Pradeep Bajaj alias Toni were caught from central Delhi on Sunday night. Their interrogation led to the arrest of the two goldsmiths -- Prashanto Santra and Uttam Dagur -- and recovery of 1.9 kilos of the stolen gold, said Singh.During their interrogation, the additional CP said, the four men disclosed that they had planned the robbery four months ago from a hotel in Paharganj. The two arrested goldsmiths knew the jeweller and had passed on the information to Golu and his gang members about the movement of 4 kilos of gold ornaments to Moradabad.Police said Golu was previously involved in 11 cases of robbery and snatching, registered in Delhi and Goa. He was last arrested in Goa and came out of jail in March this year. “Golu returned to Delhi, formed a new gang and executed the robbery with the help of the two goldsmiths. We are now looking for the absconding suspects,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-goldsmiths-among-4-held-for-stabbing-and-looting-4kg-gold-worth-2-crore-from-karol-bagh-jeweller/story-itndL1BzCSBcsnJr4flBPP.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Commission on air quality management is functional, has taken various steps: Centre to SC||The Central government on Monday informed the Supreme Court that the commission on air quality management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas is now functional and has also taken various steps to improve the air quality.Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, however, sought some time from the SC bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, to bring these developments on record by way of an affidavit of the Centre. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who represented teenager petitioner Aditya Dubey in the case, had questioned the efficacy of the ordinance on the air quality management, asking what has the commission done so far.Responding to this, Bhati said that the air quality is better in the Delhi-NCR recently, and that pollution due to stubble burning has also come down after December 3.Bhati, however, said she will need at least two days to file her affidavit so as to apprise the court of steps taken by the commission.The bench allowed this request and deferred the matter for a hearing later this week.Dubey, a minor, has filed a PIL in the court, alleging authorities have failed to protect his fundamental right to clean air and health by not controlling air pollution. Days after the top court set up a committee headed by its former judge Madan B Lokur to suggest measures to contain the menace, the government issued an ordinance that superceded all the judicial and other committees set up on the issue of air pollution in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas.The ordinance empowers the agency to make rules, set emission standards, and slap fines of up to Rs1 crore or imprison violators for up to five years.The committee set up under the ordinance is headed by former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty, besides Secretary Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change and five other Secretary/Chief Secretary level officials as its ex-officio members. The commission has exclusive jurisdiction over the NCR, including areas in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, in matters of air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/commission-on-air-quality-management-is-functional-has-taken-various-steps-centre-to-sc/story-kruT3cj6gq26A0PEMUn80M.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Dacoity at Delhi CA’s house solved; six, including former driver, held||Police on Monday said they had arrested six people for alleged dacoity at the house of a chartered accountant (CA) in south Delhi’s Saidulajab Extension.The arrested men had entered her two-storey house impersonating courier delivery boys and held the family hostage at gunpoint on the afternoon of December 9. They made away with ₹4 lakh in cash, four gold chains, one diamond bracelet and other jewellery items and valuables worth ₹5 lakh, they said.The arrested persons include the family’s former driver, an ex-Indian Army jawan, who quit the force after being booked for molestation, and a man from Nepal, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that Shiv Shankar, the family’s former driver, had left the job a few months ago and planned to rob his employer’s house. However, the plan got delayed because of the lockdown, said Thakur.The DCP said that Shankar allegedly had tipped off his associates about the family’s financial condition and availability of cash and jewellery in the house. Shankar, Anil Kumar and Sandeep Kumar alias Fauji, were the key conspirators of the dacoity. The police identified the other three arrested men as Arman Khan, Mohammad Danish and Vijay Rana, a Nepali citizen, the DCP said.“The six men had been planning the dacoity for nearly one-and-a-half months and carried out multiple reconnaissances of the house and escape routes. They used code numbers 1 to 6 to communicate with each other during the crime and wore masks and hand gloves to avoid being identified and leaving fingerprints at the crime scene,” said DCP Thakur.On December 9 around 4.30pm, police said, Shankar brought the six men to the house. Two of them, impersonating courier delivery boys, rang the doorbell. As the domestic help opened the main gate, the duo pushed her inside and cornered all family members at gunpoint. The other four suspects, wearing masks and helmets, entered the house and threatened to kill the family members if anybody raised any alarm, said a police officer associated with the case.“The robbers thought they would get nearly ₹1 crore in cash from the house. However, they could only find ₹4 lakh in cash. So, they ransacked the entire house, collected whatever jewellery and valuables they could find, and fled,” the officer said, adding that the suspects also took away the digital video recorder (DVR) of the CCTV cameras installed in the house.The family informed the police about the crime and the complainant (the CA) told them that the suspects fled on a red motorcycle and a scooter. The woman’s husband owns a furniture showroom in east Delhi. He was at the showroom at the time of the dacoity, the police said.The police registered a case and scanned footage from CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood. The police found the number plates on the vehicles were fake. Through the CCTV camera footage, the police tracked the routes the suspects took and found that they had come from Zakir Nagar.“The suspects swapped the two vehicles and changed routes to evade police. However, we activated our criminal intelligence network in Zakir Nagar and discovered the involvement of Arman Khan, who is also involved in other robberies and cases registered under the Arms Act. The police caught Khan from Nizamuddin area on December 11. His interrogation led to the arrest of the other five from Delhi and Haryana’s Rohtak,” added Thakur.Police have recovered ₹45,000 in cash and some stolen jewellery which the suspects had sold in Rohtak immediately after the dacoity. One suspect, Chhotu, is still on the run with the remaining money, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dacoity-at-delhi-ca-s-house-solved-six-including-former-driver-held/story-G1GrRdWm9LWf6nBZjBPyuM.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Yeida selects consultant to prepare DPR of Film City project||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Monday finalised CBRE South Asia Private Limited as the consultant for the Film City project to be developed in sector 21.A Yeida committee headed by the authority chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh finalised the agency that will now prepare a detailed project report (DPR) in then next 60 days.“Four agencies had applied for this project on December 7 after the tender was issued on November 29. On Monday we opened the financial bids at 4pm and finalised that CBRE, a fortune 500 company, will prepare DPR and help us in development of this project,” said Singh.The Yeida has been exploring three models- public-private-partnership (PP), the authority alone, or another single developer-- to develop the project. The DPR is expected to find an answer to this question. It will contain the details of the layout of the sector dedicated for the film city project and the financial feasibility of the project.“Once the DPR is finalised we will decide the model to be followed to develop this project spread across 1000 acres,” said Singh.Yeida on September 20 sent a proposal stating that it has got 780 acres earmarked for industrial or film city and 220 acres for the commercial usage in sector 21 that is suitable for a film city.The upcoming film city is expected to provide the platform to encompass all aspects of filmmaking- related with script, music, writing, editing and production -- under a single roof.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on September 18, 2020 this year had announced the development of the Film City project. Subsequently, Yeida on September 20 offered land located only 6 km from the upcoming Jewar airport and 12 km from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.The Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal on October 14 directed the YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh via letter that reads, “Because the Film City project is to be put on fast-track it is requested that to set up film city a consultant or developer should be roped in from the Yamuna authority itself.” Following the letter the YEIDA issued an RFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yeida-selects-consultant-to-prepare-dpr-of-film-city-project/story-oMRDNmNwJzvbQunH7zC94H.html
14-12-2020||Dehradun||Lake, museum, tiger safari to come up in Corbett at cost of Rs 150 cr||Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat on Monday announced that the state government will soon be building first of its kind lake, museum and tiger safari in Corbett Tiger Reserve at a cost of Rs 150 crores. The tiger safari (similar to an enclosed natural zoo) will come up in the Pakhro area of Corbett Tiger Reserve. “This will be a first of its kind tiger safari which will not just focus on tourism but will also spread knowledge about wildlife. The safari will come up in an area spread over 106 hectares which will be divided into five large enclosures where animals will roam around. It will be like a natural zoo where tourists can go on a safari,” said Rawat. He added that the museum will be beneficial for researchers, school children in gaining knowledge. “The lake that is being made will be 250m wide and will act as a source of drinking water for animals. The lake will be made within two enclosures; this will also increase the chances of tourists to spot a tiger in the wild and they will not go back disappointed,” added Rawat. Also read: Health ministry approves data management policy to digitise healthcare ecosystemHe further said that the state government plans to open up the tiger safari for the public by the next tourist season in November 2021. Spread across 1,288 square kilometres, Corbett Tiger Reserve is one of the most loved tourist destinations in the state. Every year, Corbett’s gates open on November 15 for six months till mid-June. The reserve witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside the CTR and 266 using the reserve, according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers in 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/lake-museum-tiger-safari-to-come-up-in-corbett-at-cost-of-rs-150-crore/story-wwEWXbiWJY9g2lETdbOH5O.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Noida sees best air quality since Nov 17||With favourable weather conditions on Monday, Noida and adjoining cities breathed their cleanest air of the month yet. According to the central pollution control board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI), Noida’s air was “moderate” for the first time since November 17. Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, which were suffering “severe” and “very poor” air over the weekend improved to “poor” levels. “The wind speed on Monday afternoon reached above 15 kmph. Since the stubble burning is negligible and rains on Saturday morning cleaned up the region’s air, the winds entering the NCR are cleaner or are not carrying any extra pollutants with them. Thus, it was comparatively easier for the winds to disperse the locally generated pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). AQI of Noida on Monday was 176 or ‘moderate’ against 322 or ‘very-poor’ a day earlier and 393 on Saturday. Greater Noida’s air was 256 or ‘poor’ against 332 on Sunday and 404 on Saturday. The AQI of Ghaziabad also emerged out of very-poor levels with Monday’s AQI at 243 or ‘poor’ against 318 on Sunday and 415 on Saturday. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The fine particles or pollutants PM2.5 levels improved to their best since December standards, yet they are still around twice or 1.5 times the standards. On Monday PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida was recorded at 99.24 microgrammes per cubic metres (mpcm) against 186.47mpcm a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 119.19mpcm against 212.41mpcm on Sunday. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad on Monday also dropped to 112.49 mpcm against 216.22 mpcm a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 mpcm. According to SAFAR, the AQI is likely to drop slightly on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Surface-level winds are moderate and west-southwesterly and moderate winds and better ventilation conditions are forecasted for today. However, AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate from the Moderate to the Poor category on 15th and 16th Dec,” said a SAFAR forecast on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sees-best-air-quality-since-nov-17/story-uNKuChEXAhdQYJxi3O3FWK.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Noida sees coldest day of December so far, mercury to slip further||Noida: The minimum temperature in Noida went down by over four degrees on Monday to settle at 8.8 degrees Celsius, making it the coldest day this month so far. Monday also marked the third coldest day of the season so far, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). IMD said that both maximum and minimum temperatures will fall further by a few degrees over the next four days. The humidity is high, but stronger winds will save the region from very dense fog, the weather department said, adding that the fog, however, will be within moderate to dense category over the rest of the week. “The minimum temperature will hover around 8 degrees Celsius for Noida and adjoining region for the next two days. On December 17 and 18, the minimum temperatures will shrink further as the icy cold north-westerly winds will be stronger and the impact of western disturbance that lead to heavy snowing of the mountains will increase over NCR. So, by 17 and 18th of December, the minimum temperatures may shrink to 6 or 7 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. On Sunday, Noida had recoded minimum temperature at 13.5 degrees Celsius, and 15.5 degrees Celsius a day earlier. As per the readings from Noida’s automatic weather station at Sector 62, November 23 and November 22 had been the coldest day of the season so far with a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius and 8.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum temperature for Noida on Monday was recorded at 17.7 degrees Celsius, against 19.9 degrees a day earlier and 20.1 degrees on Saturday. For the rest of NCR, the average temperature, based on Safdarjung observatory, was recorded at 8.4 degrees Celsius as minimum and 19.4 degrees Celsius as maximum temperature, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sees-coldest-day-of-december-so-far-mercury-to-slip-further/story-Sro0n3GyKTAe5WMCy4VBzL.html
14-12-2020||City||Tourism zone, river front planned along Yamuna from Mathura to Agra to boost tourism||GREATER NOIDA: In a move aimed at boosting tourism in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government has asked the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) to develop a ‘tourism zone’ and a ‘river front corridor’ along the Yamuna river from Mathura to Taj Mahal in Agra.According to Yeida officials, the river front project spread across 109.7 hectares includes the development of golf course, amusement park, sports complex, naturopathy and wellness centres, and amphitheatres, among others, near ancient city of Vrindavan. On the other hand, the tourism zone project, which will have five star hotels, guest houses, service apartment, heritage centre, convention centre, old age home and other commercial projects, is planned on 731.13 hectares scattered in different sites of Mathura, Vrindavan, Barsana, Nandgaon, Gokul, Agra and Fatehpur Sikri, the officials said. “The river front spread on 109.7 hectares is part of the urban centre planned at Raya near Vrindavan. And tourism zone will be developed as per the policies of UP and central governments with an aim to promote tourism in ancient towns,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The officials said that the authority will soon hire a consultant to prepare the layout of river front and tourism zone projects. “We have already started the process to hire a consultant and the work on detailed project report of these two projects will start soon,” said Singh. In its 69th board meeting held on Monday at its administrative building in Sector Omega-I, Yeida approved a proposal regarding these two projects, the officials said. Yeida has to create required facilities along the Yamuna so that national and international tourists flock to Mathura and Vrindavan and enjoy the spiritualism in these ancient cities related with Lord Krishna, said the officials. Yeida has also planned to develop a heritage city along the Yamuna Expressway so that the tourists have ample options to engage with during their journey in this region from Greater Noida to Agra that is home to Taj Mahal, they said.“Taj Mahal already attracts the tourists from world over and if we provide the facilities along Yamuna river, then they will enjoy the serenity and it will boost growth in this part of the country,” said the Yeida CEO. The authority has also fixed rates to acquire land for the development of these projects. “We have fixed Rs 2,300 per square metre along with 7% of total land acquired as compensation to buy the land along the expressway. The board has given approval to this proposal,” said Singh. Apart from this, Yeida board also approved proposals related to development of Jewar international airport, Film City project and other projects on which it is already working, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tourism-zone-river-front-planned-along-yamuna-from-mathura-to-agra-to-boost-tourism/story-QoXonYtE32rjYYSmFQlu4H.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana shivers as mercury dips below Shimla||The maximum temperature recorded at Ludhiana dipped below Shimla’s on Monday. As per the Indian Meteorological Department’s website, the maximum temperature in Ludhiana was 13.7°C , that was recorded at the Sahnewal observatory, while Shimla’s was 14.9°C. The meteorological department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) said that the cold wave will persist for a few more days.Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head, department of meteorology, said the current system has occurred due to low pressure, as there has been heavy rain and snowfall at higher altitudes, including Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This has triggered a cold wave due to which mercury in the planes has dipped significantly.The meteorological observatory installed at the university recorded a maximum temperature of 13.4°C on Monday, 7.5°C below the normal temperature. This is also the lowest temperature recorded on December 14 since the observatory was set up in 1970.The minimum temperature was 9°C, 2.8 °C higher than the normal temperature.On Sunday, a record fall in temperature was observed. Dr Sidhu said that the maximum temperature was recorded at 13°C, which was the lowest temperature recorded on December 13.“This weather is called cold and dry days. This will continue for around three to four days wherein the weather will be cold, but there will be no rainfall. Even though the city and its neighbouring districts including Mohali, Nawanshahr, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar had witnessed light rain, but there will be no further showers in the coming days,” Sidhu said.She added that a similar system had occurred in December last year. “During that period, we had witnessed a number of cold days. The temperature during the day had fallen significantly, while not much variation was witnessed at night,” she added.“While the night temperature was around 7°C to 10°C, it is during the day that we witness a sharp dip, and sometimes it remains around 15°C or even below that,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-shivers-as-mercury-dips-below-shimla/story-OJo2sJRzIXvnOJ16hpswII.html
14-12-2020||City||Low visibility, bumpy ride make navigating Ludhiana’s Rahon Road tricky||Overnight rain on Saturday and fog on Sunday morning added to the woes of the residents of Rahon Road near Jodhewal Basti as the stretch is in a dilapidated state. The motorists complained that the broken road endangered commuters. Many of them have even fallen from their vehicles because of the poor condition of the road.The residents lamented that while the municipal corporation is claiming to have transformed the industrial town into a smart city, the shabby condition of Rahon Road exposes its dirty picture.If the bumpy ride was not enough, the plying of heavy trucks on the road is also adding to the commuters’ miseries. The condition of the residents of Prem Nagar Colony in the Meharban area is the worst as polluted water of overflowing dyeing units continues to stagnate and flow into the residential area, posing risk to their health.The broken road is not only posing a problem for four wheeler drivers but also scooterists and bikers.The residents complained that the potholed road was dug up nearly a year ago for laying of underground sewerage pipelines but the work was being done at a snail’s pace.“Each day, commuters fall from their vehicles and get injured. The rain and fog have added to the woes. Instead of addressing the problem, the MC authorities are looking the other way,” said Tarun Jain, a factory owner.Chitranjan Mehta, a migrant labourer from Bihar, said that shopkeepers in the area have also encroached upon the road which has added to the chaos.Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Sahnewal, said that he had raised the issue nearly 15 times in the Vidhan Sabha in the past three years. “I have been highlighting the issue at each forum but, nothing is being done to address the problem. The local administration has failed to get the road made and check the problem of overflowing dyeing units in all these years, let alone making Ludhiana a smart city,” said Dhillon.Parveen Singla, superintending engineer (SE), building and road department (B&R), of the MC, said that the work of laying of sewer lines was complete and laying road gullies (for drainage of rainwater) was taking place.“The work is in progress and will be completed soon,” said the SE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-visibility-bumpy-ride-make-navigating-rahon-road-tricky/story-KScBvDOjds7fXUd2GBFVHM.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||District Performance Grading Index: Govt schools in Ludhiana directed to upload details||Government schools across the district have been directed to upload their details based on the eight parameters set by the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) under the performance grading index (PGI). Krishan Kumar, secretary, school education, issued these instructions on Monday. The school teachers will be given credit in the annual credential report (ACR) based on the marks scored by their respective schools. The eight parameters are learning outcomes, access outcomes, classroom transactions, learning enrichment activities, infrastructure, facilities, student entitlements; school safety and child protection; digital learning and governance processes. The district education officer (DEO), elementary/secondary, is deputed as the nodal officer and deputy DEO as the assistant officer to ensure that the data is uploaded by the heads of primary and upper primary schools at the earliest. While updating the details according to the parameters, if the schools face any technical issues, they can contact the management information system (MIS) coordinator of their respective districts. The ministry of human resource and development has designed the PGI to catalyse transformational change in the field of school education. In the last two years, the state government schools have performed well, and the infrastructure has improved in schools. The contribution from the community and NRIs have helped many schools give a facelift to their buildings. Kumar said, “The teachers and school heads have made consistent efforts to enhance the level of education. Students are studying through e-content, and every possible effort is being made to increase enrolment in government schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/district-performance-grading-index-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-directed-to-upload-details/story-OrbPy4wmy3pQw6L3w7fneP.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Towel left in Ludhiana woman’s womb: Committee led by SMO records statements of doctors, staff||A day after doctors and staff, who carried out a caesarean operation at the civil hospital on December 8, were accused of leaving a towel inside a woman’s womb, a three-member committee, constituted under Dr Mala, senior medical officer (SMO) of mother and child unit, took their statements.Addressing the media, Dr Mala said that a probe had been initiated, and the report will be submitted before the senior officials at the earliest.Sources in the department said that the towel/mop cloth, which is counted before initiating the C-section, was not counted after the procedure.On the other hand, Ravinder Singh, the woman’s husband, said that if any action is not taken by Tuesday, then he, along with his relatives, will again sit on dharna at the civil hospital. He also claimed that a few doctors of the civil hospital were mounting pressure on him to settle the case and even offered him money to not pursue the matter further.The matter had come to light on Sunday after Ravinder Singh, accompanied by his relatives and a few social activists, staged a sit-in protest outside the mother and child unit of the civil hospital and demanded stringent action against the operating doctors and the staff for gross negligence. Taking serious note of the incident, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga had marked an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/towel-left-in-ludhiana-woman-s-womb-committee-led-by-smo-records-statements-of-doctors-staff/story-AjFuoWIzvlDY6yWMXpGOfJ.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh to speak at Chandigarh Military Lit Fest||Though held ‘virtually’ because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the three day 4th Military Literature Festival, which starts here from December 18, will be addressed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the state’s governor VPS Badnore.The event, which attracts thinkers, authors, historians and analysts from around the globe, will be highlighting key current issues this year, including aatmnirbharta in defence preparedness and the India-China standoff in Ladakh. The first day will begin with an address by festival chairman, Lt Gen TS Shergill, PVSM (retd). This will be followed by a discussion on the book Mashkoh – Kargil As I Saw It by Brig US Bawa, and sessions on Chinese air power capabilities; Strategic shift in the pivot of geography; The Taliban are coming calling: Deep states in Pakistan and India and the role of media and, finally, Sabre rattling in Ladakh: Will it lead to a larger conflict?Day two will begin with a discussion on the book Watershed 1967 India’s Forgotten Victory over China by Probal Dasgupta, continuing on to sessions on The Quad: The emerging Indo-Pacific Naval Alliance; Self-reliance towards defence preparedness; The Indian Army in Italy during World War Two; and Bollywood and nation-building. On the final day of the session, the book in focus will be on The Khalistan Conspiracy by GBS Sidhu, IPS. This will be followed by curtain raisers on the 1971 War Commemoration by HQ Western Command; and Crossing the River Meghna: 1971 Victory. The next sessions will be on Pluralism, the Armed forces and the question of who is an Indian, followed by Military leadership for the present day and Jai Jawan Jai Kisan: Victory, soldier! Victory, farmer!An E-book release, Ladakh will be scheduled at 8 pm.Other dignitaries expected to speak at the event include NN Vohra of the Tribune Trust, Lt Gen RP Singh, AVSM, GOC in C Western Command; Punjab ministers Charanjit Singh Channi (tourism and culture) and Manpreet Singh Badal (finance and planning).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-speak-at-military-lit-fest/story-o4KmH7yj5qXb1JlhdACezL.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two lives snuffed out in road mishaps||Two men were killed in separate road mishaps in Machhiwara and Raikot on Sunday evening.As per information, factory worker Dilbagh Singh alias Babbu, 25, of Jassowal village, was returning home after finishing his work when a speeding car, plying on the wrong side of the road, hit his motorcycle at Rahon road in Machhiwara. He died on the spot. On the complaint of Charanjit Singh, brother of the victim, an FIR was lodged against the accused identified as Sunny Kumar of Ghumana village of Koomkalan, who managed to escape.In another incident, Gurpreet Singh alias Laddi, 32, of Raikot died after a speeding car rammed into his motorcycle in Raikot. The police lodged an FIR against car driver Sandeep Singh of Kular Majra village, who managed to flee the spot.ASI Avtar Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR was lodged following the statement of Shamsher Singh, father of the victim. A hunt is on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-two-lives-snuffed-out-in-road-mishaps/story-AhK1kpLitFVzrptyoAyrIN.html
14-12-2020||City||Drug smuggling case: 418gm heroin seized from former sarpanch’s property||The special task force (STF) made another arrest in the drug smuggling case and recovered 418 gm more heroin from a car parked in a house in Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar on Monday. The property belongs to former sarpanch Gurdeep Singh Rano.The police recovered the contraband and arrested Ravi Singh alias Happy Randhawa alias Aalu of Batala, an accomplice of Manjit Singh Manna, who is already in jail, following the information provided by the accused former sarpanch Gurdeep Singh Rano and his accomplices Ravej Singh, and Randeep Singh, who are in STF custody on production warrant.The STF also brought Kewal Krishan of Mohalla Gobind Nagar and Avninder Singh alias Shanty of Rangian village on production warrant for questioning. The duo was lodged in Ludhiana central jail in a drug peddling case. Sub-inspector Gurcharan Singh of the STF said that they had recovered a total of 31.4 kg of heroin, 6kg of ice drug, 2kg of narcotic powder, and a chemical to refine heroin, from the accused to date.He added that the STF had brought Gurdeep, Ravej, and Randeep on production warrant on December 10, after finding out that they had purchased 18kg heroin from peddler Manjit Singh Manna in October, while only 5.39kg was recovered from their possession at the time of the arrest.The inspector added that the kingpin of the drug haul Harminder Singh Randhawa is still on the run. A hunt is on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-smuggling-case-418gm-heroin-seized-from-former-sarpanch-s-property/story-Wjxn9ltakM8dEy6tZSCbeL.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minor girl alleges she was lodged at Chandigarh jail, police start probe||Police department have initiated a probe into the complaint of a 17-year-old, who alleged that she spent two days in Burail Jail despite being a minor. The teenager, along with her parents held a press conference at the Chandigarh Press Club on Monday, alleging that her neighbour had been harassing her. She said on October 30, she was returning from her father’s shop when her neighbour passed lewd comments at her, after which both the families came to blows. Taking preventive action, police had registered a case against both the families and sent the girl and her family to jail. However, her neighbour and his parents were Covid-19 positive and were arrested after their quarantine period was over. “My family and I kept telling SHO Amanjot Singh at the Maloya police station that my neighbour had been harassing me for long and he again passed lewd comments at me. But ignoring this, they detained us and we were sent to Burail Jail even when I had told them that I was a minor,” the girl alleged. She showed her documents at the press conference that depicted that she will turn 18 in April next year. After coming out on bail, she lodged a complaint with the Chandigarh SSP’s office. Inspector Amanjot Singh, who is SHO, Sector-39 police station, was handling the additional charge of Maloya police station in October, while the SHO concerned was on leave. “We are looking into the girl’s complaint. The investigation so far has pointed out that her father had mentioned at the police station that she is 18 years old, and even at the time of medical examination as well as before the jail staff, the girl herself had mentioned that she was 18,” said assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South) Shruti Arora. “The inquiry is on, but so far there is no evidence against the SHO concerned. Whoever is found at fault will face action. There are CCTV cameras installed at the police station as well as at her neighbour’s house and these will be scanned,” Arora added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minor-girl-alleges-she-spent-time-in-chandigarh-jail-police-start-probe/story-cuMqCcgAt8e32EEbxUfxOK.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Meena Aggarwal is Cong mayoral candidate for Ambala MC polls||The Congress on Monday announced Meena Aggarwal, wife of ex-corporater Pawan Aggarwal as its mayoral candidate for the Ambala municipal corporation elections, while former Union minister and Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP-V ) leader Venod Sharma fielded his wife Shakti Rani Sharma for the seat. Both will file their nominations on Tuesday.Meena Aggarwal, 51, said she was happy that the Congress had trusted a party worker . “We have the support of every local who believes in a clean and corruption free corporation. We were in majority in the last elections and if elected, I’ll try to fulfil every basic need of the Ambala citizens,” she said. Congress state chief Kumari Selja also announced the list of the party’s 20 ward candidates after calling up most of the candidates, including Aggarwal, individually and asking them to start campaigning for the elections. The list was issued a day after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and Jannayak Janata Party announced their seat arrangement on a 15-5 pattern with Dr Vandana Sharma as its mayoral candidate. The Congress candidates from ward 1 to 20 are: Roop Chand, Rajvinder Kaur, Sunny Dhillon, Harish Chandra, Rajesh Mehta, Rishveet Kaur, Sumit Kumar, Harjeet Singh, Megha Goyal, Mithun Verma, Kavita Devi, Surendra Kaur, Bhivnesh Tarikha, Manjeet Brar, Puneet, Varinder Dixit, Karamjeet Kaur, Ravinder Kumar, Tejinder Singh and Parminder Kaur.The Congress was in majority in the last corporation with nine out of 11 councillors (there are 20 wards in the Ambala twin towns) with its own mayor Ramesh Mal, who later joined the BJP. WILL PROVIDE 2,000 JOBS: VENOD SHARMAWhile announcing Shakti Rani Sharma’s name as mayoral candidate at a press conference, Venod Sharma said his party will provide 2,000 jobs to locals. “This is my own city. We have earned the love of the residents earlier too and I’m confident that I will get the same response this time. Like last time, we’ll work overall development,” said Shakti Rani Sharma,67.  “We tried our best to bring Industrial Model Township (IMT) to Ambala, so that the locals could get more job opportunities. Now, the present dispensation has failed to fulfil the promise despite the chief minister’s assurance. Our struggle for IMT will restart. If elected, my party will provide jobs to 2,000 locals in the next five years,” Venod Sharma said.HJCP-V has already announced 14 names for the wards. Meanwhile, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) lent its support to former minister Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) for the elections. INLD state spokesperson Onkar Singh and district chief Shishpal Jandheri announced the decision after a meeting with the HDF office bearers here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/meena-aggarwal-is-cong-mayoral-candidate-for-ambala-mc-polls/story-I4OMRuebbfYkayaBh72XWL.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Butterfly park in Sector 52 lies is disrepair, conservation activities on hold||The city’s first butterfly park, commissioned by the forest department in Sector 52 two years ago, has ceased to operate and is currently in a state of disrepair. Officials in the forest department confirmed that presently, there are no butterfly conservation activities underway at the park, which has been shut to public since March this year. Officials also said there are no immediate plans to revive the project.An HT team on Monday found that the park has been gated shut, while the approach road is being used as a parking lot for tempos by independent contractors. However, one can still enter the premises (which forms a small part of the forest department’s 19-acre nursery in Sector 52) from a second entrance, located about 500 metres on Ambedkar Road, just around the corner from Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park.Inside, the butterfly park is a shade of its former self. The lack of upkeep was evident, and in multiple places, one can observe the withering remains of saplings planted by visitors. While the area remains forested, it is overrun with weeds and is not being actively maintained, according to staffers at the department nursery.The butterfly gardens, bathrooms and picnic spots all bore a decrepit look. No butterflies could be spotted either, although, at the time of its launch two years ago, the park was reportedly home to 27 different species.Originally conceived by the forest department in 2017, the butterfly park, named Thousand Shades Butterfly Park, was launched in collaboration with a city-based NGO on May 23, 2018, on the occasion of World Biodiversity Day. At the time, the department had spent nearly Rs 3 crore on setting up the park, including the cost of planting specific vegetation to attract butterflies and setting up indoor and outdoor conservatories for their breeding.The park had one outdoor conservatory, aimed at conserving specific butterfly species, including the common emigrant, mottled emigrant, small gross-yellow, peacock pansy, lemon pansy, common pierrot, blue pansy and great eggfly. An indoor conservatory, specifically aimed at conserving the plain tiger butterfly, which is commonly seen in the region, had also been created, but is no longer operational.Close to 150 different species of host plants — including lemon, bel, akawan, chakunda and harsingar trees — were planted in early 2018 to attract various butterfly species. In the first year of its operation, the park became a popular destination for students and picnickers, hosting educational tours and plantation drives for groups of schoolchildren. As plantation work was to be carried out for a period of five years, ending in 2022, visitors were encouraged to plant saplings to commemorate their time there.Subash Yadav, a metropolitan green planner with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, and former district forest officer (DFO) with the state forest department, said that breeding activities at the park had stopped even earlier than March 2020.“Sometime in 2019, we realised that the concessionaire had been violating our memorandum of understanding. Visitors to the park were being charged for entry, whereas the NGO was only allowed to raise money via CSR funding. They had also created a pukka road to enter the park, which is not allowed on forest land. The intention was to create a butterfly conservation centre to educate visitors, but the concessionaire was turning it a commercial undertaking,” said Yadav.In fact, the district forest department in 2019 also prosecuted Sanjay Kaushik, the director of the NGO, Uthaan, for violations of the Wildlife Act. “The concessionaire had kept four grey partridges at the site in cages, which is against the law. There were also two emu birds and several rabbits that were kept there. This was nowhere permitted in our agreements. At the direction of the environmental court in Faridabad, the partridges were seized and then released in Sultanpur National Park,” said Yadav.Probing these violations, an internal forest department committee in 2019 had recommended terminating the agreement with Uthaan. “At present, our MoU does not stand. Before we could terminate the agreement, we received a representation from the NGO saying they do not wish to continue as the concessionaire. Then, after lockdown, they stopped maintaining the park entirely,” said a senior forest department official, seeking anonymity.The state forest department is yet to take a call on appointing a new concessionaire or running the park independently. “There is no decision on the cards yet,” said the official cited above.Sanjay Kaushik, founder and director of the NGO Uthaan, refuted the forest department’s allegations, but did not specifically respond to each one, when asked. “All I can say is we are no longer maintaining the butterfly park. Uthaan has not been maintaining it since March this year.”The presiding district forest officer, Jai Kumar, declined to comment on the issue. Vasvi Tyagi, chief conservator of forests, could not be reached despite multiple attempts on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/butterfly-park-in-sector-52-lies-is-disrepair-conservation-activities-on-hold/story-W5AxtDpZOq7cyqxG9UQrMO.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Strong winds help aid dispersal of pollutants||The air quality in the city improved significantly and entered the moderate category on Monday. Gurugram recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 101 — an improvement from 239 (poor) on Sunday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. Experts attributed the change in air quality to high-speed winds that aided the dispersal of pollutants. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 235.45 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally and remain in “moderate” to “poor” category on Tuesday and Wednesday. The air quality is likely to start deteriorating marginally from December 18 and remain in “poor” to the lower end of “very poor” category. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the temperature was expected to dip further on Tuesday. “The temperature will dip further in the coming days and might stay around 8 degrees,” said Srivastava. On Monday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 18 degrees Celsius, three degrees below Sunday’s 21 degrees. The minimum temperature settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius, same as the previous day. The minimum temperature is expected dip and hover around 8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The maximum temperature will likely stay around 23 degrees, as per IMD forecast. As per the weekly IMD forecast, clear skies will prevail on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/strong-winds-help-aid-dispersal-of-pollutants/story-8omt9dzf6gRPd9C2CSt3mJ.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Businessman robbed of ₹2 lakh by two men in Pataudi||A 55-year-old businessman was allegedly robbed of ₹2 lakh on Sunday by two unidentified men who snatched his cash bag and shot in the leg of his employee in Pataudi, said the police. According to the police, the incident took place around 7.20pm when the victim, Ramesh Kumar Goyal, a resident of Pataudi, who owns a cloth shop in the main market, was closing his store. Goyal kept his bag containing the cash in his scooter’s compartment and was locking the iron shutter of the shop, when two unidentified men allegedly walked up to his scooter, picked up the bag and fled. Goyal said that two of his employees, Mohit Kumar and Kundan, who were also present at the spot, ran behind them and nabbed one of the suspects. “They raised an alarm and shouted for help. Before anyone could reach them or inform the police, one of the suspects took out a gun and shot at Mohit’s leg. He fell down, following which the suspect fled from the spot,” he said. Goyal and his other employee took Mohit to a hospital and informed the police control room. The police said it seemed like someone was watching Goyal for the last few days or there might be an insider’s role in the incident. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they are scanning CCTV footage of cameras installed in the market, but are yet to identify the suspects. “Mohit is undergoing treatment and is reported to be stable. We will question both the employees and neighbouring shopkeepers to know if any such incident has been reported earlier from the market,” he said. A case under sections 379 (snatching, 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) and Arms Act of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the two unidentified men at Pataudi police station on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/businessman-robbed-of-2-lakh-by-two-men-in-pataudi/story-63Ch4s8Y5xt6YhrY9gpPZP.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG sets up city’s first cloth bag bank||To eliminate the use of polythene bags, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has opened the city’s first cloth bag bank in the Nai Basti area in Sector 8 — a release issued by the civic body on Monday stated. The MCG opened the cloth bag bank along with an NGO named Buland Awas Welfare Society. As per MCG officials, more than 20 women are associated with this cloth bag bank, which aims to provide cloth bags to markets across the city.“These women will provide more than 20,000 bags in the markets of Sector 23, Sushant Lok 1, Wazirabad Mandi and the Harijan Basti. Recently, the cloth bag bank has received an order of providing 12,000 cloth bags to a supermarket in Sector 46. Gradually, cloth bags will be made available in all market areas instead of polyethene bags. Depending on their sizes, their prices will range from ₹3 to ₹20,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer (PRO), MCG. As per MCG officials, the bag bank has already received more than 100 kilograms of old clothes from residents across the city for the purpose of converting them into bags. According to Kuldeep Singh, president of the Buland Awas Welfare Society, residents can bring old clothes and plastic bottles from their home at the bank and get cloth bags in exchange for the same. He further said that collection boxes will be installed in different colonies of the city, and the aim is to set up a cloth bag bank in each of the 35 wards of the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-sets-up-city-s-first-cloth-bag-bank/story-WfVACuxMCeY9uukBmGpPuJ.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||District administration mulls reducing reserved bed capacity for Covid patients||Faced with a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, the district health department is planning to reduce the reserved bed capacity for seriously ill patients from 50% to 35% in private hospitals. The department has forwarded the recommendation to district administration for final approval. In the last two weeks, the number of Covid-19 cases has plunged sharply due to which there has been more than 50 percent decline in the number of hospitalised patients. According to district health bulletin, Gurugram on Monday recorded 197 new cases. It is almost after three months that district recorded fewer than 200 new infections, taking the total tally to 54,802. Out of these, 2,156 are active cases. Among them, 195 are seriously ill patients, who are currently hospitalised,1,955 are home-isolated, and six are in Covid care centre. Until December 1, the count of patients admitted in hospitals was more than 400 but with the declining weekly test positivity rate of almost seven percent, the overall caseload has come down. “Since there has been an overall reduction in active cases with proportionate decline in seriously ill patients who require hospitalisation, it has been decided to reduce the reserved bed capacity from 50% to 35%,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. “The health department has given its recommendation to the deputy commissioner on reducing the reserved bed capacity,” Yadav said,adding that hospitals can use the bed for patients suffering from other illnesses.Until September, the overall bed capacity reserved for patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus was 25 percent. It included both general and ICU beds along with those with ventilator. The bed capacity was then increased from 25% to 35%. Amid the record surge in Covid-19 cases since the last week of October, hospital beds were fast being occupied by serious new infections from Gurugram, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, parts of Haryana and other states.On November 16, the reserved bed capacity was increased to 50% beds in private hospitals to tackle the surge. The general beds were reserved at 50 percent, while Intensive Care Unit (ICU) bed capacity was increased to 75 percent. The decision to increase the number of beds was taken based on the directives issued by Niti Aayog. Presently, almost 2,821 beds are reserved across 42 hospitals. It includes 415 ICU beds and 223 beds with ventilator support system and 2,183 general beds. Out of the total reserved beds, only 580 beds are currently occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-mulls-reducing-reserved-bed-capacity-for-covid-patients/story-i3OUqxWXkGhJ6cNGNRdXgI.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Protesters detained at Rewari, farmers barred from entering Gurugram||At least 10 protesters were detained by the Rewari police at Banipur Chowk in Bawal, some 64 kilometres from Gurugram on Monday afternoon, while they were on their way to Delhi to join the farmers’ agitation.There was a clash between police and farmers when they allegedly tried to move towards the expressway to head towards Gurugram. The police said the protesting farmers had not approached the city yet, but they have deployed a large contingent of personnel on the expressway to maintain law and order, and manage traffic.According to the police, farmers from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Rewari, Mahendergarh, and Nuh had gathered at the Banipur Chowk in Bawal on Friday morning in their cars, tractor-trolleys and motorbikes.Abhishek Jorwal, Rewari superintendent of police, said that farmers had held a mahapanchayat and blocked the National Highway 48, which resulted in traffic congestion. “Within minutes, the police personnel removed them from the highway and some local farmer leaders were also put in preventive detention, following which they started protesting on service lanes. The detained leaders were set free in four hours,” he said.The police said the protestors had stationed their tractor trolleys and cars on the highway to block the stretch and had started assembling but the police teams managed to intervene and clear the stretch.Traffic movement was slowed down from Bawal to Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan for more than five hours despite heavy deployment on the stretch.Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap (84 villages) of Haryana, said that more than 1,000 farmers had gathered at Bawal to march towards Delhi but Rewari police did not let them cross the junction and had detained the leaders. “The police cannot stop us from supporting farmers who are protesting at Delhi border points for the past 18 days over the Centre’s farm laws. We will increase the numbers to ensure the strength is enough to cross the stretch or force entry into Delhi. We will intensify the protest on Tuesday and Wednesday,” he said.Security has been strengthened on the 78-kilometre stretch with multilayered barricades at all intersections of the highway in view of the protest called by the farmers.On Monday, a group of civil society members came together under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha Gurugram and handed over a memorandum seeking a roll back of the three laws to the district administration. Addressed to the President, the memorandum stated that the three farm laws were not in the interests of farmers. The memorandum stated that the laws would put an end to mandis (APMC system).RS Rathee, president of the Gurugram Citizen Council and municipal councillor for Ward 34, said that if the government doesn’t agree to the farmers’ demands, they will join the protest at Bawal on Wednesday. “This is the biggest farmers’ movement. We are involving all farmer bodies and workers’ unions to gather in big numbers and march towards Delhi,” he said.Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the farmers have yet not tried to enter Gurugram jurisdiction and were stopped in Rewari and at the Rajasthan border. “We are well prepared and our teams are deployed at all borders to control the farmers’ movement. We will not let any group cross the stretch towards Delhi. We are keeping a track on their movement and teams are on standby,” she said.Police said the traffic movement on Delhi-Jaipur Expressway at the Haryana- Rajasthan interstate border, at Shahjahanpur, slowed from 1pm to 4pm. Around 600 farmers had gathered in the morning and sat on a dharna.Mahavir Yadav, a protestor from Mahendergarh, said they are waiting for at least 2,500 farmers to gather, following which they will march towards Delhi to join their counterparts.Trade unions have urged farmers and their families to support their counterparts in Delhi in large numbers. More than 300 police personnel are deployed at the spot to ensure no untoward incident takes place, the police said. (with inputs from Sadia Akhtar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/protesters-detained-at-rewari-farmers-barred-from-entering-gurugram/story-06zOPo0eu0jmkJus3DAAKI.html
14-12-2020||City||Ludhiana MC seals 6 properties for defaulting on tax||The municipal corporation on Monday sealed six buildings in the Zone B area for not clearing property tax dues.Zonal superintendent Abdul Sattar said, “Six buildings were sealed in Zone B. The owners of five of them have paid a fine of ₹2.7 lakh.”The civic authorities had issued orders to seal 83 buildings in Zone B area.The notice to seal such properties was issued under Section 138 of the Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, after the property owners failed to pay the tax after one month’s notice.The order stated that the civic body would start sealing these properties from December 14. Officers also passed orders to snap water and sewerage supply in 250 properties where owners had defaulted on the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-seals-6-properties-for-defaulting-on-tax/story-iWc3lP36Le3ONdgQ2drvSK.html
14-12-2020||Bhopal||MP to reopen schools for class 10 and 12 from Dec 18; colleges from January 1||Madhya Pradesh government is going to reopen schools for class 10 and 12 from December 18 while colleges will be reopened from January 1, said an official. The decisions of reopening of schools and colleges were taken at the meetings of the school education department and higher education department in Bhopal on Monday. State school education minister Inder Singh Parmar said, “The decision of reopening of schools for class 10 and 12 has been taken to help the students in the preparation for the board exams. The department has asked schools administrations to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, including proper sanitization, use of masks and maintaining social distancing.” The school principals have also been asked to take the decision of reopening of schools for class 9 and 11 by the end of this week, said the minister. Also read: Don’t go during the pandemic - AIIMS appeals as nurses’ union threaten strikeEarlier, in a review meeting of the school education department held on December 4, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that schools for class 1 to class 8 will be reopened from April 1, 2021. “The students of class 5 and class 8 will be promoted to higher classes on the basis of their performances in the project work, said an officer of the school education department. Meanwhile, higher education minister Mohan Singh Yadav said colleges across Madhya Pradesh will be reopened in a phased manner from January 1. “The regular practical classes in the colleges will be started from January 1. The colleges for final year undergraduate and postgraduate classes will begin from January 10 and the remaining classes from January 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-to-reopen-schools-for-class-10-and-12-from-dec-18-colleges-from-january-1/story-oehUFH6bH6XUa8SnkwfHRP.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic cop among 11 held for gambling in Chandigarh, ₹4.16 lakh seized||A traffic police head constable was among 11 men arrested for gambling near a gurdwara in Sector 31 on Monday.A total of Rs 4.16 lakh were recovered from the group that comprised head constable Rajesh Kumar, Anil Kumar, Raman and Shiv Budh Raj of Sector 23D, Rakesh Kumar of Sector 25, Simran Singh of Sector 35C, Pawan Kumar of Sector 47-D, Rajinder Kumar of Dhanas, Sumit of Ram Darbar, Gulam of Badal Colony, Zirakpur, and Shankar of Sector 19, Panchkula.The accused were arrested after a police team under assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South) Shruti Arora conducted a raid in the jungle area near the gurdwara, following a tip-off.The head constable is posted in the south-east traffic division of the Chandigarh Traffic Police and is a relative of a retired DSP. “After his arrest, we wrote to the traffic wing for further action against the cop,” said a police official. “We will take necessary action against him after a formal report regarding his alleged involvement is received from the SSP,” said a senior official of the traffic police. A case under the Gambling Act was registered at the Sector-31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/traffic-cop-among-11-held-for-gambling-in-chandigarh-4-16-lakh-seized/story-Kh2Us6sgLPh3vMbeGJ37UN.html
14-12-2020||City||Cop found hanging at Mohali’s Purab Apartments||A cop posted as a gunman with a senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader was found hanging at Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88 on Monday evening.The deceased was a native of Hoshiarpur district and lived alone here, police said.The matter came to fore after police were informed about the cop’s suspicious absence, as his flat’s door had been locked for several hours. “A PCR party reached the spot and entered the apartment by breaking open the door and found the policeman hanging from the ceiling fan in his room. No suicide note was recovered,” said ASI Sanjay Kumar, the investigation officer.The deceased was posted with the 3rd Commando Battalion and deputed with a SAD leader, who lives in Sector 69.“We have called his parents and will initiate proceedings after recording their statement. The body was sent to the mortuary of civil hospital in Phase 6 where an autopsy will be conducted on Tuesday,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-found-hanging-at-mohali-s-purab-apartments/story-CtkzIfFeQ0zX73U6mgvj0I.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Serving of hookah banned in Chandigarh for 60 days||The UT administration has extended the ban on serving of hookah in city’s hotels, restaurants, taverns, bars and hookah bars. An order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was issued on Monday by district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar for the 60-day ban, starting from December 14. “The hookah in many of these bars is being smoked/consumed by the people/customers through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having mouth piece, which is susceptible to physical mouth to mouth touch of many persons, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread ofCovid-19 pandemic in Chandigarh,” the DM observed in his order.“Hookah bars are operational in Chandigarh in a clandestine way, which are serving flavoured hookahs, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, which is highly injurious to health of people and at times there is a suspicion that apart from tobacco, other harmful narcotic chemicals are also mixed with tobacco molasses served in these hookah bars,” the order stated. Any person violating the order will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/serving-of-hookah-banned-in-chandigarh-for-60-days/story-Ie96RcFB8e8BEdRqWWoHMO.html
14-12-2020||City||L-G Sinha visits Mubarak Mandi Heritage Complex, reviews restoration work of palaces||Lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha visited Mubarak Mandi Heritage Complex, a symbol of royal Dogra history of the erstwhile princely state, on Monday and inspected the ongoing restoration and renovation works of the palaces.Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma; Jammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan, Mubarak Mandi Heritage Society executive director Deepika Sharma and other officials were also present.Deepika briefed the L-G about the restoration works. Sinha visited different sections of the complex to review the progress and quality of work. He asked the officials to expedite the work.On December 3, L-G’s principal secretary Nitishwar Kumar had visited the complex and sought a detailed briefing on progress of the restoration works and details of structures that need to be preserved, besides discussing issues pertaining to restoration of the Dogra Art Museum, preservation of historical records, etc.On November 29, Dogra Sadar Sabha president Gulchain Singh Charak had raised the issue of preservation of archival records while expediting the restoration work of the Mubarak Mandi Palace Complex in Jammu in accordance with rules and regulations laid down by the Mubarak Mandi Jammu Heritage Society.During the visit, Charak had expressed serious concerns over inordinate delays in restoration of the complex which is a primary heritage of Jammu region.L-G chairs metro outline plan meetSinha also chaired a meeting to steer light metro rail projects for the two capital cities of Jammu and Srinagar, at the civil secretariat in Jammu on Monday.Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, principal secretary housing and urban development Dheeraj Gupta, principal secretary to L-G Nitishwar Kumar, Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (Jammu/Srinagar) MD/CEO Ankita Kar, representatives from MAHA-Metro and other senior officers attended the meeting.Representatives of MAHA-Metro gave a presentation regarding works related to the project, besides highlighting key issues on Jammu and Srinagar metro rail corridors.The Jammu light rail system will be 23km long with 22 stations between Bantalab and Bari Brahmana, while the Srinagar one will be 25km long, including 12.5km from Indira Nagar to HMT Junction and 12.5km from Hazuri Bagh to Osmanabad, with 24 stations (12 stations on each corridor).Sinha said once the project is approved it should be completed within two years from the date of commencement.Delegation of de-notified nomadic tribes development council calls on L-G A delegation of de-notified nomadic tribes development council (All India) called on lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha at the Raj Bhavan here on Monday. The delegation led by Anil Devidas Phad (national secretary) apprised the L-G about various welfare issues of the tribal community and submitted a memorandum of demands pertaining to the establishment of de-notified nomadic tribes development board in J&K on the lines of the central board, a district-level grievances redressal council for de-notified nomadic tribes, a domestic survey of de-notified nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes among others. Sinha observed that the Forest Rights Act is being implemented in the UT and the government is working with an agenda of equitable and balanced development for the upliftment of all sections of the society. He assured the delegation that the issues put forth by them will be taken up for consideration on merit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-sinha-visits-mubarak-mandi-heritage-complex-reviews-restoration-work-of-palaces/story-cCk5OKPEIjl648YtLPSnNP.html
14-12-2020||City||58.55% voter turnout in 6th phase of panch bypolls in J&K||Around 58.55% and 52.9% voter turnout were recorded in the sixth phase of the vacant panch and sarpanch seat bypolls, respectively, said state election commissioner KK Sharma. The SEC said that overall, the polling was peaceful at all polling stations across region.Sharma said bypolls for vacant panch seats was held for 334 seats in the sixth phase. Of total 58,094 electors, including 30,318 males and 27,776 females, 34,012 voted and 740 candidates were in fray.He said that Jammu division recorded 86.04% and Kashmir 57.85% voter turnout in the sixth phase of panch bypolls.Similarly, 52.9% voting was registered on 77 vacant sarpanch constituencies. Of total 99,454 electors, including 51,748 males and 47,706 females, 52,609 voted to choose their representatives.The SEC said that 74.92% polling was registered in Jammu division and 46.13% in Kashmir.He said that in Jammu division, Doda recorded the highest voter turnout of 92.27%, followed by Jammu with 87.15% and Udhampur with 84.48%. Similarly, in Kashmir division, Kupwara topped with 71.7% polling, followed by Kulgam with 67.57% and Ganderbal with 63.5%.Sharma said in sarpanch bypolls, Ganderbal recorded the highest voter turnout of 66.26% in Kashmir division, followed by Bandipora with 54.67% and Baramulla with 51.71%.Similarly, Reasi topped in Jammu division with 85.41% polling, followed by Poonch with 80.65% and Rajouri with 79.8%, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58-55-voter-turnout-in-6th-phase-of-panch-bypolls-in-j-k/story-MU3oizYHiCUtKDKGtfPGyI.html
14-12-2020||City||Poonch gunfight: Slain terrorists had plans to carry out major terror attack||The two Pakistani terrorists killed in an encounter with security forces along Mughal Road in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Sunday had sinister plans to carry out a major terror attack, army officials said. An associate of the slain terrorists was also captured alive by the security forces.Lieutenant Colonel Keshav Sharma, the officiating commanding officer of Rashtriya Rifles, said, “The security forces recovered a rich haul of arms and ammunition from the site of encounter that included two AK 47 assault rifles, six AK 47 magazines, 300 rounds of AK 47 ammunition, one Thuraya satellite phone, one UBGL, 12 grenades, 300gm of explosive material, three cellphones and Rs 26,000.” “They were sent across for a major terror attack,” he added. He said, “On December 9, we had got an input about the movement of two to three terrorists in the area and since then we were tracking them. We maintained a constant pressure on them and they too tried to dodge us. They wanted to either move to Shopian or create problems in the ongoing DDC elections.” Eventually, we trapped them in Poshana area and they were asked to surrender. However, they fired upon us and we retaliated, killing two of them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poonch-gunfight-slain-terrorists-had-plans-to-carry-out-major-terror-attack/story-swRMBcGMp5mRCFW0gHY8eI.html
14-12-2020||City||At 14.6°C, Chandigarh turns colder than Shimla||Chandigarh The appearance of fog after a brief spell of rain on Saturday brought the city’s maximum temperature down to 14.6°C on Monday, making Chandigarh colder than Shimla that had a temperature of 14.9°C.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while the day temperature is likely to increase in the coming days, the nights will become colder.“Since sunlight couldn’t enter owing to fog, the day temperature stayed on the lower side. It was eight degrees below the normal temperature and visibility also dropped to 500 metres in the morning,” said an IMD official.As fog clears up in the next few days, the days will become warmer, but clear nights will cause the temperature to drop and it can go as low as 5°C this week.Even though visibility remained affected on Monday morning, no flights were delayed or cancelled, as per airport officials. Colder nights aheadMeanwhile, a warning for cold wave conditions has been given for Thursday and Friday. A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature drops below 10°C and is 4.5 degrees to 6.4 degrees below normal. It can also be declared if the minimum temperature reduces to 4°C or below.On Monday, the maximum temperature was slightly lower than Sunday’s 14.9°C. Though the minimum temperature also decreased from 13°C to 11°C, it was four notches above normal. This left a variance of less than 4 degrees between the day and night temperatures of the city.The next three days are expected to see highs and lows of 17°C and 6°C to 9°C, respectively. Moderate to shallow fog may also appear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-14-6-c-chandigarh-turns-colder-than-shimla/story-wcKGfZuT0xQfi7PClfPRrN.html
14-12-2020||City||Himachal cabinet extends night curfew till January 15||In wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases in state, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet has decided to continue night curfew till January 5 in four most affected districts – Shimla, Mandi , Kullu and Kangra.The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. The cabinet also gave approval to functioning of makeshift hospitals in Shimla, Nalagarh, Tanda and Nerchowk. They gave nod to granting ex post facto permission to operationalise these makeshift hospitals being set up at a cumulative cost of ₹13.28 crore. Fifty percent of these funds are being provided to the CSIR, CBRI Roorkee in advance.The cabinet further decided to notify new standard operating procedure (SOP) for panchayat and civic body elections that are due next month. “The contesting candidates will have to follow the SOP, which will be notified shortly,” Jai Ram told the media. He added that candidates infected with Covid-19 cannot be barred from contesting elections. “Those infected with covid can contest the elections but will have to ensure that they follow the laid norms,” he said.Meanwhile, the cabinet has given its consent to shifting the deputy inspector general (intelligence and security) office from Shimla to Dharamshala. The cabinet also approved setting up of a Pain and Palliative Care Cell under the radiotherapy department of Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, for providing better healthcare facilities to people.The cabinet gave nod to the Himachal Pradesh Auro Sports Rules, 2020, with a view to promote auro-sports activities in state while adopting safety measures.Approve new recruitmentsDuring the meeting, it was decided that 131 posts of different categories in rural development department will be filled on outsource basis for effective implementation of the Rashtriya Gramin Swarojgar Abhiyan.It accorded its approval to creating a new subdivision of PWD at Majheen in Kangra along with two new sections at Majheen and Seorbala along with creation of six posts of different categories.It gave nod to filling eight posts of HP administrative services through direct recruitment by joint competitive examinations, 2020. It decided to set up district forensics units in Bilaspur, Nurpur and Baddi along with creation and filling of 12 posts of different categories.The Cabinet has also decided to create and fill 25 posts of junior office assistant (IT) in the agriculture department through direct recruitment on contract-basis.The cabinet gave nod to creating three new patwar circles in Kolar, Misharwala and Sainwala Mubarikpur, and a new sub-tehsil in Majra by bifurcating patwar circles in Majra and Dhauklakuana of Poanta Sahib tehsil in Sirmaur.The cabinet gave approval to filling six posts of different categories in town and country planning department besides creating and filling one post of junior office assistant (IT) in SADA, Pangi of Killar. It has decided to create and fill one post of manager marketing in Milkfed on contract basis, besides two posts of plant engineers and one post of computer programmer in Milkfed.It has decided to fill three posts of manager production/P&I and seven posts of assistant manager (QC/P&I) in Milkfed on contract basis.It gave consent to filling three posts of steno typists in the agriculture department through direct recruitment, three posts of drivers in ayurveda department on daily-wage basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cabinet-extends-night-curfew-till-january-15/story-i1u6ayCgCkFdw8ZHiRlNfM.html
14-12-2020||City||Coronavirus claims 12 more lives in Himachal, toll 813||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 386 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 49,761 while the death toll mounted to 813 after 12 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 93 were reported in Mandi, 64 in Kangra, 39 each in Chamba and Shimla, 34 in Sirmaur, 23 each in Hamirpur and Solan, 20 each in Kullu and Bilaspur, 15 in Una, nine in Kinnaur and seven in Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have come down to 6,948. The overall recoveries reached 41,954 after 676 more patients were cured. The recovery rate has gone up to 84%. Three fatalities each were reported in Kangra and Shimla and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba, Hamirpur, Kullu, Sirmaur and Una. The death rate is 1.64%. Himachal has more than 6,800 confirmed cases per million population and the new infections have grown at a rate of 1.3% in the last one week. Till date, 6.22 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 9,172 infections followed by Mandi at 8,411, Kangra 6,807, Solan 5,841, Kullu 4,114, Sirmaur 2,926, Bilaspur 2,590, Chamba 2,525, Hamirpur 2,499, Una 2,497, Kinnaur 1,209, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,170.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-claims-12-more-lives-in-himachal-toll-813/story-keU9jiKt7sIypFl07DywtJ.html
14-12-2020||City||Anti-national elements leading farmers’ protest: Himachal BJP vice-president||Former Rajya Sabha MP and vice-president of Himachal Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kripal Parmar on Monday alleged that anti-national elements and middlemen are instigating the farmers’ protest.“The protest is driven by vested interest of few anti-national elements. Attempts were made to spread the protests throughout the country but failed,” said Parmar while addressing a press conference here.He said the real farmer was working in the field and those who have gathered at the Delhi borders were mislead by wrong elements. The former national vice-president of Kisan Morcha said the protests were confined to Punjab and Maharashtra because there is a huge business of commissions in the two states.Parmar, who in the past has served as the chairman agricultural marketing board, said the three farm laws brought by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government were for the benefits of farmers. “There is not a single thing written in these laws that is against farmers,” he claimed, adding that there may be some doubts on the effect of these laws but no question mark on the intention of the government.He said when the Indian economy opened in the 1990s only the agriculture sector was left out. “Since then there was demand of various farmers’ organisation to free them from the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) system,” he said.He said the BJP has a video of Congress leader Kapil Sibal speaking in the parliament where he advocates abolishing the APMCs. “Unfortunately, today, the Congress has taken a different stand and is supporting middlemen,” he alleged.‘Congress trying to provoke farmers in state’  Himachal Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma on Monday said Congress leaders are trying to provoke farmers in the state for their own political gains. While addressing a press conference in Shimla, Sharma said the Centre’s agriculture laws are in the interest of farmers and the loss is only to the middlemen. “These new laws will curb the loot in mandis,” he said, adding that the farmer’s protests have been initiated by the Congress and Left parties.He said these protests are being staged by miscreants as farmers do not have time to leave their work and stay put at Delhi borders. “The Congress is forgetting that these laws were also promised in its election manifesto and should clarify if they were misleading the farmers then or now,” said Sharma.He said the Left parties are scared by the popularity of present central government and are trying to spoil its image internationally. “People who are now protesting in the farmers’ movement were earlier involved in Shaheen Bagh protests,” he added.Sharma said the Modi government has made a big improvement in the rates of MSP and is the only government that takes decisions in the interest of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-national-elements-leading-farmers-protest-himachal-bjp-vice-president/story-c8rY3ELvsoqyKCFjc7SUPM.html
14-12-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Himachal Kisan Sabha, CITU threaten to march to Delhi||On the call of various farmer organisations, Himachal Kisan Sabha, Central of Indian Trade Union (CITU) and other Left organisations on Monday staged protests in Himachal Pradesh against the Centre’s three agricultural bills and the electricity amendment bill, demanding its withdrawal. The organisations warned the central government that people of the state will also march towards Delhi if these demands are not fulfilled. They also appealed the public to boycott products of Gautam Adani and Mukesh Ambani’s companies.Himachal Kisan Sabha state president Kuldeep Tanwar said the farm laws will ruin agricultural institutions like APMC, end the concept of minimum support price and encourage black marketing, hoarding and profiteering of agricultural products which will not only affect the farmers but also the public.He said it is important that workers, farmers, women, youth, students, socially and economically backward sections of the country unite and fight against the government to stop it from imposing capitalist and corporate policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-himachal-kisan-sabha-citu-threaten-to-march-to-delhi/story-44SQX05qWYKyNfbNS1X6nO.html
14-12-2020||City||Delhi woman held for duping Kullu resident of Rs 15 lakh||A 24-year-old woman was arrested from Delhi for duping a Kullu resident of ₹15 lakh by luring her to win a lottery worth ₹40 lakh, police said on Monday.The accused was identified as Manisha,24, a resident of Pul Pahladpur in New Delhi.According to the complainant, she received a phone call on June 1 from a woman posing as a representative of popular game show Kaun Banega Crorepati. Superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said the victim was informed that her number has been selected in a lucky draw and that she has won a lottery worth ₹40 lakh. The accused told her that in order to get the prize money she will have to pay some money in installments.The accused then warned her not to tell anyone about this lottery as people might try to hurt her to get the prize money. The victim was also told that the company will file a penalty case against her if she does not deposit the amount.The SP said during the course of last six months, the accused forced the victim to deposit money in 49 different accounts which she claimed as bank account numbers of KBC employees. Realising that she has been cheated, the victim filed a complaint in cyber cell of Kullu police. The accused was arrested and brought to Kullu. Five ATM cards of different banks, six pass books of various banks and other items were also recovered from her possession.A case has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-woman-held-for-duping-kullu-resident-of-rs-15-lakh/story-UYpbZGJm21fwKRX7GCIPYI.html
14-12-2020||City||Delhi tourist dies after slipping on road in Kullu||A tourist from Delhi died after she slipped on a road near Shojha village in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district, police said on Monday. The deceased was identified as Ayushi, 21, a resident of New Delhi. Police officials said Ayushi along with her friends had come to Tirthan valley on December 11 and they decided to go to Jalori pass on December 13. “After reaching Shojha village, they decided to park their vehicle and walk with other tourists as the road was closed due to fresh snowfall. Later, a tourist informed her friend that she had fallen on the road. She was rushed to the civil hospital in Banjar where doctors declared her brought dead,” superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said. He said the girl’s parents have been informed and the postmortem is being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-tourist-dies-after-slipping-on-road-in-kullu/story-U28PspyiSSJH3u8MyIWRsM.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||CHB clerk convicted in 2014 graft case||A special CBI court has held guilty a clerk-cum-junior technician of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for demanding Rs 20,000 bribe from a resident.The quantum of the sentence will be pronounced on December 16.In March 2014, complainant Sukhbir Singh had approached the CBI, alleging that a CHB clerk, Surjit Singh, had demanded bribe for returning excess amount paid by him for transfer of ownership of a flat in Sector 61.CBI said Sukhbir had bought a flat from one Inderjeet Gulati and erroneously paid over Rs 1 lakh extra in favour of CHB to obtain the possession of the flat. Following which, Sukhbir moved an application, seeking refund of the excess amount. The application was pending with Surjit, who demanded a bribe to clear his file and the deal was settled at Rs 20,000.In March 2014, CBI arrested Surjit while accepting Rs 10,000 bribe as first instalment from near the CHB office and booked him for graft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chb-clerk-convicted-in-2014-graft-case/story-O3yR6MCxF0SbAWTVugCDSN.html
14-12-2020||Kolkata||Direct flights from Delhi to Kolkata allowed on all days||The ministry of civil aviation has allowed direct flights from Delhi to Kolkata on all days with immediate effect on the request of the Mamata Banerjee administration. The restrictions on flights arriving from five other cities - Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad – would, however, remain. They are allowed only on three days a week. Kolkata airport authorities said on Monday that even though there were no restrictions on Delhi-bound flights departing from the NSCBI airport in Kolkata, incoming flights from Delhi and five other cities were allowed only on three days. Also read: First Covid-19 vaccine administered in the US, tweets President Donald Trump“There were no restrictions on outgoing flights to Delhi and the five other cities. But incoming flights were allowed only on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The restrictions on incoming flights from Delhi have been withdrawn with immediate effect. The restriction on incoming flights from the five other cities would, however, remain,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the director of NSCBI airport. The civil aviation ministry had initially cancelled flights to Kolkata from six cities - Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad - on the request of the West Bengal government. The restrictions were gradually relaxed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/on-cm-s-request-direct-flights-from-delhi-to-kolkata-allowed-on-all-days/story-ORVuRnQt0c3bfrDmutxfWK.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Education dept non-conclusive over stopping of online classes||The education department has taken a non-conclusive stand on shutting down of online classes even as private schools have decided to protest against the non-payment of fees by parents by shutting down all online classes for three days.Vishal Solanki, state education commissioner, said, “I cannot comment as the matter is subjudice, but we need to maintain a proper balance during this crucial time. Schools should try to understand the parents’ conditions as many of them have lost their jobs, are facing losses in business, and schools should not force them to pay fees. Also, none of the students should be stopped from attending the online classes due to any reason. At the same time, parents should understand the situation of the school administration, they need to give salaries to their staff and maintain the school premises. So, all need to be more sensitive.”Dattatreya Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education, said that we request the parents and schools to understand each other’s situation.“As this is a complicated matter, we urge parents to understand that schools also need to manage their expenses. But schools should also understand the problems faced by the parents. These are unprecedented times, and we should help each other out,” said Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/education-dept-non-conclusive-over-stopping-of-online-classes/story-KLek86C7olTlDrgPpuMvjL.html
14-12-2020||City||Dera Bassi man booked for raping 19-year-old woman||A 24-year-old man has been booked for raping and cheating a 19-year-old woman from Batala. Dera Bassi station house officer (SHO) Satinder Singh said the accused, Rohit, was a resident of Gulabgarh in Dera Bassi, while the woman was a native of Batala and had come to Dera Bassi to visit her relatives. The couple developed relations and the man raped her several times after promising to marry her. Police have lodged a zero FIR under Sections 376 (rape) and 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-man-booked-for-raping-19-year-old-woman/story-MwJOWmRx1CyCoTCZJTUM9I.html
14-12-2020||City||Graphic||National Family Health Survey - 5 (2019-2020)Fieldwork for the survey was conducted from June 19, 2019 to December 30, 2019 by Indian Institute of Health Management Research in the state(data for Pune district) Information gathered from 786 households832 women140 men Indicators/NFHS-5 (2019-20)/ NFHS-4 (2015-16) Population and Household Profile Female population age 6 years and above who ever attended school (%)== 84.8== 82.3Population below age 15 years (%) 22.8 ==21.5 Sex ratio of the total population (females per 1,000 males) 918== 924Sex ratio at birth for children born in the last five years (females per 1,000 males) 873==927 Data shows that there is drastic fall in female sex ratio in past three years Current use of family planning methods (currently married women age 15–49 years)Any method (%) 57.8== 70.6Any modern method 6 (%) 55.9==69.8Female sterilization (%) 43.3==55.5 Data also states that the percentage of married women who used any of the modern methods of family planning has also reduced in the district||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graphic/story-MUhJyMQcv2jqXykVrcm2cJ.html
14-12-2020||City||Authorities impose fines on visitors to Sinhagad fort not wearing masks||PUNE The state forest department has put in place restrictions like compulsory wearing of masks, no movement of people in large groups and restricting the number of cars visiting Sinhagad fort. The popular historic site has been seeing a heavy rush of tourists from all corners of Pune and the surrounding regions on weekends and on other days of the week as well. According to the forest department, as many as 6,000 people had visited fort on Sunday. This is after the state government allowed access to the fort after nine months of lockdown. Deepak Pawar, range forest officer, Haveli division, said, “We will be taking strict action against those found not wearing masks and moving in large groups. We will ensure that social distancing norms are followed and cars visiting the spot are restricted. All this is being done to avoid overcrowding and to ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed. Currently, we have deployed 33 staff to oversee all the checkpoints, entries and exits at the fort.” Scores of tourists visiting Sinhagad fort were seen flouting Covid-19 norms. Neither vendors nor tourists, including children, were seen wearing face masks when HT conducted an on-site inspection on the weekend. Located 30km from Pune, Sinhgad fort attracts thousands of visitors regularly and is a big draw during the monsoon and winter seasons. Following incidents of landslides and poor road conditions, the forest department had in 2018 closed the final two-km stretch leading to the fort. That access road is now open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/authorities-impose-fines-on-visitors-to-sinhagad-fort-not-wearing-masks/story-CvP2h0b9NSfBkEEvCQ6MqN.html
14-12-2020||City||40 citizen groups want civic chief to host public discussions on planned projects||PUNE: At least 40 citizen’s organisations have jointly appealed to the Pune Municipal Commissioner (PMC) to host a discussion on various ongoing and planned projects in the city, which directly affect its residents. Civic activists Vivek Velankar, Vijay Kumbar, and Sarang Yadwadkar, among the many, have signed the letter to the municipal commissioner.Yadwadkar said, “While executing various projects, it is our responsibility to ensure that the environment an natural resources are protected. If the administration discusses it with citizens, it would help to get better suggestions.”Velankar said, “Apart from the presentations before public representatives and public consultations that are made for each project in isolation, it is the need of hour to have a wholistic interactive presentation for all policies and projects. Advantages and impacts of all projects and policies could be discussed widely. We have requested the municipal commissioner to host a discussion on the same.”Among the projects that this citizens’ forum would like to be discussed are the city’s hills, water bodies, groundwater, solid waste management, air pollution, the High Capacity Mass Transit Route, the 24x7 water project and all Development Plan-related projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-citizen-groups-want-civic-chief-to-host-public-discussions-on-planned-projects/story-YWJGSUddcIVYqjQGvlbzrI.html
14-12-2020||City||No bills from 24x7 water meters... for now: water dept chief||PUNE Officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, sought to assuage elected members, who were representing the complaints and worries of citizens as regards water metres being installed in housing societies. These metres, common for all flats in a given housing society, have drawn much flak from residents, who are worried about how the water bills, under the PMC’s 24x7 water scheme, are going to be calculated. PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar on Monday said, “It is true that there is some miscommunication about the scheme. But, we will ensure citizens would get proper information. PMC will not apply bills as per the metres in the initial stages of the scheme.”Corporators Dilip Vede Patil, Rajabhau Barate, Vrushali Jadhav, Manjushree Khardekar and Vasanti Choudhari were at the meeting. Barate and Vedepatial said, “Many housing societies are not ready to give permission for installation of the meters. The administration must ensure that they brief society members about the scheme and that the PMC does not start billing immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-bills-from-24x7-water-meters-for-now-water-dept-chief/story-CzVgfJXrkfDgxDvSMK9hFI.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Unseasonal rain brings best air quality for Mumbai in 2 months||Sporadic spells of light showers in the city and suburbs between Sunday and Monday not only led to the coldest day this season but also helped disperse pollutants making it the best air quality since October 19. The air quality index (AQI) on Monday was 76, falling under the satisfactory category, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The last time Mumbai recorded an AQI lower than this was 68 (satisfactory) on October 19 and thereafter the AQI started rising. It was 90 (satisfactory) on October 20 and fluctuated between the poor and moderate categories up till Diwali (November 14). The AQI remained in the moderate category through rest of November with isolated spikes (on a few days) with poor AQI. However, after almost two months, light showers over the past four days improved the air quality. Mumbai witnessed intermittent spells of light showers between Sunday night and Monday morning allowing a marginal drop in minimum temperatures and considerable drop in maximum temperatures leading to cool conditions. Between 11.30 pm Sunday and 8.30 am Monday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 4.8 mm rain while 13.8 mm was recorded at Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai. Between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm Monday, 6.2 mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai and 1.1 mm in the suburbs. Maximum rain between Sunday and Monday was recorded at Kandivali at 18.6 mm followed by Colaba and Mazgaon 8.4 mm. This allowed the maximum temperature to drop to 26.9 degrees Celsius, 5.4 degree Celsius below normal in the suburbs, which is the lowest this season and second lowest for the month in 9 years. The lowest maximum temperature over the past decade was recorded on December 6, 2017, at 23.6 degrees Celsius. On Monday, south Mumbai recorded the maximum temperature at 27 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degree Celsius below normal. On Sunday the maximum temperature was 27.6 and 27.4 degree Celsius in the suburbs and south Mumbai respectively. Also read: First Covid-19 vaccine administered in the US, tweets President Donald TrumpThe minimum temperature fell marginally from previous days to 22 degrees Celsius, both in the suburbs and in south Mumbai, which was above normal. Mulund, Kandivali, and Powai had the lowest minimum temperatures in the city below 20 degrees Celsius. The weather bureau predicted the possibility of light rain for Tuesday as well. “Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received light to moderate intermittent overnight showers that continued on Monday morning. Satellite images had indicated heavy cloud cover over north Konkan region,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD). Showers are expected till Wednesday, according to the IMD, due to the confluence of northwesterly (coming from western disturbance over north) and southeasterly winds (coming from a low-pressure system over the Arabian Sea) extending over northwest India. “December rain is not routine for Mumbai but showers led to traffic snarls, poor visibility, moist and wet conditions through the city,” said Hosalikar. He highlighted that weather radar images on Monday had shown a cloud patch all the way from Raigad (Navi Mumbai, Alibag, Panvel), over MMR (Mumbai, Thane, Palghar), and Nashik. Meanwhile, apart from Mumbai, Nashik recorded 9.8 mm rain, Harnai 4.4 mm, Thane 4.2 mm, and Mahabaleshwar 2.2 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unseasonal-rain-brings-best-air-quality-for-mumbai-in-2-months/story-MGOB9qK8utOMzqaZTdRO1O.html
14-12-2020||Lucknow||UP govt not carrying out development works in my constituency Azamgarh: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president and local MP Akhilesh Yadav has alleged that the BJP-led state government does not carry out development works in this district as it houses his parliamentary constituency. He claimed that Rs 52 crore is owed to cane farmers in this district alone, but “the government is not making any payment because it is Azamgarh”. “The Manduri airstrip is ready, but the government is not making it functional as we will start coming here. Why a four-km section of the airstrip could not be completed in four years (of the BJP rule)? This is just because this is Akhilesh Yadav’s constituency,” the former chief minister said, while speaking to reporters Sunday evening.Yadav was here in his constituency to attend a wedding function. He also paid his condolence to former minister Waseem Ahamd, who passed away recently.Exuding confidence that his SP would be forming the next government in the state, Yadav said, “We will take smaller parties along. We will not tell more of our strategy now, otherwise the BJP will start hatching conspiracies.” On the “political” violence in West Bengal, Yadav said, “The BJP does the same (unleash violence). I appeal to the people of West Bengal to vote for (TMC chief) Mamata Banerjee and bring her to power again.” Alleging that law and order in Uttar Pradesh has turned from bad to worse, Yadav said the National Human Rights Commission has sent the maximum number of its notices to the state for violations.Yadav was supposed to take part in a Kisan Yatra here Monday, but the district administration did not give permission for the same.When asked about this, he said, “The Samajwadi Party extends full support to the ongoing farmers’ protest. The government has arrested our party leaders and workers using its police. The farm laws will ruin the agriculture sector, and a handful of people will control farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-not-carrying-out-development-works-in-my-constituency-azamgarh-akhilesh-yadav/story-e4MYcSfAbBTUzronTkstpL.html
14-12-2020||Noida||Air quality improves drastically in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad, Gurgaon||The air quality improved drastically to reach “moderate” level in Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad after two weeks, while it was recorded “poor” in Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, a government agency data said Monday.  Presence of pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Monday was 243 in Ghaziabad, 256 in Greater Noida, 176 in Noida, 120 in Faridabad and 101 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB’s Sameer app.On Sunday, it was 318 in Ghaziabad, 332 in Greater Noida, 322 in Noida, 303 in Faridabad and 239 in Gurgaon, the app said.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “poor” category may cause breathing discomfort to people, while “moderate” may cause breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-improves-drastically-in-ghaziabad-noida-faridabad-gurgaon/story-ae6ThDGb738S7LUA0iNt9O.html
14-12-2020||City||Potato is gold for farmers as rates stay high for 2nd year in a row||Karnal Darshan Lal, a middle-aged farmer from Kurukshetra’s Ladwa village, is happy as he has earned around Rs 2 lakh per acre by selling 322 quintal potato, grown over three acre, at Rs 2,000 per quintal at the Pipli mandi.He says this is the second year in a row, when the rate of raw potato (uprooted early) are above Rs 30 a kg in the market and farmers are getting between Rs 1,800 and Rs 2,000 per quintal at the mandi.Last year too, potato prices at the Pipli market in Kurukshetra district touched Rs 2,000 per quintal.Arrivals in one of the largest potato mandis in the state has fluctuated due to last week’s untimely rain, but farmers say harvesting will pick up over the next few weeks.Due to the hike in prices, farmers have started uprooting premature potato and are earning between Rs 1.75 lakh and Rs 2.25 lakh per acre of potato, which requires input cost of Rs 50,000 per acre. “Farmers can earn profit of around Rs 1.25 lakh per acre, as rates are high. Early harvest also reduces input cost,” said Rajiv Kumar from Shahbad of Kurukshetra district, who has 5 acre under the staple vegetable. Farmers say potato prices saw an increase last year, after six years. They say such fluctuation in rates is not a good trend, as some seasons they are not even able to recover their production cost with prices dipping to Rs 2 per kg.Rajesh Kamboj, a farmer of Yamunanagar, said, “We don’t know the reason behind the high prices. This is good news for potato growers, as there have been seasons when we have lost Rs 10,000 per acre, as prices were Rs 3 per kg, like in 2018.” Potato traders claim that prices depend upon the acreage and demand, but they do not have complete clarity of the mechanism. Haryana horticulture department officials said due to continuous fall in potato prices over years, acreage under potato fell to around 20,000 hectare this year from 35,000 hectare in 2013. “There needs to be an assured price, as instability of price of vegetables creates deep uncertainty,” said an official of the horticulture department, adding that this was the only reason farmers are not too keen on diversification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/potato-is-gold-for-farmers-as-rates-stay-high-for-2nd-year-in-a-row/story-2LEqUxGF6LcpxhJoJ3ysuK.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s BJP-led govt cancels chintan shivir amid farmers’ protest||In view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the Haryana government has called off its chintan shivir (brainstorming session), scheduled to start in Chandigarh on Tuesday. The conclave on governance issues was initially a three-day affair but was planned to be extended for another four days. A meeting of deputy commissioners and superintendents of police was also scheduled for December 17. The shivir will be held next year, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-bjp-led-govt-cancels-chintan-shivir-amid-farmers-protest/story-25DCm505z9PIKyt4Z95qfM.html
14-12-2020||Jaipur||Jats from Rajasthan’s 2 districts announce blockade from Dec 25 over quota||Jats from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur and Dholpur districts will launch an agitation at Kherli Mode in Bhusawar near Agra-Jaipur national highway-21 on December 25 to demand reservation under the other backward classes (OBC) category in central government jobs. Bharatpur-Dholpur Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti convener Nem Singh and other Jat leaders held a press on Monday to announce the quota stir, which they called ‘mahapadaw’, from December 25, which is locally remembered as Bharatpur founder Maharaja Surajmal’s Sacrifice Day. “On November 18 at the Jat mahapanchayat in Pathena village, we had given 20 days to the state government to send a recommendation letter to the Centre for granting us quota benefits under the OBC category. The state government has not yet considered our demand,” Nema said. Though Jats get quota benefits in the state, community members of Bharatpur and Dholpur districts have been excluded from reservation in the Union government’s services. These Jats were denied the reservation as they belonged to the ruling class during the pre-Independence era and were not considered socially or economically backward. Though the state government incorporated them in the OBC list in 2017, the issue has been hanging fire with the Centre. Also Read: Low temperatures in Rajasthan, Mount Abu freezes at 0.4 degrees Celsius“We have been forced to launch an agitation as the government has not acted on our demand. We urge people to celebrate Maharaja Surajmal’s Sacrifice Day and then participate in the mahapadaw. National and state highways, and railway tracks will be blocked during the agitation,” Singh said. The Gurjar Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti, led by Kirori Singh Meena, had launched an agitation last month at Peelpura in Bharatpur for the inclusion of Jat quota in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution and a 5% reservation in the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) category for state government jobs. The agitation was called off after reaching an agreement with the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jats-from-rajasthan-s-2-districts-announce-blockade-from-dec-25-over-quota/story-qTTyoQZzeOsWzkp543hrxJ.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays CBI court order summoning Haryana ACS, home, in Manesar land scam||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday stayed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special court’s order summoning additional chief secretary, Haryana, Rajeev Arora as an accused in the Manesar land scam. Staying the Panchkula-based trial court’s order, the high court bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan sought the CBI’s reply by April, senior advocate Vinod Ghai, who appeared for Arora, said. The detailed order is awaited. The case dates back to 2004. The Haryana government issued a notification to acquire 912 acres under Section 4 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on August 27, 2004, in Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages. Worried that this would reduce the value of their land, owners sold it at throwaway rates, resulting in wrongful loss of ₹1,500 crore, according to the probe. On August 24, 2007, the director, industries, passed another order releasing the land in violation of government policy, in favour of the people who had bought the land, instead of the original landowners, the CBI said. In 2018, the CBI filed a chargesheet against 34 accused, including former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. On December 1, the CBI court had summoned Arora and four others for December 17 and also ordered the framing of charges against Hooda and 32 others. Arora, a 1987-batch IAS officer, and four others were summoned for allegedly committing offence under Section 120B, read with Section 420 of the IPC, and Section 13 (2), read with Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Arora served as the managing director of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HSIIDC) between 2005 and 2011. The others summoned are former chief town planner, HSIIDC, Surjit Singh; former chief town planner of town and country planning department, Dhare Singh; the then deputy superintendent, town and country planning, Kulwant Singh Lamba; and the then director, industries, DR Dhingra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-cbi-court-order-summoning-haryana-acs-home-in-manesar-land-scam/story-EKEKrx8II5yxipsPu16jIK.html
14-12-2020||Pune||State co-op dept asks RBI to liquidate Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank||PUNE The State Co-operative Department has submitted a proposal to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) seeking liquidation of the Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank. The proposal, if okayed by the apex bank, will ensure the return of the minimum deposit of Rs 5 lakh to bank’s depositors.According to information from the co-op department received on Sunday, each depositor is likely to get a return of Rs 5 lakh, but those who have invested more than this will receive at least Rs 5 lakh. As many as 71,000 investors have invested a fixed deposit of Rs 5 lakh, while 8,000 investors invested more than Rs 5 lakh in the form of various deposits.In January, the Pune Police registered a case against Maharashtra State Legislative Council (MLC) and bank vhairman Anil Bhosale , bank director Suryaji Jadhav, chief accountant Shailesh Bhosale and chief executive officer Tanaji Padwal. A case has also been registered Bhosale’s wife Reshma Bhosale, who is also an accused in the case.Apart from these, charges of alleged forgery, misappropriation and cheating have been filed against 15 others. The case was registered under sections 406, 408, 468, 471 and 34 of IPC and relevant sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID).At the directions of the RBI, the complainant, identified as an independent chartered accountant Yogesh Lakade (29), conducted a financial audit in 2018-19 and found Rs 71 78 crore underreported in the “cash in hand” segment of the bank.In October 2019, the state co-op department had dismissed the bank’s board of directors and appointed an administrator to look after the daily affairs of the bank. The audit report revealed that Bhosale and other accused prepared forged and fraudulent entries, wherein the facts were fudged to manipulate the accounts of the bank.Police investigations led to the seizure of three cars belonging to arrested MLC Bhosale. Eleven accounts belonging to the accused were found to have forged entries with the intention of cheating. The bank has 14 branches with 95,000 deposits. Loans worth Rs 12 crore have been recovered till date. The bank had deposits worth Rs 432 crore and the non-performing assets stand at Rs 294 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-co-op-dept-asks-rbi-to-liquidate-shivajirao-bhosale-co-operative-bank/story-F9XMRQqEV32dlxGIGcctYK.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Illegal Bangladeshi immigration racket busted; Mumbra-based agent among 8 arrested||The Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police has busted a Bangladeshi illegal immigration racket and arrested eight people including four Bangladeshi nationals. The ATS managed to arrest a Mumbra-based agent who allegedly made fake passports for 85 Bangladesh nationals and facilitated their stay in the country.According to the ATS, Kalachowki unit officers received information about a Bangladeshi national, Akram Khan, staying in Mumbai as an illegal immigrant. Khan was allegedly also involved in preparing and supplying fake Indian identity cards to other Bangladeshi immigrants.Subsequently, he was caught in Sewree, Mumbai, last month. His interrogation revealed that his real name was Akram Noor Nabi Ollauddin Shaikh, and he was a resident of Novokhali, a district of Bangladesh. He had travelled to India without any valid documents, an ATS officer said.Further probe revealed that a Wadala man, Noornabi, and Mumbra man Rafiq Shaikh, had helped him in getting documents like a forged Aadhar card, a PAN card and an Indian passport in his name.Further operation led to the arrest of Kausa-Mumbra resident Mohd. Rafiq Rehmatulla Sayyad whose custodial interrogation revealed that as an agent, he was allegedly preparing counterfeit passports since 2013 and done so for many illegal Bangladeshi immigrants.“A scrutiny of records revealed that Sayyad has been involved in providing at least 85 fake Indian identity cards and passports to illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. He used forged documents such as PAN card, Aadhar card, election card, ration card, electric bill, rent agreements, school leaving certificate, birth certificate, bank passbooks which are requisite for processing a passport,” an statement released by ATS deputy commissioner of police Rajkumar Shinde stated on Monday. Sayyad’s interrogation led ATS to one ldris Mohammad Shaikh, 57, again a resident of Kausa-Mumbra, who was involved in preparing forged school leaving certificates and birth certificates.The ATS later arrested an Antop Hill resident, Avin Gangaram Kedare, 35, who helped ldris in preparing fake rubber stamps for forged documents. One Nitin Rajaram Nikam, 43, a Taloja, Navi Mumbai, resident was also caught for providing fake bank passbooks and election cards for the illegal work, another officer said.The ATS further arrested Akram Noornabi Ollauddin Khan, Mohd. Soahil Abdul Subhan Shaikh, 33, Abdul Khair Samsulhaq, 42, and Abul Hasham alias Abul Kasham Shaikh, 26, for allegedly entering India and residing here without valid documents for their stay.Many forged Indian identity cards and passport have been seized from their possession, the ATS said. Investigation has revealed that Md. Rafiq, Mohd. Idris, Avin Kedare, Nitin Nikam and others had helped at least 85 Bangladeshi immigrants in preparing fake Indian Passports, ATS stated.They all have been booked under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code, Passport Act (Entry into India), Foreigners Act and Criminal procedure code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/illegal-bangladeshi-immigration-racket-busted-mumbra-based-agent-among-8-arrested/story-uTJKrwT1h08Je1rDBmqd7L.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Man booked for driving wife to commit suicide||A man was booked in case of death by suicide of his newly wedded wife, for constantly demanding dowry. The deceased woman lived with her husband and his family. The accused husband of the deceased woman has been identified as Akshay Gholap. He refused to take her home with him as is traditionally done. The accused wanted the wife to bring a cupboard, refrigerator, and jewellery for Diwali, from her parents’ house, according to the complaint in the matter. The man and his family members would often verbally abuse the woman who was asked to live with her parents, according to the complainant. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the mother of the deceased woman identified as Lakshmi Kamble (45), a resident of Ramnagar in Warje. A case under Sections 304(b) (dowry death), 498(a) (domestic violence), 306 (abetment to suicide), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was regisstered at Warje Malwadi police station. Police sub inspector S Kathle of Warje Malwadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-driving-wife-to-commit-suicide/story-WQdGm2XrzAdJqyvOGyzciP.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Cleaner directing crane driver dies in accident at Deccan||A cleaner working on a crane in Deccan died in an accident on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Arvindkumar Lal Bachchan Yadav (20). He was on the crane, guiding the driver along FC road, when an unidentified truck rammed into his side of the crane, according to a complaint lodged by the driver of the crane. The driver of the crane has been identified as Rajkumar Uaav (32) a resident of Pimple-Gurav of Pune. Yadav was rushed to a nearby hospital at 5am when the incident happened, but was declared dead under treatment at 12 noon. A case under Sections 279, 228, 304(a), 427 of IPC and Sections 184, 132(a)(C), and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cleaner-directing-crane-driver-dies-in-accident-at-deccan/story-6671NQl9vryliJ8qniwSSI.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Winter session: 5 new MLCs introduced in Maharashtra Council||Five MLCs elected in the December 1 polls were introduced in the Maharashtra Legislative Council on Monday, the first day of its two-day winter session.Satish Chavan and Arun Lad of the NCP, the Congress’ Abhijit Vanjari and Jayant Asgaonkar, and Independent Kiran Sarnaik were introduced as soon as business transactions began in the Upper House.Lad and Chavan won from the graduates’ constituencies in Pune and Aurangabad divisions respectively, Asgaonkar from the teachers’ constituency in Pune division, while Vanjari and Sarnaik won from Nagpur division graduates’ seat and Amravati division teachers’ constituency respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/winter-session-5-new-mlcs-introduced-in-maharashtra-council/story-kcW7Gyyx3SIIvEx1vM2fTL.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Two-wheeler pillion rider dies in accident near Market Yard||A tanker driver was booked for causing the death of a two-wheeler pillion rider near Market Yard on Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Manjula Prakashh Yenkachi (35), a resident of Malavali. She was riding with her nephew, identified as Akash Sagar (20), a resident of Parihar chowk, Aundh. The tanker driver was identified as Santosh Prakash Gaikwad (32), a resident of Nimgaon in Shirur. He fled the spot and was later caught by the police, but released on bail. A case under Sections 279, 337, 304(a) and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 134(c)(k), 184, and 187 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Market Yard police station. Police sub inspector SP Shinde of Market Yard police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-wheeler-pillion-rider-dies-in-accident-near-market-yard/story-AfiagBajqErOBQSt4bUI7O.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Pregnant woman suffers miscarriage after accident in Pimpri||A pregnant woman miscarried her fetus in an accident in Sant Tukaram Nagar, Pimpri, on Friday evening. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman’s husband Pravin Gajanan Adlekar (26), while the woman was identified as Ashwini Pravin Adlekar (30), both residents of Mahatma Phule nagar in Bhosari. The woman, who was six-months pregnant, is now undergoing treatment, post miscarriage, at a nearby hospital. “He works in plastic moulding company and the woman is a housewife. She was walking to an eatery to get food. When she was crossing the road, the tempo driver rammed into her. We will be producing him in court tomorrow,” said assistant police inspector SA Chavan of Pimpri police station. The tempo driver was identified as Santosh Vasant Pawar (28), a resident of Shanti nagar in Bhosari, according to the police. A case under Sections 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of Indian Penal Code along with sections 184 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pregnant-woman-suffers-miscarriage-after-accident-in-pimpri/story-a8WWZcJnB4tFBY1HppAGXN.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Pune city’s positivity rate drops to less than 10 per cent||Even as the city has witnessed a slight spike in new Covid-19 cases the positivity rate has dipped below ten per cent since the last one week, according to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data.Positivity rate is the number of new cases being reported for every ten tests conducted.The city reported 294 new cases on Sunday with over 4,014 tests conducted and the positivity rate stood at 7.32 per cent. On December 7 the positivity rate was 10.57 per cent which came down to 6.79 per cent and 6.51 on December 10 and December 11 respectively.The reason why the second wave did not have a severe impact in the city as much as it did in other cities is because of the higher prevalence of the antibodies caused due to the first wave, say experts. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “Although we did see a small spike in the number of new cases, it was not as much as Delhi. The fact remains that over 50 per cent of the population in congested areas of Pune were already infected and had developed antibodies against the infection which is why the number of cases did not see a huge spike.” The number of tests, meanwhile, have also been brought in proportion to fewer new cases coming up and lesser contacts being traced, however on Sunday too the civic body collected over 4,000 samples for Covid-19 testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-s-positivity-rate-drops-to-less-than-10-per-cent/story-otDwUMrEXLvoJVEXm9pCFI.html
14-12-2020||Dehradun||Sherwood College: Uttarakhand police books 50 people including principal||Uttarakhand police on Monday booked over 50 people including the current principal of Nainital’s famous Sherwood College for not allowing an interim principal to take charge despite court orders. “We have registered an FIR against Amandeep Sandhu (the current principal of Sherwood College) and 50 unidentified persons under section 147 (punishment for rioting), section 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint) and section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said Vijay Mehta, in-charge of Tallital police station in the district. Famous personalities like Amitabh Bachchan, Kabir Bedi, Ram Kapoor, Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw have been the alumni of this college. Over the weekend, there was police deployment on the college campus after newly appointed interim principal, Peter Emmanuel, went to take charge but was denied entry by college staff. In October, Amandeep Sandhu was suspended by the college’s management over various issues including a pending inquiry into allegations of lapses in statutory compliances; and Emmanuel was appointed as interim principal. “In October, when I went to take charge, entry was denied to me. I had then moved the high court and went again on Saturday with the court’s orders and police protection. But when I reached the campus, it was locked with all the staff assembled at the gate and not allowing me to take charge,” said Emmanuel. He added that all legal procedures would be followed if the current principal and college staff do not let him take charge of the college. The Sherwood Diocesan College Society is run by the Diocese of Agra, (Church of North India) since 1976. Emmanuel was appointed as an interim principal by the chairman of the Sherwood Diocesan College Society. Also Read: Plan your next vacation to Uttarakhand’s picturesque hill town, NainitalSpeaking about the charges, Sandhu said, “A case regarding who will get the Society’s chairmanship with the authority to appoint the principal of the college has been continuing in the lower court and high court for a few years. The Bishop of Agra is not the legal chairman of the Society and he is imposing himself. An interim principal has been appointed bypassing the legal process using a shortcut while the matter is subjudice.” The dispute started in 1976 after the Lucknow diocese was divided into two parts, Lucknow and Agra, with the latter covering western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/sherwood-college-uttarakhand-police-books-50-people-including-principal/story-wSCTlQrFI3TdW9jY6jZO3N.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Covid-19 vaccination: Pune dist officials to undergo two-day training on Dec 14-15||The state government will organise a two-day training programme on the lines of “national training of trainers” for district health officials who will be engaged in the Covid-19 vaccination drive once the vaccines are available.The training will be conducted on December 14 and 15.The officials will include deputy director Information, Education and Communication (IEC), ADHS (medical) health circle, taluka-level health officer, civic health officials, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) consultants and medical superintendents. The training will be on the lines of the guidelines issued by the Central health ministry. The priority vaccine beneficiaries include healthcare workers, frontline Covid warriors and those above 50-years of age and below 50 with comorbidities.As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as of December 10, at least 46,055 healthcare workers have been registered under the Covid-19 healthcare workers database information. Out of these 4,078 are from government health facilities and 41,977 are from private health facilities. These include 6,279 from OPD’s, 34,052 from various hospitals and 1,646 from various laboratories.Dr Amit Shah, PMC health officer in charge of vaccination drive, said, “We will undergo the training and then we will know what needs to be done exactly. We have all the government facilities registered under the Covid 19 database and also most private facilities.”“Sometimes a private doctor who has a private clinic is also working with a major hospital which is why they may not register their own clinic which is why it shows as a pending facility,” he said.The guidelines state that the administration must be prepared with the cold storage requirements for four vaccines which are front runners including Covishield, Covaxin, Pfizer and Moderna vaccines all of which can remain stable in 2-8 degrees Celsius.The required preparations are to review cold chain preparedness across the state for the possible introduction of Covid-19 vaccine and guide strengthening measures for the same in view of increased cold chain space requirement. Identify vaccinators across government and private sectors to minimize disruption of routine immunization services while introducing the vaccine. Anyone legally authorised to give injection may be considered as a potential vaccinator.To avoid overcrowding at least 100 beneficiaries would be vaccinated in one session. An ideal session includes a waiting room/area, vaccination room and an observation room with a separate entry and exit points. The session will be conducted between 9 am to 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-vaccination-pune-dist-officials-to-undergo-two-day-training-on-dec-14-15/story-oJ5oM3DFTOoMrU1YHq95HI.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||White tigress, cub die due to birth complications at Delhi zoo||A white tigress and a cub died at the Delhi zoo on Monday due to birth-related complications, officials said. The six-year-old feline, Nirbhaya, gave birth to two cubs on Thursday morning. However, she started developing complications after 24 hours due to her inability to release the remaining cub, Delhi zoo Director Ramesh Pandey said. A group of veterinary doctors and staff attended to the animal in consultation with experts from other zoos and Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, he said. Subsequently, a three-hour-long C-section surgery was conducted on the tigress on Saturday evening. It was found that her uterus had ruptured and the carcass of the cub was floating in the peritoneal cavity. It apparently caused severe infection in the body parts and toxemia (blood poisoning by toxins), Pandey said. Nirbhaya responded to the surgery for more than 24 hours due to intensive care and best possible treatment given to her. However, her condition deteriorated subsequently. She succumbed to her severe illness at around 1.34 am on Monday, he said. One of her cubs also could not survive. The remaining one is being hand reared in the veterinary hospital by a dedicated team and best possible care is being extended. Detailed cause of death would be ascertained after post-mortem and visceral examination, the zoo director said. Before Nirbhaya’s death, the Delhi zoo had three pairs of white tigers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/white-tigress-cub-die-due-to-birth-complications-at-delhi-zoo/story-O1pdmauZDV7ISynsVSxpGK.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) differs with other unions, not on hunger strike||Differences surfaced among farmer unions yet again on Monday after Punjab’s largest association, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), announced it would not be observing the day-long hunger strike against the contentious central farm laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the decision was taken as the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, comprising 30 other farm organisations, did not consult it on the issue. “There is no plan to hold a hunger strike today or in the next few days,” said Kokrikalan, one of the key strategists of the union. “The joint forum kept our association out of the loop when 14 union leaders had an unscheduled meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah last week,” he said. “The joint forum (of farmer unions) is repeatedly not taking us on board before deciding on the course of the agitation. Our association is not bound by the programmes decided by other unions. Besides continuation of agitations at Tikri border in Delhi, activists of the Ugrahan faction are holding protest marches at the district headquarters in Punjab,” he said. Following the farmer unions’ call to protest outside offices of deputy commissioners, activists held dharnas in Sangrur and Barnala districts to oppose the farm laws. Women, under the banner of the BKU (Ugrahan), organised separate protests in both districts.RELEASE OF ACTIVISTS A DIVIDING FACTOR The Left-leaning Ugrahan group had observed Human Rights Day on December 10 in Delhi where the demand for the release of activists, including Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Sudha Bharadwaj, and Varavara Rao, was raised. The function was held at Tikri border, where hundreds of Ugrahan supporters have been camping since November 28. The joint forum of farmers has disassociated itself from the demand of the release of the controversial activists. However, the leadership of Ugrahan, which has a following in south Punjab, said all unions have the freedom to choose subjects to oppose or support. “The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha was duly conveyed that the issue of release of detained activists should be included as a joint demand of farmers. Leaders of other unions may have overlooked the demand for reasons known to them but the BKU (Ugrahan) firmly believes that these activists should be freed immediately. It has been on our charter of demands,” said Kokrikalan. NOT ON THE SAME PAGE SINCE THE BEGINNING In three weeks, Ugrahan has differed on various occasions with 30 other farm unions of Punjab on the course of the agitation. On November 26, all farmer unions, barring the BKU (Ugrahan), undertook the Dilli Chalo protest, forcibly entering Haryana from Punjab after breaking barricades. The next day, the Ugrahan faction blamed the joint forum for breaching the understanding reached by national farmer unions that activists will undertake indefinite dharnas wherever the authorities stop them. On November 25, Ugrahan had criticised the two-month-long rail blockade by farmer organisations, saying it was wrong as it had hit the industrial and agricultural interests of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-bku-ekta-ugrahan-differs-with-other-unions-not-on-hunger-strike/story-IkYeL5E6G4thZEOWIdsTiL.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Celebrity chef Kelvin Cheung arrested for duping Bastian co-owner of $200,000||Mumbai police have arrested popular Canada-born chef Kelvin Cheung on Monday for allegedly cheating a Bandra-based known seafood restaurant’s co-owner to the tune of USD 200,000.HT had first reported about the cheating case filed against Cheung in its December 6 edition.“Cheung was arrested in Delhi and was brought to Mumbai today morning on transit remand. He is being produced in the court in the cheating case,” confirmed Somnath Chasker, the sub-inspector of Khar police station who is part of the investigation team.According to police, Khar police had registered a first information report (FIR) against chef Kelvin Cheung and his father Chi Ping Cheung early this month under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) based on the complaint of Ranjit Bindra, a resident of Pali Hill in Bandra and co-owner of Bastian.As per the police complaint, Cheung had been working at Bindra’s office for a long time as chef. “While working at the Bandra restaurant, Cheung asked Bindra to invest in popular restaurant franchises in Chicago and Los Angeles with the help of his father. In 2015, the complainant invested USD 200,000 in multiple transactions,” Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector of Khar police station had said.Police officials said that the money was transferred through a hospitality firm.Last year, Cheung suddenly disassociated with the restaurant claiming his father had passed away. Since then, the complainant’s discussion with Cheung regarding the investments abroad did not go well. Later, Cheung allegedly started ignoring Bindra, who chased his investments in vain, a police officer said.“Recently, Bindra learnt that Cheung has returned to India. He hoped to get his money back, and hence approached police and registered a complaint,” said Kabdule.Police may seek Cheung’s police custody for questioning him about the money transactions.Previously, Cheung had told HT, “I can state that I wasn’t part of any deal with Bastian regarding their investment deal. I haven’t signed any contracts with them and I haven’t received any payments from them as alleged by them.”Cheung’s spokesperson said a statement would be released soon on the current development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/celebrity-chef-kelvin-cheung-arrested-for-duping-bastian-co-owner-of-200-000/story-Eebzt3e0kEx1eJX20i2R1I.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers blocked Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway at UP Gate on Monday morning||Protesting farmers at UP Gate in Ghaziabad blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway of National Highway-9 for a brief period on Monday morning, leading to heavy traffic jams, said Ghaziabad police. Several farmers’ bodies are protesting against the three new farm laws at UP Gate since November 28 and their core committee had given a call for protests at respective district headquarters on December 14.The protesters have blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway since December 3 but Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway has been open to regular traffic, except for four hours on December 8 during Bharat Bandh and for about 10-20 minutes this morning. “A group of protesting farmers blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway for about 10 minutes and this led to long traffic jams up to Ghazipur on Monday,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The police officer added that the farmers soon vacated the spot and returned to the other side of the highway, their regular protest spot.“In order to ease the traffic build-up, we diverted the traffic to the Kaushambi road and normal traffic was restored on the highway within 20-30 minutes,” Singh added.A group of farmers also reached the district headquarters in Ghaziabad city to mark their protest as per the call given by their leaders. They will submit a memorandum of demands to the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-blocked-delhi-ghaziabad-carriageway-at-up-gate-on-monday-morning/story-6fEMYhNT78z7BbrBebW5AM.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Minor girl dies after building collapses in Delhi’s Khazoori Khas area||A minor girl died after a portion of a building collapsed in Delhi’s Khazoori Khas area on Monday morning, news agency ANI reported. Police officials earlier stated that the labourers were taking construction materials to the first floor of the building when a portion of the roof collapsed. #UPDATE: A minor girl died in Delhi's Khazoori Khas area building collapse incident. https://t.co/R6Y81XAEwOThis incident comes almost three weeks after an abandoned three-storey building had collapsed in Keshavpuram area of the national capital.No injuries were reported in the incident, police had said adding that the building was located in an industrial area near Britannia Chowk and was not in use. Parts of the building were damaged and were being demolished over the past few days, they said.(With inputs from Karn Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/building-collapses-in-delhi-s-khazoori-khas-area-one-injured/story-Mi7Xrv3xl03jZDSqwuQ46H.html
14-12-2020||Jaipur||Congress wins 620 seats in municipal body polls in Rajasthan||Congress has won 620 seats in the polls for the 50 municipal bodies in the state.The State Election Commission on Sunday released the results of the general election held for member posts in 50 municipal bodies (43 municipalities and 7 city councils) in 12 districts of the state.Ayukta PS Mehra informed that on December 11, voting was held for 50 municipal bodies of the state, in which 79.90 per cent voters exercised the franchise.Out of 1,775 wards of all the bodies, 620 candidates of Congress, 548 of BJP, seven of BSP, two each of CPI and CPI (M), one of RLP and 595 Independent candidates won.ALSO WATCH | ‘MLAs ashamed of Amit Shah...’: Rajasthan CM repeats conspiracy charge “My heartiest congratulations and best wishes to all the candidates who have won the municipal and city council elections. I express my gratitude to the people of the state who expressed their confidence in the Congress party and gave the Congress victory,” Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said in a tweet (roughly translated from Hindi). “I thank all the Congress workers for their hard work and congratulate them on the victory,” Gehlot added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-wins-620-seats-in-municipal-body-polls-in-rajasthan/story-SJMO0OpGhiam1oOCLCz1LL.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Several border points in Delhi remain closed for traffic as farmers’ stir escalates||The Delhi Traffic Police said on Monday that multiple border points in the national capital such as Ghazipur, Singhu, Auchandi and others have been closed for traffic movement as the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agricultural reforms, which has been going on for 19 days, intensified. The farmers are currently observing a one-day hunger strike which will go on till 5 pm along with sit-in protests across the country.“Ghazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate routes for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara and Bhopra borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police updated commuters through its Twitter handle.It also suggested to opt for alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders due to closure of Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh border points and urged commuters to avoid using Outer Ring Road, GTK road, and NH-44.Also Read: Supreme Court to hear plea seeking immediate removal of farmers protesting at Delhi’s bordersOn Sunday, the protesting farmers had blocked the Jaipur-Delhi highway in Rewari with Haryana Police placing barricades and had diverted the traffic coming from Delhi via Kasola Chowk and restricted entry of vehicles going towards Jaipur. However, the highway got partially opened post 2 pm. Traffic AlertSinghu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road.Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd ,GTK road, NH-44.Since November 26, farmers - a majority of them from Punjab and Haryana - have come out on the streets and reached the national capital seeking repeal of Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. These reforms were introduced during the Monsoon session of the Parliament in September.As many as five rounds of talks have been held between the leaders of farmer groups and Union ministers but they have reached no logical conclusion. Amid the ongoing protests, the farmers leader have also threatened to block trains in the coming days if the Centre doesn’t repeal these three reforms.Also Read: Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifiesMeanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has been the representative from Centre’s side has reiterated the fact that the laws have been brought in for the benefit of farmers adding that the government is always open for dialogue. Tomar on Sunday accused Opposition parties of running propaganda against the laws adding these legislations may cause difficulty for some in the short term but will be beneficial to farmers in the long run.“When reforms are undertaken it will benefit farmers in the long run. But in the short run, some may face difficulty. We know we can achieve no gain without difficulties,” he said while addressing a delegation of over 100 farmers from Uttarakhand who came to extend their support to the reforms.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/several-border-points-in-delhi-remain-closed-for-traffic-as-farmers-stir-escalates/story-ihvCuzTRrHuINfKAF3FgUJ.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Light overnight showers in Mumbai; temperature drops marginally||Mumbai witnessed isolated spells of light showers between Sunday night and Monday morning, allowing a marginal drop in minimum temperatures that led to cool conditions.Between 11.30pm Sunday and 8.30am Monday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 4.8mm rain while 13.8mm was recorded at Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai. Sporadic light showers helped the minimum temperature drop to 22 degrees Celsius, both in the suburbs and in south Mumbai, which was close to the normal mark. The weather bureau predicted the possibility of light rain and thundershowers to continue throughout the day on Monday and similar weather conditions on Tuesday as well. “Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received light to moderate intermittent overnight showers that continued on Monday morning, with the latest satellite images indicating heavy cloud cover over north Konkan region. Light to moderate rains are expected to continue till Monday afternoon for now,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Rain or thundershowers are likely to continue till Wednesday, according to IMD, due to the influence of the confluence of northwesterly (coming from western disturbance over north) and southeasterly winds (coming from a low pressure system over Arabian Sea) extending over northwest India causing such weather in north central Maharashtra, Konkan and isolated areas in interior parts of the state as well.“December rain is not routine for Mumbai but continuous showers in most places led to traffic snarls, poor visibility, moist and wet conditions through the city,” said Hosalikar.He highlighted that the latest Doppler radar images had shown a cloud patch all the way from Raigad (Navi Mumbai, Alibag, Panvel), over MMR (Mumbai, Thane, Palghar), and Nashik. “Some areas in south Mumbai and parts of Raigad are expected to witness continuous light showers,” said Hosalikar. Meanwhile, apart from Mumbai, Nashik recorded 9.8mm rain, Harnai 4.4mm, Thane 4.2mm, and Mahabaleshwar 2.2mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/light-overnight-showers-in-mumbai-temperature-drops-marginally/story-kqdBZWcYnACm3U3LBl080L.html
14-12-2020||City||Maharashtra reports fewer than 5k daily Covid cases for 9 days||Maharashtra has been reporting fewer than 5,000 daily Covid-19 cases for nine straight days. On Sunday, the state recorded 3,717 positive cases, a drop after two consecutive days of reporting 4,000-plus cases. Active cases in the state continued to rise for the fourth day in a row on Sunday despite a drop in daily numbers. The state’s active caseload reached 74,104 on Sunday after it had dropped to 71,910 four days ago. Mumbai too saw a rise in active caseload, which reached to 13,112 on Sunday, a jump from 11,886 on Thursday.The positivity rate over the past few weeks has been around 6%-7%, while the overall positivity rate too has seen a dip and stood at 16.07%. The overall positivity rate on November 13 was 17.9%, while it was 19.89% on October 13.Also read | India records one of lowest daily Covid cases in 7 days, shows govt dataState health department officials said that the infection spread is seeing a dip which is why the positivity rate is going down gradually. “A significant percentage of the population could have developed antibodies which is a reason for lower infection rate now. We are happy that the numbers are showing a dip, but the administration remains on guard,” an official said requesting anonymity. Maharashtra has 1,880,416 confirmed cases in the state. It reported 70 deaths, taking the toll to 48,209, at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.56%. The CFR remains on the higher side among the other key parameters but the officials said that the absolute number of deaths has come down. The CFR remains high because of the high number of deaths that occurred in April, May and June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-reports-fewer-than-5k-daily-covid-cases-for-9-days/story-QUf3qiKqQaKzxLKdDkmDkI.html
14-12-2020||Bhopal||14-yr-old MP girl sold by father for Rs 4 lakh to Rajasthan man, raped: Cop||A 14-year-old girl from Madhya Pradesh, who was sold for Rs 4 lakh and raped in Rajasthan, has finally been rescued in Ujjain, 190 km west of Bhopal, on Sunday late evening, said police. Ujjain police arrested four people including the girl’s father, another man from Udaipur and two women from Ujjain under section 370 (a) (exploitation of trafficked person), 372 (2) (selling minor for purpose of prostitution) and 376 (rape) of IPC and under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. “The girl, a resident of Ujjain, was taken to Udaipur by her parents in November. The parents told her that she was going to be married. The girl objected but her father solemnized her marriage on November 24 in a village in Udaipur district. The parents then came back to Ujjain after leaving the girl with her husband, from the illegal marriage, in the village.” Also Read: Gang selling ‘substandard’ plasma busted in MP, could be tip of the iceberg“The man raped the girl and told her that her parents had sold her for Rs 4 lakh. On December 8, the girl asked him to take her to Ujjain to see her parents for one last time, following which the man brought her to Ujjain. On Sunday, he tried to take her back to Udaipur but she contacted her aunt and shared her ordeal with her,” said the SP. The aunt informed the Childline and the police, following which, the accused were arrested and the girl was sent for counselling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-minor-sold-and-raped-in-rajasthan-before-rescued-in-ujjain-4-arrested/story-mZ6yCx4MOwVwpl2p7OxA9L.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI to deteriorate as day progresses, says CPCB||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) improved significantly on Monday morning and stood in the moderate category at 8am. According to the data shared by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the hourly AQI at that hour stood at 173.However, the average AQI is predicted to be in the poor to very poor category on Monday, indicating the pollution levels are likely to rise further during the day.On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI in the national Capital stood at 305 in the very poor category. This could be attributed to Saturday’s rainfall which increased moisture in Delhi’s air, pushing the pollution levels to the very poor category.On Saturday, the AQI was recorded 356, also in the very poor zone. This was a deterioration from Friday’s 295, which is categorised as poor in the AQI scale.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said in the aftermath of Saturday’s western disturbance, high moisture availability with higher air holding capacity and dense fog formation are expected over Delhi, mainly during early morning hours.“This can trigger heterogeneous aqueous reactions to form secondary aerosols (pollution particles converting into secondary aerosols with the help of water content in the air), which can lead to deterioration of AQI,” the forecast read.“AQI is likely to improve from the lower end of very poor to the higher end of poor category for Sunday and Monday. It is likely to marginally deteriorate and drop to the lower end of the very poor category on Tuesday,” Sunday’s forecast added.India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that dense fog was also likely early Monday, which could reduce visibility levels drastically.“The air quality is likely to remain in poor to lower end of very poor category on December 15. The air quality is likely to remain in poor to lower end of very poor category till December 17 and marginal deterioration is likely to start from December 18,” the IMD forecast added.At the Safdarjung observatory, the minimum temperature on Sunday was recorded 11.1 degrees Celsius, three degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 20.7 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. Minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to remain in the same range on Monday as per the forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-to-deteriorate-as-day-progresses-says-cpcb/story-ODhEUt3EKo2UjuifRZTzzJ.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two brothers, nephew attacked with sharp weapons in Chandigarh, three booked||Police are on the lookout for three men who attacked two brothers and their nephew with sharp-edged weapons and also fired a shot in Kaimbwala village on Saturday night.Complainant Pardeep Singh had a close shave as the bullet missed. However, he and his uncles, Keerat Singh and Hemraj, suffered injuries inflicted by an axe and other sharp-edged weapons.Pardeep told the police he was returning home from a wedding, when he saw Sandeep Kumar, Rajesh and Bobby, all residents of Kaimbwala, attacking his uncles. Rajesh was holding an axe, while Bobby was using another sharp-edged weapon. When he intervened, they attacked him as well and Sandeep opened fire at him, before fleeing the spot. Pardeep and his uncles were taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where they are under treatment.According to police, the accused, who appeared to be intoxicated, knew the victims and called them outside the house before attacking them. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered against the three accused at the Sector 3 police station. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-brothers-nephew-attacked-with-sharp-weapons-in-chandigarh-three-booked/story-ueKWXCaJIjGou15kGY6P4L.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chill tightens grip on Chandigarh as fog causes mercury to plunge||Residents woke up to a chilly Sunday morning with cold winds blowing and fog reducing the visibility to 500 metres.As the haze continued through the day, the maximum temperature plunged by eight notches from 23°C on Saturday to 14.9°C on Sunday, which was seven degrees below normal, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On the other hand, minimum temperature was six degrees above normal at 13°C. The variance of day and night temperature through Sunday was less than two degrees, which IMD officials said was a rare occurrence.“Visibility reduced to 500 metres on Sunday morning, which will continue for the next few days as well. Precautions must be taken while driving in the morning and evening, as fog is more common in open spaces like roads, fields and big parks,” said an IMD official.Moderate fog is declared when visibility goes below 500 metres, dense fog when it’s below 200 metres and very dense fog below 50 metres. Brace for cold daysThe temperature will continue to stay on the lower side in the coming days and cold days may be declared this week, according to IMD Chandigarh director Surender Paul. Cold days are declared when the minimum temperature goes below 10°C and maximum goes 4.5 to 6.4 notches below normal. If the current conditions continue, severe cold days may also be on the cards when temperature will be 6.5 degrees below normal.“Owing to the recent rains, humidity will stay high and fog will keep the maximum temperature on the lower side. This week, it is expected to remain around 15°C. Northward winds coming in from Himachal Pradesh where it snowed recently will also cause the temperature to reduce further,” he added.As no rain was on the cards, the nights will remain clear, which will also bring down the minimum temperature to as low as 7°C in the coming week.In 2019, the city had recorded a 10-day spell of severely cold days, making it the longest since 2007. The maximum temperature had even dropped to 11.4°C.In the next three days, the day temperature will remain around 14°C and that at night around 9°C. IMD officials have confirmed that no Western Disturbance has been detected as of now, so the city is likely to stay dry through this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chill-tightens-grip-on-chandigarh-as-fog-causes-mercury-to-plunge/story-iOhKA9M4QUoQAk9tiLDe9J.html
14-12-2020||Kolkata||Gorkha faction issues veiled threat to TMC, caution against Bimal Gurung||The anti-Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) said on Sunday that it was more faithful to West Bengal government led by Mamata Banerjee compared to the faction led by Bimal Gurung, and cautioned that he may betray Banerjee any time.While both GJM factions support Banerjee, Binoy Tamang led group has been given control of the Darjeeling administration by the state. The anti-Gurung faction also sent a veiled threat, saying there can be bloodshed if the state tries to appease both factions of the GJM. No Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader commented on this till Sunday night. Gurung, who was in hiding for three and a half years after being charged under anti-terror law for the violent Gorkhaland agitation in 2017, surfaced in Kolkata on October 21 and pledged his support to Banerjee. He withdrew his support from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), his ally since 2009. Gurung helped the BJP win the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice in a row. But he has now vowed to ensure TMC’s victory in the coming assembly polls. He also addressed a big rally in Siliguri town on December 6. Gurung’s former lieutenant-turned-rival Binoy Tamang, is not willing to shake hands with Gurung and welcome him to the hills. Tamang and his close aide Anit Thapa held a rally on Sunday at Sukna and said there can be bloodshed if the state government tries to appease both factions of the GJM. Tamang also alleged that Gurung is using the Gorkhas to serve his own interest. Also Read: ‘Will enforce only CAA,’ says Vijayvargiya as BJP takes U-turn on NRC in Bengal Anit Thapa, the government-appointed chairman of the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) said, “We have full faith in the chief minister but I request the state government not to keep two khukris (traditional Gorkha knife) in one sheath. There can be bloodshed.” Thapa’s statements indicated that Tamang and his men are worried about an alliance between the TMC and Gurung. The TMC leadership has not said anything in public on this issue till now. The BJP, on the other hand, has raised questions about the police protection provided to Gurung, who is still officially an accused in several crimes, including the murder of a police officer. Also Read: Two Bengal BJP workers killed in 24 hrs, three held amid stir Despite his long absence, Gurung still has a strong base in Darjeeling while Tamang and Thapa failed in helping TMC in the Lok Sabha polls and Darjeeling assembly bye-election last year. BJP won both the elections. Addressing Sunday’s rally, Tamang demanded bipartite talk between the state government and the GJM faction he leads. “We were the ones who restored peace in Darjeeling in 2017. Those who doused the fire can also lit it,” Tamang said. Gurung, too, addressed a rally at Birpara in Alipurduar district. He accused the BJP of not doing anything for the Gorkhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/gorkha-faction-issues-veiled-threat-to-tmc-caution-against-bimal-gurung/story-8w40jis3FMUOvYrniuzt1K.html
14-12-2020||Lucknow||Russian woman raped, accused colonel at large||An Indian Army colonel allegedly raped a woman of Russian origin at his official residence in the Cantonment area of Kanpur late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. Police are on the lookout for the accused, Colonel Neeraj Gahlot, posted at the Central Ordnance Depot (COD) in Kanpur, who is believed to be on the run following the incident, said Raj Kumar Agarwal, superintendent of police (SP), Kanpur East.17-yr-old girl found hanging after rape in Sirsa; 2 bookedA First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against Gahlot under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, following a complaint lodged by the victim’s husband. According to the FIR, the army officer had invited the victim and her husband for dinner at his house. Police said Gahlot allegedly spiked the man’s drink with intoxicants, which made him fall unconscious. The officer then raped the victim, they added. The police said the victim had undergone medical examination and a report was expected on Monday. The victim’s kin alleged the police delayed conducting the test in a bid to save the accused. The police, though, denied the allegation, adding police teams were making attempts to arrest Gahlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/russian-woman-raped-accused-colonel-at-large/story-i4FfqJdvUfoxd8OmYwLKIJ.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minor found dead after rape in Sirsa; 2 booked||A 17-year-old girl was found hanging allegedly after being raped by her two relatives at a village of Sirsa district of Haryana when she was alone at home on Saturday evening, police said on Sunday.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s father said he and his wife were out and their 14-year-old son was at the shop near the house when the crime was committed.“Two of my relatives came to shop on Saturday evening and asked my son for tea. My son went to the house and asked his sister to send two cups of tea at the shop. One of them asked my son that he wanted to use the washroom, and my son sent him to out home. When the accused did not return, his accomplice also went to the house. After 20 minutes, my son went to check and saw both of them trying to sexually assault our daughter. My son ran to his uncle’s house for help. When my son and his cousin reached our home, they found my daughter hanging from the ceiling fan and the accused fled the spot.”Sirsa Sadar SHO Devi Lal told HT over phone that the victim’s post-mortem was done by a medical board team at the civil hospital and a report is awaited.“We have started investigation into the matter and launched a manhunt to nab the accused. We have registered a case against them under sections 302(murder), 376 (rape), 452 (whoever commits house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” he added.“The girl’s family was planning for the victim’s wedding once she turned 18,” the SHO said, adding that one of the accused was brother-in-law of her would be husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-yr-old-girl-found-hanging-after-rape-in-sirsa-2-booked/story-9TSdq2B8Brio85A50j5KML.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The head that wears the helmet||Vishwanath takes all the precautions he can to avoid being hurt. But accidents still happen, and some injuries are unavoidable.The rickshaw puller’s leg is bandaged, though he insists it’s not a serious wound, pointing to the small band-aid strapped onto it. It happened a few nights ago.Delhiwale: A tale of two times“I had dropped off a customer, and was riding to the main road, when suddenly a dog appeared in front of the rickshaw.” Vishwanath instinctively steered the handle, causing the rickshaw to lose balance. “The rickshaw fell, I fell too, and I got a small chot (injury).”This afternoon, Vishwanath is sitting on the passenger’s seat in a north Delhi lane, waiting for customers, but also basking in the warmth of the winter sun. His face is covered in a mask and his head is topped with the kind of helmet labourers wear at construction sites.“I have been wearing it for some months.” He had picked it from a footpath. “This is to protect myself in case I suffer a serious accident... like a speeding car hitting my rickshaw.”So far, he hasn’t encountered any horrid mishap.Delhiwale: A toilet monolith in IndiaA native of Kolkata, Vishwanath says he has no home in Delhi, not even a familiar street where he could retire every night to rest like many other rickshaw pullers in the city. “I sleep on the footpath... any footpath, wherever I happen to be.”Living alone (and being single) doesn’t make him feel lonely, he asserts. “I don’t have time to feel the absence of relatives in Delhi... I work during the day and that makes me so tired that I fall asleep almost the moment I lie down on the chaadar (the bed sheet he spreads on the pavement).”Vishwanath says he has been living in Delhi long enough to have faith in its people. He talks of personally witnessing strangers coming to the aid of road accident victims, for instance. “I myself carried an injured man to the hospital for free, once.” Nevertheless, he feels “it’s better not to rely on others for your own well being.”Delhiwale: Shahnawaz’s private rose gardenAnd then he has the blessings of his taveez, he says, reverently touching the amulet around his neck.Vishwanath starts his working day at 9am and is asleep by 11pm, latest. At night, he takes off his helmet and keeps it by the side of his pillow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-head-that-wears-the-helmet/story-s7zrFpeL3EkTf8lVL761bN.html
14-12-2020||City||Anil Vij put on plasma therapy, under observation||A day after Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who had tested positive for coronavirus a week ago, was shifted to Rohtak’s PGIMS, a team of doctors started the process of giving him plasma treatment on Sunday evening.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said a joint team of doctors from the institute, Medanta hospital and Delhi AIIMS are observing the health status of the minister.“We have started the process of plasma transfusion under the supervision of PGIMS vice-chancellor OP Kalra. The minister is suffering from fever and cough. Doctors had administered a trial dose (either vaccine or placebo) of the indigenous vaccine to him in Ambala two weeks ago before he was tested positive. He is stable and fine now,” she added.She said they had shifted the minister to a special ward at the PGIMS. “We are closely monitoring his sugar level and blood pressure as the minister is diabetic,” she added. Haryana on Sunday reported seven deaths due to the novel coronavirus, taking the toll to 2,717, while 990 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,52,392, according to a bulletin.The new fatalities linked to Covid-19 included two each from Gurugram and Hisar, the state health department said in its daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (275) and Faridabad (177).Haryana has 9,875 active cases and a recovery rate of 95.01%. A total of 2,39,800 people in the state have been discharged after recovering from the infection, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anil-vij-put-on-plasma-therapy-under-observation/story-WAxW7W2PaBRvQhFxzKsdQK.html
14-12-2020||City||Agitation gains traction as hundreds from Haryana rally behind farmers||The ongoing agitation of farmers is gaining momentum in Haryana as support has started pouring in from all over the state. With the protest entering Day 18 on Sunday, movement of tractor trailers, canters and cars towards Delhi became a common sight in Haryana. Locals have also been sourcing vegetables, flour, sugar, sweets and money to send them to the protesters.“We know that they have enough ration to continue with the protest for several months, but we are still doing our part to boost their morale,” said a farmer from Yamunanagar’s Topra, Sandeep Singh. “We do not belong to BKU (Charuni), but we support their decisions. That is why it took only a few hours to make toll plazas free for all vehicles for one day. We all are farmers and we stand united for the cause,” said Balbir Singh, an elderly farmer from Indri in Karnal.With colleges and schools closed due to Covid-19 pandemic, teenagers and youths are also participating in the stir actively by circulating videos, messages and photos from the protest sites on social media to encourage others. “Being a farmer’s son, it is my responsibility to support their agitation as they are fighting for us without even caring about the harsh weather conditions. We are ready to do whatever we could for them,” said. Ramji Lal, a retired professor of political science and a political analyst, said, “This agitation is unique and has brought most of the farmers to a single platform. Haryana chief minister’s statement that the state’s farmers are not supporting the protests has agitated them and increased their participation. If the agitation lasts for a few more days, it is likely to garner more support from Haryana.” BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who is the only farm leader from Haryana leading the protest at Delhi’s Singhu border, said, “Government’s behaviour with the farmers and delay in accepting their demands has made the people of Haryana angry. Not only from Haryana, but farmers from other states too are coming out of their houses to make this agitation successful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agitation-gains-traction-as-hundreds-from-agitation-rally-behind-farmers/story-eoFvp1DYrQnH9O2MPA6TgJ.html
14-12-2020||City||Farmers block Jaipur-Delhi highway in Rewari||Haryana Police on Sunday placed barricades near Jaisinghpur Kheda village in Rewari on National Highway-48 that connects Delhi and Jaipur after farmers from Rajasthan started assembling there and blocked the highway. Rewari DC Yashendra Singh and SP Abhishek Jorwal also reached the border to review the situation. The police diverted the traffic coming from Delhi side via Kasola Chowk and restricted entry of vehicles going towards the capital from Rajasthan. Fire brigades and riot control vehicles were brought in as well. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav and social activist Medha Patkar also reached the Rewari border to extend support to Rajasthan farmers, who started their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march. “If the police will restrict the movement of farmers towards Delhi, we will start a dharna on the Haryana-Rajasthan border at Rewari,” Yadav said. Banwari Lal, convener of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasabha, said farmers of Rajasthan stood united with Haryana and Punjab farmers. “We are waiting for the arrival of other farmers. We will start our march towards Delhi once other groups join us,” he said. Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava on Sunday visited the Tikri border and took stock of law and order situation. He asked police officials to ensure peace and allow free passage of vehicles in the region.Farm leaders to observe hunger strike todayInteracting with reporters at Singhu-Kundli border, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni said all farm leaders would observe a hunger strike on Monday wherever they are leading the protest. The agitating farmers have, meanwhile, also started growing vegetables on the divider at Tikri border. Hooda, Kundu met kin of deceased farmerSenior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, on Sunday met the family members of Kitab Singh Chahal, a farmer from Jind who died of cardiac arrest while sitting on a dharna on December 8.Kundu gave financial aid of ₹2 lakh each to the families of Kitab Singh and Ajay Moor, a resident of Baroda in Sonepat, who had died due to “cold” at Singhu border. Plan to protest at district headquarters The farm leaders from Haryana have now decided to hold protests at all district headquarters on Monday.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Tikait) state president Ratan Mann said a meeting of union leaders was held at Panipat on Sunday and it was decided that the farmers would hold protests at the district headquarters from 10am to 5pm on Monday. The leaders have also urged their supporters to ensure that the protests remain peaceful. (With input from HTC Karnal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-block-jaipur-delhi-highway-in-rewari/story-8nLqdQJpXc9JgqVtBCI7fN.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s board of finance to discuss non-payment of grant under PMS Scheme||With Panjab University yet to receive around Rs 21 crore from the Punjab government under the post-matric scholarship (PMS) scheme, the university’s board of finance (BoF) will consider the status of the pending grant in its next meeting.PU had already written to the government in October to release the pending amount immediately. The BoF meeting is scheduled for December 15 and six items will be tabled for consideration including the varsity’s budget.The non-payment of the grant was also discussed in the last meeting of the budget estimate committee of the university.As PU was expecting a revenue gap of Rs 31 crore, the committee had recommended that the projected deficit be reflected in the budget, and the government be asked to release the pending grant to cover it.In its recent communication to the government, the university had said that due to non-payment of the pending amount, it has become difficult to continue the scheme.Grant for construction of regional centre to be consideredThe BoF will also discuss the university’s request to release a grant of Rs 37.62 crores to construct the building of the university’s regional centre at Sri Muktsar Sahib.Earlier this year, the varsity had written to the Punjab chief minister’s office to release the grant. PU said that the government has allocated a land of five acres to establish a new campus for the regional centre.“The estimated cost of the construction of the new campus is around Rs 43.12 crores,” PU said.Rs 2.6 crore for rural centreBesides this, the BoF will also deliberate on the university’s request to the Punjab Government to release a balance grant of Rs 2.6 crore to complete the construction work at the rural centre at Kauni (Sri Muktsar Sahib).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-board-of-finance-to-discuss-non-payment-of-grant-under-pms-scheme/story-vAAdR04zR0XU7l8rLBS5KI.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents pick holes in admn’s move to increase wards||Even as the UT administration has sent a draft notification regarding increasing the number of municipal corporation (MC) wards in the city from 26 to 35, residents are protesting the move saying the new wards will sideline their sectors.The draft notification was issued on December 10 and objections have been sought from residents and other stakeholders by December 17, after which the final notification will be issued.The resident welfare associations (RWAs) of Sector 38 (West) held a protest on Saturday as Sector 38 is being combined with Dadumajra Colony, Dadumajra village and Shahpur Colony in ward 26. President of the HIG Upper RWA Neha Arora said, “We are an urban sector and it is wrong to combine us with a village and two colonies. Our problems will be ignored while the councillor here will be more involved with Dadumajra village.”President of Sector 38 (West, pocket B) Anand Singh added that they either want the same ward of Sector 38 (West) with Sector 38 and Sector 37 to continue or they want to be coupled with another urban ward. President of the Sector 38 (West) RWA Pankaj Gupta had earlier sent his objections to this move to the administration.Sector 13 RWA also protestPresident of the Modern Housing Complex (MHC) RWA in Sector 13 Col (retd) Gursewak Singh has also written to the UT adviser regarding this. “MHC is a newly-developed area with over 13,000 people residing here. Combining it with Manimajra village is counter productive as it is seen that the needs of village residents are given preference. We want to be combined with Basti Kishangarh and IT Park.”President of Government Houses Resident Welfare Society, Sector 22, Vinod Vashisht added, “Sectors 22 and 17 are heritage areas of the city and form its heart. It is wrong to separate the two as they face similar issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-pick-holes-in-admn-s-move-to-increase-wards/story-DAJq6vzIunp7VREduozHeP.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana civic body polls: Upinder Ahluwalia in fray for Panchkula mayor again||Former mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia has been selected as Congress’ mayoral candidate for the Panchkula MC elections. This was confirmed by a member of the selection committee. However, the official list of candidates has yet to be released by the party.Pardeep Chaudhary, Kalka MLA and member of Congress’ selection committee, said: “The names have been finalised and the list is out. The party has chosen Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia’s as its candidate for the mayoral post.”Ahluwalia confirmed the development. She has been actively associated with Congress since 1988, and contested elections since 1995, before becoming mayor of Panchkula in 2013.On Sunday, Kumari Selja, president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, appointed observers for the forthcoming local body elections in Haryana.The observers for the Panchkula MC elections are former ministers Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda.Ajay Chaudhary, general secretary, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, said that the party is going to contest elections on symbol. JJP shares names of three candidatesJJP, which is contesting for four seats from Panchkula, has finalised the names of three candidates. Sushil Garg will contest from ward number 14, Rajesh Kumar from ward number 9 and Amrinder Singh from ward number 18.The party said that the candidate for ward number 6 will be declared later.On Saturday, BJP announced Kulbhushan Goyal as its mayoral candidate, and a list of 16 candidates from different wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-civic-body-polls-upinder-ahluwalia-in-fray-for-panchkula-mayor-again/story-fMAQ7JVcyubP1W4bk7O7cM.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Year after eviction drive, Chandigarh’s Sector 22 bustling with illegal vendors again||A year after the municipal corporation cleared the Sector 22 market of illegal vendors, squatters have returned to the market besides Kiran Cinema in Sector 22-D.Selling their products from unauthorised spots, vendors have set up shop on the railings, pathways and even corridors in front of stores, while others can be spotted walking around in search of customers.In December last year, MC had removed the illegal vendors and relocated others, while allotting only 97 slots to vendors to carry on with their business in Sector 22 itself as part of a rehabilitation drive.While the corporation had assured of strict action against any illegal vendors thereon, ground reality shows a different picture.“We have been complaining to the authorities for so long, but the illegal vendors are still here. Worse, they don’t wear masks and sit close to each other, completely bypassing social distancing norms,” said Jaswinder Nagpal, president of the Shastri Market Welfare Association (MWA), Sector 22.A shopkeeper, wishing not to be named, said, “Earlier due to lower footfall, nobody was bothered about them. But, around Diwali they became a major nuisance. The officials take note of this, but only during their sporadic visits.”‘Permanent MC inspector needed’Local councillor and senior deputy mayor Ravikant Sharma said before the rehabilitation drive was carried out, one MC inspector was always present at each market, but now a single inspector was required to visit various sectors. “I will bring this up in the MC House meeting so that the previous arrangement can be restored,” he added.The Sector-22 market area falls under the jurisdiction of the Sector 17 police station. However, police officials from there said they weren’t directly involved in removing the vendors. “Police personnel assist the MC teams when they visit the area. Their duty is to ensure the safety of the MC staff on duty,” a police official said.On his part, MC commissioner Kamal Kishore Yadav said he will ask the enforcement teams to visit the market and clear unauthorised stalls.Vending zones dead end for tradersMany relocated vendors are returning to their original location for better business prospects. In Sector 15, vendors are not making any sales. Rattan Kumar, who sells clothes and was shifted here from Sector 17, said, “I hardly sell more than three or four items in a day, while in Sector 17, my sales were much higher. After the lockdown, I don’t even have enough savings to buy new stock for sale, so I sell clothes on commission.”Amarjeet Singh, who came here from Sector 22, added that the MC’s draconian policies had left them with no will to continue. “While we were not charged for setting up shop in April and May, the monthly vending fee has been increased from Rs 2,100 to Rs 2,250. So many promises were made when vendors were shifted here, but now everyone seems to have given up on us,” he rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/year-after-eviction-drive-chandigarh-s-sector-22-bustling-with-illegal-vendors-again/story-0Jzi70oY0Jh7XisxAmrZ4K.html
14-12-2020||City||51% polling recorded in sixth phase of DDC elections in J&K||Over 51.51% voter turnout was recorded in the sixth phase of the District Development Council (DDCs) elections across Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, said state election commissioner KK Sharma.Addressing a press conference in Jammu on Sunday evening, Sharma said that people have once again reaffirmed their faith in the democratic system by actively participating in the polls.Sharma said that polling was peaceful in all 31 constituencies (14 in Kashmir and 17 in Jammu) and people participated enthusiastically despite severe cold conditions in Kashmir and some hilly areas of Jammu.He added that polling was held in 2,071 polling stations, including 1,208 from Kashmir and 863 from Jammu division.The SEC said that Jammu division recorded an average voter turnout of 68.56% with Poonch recording the highest voting of 76.78%, followed by Rajouri with 74.03% and Reasi with 74.02%. The lowest turnout in Jammu was in Kathua with 60.95%.The Kashmir division recorded 31.55% average voter turnout with Ganderbal recording the highest polling at 58.45%, followed by Kupwara with 51.08% and Bandipora with 47.66%, he added.Giving district-wise details, the SEC said that in Kashmir, the polling percentage recorded in Budgam was 30.99%, Baramulla 34.56%, Anantnag 24.06%, Kulgam 37.74%, Pulwama 8.16%, and Shopian 4.6%.Similarly, in Jammu division, 70.01% poll percentage was recorded in Samba, 72.04% in Udhampur, 71.34% in Ramban, 62.93% in Doda, and 66.32% in Jammu.He said 3,85,606 voters, including 2,07,223 males and 1,78,383 females, exercised their right to franchise in the sixth phase across J&K.He added that counting of votes for sarpanch and panch constituencies which went to poll in the sixth phase is being conducted immediately after closing of poll and results will soon be declared.Polling for 280 DDC constituencies are being held in eight phases. The remaining seventh and eight phase polling will take place on December 16 and 19, respectively, and votes will be counted on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/51-polling-recorded-in-sixth-phase-of-ddc-elections-in-j-k/story-x1keDyhZQHyE2HmZDJVJcJ.html
14-12-2020||City||IkkJutt Jammu slams UT admn for not allowing party chief in Kishtwar||Ikkjutt Jammu on Sunday slammed the Jammu and Kashmir administration for not allowing party president Ankur Sharma to visit Kishtwar region for canvassing for their candidates contesting the district development council (DDC) elections.Ikkjutt has accused the administration of playing into the hands of the BJP and separatists.“IkkJutt Jammu had planned a two-day election campaign which included several meetings with scores of workers and intellectuals at private places. But at the last moment, the Kishtwar administration informed Ankur Sharma that they cannot allow him or IkkJutt office-bearers to enter the region,” the party said in a statement issued here.The party president said, “I was not allowed to travel to Kishtwar for a two-day election campaign by the administration citing volatile situation in Kishtwar and unexplained security concerns.”The entire security establishment between Jammu and Kishtwar has been activated to see that I am effectively quarantined at Jammu, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ikkjutt-jammu-slams-ut-admn-for-not-allowing-party-chief-in-kishtwar/story-BxacTwvunFs94OSFtGms0M.html
14-12-2020||City||Shikara capsizes in Dal Lake during BJP rally||A shikara carrying three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists and three journalists capsized in Dal Lake here on Sunday during a boat rally led by BJP leaders including MoS (finance) Anurag Thakur, BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh and BJP national spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain. Everyone was evacuated safely.BJP had organised the rally with dozens of local leaders and activists on shikaras just as Jammu and Kashmir went into the sixth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections on Sunday.“When the rally ended and the boats were returning towards the shore, one of them overturned. Three BJP activists and three journalists were on the boat and fell into water. All of them were rescued and are safe,” said BJP leader Aijaz Hussain.While the journalists managed to swim towards the shore, other Shikara rowers managed to pull out the activists. Cameras of the journalists were damaged in the incident.The sixth phase of DDC elections concluded on Sunday after voting was held in 31 constituencies - 14 from Kashmir and 17 from Jammu division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shikara-capsizes-in-dal-lake-during-bjp-rally/story-pRgkveIDzexhUCQo5dL3xJ.html
14-12-2020||City||200 roads in Himachal closed for traffic due to snowfall||As many as 210 roads have been closed for vehicular movement after many areas in Himachal Pradesh witnessed snowfall, officials said on Sunday.As many as 140 roads are closed in Lahaul-Spiti, 28 in Kullu, 24 in Shimla, eight in Kinnaur, four in Chamba and two in Mandi.Atal Tunnel in Rohtang also remains closed for vehicular traffic as light snowfall continued in higher reaches of the state overnight. Keylong received 10cm snowfall, Kalpa in Kinnaur district received 4.5cm, and Manali 2cm.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said Leh-Manali national highway is closed beyond Palchan and Solang and NH-305 (Aut-Ani-Sainj) is also closed for traffic due to fresh snowfall in Jalori pass. He advised people to avoid travelling to these areas until the roads get cleared.Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma has advised tourists and locals to not to venture into snow-prone areas, high altitudes and near rivers and to avoid travelling at night.The weather mostly remained sunny throughout the state in the last 24 hours and minimum temperatures in state decreased by two to three degrees while the maximum temperatures decreased by three to four degrees in the last 24 hours.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the weather will remain clear throughout the state till December 19. Minimum temperature in Shimla was 3.3°C, and Kufri, 14km from Shimla, recorded 2.1°C.Tourist destinations Manali, Dharmashala and Dalhousie shivered at minus 2°C, 3.4°C and 2.1°C, respectively.Minimum temperature in Nahan was 9.9°C, Bilaspur 9.5°C, Una 8.8°C, Hamirpur 8°C, Mandi 4.1°C, Solan 4°C, Kalpa shivered at minus 4.6°C and Keylong was the coldest in state with minus 10.7°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-roads-in-himachal-closed-for-traffic-due-to-snowfall/story-FvMsUJ4af07BspDjgocIsI.html
14-12-2020||City||Arbitrary fees: Parents’ forum to launch phased stir against private schools in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh Student Parents Forum on Sunday announced a movement against private schools for recovery of all types of charges along with tuition fees. The first phase of the protests will be held outside the Directorate of Education here on December 16, 21, 24 and 28, the forum stated.It has called upon the parents to join the forum’s cause against the arbitrary fees charged by private schools in every district.The forum has warned the state education director that if the recovery of all charges raised by private schools this year is not done, then the second phase of their movement will be started.Convenor Vijendra Mehra has demanded the director of higher education to immediately cancel the anti-student and anti-parent notifications of November 10 and December 8 and issue an order banning all other types of charges in addition to tuition fees.The forum has also urged the Himachal Pradesh high court to intervene in the matter and take action against the state government and education director for violating HC orders.Mehra said that as per the notification issued by the Directorate of Education on December 8, the private school managements and parent-teachers association (PTA) have been allowed to take a decision regarding the fees. When regular schools have been closed, how and when was the PTA formed, he asked, alleging that a dummy PTA was approved so the decision to inflate fees and other charges could be justified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arbitrary-fees-parents-forum-to-launch-phased-stir-against-private-schools-in-himachal/story-VH4KmlBaBCWSVLyaK97NtI.html
14-12-2020||City||Patients left waiting for days to get Covid test result at Shimla’s IGMCH||As Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) here is packed to capacity due to the continuing rise in Covid infections and deaths in the district and across Himachal, its 24-hour testing facility has been hit by staff shortage, causing delays in the patients’ reports.Patients have complained that they have to wait for three to four days to get their Covid reports at the state’s biggest hospital. IGMCH has only two testing machines, taking 90 and 70 samples at once, respectively.The hospital has been receiving more than 500 samples for testing every day while the reports of only 250 to 300 samples are issued in a day as processing these takes three to four hours.IGMCH principal Dr Rajnish Pathania has said that IGMC Shimla is under maximum pressure as samples from Shimla, Kinnaur and Bilaspur districts are sent here for testing and because of which there is a delay in testing.“Staff shortage is the biggest problem and those who are available are already working for long hours,” said Dr Pathania.He added that about 300 of IGMCH’s staff members have tested positive for Covid and only a handful of them have returned to the duty, making the 24-hour sample testing difficult.In addition to IGMCH, RT-PCR machines have been installed in Kasauli, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Ner Chowk; Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College and Hospital, Hamirpur; Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College and Hospital, Nahan; Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College and Hospotal, Tanda, and Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College and Hospital, Chamba.Meanwhile, the Kanlog Crematorium management has demanded to dedicate the facility for the cremation of Covid victims.They suggested that the non-Covid bodies could be cremated at the Sanjauli crematorium and if the inflow of bodies increases in the future, then the MC can build a temporary shed opposite Kanlog crematorium that is being used as a parking space currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-left-waiting-for-days-to-get-covid-test-result-at-shimla-s-igmch/story-rgXA1ueQMQConXRFSxSUqL.html
14-12-2020||City||Himachal sees two-fold increase in fatalities in over one month||Even as the Covid-19 situation has been gradually improving countrywide in the past over a month, the global pandemic has hit Himachal Pradesh hard during this period.Not only has the hill-state witnessed a surge in the number of infections, but there has been a sharp rise in virus-related deaths.Since November 1, the fatalities have swelled by more than double. The state reported 48,951 infections and nearly 793 deaths linked to the disease as on December 12.There has been a jump of 154% in the Covid-linked deaths during this period. The state has the case fatality ratio of 1.6% against the national average of 1.5% and is among the top five states with a high death rate.The case fatality rate (CFR) is the ratio of deaths and confirmed cases and is an indicator of severity of disease in a given period.As many as 323 people died in November while 158 people have succumbed to the contagion in less than a fortnight in December.Shimla, Kangra worst hit Shimla district, which has seen the maximum case surge in the past month, has also recorded the highest number of deaths. The district has reported 9,056 infections since November.Shimla chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Surekha Chopra said the multiple factors contributed to the spike in Covid-19 cases in Shimla. The hill-town is the state capital and has maximum government offices.Besides, the marriages, social gatherings and ceremonial processions aggravated the situation.As many as 215 people had died of the virus in the district as on November 12. Shimla has the highest case fatality ratio of 2.37%.Medical superintendent of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) Dr Janak Raj said the case fatality ratio in Shimla was high due to referral cases.“IGMCH is the territory Covid care centre and patients are referred here from other districts, including Bilaspur, Solan, Sirmaur and Kinnaur among others,” said Dr Janak.He also attributed the high death rate to late arrival of patients. “Patients are coming to the hospitals at later stages of infection or when their oxygen level drops below 40%,” he said.Similarly, Kangra, the population-wise biggest district, has reported 157 deaths against 6,636 infections and CFR is 2.36%. A total of 100 people died in Mandi, the second worst hit district in terms of number of infections, it has a CFR of 1.5%.Chief minister Jai Ram in his address recently said that social gatherings were the prime cause of increase in cases. The spike forced the government to introduce strict curbs including the capping of attendees in such gatherings to 50.Higher male mortality The government data also revealed that the death rate is higher in men than in women. Sixty-seven percent of the total deaths reported in the state were men. As many as 531 men have died due to the infection compared to 257 (33%) women, said Dr Nipun Jindal, director, National Health Mission, Himachal Pradesh.Most of the victims had co-morbidities, pre-existing diseases like hypertension and diabetes etc. As per the data, more than 65% of corona death cases had other illnesses in Himachal Pradesh.About 27.9% of the 793 people who have died from coronavirus were in the age group of 61-70. Similarly, 22% were in the age group of 71-80; 21% percent between 51-60 years. Ten percent victims were 80 years or above.The younger people too are vulnerable and about 17% of the victims were in the age group of 11 to 50 years of age. The youngest victim was a 1.5-year-old kid.How infections and deaths have grown Himachal Pradesh recorded its first case on March 20 and first fatality on March 23. Till July, the situation was much better as only 2,564 infections were reported and 12 people had died. Since August, there has been a constant rise in both the infections and fatalities. Till October-end, there were 22,059 cases and 312 deaths in Himachal. Maximum rise was in November when the state witnessed 18,459 cases and 323 deaths. The trend is continuing in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-sees-two-fold-increase-in-fatalities-in-over-one-month/story-v82BtwUUu4ETxgtIyIeb4I.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra set for a stormy winter session||Responding to Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis’s claims of “undeclared Emergency in Maharashtra” on the eve of the two-day winter session on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray turned the tables on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), asking if what was happening with the farmers’ protest in Delhi was a “declared Emergency”. Fadnavis criticised the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for imposing an “undeclared Emergency”, criticising the regime for “going after” Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut. “We don’t agree with all that they say, but to retaliate the way the government did was unacceptable. The court orders against the government in these two cases have been an embarrassment for it [government],” Fadnavis said, adding that the “arrogance of power” will not take the government far. “There is no such feeling among people. If there is an undeclared emergency in the state, then is there a declared emergency in the country? The farmers are protesting for their rightful demands. But rather than holding dialogues and understanding their emotions, they have to protest in the cold and water cannons are used on them. It is not a sign of goodwill,” said Thackeray, during a press conference held in Mumbai. “It is not our culture to call our annadata (farmers) anti-nationals and terrorists. Earlier, the government imported onions and sugar from Pakistan. Now, has it started importing farmers from Pakistan? Or started giving certificates of Pakistan?” The two-day winter session of the state legislature is expected to remain fiery as the opposition in expected to corner the government over Maratha reservation, fears of the other backward classes (OBCs), alleged U-turn over relief on inflated electricity bills, agrarian issues, among others. Meanwhile, the state government is going to introduce six ordinance and 10 bills. Continuing his attack on the Opposition, Thackeray said, “The cabinet recommends and the governor appoints 12 MLCs as per the size of the house here. In the upcoming session, these 12 seats will remain empty. There should be a discussion on making amendment in the Constitution to fix a time limit for the governor to take a decision on the recommendations of the cabinet. Although we accept his right, can it be used at his will?” Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said the Opposition was demoralised after its recent defeat in the MLC elections held on five seats, four of which were bagged by the MVA and one was won by an independent. Key bills•Some of the key bills that will be introduced are the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, the Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law, 2020. The bill proposes death penalty for rape, aggravated sexual assault and acid attack•The draft bill proposes the trial must be completed in 30 days and appeal period be reduced to 45 days •Amendment to the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, the Maharashtra Municipal Act, the Maharashtra (Municipal Councils), (Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Townships) Act, 1965 to facilitate the reduction in stamp duty and property charges•Amendments to the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies to allow a director board to take decisions during a pandemic•The Maharashtra International Sports University Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-for-a-stormy-winter-session/story-L8PP8mgwDiMwSDaLluTyAI.html
14-12-2020||City||Born to take sword of honour, Lt from Ludhiana says dream come true||Born when India and Pakistan were fighting the 1999 Kargil war, local lad Lt Watandeep Singh Sidhu, hailing from Threeke area, has done the state proud. The Sword of Honour for Autumn Term, 2020, was awarded to Lt Watandeep during the Passing out Parade (PoP) held at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun. Lt Watandeep said, “It is a dream come true and I worked hard. I cannot explain how elated I was upon receiving the award.” He has dedicated the award to his parents and alma mater at Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun.His father, Baljinder Singh Sidhu, who works with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, said, “We decided to dedicate our son to the nation and named him Watandeep, as he was born during the 1999 Kargil War. After Class 8, he appeared for RIMC entrance exam and was selected. I am overjoyed,” said Watandeep’s father.His mother, Harbans Kaur, is principal of Mata Sahib Kaur Girls College at Talwandi Bhai in Ferozepur. “My son Watandeep is a first-generation army officer and this is a proud and emotional moment. As a mother, it was difficult to stay away from him. Now, the suffering and sacrifice seem worth it,” he said. The silver medal for standing first from Technical Graduate Course (TGC) went to Lt Jasminder Pal Singh Sidhu from Bathinda. A B-Tech from Thapar University of Engineering and Technology (TIET), a deemed university, in Patiala, Jasminder let go his Canadian dream to join the armed forces. He has no army background. His father Narinderjit Singh works with the horticulture department, while his mother Amarjeet Kaur is a government school teacher. He himself has worked in the IT industry in Bengaluru. “Like every year Punjabi youth, I wanted to settle in Canada. My elder brother, who is in Canada, motivated me to join the armed forces.”It is for the third time this year that a cadet from Punjab has bagged the Sword of Honour. Previously, the honour was bestowed upon Lt Akashdeep Singh Dhillon of Tarn Taran in June and Lt Harpreet Singh of Rupnagar at the OTA, Chennai, in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/born-to-take-sword-of-honour-lt-from-ludhiana-says-dream-come-true/story-4daJrUGWXLWXvW2n75yf1I.html
14-12-2020||City||Mumbai records season’s coldest day; light rain predicted today||The city continued to experience pleasant weather for the third consecutive day, as Sunday was the coldest day of the season. On Sunday, the city also recorded the second lowest maximum temperature for December since 2010. The day temperature on Sunday at the Santacruz weather observatory – representative of the suburbs and Mumbai – was 27.6 degrees Celsius, almost 5 degree Celsius below normal. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the lowest December maximum temperature was recorded on December 6, 2017, at 23.3 degrees Celsius. On December 13, 2010, the lowest maximum temperature was 26.5 degrees Celsius. Prior to Sunday, the second coldest December day since 2010 was on December 31, 2014, when the mercury dipped to 27.8 degrees Celsius. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded the day temperature at 27.4 degrees Celsius, also 5 degree Celsius below normal. As the city was under the cloud cover from Sunday morning, light drizzling with traces of rain was recorded in the suburbs, while negligible rain was recorded in the island city, IMD said. Parts of south central Mumbai, eastern suburbs and other areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region received scattered light showers. Humidity levels were 82% in south Mumbai and 77% in the suburbs. The weather bureau has predicted the possibility of light rain or drizzle throughout the day on Monday. “Mumbai witnessed a drop in maximum temperature on Sunday with a feel of chill in the air. The overall weather conditions – cloudy conditions, light drizzling in isolated areas, marginally high humidity throughout the day, and light variable winds (5-9 kilo metre per hour) – were under the influence of the confluence of northwesterly and southeasterly winds extending over northwest India, resulting such weather for north central Maharashtra, Konkan and isolated areas in interior parts of the state,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. He added that satellite images were indicating that such weather conditions are likely to continue for the next two to three days from Sunday. Though the day was cool, the minimum temperatures continued to follow the trend observed all of last week, as the suburbs recorded 23.8 degrees Celsius – 5 degree Celsius above normal – while south Mumbai recorded 23.5 degree Celsius, which was 3 degree Celsius above normal. “The high minimum temperature is due to cloud cover during early morning, which does not allow the trapped heat from the surface to escape,” said an IMD official. Meanwhile, the pollutant-measuring indicator – air quality index (AQI) – was the best for the week on Sunday at 108 (moderate), according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Researchers said it was owing to light showers and moderate wind speed. An AQI of 101 (moderate) has been predicted for Monday. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-records-season-s-coldest-day-light-rain-predicted-today/story-4p75NSDVi2kVMKqzIbMQnN.html
14-12-2020||City||Maharashtra power distribution firm’s bill arrears from civic bodies cross ₹7,000-crore||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) has arrears worth ₹7,208 crore from municipalities and other government bodies, the utility firm said in a statement on Sunday. Until March, these government bodies had an outstanding amount of ₹6,200 crore, which by March which has surged to ₹7,208 crore. A senior official from MSEDCL said, “Many urban local bodies have not paid bills for street lights and water supply schemes for years together now.” MSEDCL has now asked the state to ensure 100% payment for streetlights and water schemes by allocating funds to the utility firm. “Earlier too, the state had transferred 50% of the arrears to MSEDCL from funds of the 14th Finance Commission. The state had also asked local self-governing bodies to pay the remaining 50% arrears with delay payment charges and interest. However, they failed to do so,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-power-distribution-firm-s-bill-arrears-from-civic-bodies-cross-7-000-crore/story-w9xQU1xczh8iaHS7RI2tsO.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||TRP manipulation case: Republic TV CEO arrested||Mumbai Police on Sunday arrested Republic TV’s chief executive officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani in connection with the alleged television rating points (TRP) fraud case. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambhe has confirmed Khanchandani’s arrest. The holiday court has remanded Khanchandani in police custody till Tuesday.Despite repeated attempts, Republic TV officials did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. However, in a tweet on its official handle, the channel quoted Arnab Goswami and said, “The truth will triumph. Republic refuses to compromise. We hope the Bombay HC takes suo motu cognisance of this as court remands CEO Vikas Khanchandani to police custody.”Hearing in Bombay High Court today for quashing of FIR in Anvay Naik caseKhanchandani had been questioned previously by the investigators twice before his arrest. During the crime branch’s probe into TRP case, it had been revealed that some cable operators had used dual landing channel number (LCN) technology, which facilitated the viewing of the same channel on two different channel numbers at a time. According to the police, Republic TV officials had contacted cable operators to use LCN and promotional LCN technology to fudge TRPs. Khanchandani was aware of it as he was a part of the channel’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions on LCN took place, the police have said.The police claimed they have discovered the discussions on WhatsApp over fixing LCN to boost Republic TV’s TRP when they had seized the phone of the channel’s chief operating officer (COO) Priya Mukherjee, who has secured anticipatory bail in the case. “Khanchandani did not submit his mobile phone intentionally to the police to hide evidence,” the police had informed the court on Sunday.The probe has revealed that Mukherjee had directed the other accused arrested in the case to manipulate TRP, said police. As Mukherjee was working under Khanchandani, he needed to be questioned in this regard, the police had stated in their remand application, while seeking his custody. The remand plea further stated that the police’s special investigation team (SIT) also wished to interrogate Khanchandani over the allegations of money being paid to cable operators and multi-system operators (MSOs) for boosting Republic TV’s TRP through dual/promotional LCN. Investigators also want to question him to ascertain if he is involved in arranging funds to bribe households which have TV barometers (devise to calculate TRP) installed to unlawfully boost the channel’s TRP.The alleged fraud came to light in October, when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) had claimed that some channels were rigging TRP numbers. SIT has arrested 13 persons in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-manipulation-case-mumbai-police-arrest-republic-tv-ceo/story-q08dxeC17uaP0dElYqhlzI.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||BJP workers vandalised CCTV cameras outside CM’s house: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday posted on its social media handles a video clip and alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders — who staged a protest outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence in north Delhi’s Flagstaff Road — broke CCTV cameras there.BJP leader and mayor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation Jai Prakash, who is one of the leaders in the protest at the spot, said, “The chief minister’s office was installing CCTV cameras near where we are sitting. There are at least 20-25 women councillors who are sitting on protest who objected to it and didn’t let them install the cameras. Why do they want to install a new CCTV here? Why can’t the CM meet us?”A senior police officer said that some new CCTV cameras were being installed at the wall outside the CM’s residence.“Some councillors from Bhartiya Janata Party objected to it, which led to argument between the two groups outside the CM’s house. Police present at the spot intervened and calmed down both the groups. The situation was normalised and CCTVs are now being installed,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said later, both the groups filed police complaints against each other which are being looked into.AAP spokespersons and Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the incident.Mayors of the three municipal corporations and BJP supporters have been protesting outside the chief minister’s residence for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-workers-vandalised-cctv-cameras-outside-cm-s-house-aap/story-WyaGPakqGEEbCjARcZvdKI.html
14-12-2020||Health:||Few Covid-19 deaths in India’s old-age homes, survey finds||Old-age homes in India have recorded very low numbers of deaths from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a study of data of more than 3,000 residents in 44 care homes in the three western states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan. There were 146 Covid-19 cases and four deaths in 44 homes with 3,146 residents, found the yet to be peer-reviewed study, published in the pre-print, medRxiv. This makes the reported Covid-19 cases rate to be 928 per 10,000 residents, the study said. Globally, age is one of the strongest predictors of the risk of death from Covid-19, which hits older adults the hardest even though the majority of cases are in people younger than 65 years. Data from states in India shows that a little over half (53%) of Covid-19 deaths are in people who are 60 years, compared to around 75% of deaths in those aged 65 years and above around the world, according to data reported to World Health Organization (WHO) till October. “There have been accounts of fewer deaths in congested urban slums and old age homes in India, so we investigated data from 44 old-age homes in three states. We found no increase in Covid-19 deaths or all-cause mortality there, even though older persons account for more than half of all Covid-19 deaths in India,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health-Gandhinagar, who is one of the authors of the study. “The study indicates that older persons in care homes are somewhat protected from the new coronavirus infection, in large part because of the protective measures being taken, which included decongesting homes and sending residents home wherever possible, stopping all visitors, giving attendants temporary accommodation within the home if needed, sanitisation all items from outside, including fresh fruit and vegetables, and frequent sanitisation of the premises,” said Dr Mavalankar. The study found that on average, 26% of the residents were sent back to their homes or to relatives before the lockdown to decongest the care homes, and administrators strictly adhered to the government guidelines for social distancing and personal protection. All the homes, including the 15% under-funded ones, made dietary changes were made to add vitamins C and D and multivitamins to the diet and increase physical activity to improve the health of the residents. The residents were also encouraged to make video calls to their families and films and entertainment was added to the daily routine to reduce anxiety. Farmers to step up stir, plan sit-in across country todayAround 18% faced the staff shortage and higher absenteeism during and after lockdown because of commuting disruption. But all 44 care homes had thermometers, 95% had blood pressure measuring equipment, 80% had an isolation facility, 70% with oximeters, 5% had oxygen cylinders. Doctors regularly visited the care homes with the frequency was varying from weekly to even monthly. Only three care homes, however, had resident doctors for medical emergencies and a referral system to take the sick to hospitals with ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. Developed countries, including many with well-funded social welfare systems, such as Sweden, Italy, France, Spain, Canada, United Kingdom and the United States of America, have reported disproportionately death rates in care homes. Delhiwale: The head that wears the helmet“We propose that some people may have an innate resistance to the new coronavirus, as many of these old age homes offered shared rooms for the destitute and people from low socio-economic groups, who may have a more robust immunity because of frequent past infections. Even if you argue that diagnosis may be missed in these groups, I would say that we haven’t come across high death rates across several vulnerable groups, such as people in congested urban slums with shared toilets, homeless shelters, among children with thalassaemia who need repeat blood transfusions, or people with HIV who have low immunity, ” said Dr Mavalankar. Agrees Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi: “It does seem that the death rate in India has been lower than the west. It is unlikely to be genetic since Indians in UK had a higher risk of death, but is conceivably due to different lifestyle. It is possible that treatment protocols with relatively early adoption of steroids and anticoagulation have contributed to lower deaths secondary to inflammation or thrombosis. However definitive evidence is needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/few-coronavirus-deaths-in-old-age-homes-in-india-finds-study/story-a055i1LA6BQQotzfAEU58O.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Construction and demolition waste vehicles to fit cameras, GPS||In a first for the state, the Delhi government is planning to mandate that vehicles carrying construction and demolition (C&D) waste be fitted with GPS devices and cameras, senior government officials said on Saturday. The rule, aimed at curbing unlawful C&D waste disposal, will also make it compulsory for such vehicles, which will be tracked in real-time, to get a separate registration certificate from the civic bodies for operations.Documents accessed by HT showed that the policy was approved by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Thursday and an order making the rules public is likely to be issued this week by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). The move comes at a time when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday issued notices to several central and state government agencies in the Capital for not adhering to rules related to construction, demolition and disposal of debris or “malba”.‘Sanitation crisis ahead if AAP dues remain unpaid’: Delhi’s mayorsA senior official in the DPCC who requested anonymity said the policy is a targeted step towards reducing pollution. “As on date, Delhi has no mechanism to take action against the owner/person responsible for dumping debris at unauthorised places. Also, there is no monitoring system in place to track the vehicles being used to collect and dump C&D waste. Most of these polluting vehicles are diesel trucks,” the official said.The directions, once issued, will also allow only CNG fuel-based goods vehicles to be registered for this purpose. Even the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has been asked to “immediately’ discontinue the use of tractor based septage waste collection trucks as it was found to be in contravention of the Delhi Motor Vehicles Rules, the documents read.Six AAP MLAs detained ahead of protest outside Amit Shah, L-G’s residences“Any motor vehicle proposed to be used for the purpose of collection and disposal of C&D waste in Delhi will require registration from the civic agencies in the area under whose jurisdiction it is proposed to be operated. Any goods vehicle proposed to be used for carrying C&D waste will have to be fitted with a GPS monitoring system from an authorised vendor of the transport department. The feed of GPS will be received at the joint control room of the MCDs for proper monitoring. There shall be live tracking of all vehicles used for this purpose,” it stated.The rules have been drafted by a “working group” constituted by the chief secretary on September 30 this year. The committee is headed by secretary-cum-commissioner (transport) Manisha Saxena and comprises officials from the Public Works Department, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, DJB and state transport and urban development departments as members.“The committee observed that often these vehicles dump the waste along roadsides during the wee hours of the night. The MCDs are likely to charge a nominal fee to issue the registration certificates to these vehicles that will be approved only after a GPS device is fitted and a camera installed at the back,” an EDMC official said.The officers of junior engineers ranks and above in MCDs and PWD, and the officers of the rank of assistant sub-inspector of the transport department have been authorised to impose fines on defaulting vehicle owners under these directions. The penalty for any violation will be Rs 20,000 in the first instance, extending up to ₹1 lakh under the Environment Protection Act. Vehicle permits will be liable to be suspended or cancelled after three successive violations, the draft order read.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) called the upcoming rules “an important step towards eliminating illegal dumping of C&D waste that causes pollution as well as environmental damage.”“Electronic monitoring of trucks carrying C&D, proper registration of trucks, centralised monitoring, geo-fencing of operations, and high penalties are important to control illegal littering and promote an efficient collection of waste for recycling and material recovery,” she said. She, however, pointed out that this should be supported by an adequately dense network of collection points to reduce distances from construction sites. Delhi has over 168 designated sites for the dumping of C&D waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-mandates-gps-devices-cameras-for-vehicles-carrying-construction-waste/story-qYbPwdhzW2hanKmFIegTCM.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||One dead after speeding car rams another in west delhi, cops probe case||A man died after his car crashed into a moving car in west Delhi’s Bhupendra Nagar area during the early hours on Sunday. Police say have registered a case and are probing the accident.Police identified the dead man as Ankur Chanana, who was a manager at a private bank.According to the police, the accident was reported around 3.15am on Sunday near Keshopur Mandi flyover in Bhupender Nagar. The police found two cars — a Honda City and another Hyundai Verna — that were involved in the accident. “Upon enquiry, we found that the Honda City car was speeding and it rammed the other car from behind. In the accident, the Honda City car driver, identified as Ankur Chanana, a resident of Rohini, working as a manager at a private bank in Moti Nagar, was critically injured. He was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital by the occupants of the other car, where the doctors pronounced him dead,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit.Police said they shifted the body to the mortuary of DDU Hospital for a postmortem examination and informed his family members. DCP Purohit said there were three men in the Hyundai Verna car at the time of accident who were later identified as Raghav Arora, Kunal Lamba and Karan Arora, all residents of Tilak Nagar“After admitting the injured at the hospital, all three of them reported to the police station. The Honda City car is damaged from the front, while the Verna was damaged at its rear. A case of causing death due to negligence has registered to probe the accident,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-dies-in-west-delhi-accident/story-2Cy4aI7q6JTxyw6Oy0RfEN.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt plans to infuse funds for pending priority work||The Delhi government has asked all departments to prepare a list of priority projects lying unfinished due to the lack funds on the back of the pandemic, said a senior government official. The official added that the government was planning to draft a proposal to sanction funds for these projects and table it before the cabinet for approval.Two projects on the government’s priority list are installing CCTV cameras and connecting Ashram flyover with the DND flyway.The CCTV initiative is a flagship project of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. The project was divided into two phases with 140,000 cameras in each phase across all 70 assembly constituencies in the city. While the first phase was completed last year, the second phase was supposed to start after the Delhi elections (February 2020) but could not take off because of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the senior official.The other project – connecting Ashram flyover with the DND flyway – was aimed at reducing traffic snarls in the area. It was announced on December 5 by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.“There are several priority pending projects of the Delhi government which got stuck due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They include the Ashram flyover-DND and CCTV projects. The Delhi government is likely to bring a proposal to finish all these projects. Right now, the government has asked all the departments to send a proposal for the pending priority projects. Once the list is ready, the government would take a re-look at the budget. Currently, it is expected to be something around Rs 900 crore. But the estimates can change,” said the official.“The Delhi government was forced to cut its expenses. But it has also realised that there are some projects which needed to be finished as early as possible. The proposal is in the planning stage. It is likely that this proposal will be developed this month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-look-into-pending-priority-projects-infuse-funds/story-tdJcAX3Kxl8LpnGovIcYAM.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Not making the cut: How coronavirus killed tailoring||Grover Tailors in Delhi’s Khan Market stitched suits for former US presidents George W Bush and Bill Clinton, and Brazil president Jair Messias Bolsonaro when they came to India.For other customers, their waiting time to get their measurements taken is usually hours, and a month for delivery.Grover Tailors specialises in bespoke suits. For the uninitiated, the essence of a ‘bespoke’ suit lies in the process -- from detailed measurements to creating a unique pattern, each suit is handcrafted after several fitments. It’s considered a craft.Railways innovates, makes side berths comfortableBut the pandemic has left the passionate purveyor of bespoke suits with little business. “Our business is down by 80%,” says Bobby Grover, who runs the shop with father OP Grover. With business and leisure travel, weddings, anniversary celebrations, graduation ceremonies curtailed or cancelled, and with many working from home (in sweatpants rather than suits), people have little reason to dress up. “Looks like most of our clients see no reason to wear suits. We had 35 people working with us, but only 12 are left. The tailors in the city’s high streets such Khan Market and Connaught Place are the most affected by the pandemic,” says Grover. Flamenco artist encourages people back into theatres with jazz dance, salsa and musicIf Savile Row in London is the Mecca of tailoring where the rich and famous from across the world have been going for over 200 years to get their suits stitched, Connaught Place (CP) in Delhi once used to be India’s Savile Row. It used to be home to legendary tailors such as Ranken & Company, Trevillion & Clark (both were run by Britishers), Md Omar & Sons, and S.C. Sharma & Company. While over the years many of these firms have closed, CP still has some true bespoke tailors from the old days whose suits would cost anything from Rs 40, 000 to Rs 4 lakh. These suave, English-speaking tailors, many of who learnt their craft in London, say they survived the ready-made revolution in the 1990s and the 2008 financial crisis—but the pandemic has pushed them to the brink. Take, for example, Vaish at Rivoli. Established in 1940, the shop boasts clients as Maharaja of Jaipur, Maharaja of Rampur, BR Ambedkar, among others. It is Friday afternoon and the shop has no customers – the business, says Sachin Vaish, who runs the shop with his father Ashok Vaish is down 70% compared to last year. “This has not happened in the 80 years we have been in business. Most of our clients are well-travelled corporate executives, lawyers and doctors, who appreciate a bespoke suit. Most have not turned up this year,” says Sachin Vaish. The ongoing wedding season too has not helped. “Before the pandemic, we used to make as many as 25 suits for a wedding, but now weddings are a low-key affair, and we do not have such large orders. It is some of our old clients who love wearing new clothes that have sustained us,” says Vaish who, like his father and grandfather learnt tailoring at Savile Row. Many top tailors tried to work remotely—Grover, for example, took measurements of some clients, with the help of their family, and Sachin Vaish tried out a body measurement app. “But the software has a long way to go before they can become useful to bespoke tailors. We require 35-40 odd measurements and need to understand differences in the client’s body shape and posture. This can’t be done virtually yet,” says Vaish. But it is not just the high street tailors that have been affected. Mohan Singh Place, one of the city’s well- known tailoring destinations with about 70 tailors, and Shankar market in CP, which has about 40 big and small ladies’ tailors, are desolate places these days. As one enters the dimly-lit Mohan Singh Place, one sees dozens of heavy rolls of denim and other clothes at the entrance of each shop on different floors. But the sewing machines are all silent. Set up in 1969, Mohan Singh Place, perhaps the city’s first mall, once known for its fruit and imported goods shops, had by the 1990s become denim heaven, with one tailor stitching as many as 50 jeans a day. The business took a hit in the mid-1990s with the arrival of ready-made denim brands. “But even then our business never suffered this much because we could make a pair of jeans at a much lower price in two hours, “ says Naresh Verma, president, Mohan Singh Place Traders Association. Rajesh Verma, who runs HL Tailors and Drapers in the market, was busy watching a video on his mobile phone on Friday afternoon. “This is what I do these days to pass time,” he says. “The pandemic has altered people’s priorities. Clothes seem to have slipped down that list. It has changed how people thought about dress, and has done away with the existing dress codes,” adds Verma seeking to throw light on the social-psychological aspect of the people’s current disinterest in sartorial indulgences. Not far away in Shankar Market, one of the city’s biggest tailoring hubs for women, Mohammad Arshad, a tailor has been desperately calling his clients. “This is a peak season and I used to make about 15 women’s suits a day before the pandemic, but have made only one suit in the past week. Our clients are women mostly in their late 40s and 50s, and a lot of them do not want to venture out as yet, at least not for visiting their tailor, ” says Arshad. It’s not just Arshad’s shop but the entire market -- which came up in 1957 and has 110 shops and 54 stalls that are mostly in the cloth and tailoring business for women --- is deserted. “Most of my employees have gone home as there is no work,” says Mohammad Javed who runs a tailoring shop in the market.“ I am already thinking of doing something else.” “The next two years are going to be tough. We hope this business of online meetings in casuals will not go on forever. What gives me hope is that human beings like to pamper themselves with new clothes. They will eventually return,” says Vaish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/not-making-the-cut-how-the-coronavirus-crisis-killed-tailors-business/story-sVhfKNVacCLtANIdAeabGO.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal urges nation to go on a day’s hunger strike||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and people across the country to observe a day’s fast on Monday to show solidarity with groups of protesting farmers, who too will go on a hunger strike on that day.Kejriwal also urged the Central government to roll back the three contentious farm laws – which have triggered the protests — that were passed by the Parliament in September, and demanded a new Bill to ensure minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers be drafted at the earliest.Delhi-Jaipur highway partially opened amid farmers’ protest“I request all party (AAP) supporters and people across the country to observe fast for a day tomorrow (Monday) in solidarity with protesting farmers. I shall be observing a day’s fast too… Let’s support our farmers from our homes. I understand that it is not possible for many of us to be physically present at the (state) border points where the protesting farmer groups have gathered,” said the chief minister, in a video press briefing on Sunday.Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’He further said, “In the last few days, I have seen several ministers and BJP leaders calling the protesting farmers anti-national. I have a question for them: So many ex-servicemen, sports persons, artistes, doctors, lawyers, businessmen have been supporting the protests in some way or other – are they all anti-national? During the Anna Hazare-led anti-corruption movement in 2011, the Congress had done similar things to bring disrepute to the movement. The BJP is doing the same thing now.”Sanitation crisis amid Covid? Civic body leaders seek funds from Delhi govt“Some people claim that only few farmers from Punjab and Haryana are at the protest. It is their misconception…The new laws make hoarding legal. It will lead to inflation… I urge the Central government to leave behind their ego, roll back the three laws and prepare a new bill to ensure minimum support price for farmers,” said Kejriwal.Both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, however, dismissed Kejriwal’s allegations.BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also the leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said: “These are all baseless allegations. Which minister has ever said anything demeaning about farmers? Instead of doing such cheap politics, Arvind Kejriwal should focus on helping farmers in Delhi who are distressed because of road tax on tractors, high power bill charged on irrigation lines, no subsidies and not being able to get MSP on crops.”Mudit Agarwal, vice-president of Delhi Congress, said: “Arvind Kejriwal is twisting facts. He should first explain why his government notified one of the contentious laws, while the AAP is claiming to be in support of farmers. At one point, he wanted farmers to gather in Burari ground – much in lines with the plans of the BJP. As far as the Anna Hazare movement is concerned, it was Kejriwal who took support of the RSS politically. What happened to the Jan Lokpal Bill for Delhi? On the ongoing farmer’s issue, the Congress stands with the farmers of India. We demand that the three laws be repealed.”Earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Delhi convener Gopal Rai had said that several supporters of the party too would participate in a hunger strike in solidarity with farmers and stage peaceful demonstrations across Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-asks-party-workers-nation-to-fast-for-a-day-to-support-farmers/story-pJMCw1En2pjNjZo0JO3VtJ.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||At Singhu border, banners ask protesters to uphold dignity of stir||Several banners came up on Sunday at the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border requesting protesters not to indulge in any kind of “inappropriate activity” and to uphold the “dignity” of the movement.The move comes after a section of protesters at another protest site, the Tikri border, on Thursday, had held up posters demanding the release of political activists and intellectuals like Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Sudha Bharadwaj and Anand Teltumbde. While Khalid and Imam were arrested for their alleged involvement in the Delhi riots, Bharadwaj and Teltumbde were arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case and Bhima-Koregaon case, respectively.Pictures of these posters that went viral on social media had some people alleging that the farmers’ protest against the central government’s farm laws had been “hijacked”.On Sunday, one banner put up by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha -- a grouping of around 500 farmer organisations -- stated, “This is a peaceful and non-violent protest led by the farmers. We request everyone not to indulge in any inappropriate activity and do not raise provocative slogans.”Another banner read, “The farmers are conducting peaceful protests in different parts of the country. Kindly cooperate with them to uphold the dignity of their movement. They (farmers) are innocent and responsible for providing food to the nation.”A poster at the protest site read: “We do not know who is Umar Khalid, who is Sharjeel. Mr. Modi, we are farmers. Repeal our death warrant.”Kulwant Singh Sandhu, 65, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, and among the 35 farmer leaders holding talks with the Center, said, “The banners were put up on to make it clear that we, the protesting farmers, have nothing to do with what had happened at the Tikri border. We are here for a cause and that’s related to farmers only. We have not allowed any political, ideological, or religious leaders to use our protest from day one. And we are being portrayed in a negative light because of some people. We can’t allow this.”Farmer leaders said that they were also keeping a watch on posters that were coming up.For instance, on Sunday, protesters asked a group of poster-carrying students, reportedly from Jamia Millia Islamia, to leave from Ghazipur protest site. “They had come there to extend support to farmers but they were clearly told that this was a farmers-only protest. They left soon after,” said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction in UP, adding the protesters need to remain vigilant of “mischievous elements” among them.Protesters said they were disappointed at statements saying their movement had been “hijacked by the Left Maoists elements”. Surinder Kaur, 70, a farmer from Shahabana in Ludhiana, said, “The people of my village have been fighting for the rights of farmers for years.We don’t know who are Maoists or leftists. We are simple people who work hard for a living.”Agitating farmers also said that they were unnecessarily targeted for eating “pizza” or having “foot massagers” at the protest site. “Each and every ingredient used to make pizza is being produced by farmers starting from its base. Why can’t we eat it? There is a section of people who are just trying to trivialise our movement by unnecessarily criticing us,” said Harjeet Singh, 32, a farmer from Tarn Taran in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-singhu-banners-ask-protesters-to-uphold-dignity-of-movement/story-zYfp83Hxrk70qmdheVbj8O.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Traffic respite as highway on Chilla border reopened||Farmers protesting at the Chila border, which connects Delhi and Noida, on Sunday cleared the highway they had occupied for 12 days, allowing police to restore traffic between the two cities. The carriageway, which, goes to Delhi from Noida through the Chila border, had been shut since December 1 by farmer groups from Uttar Pradesh, and was opened early on Sunday, owing to “problems caused to commuters”, according to farmer’s union leaders. However, they said a group of farmers has stayed back and began an indefinite hunger strike as part of their agitations against the three contentious farm bills. Farm leader: Shah agreed not consulting farmers a mistakeMeanwhile, only one carriageway stayed open for traffic on the Delhi-Meerut expressway in Ghazipur, while seven other borders — Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in the outer and south-western parts of the city — were shut entirely.Satish Tomar, in-charge of the IT cell of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said “Police and senior officers requested us to clear the road... Our leaders took a decision, and keeping in mind the problems caused to the commuters and locals, we have cleared both the roads. We, along with police personnel, together removed the barricades and reopened the road.”Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’Tomar said 15-20 farmers, led by their state president, have stayed back for the hunger strike.Farmers have continued to occupy a lane near the central verge at the Gautam Buddha Dwar, on the Delhi-Noida border, slowing traffic moving towards Delhi from Noida.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said, “While traffic moving from Delhi to Noida is smooth as usual, incoming traffic is slow as the farmers continue to block a portion of the road. Sufficient security personnel have been deployed at the border to maintain law and order,” Singh said.At the Ghazipur border, traffic on the Delhi-Meerut expressway carriageway connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad remained unhindered, while the other continued to be completely blocked. The service lane on NH-24 that has been blocked since November 27, also remained closed for traffic on Sunday.Meanwhile, the Delhi traffic police continued to issue traffic advisories on its social media accounts.In one of its tweets early Sunday morning, after the Chila birder was opened, police said, “The Gazipur borders is closed for traffic from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests.People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via chilla, Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders.”In another tweet, advising commuters to take the diverted routes to avoid snarls, police said, “Available open borders to Haryana are the following -- Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chila-border-delhi-noida-road-reopened-after-farmers-clear-out/story-HEg5QXA10KSeXKEFnLj9EO.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers to fast for a day, gathering at Singhu swells||The farmers’ unions, leading protests at the borders of the national capital against the three new farm laws, on Sunday announced that the leaders of all farmer organisations will observe a day-long hunger strike on Monday (December 14) as part of their ongoing agitation. The farmers said that protests will also be held in other parts of the country.Addressing a press conference at Singhu border on Sunday evening, farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that the hunger strike will be held between 8 am to 5 pm. “The leaders of all farmers associations protesting against the new farm laws will observe a hunger strike on Monday demanding complete repeal of the laws. They will observe the strike from their respective places. Besides, dharnas will be held at all district headquarters across the country on Monday,” he said.Govt made record payments under MGNREGS this yearThe unions also disassociated themselves from a delegation of farmers from Uttarakhand, who met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday and extended their support to the three new laws. “Those who met the minister have nothing to do with farming. Some of the farmers who were present in the meeting have other businesses too. They have been brought here from Uttarakhand by a political leader,” said another farmer leader Jasbir Singh.On Sunday, the protests continued across Delhi borders with more farmers joining the stir at Singhu. Among those who had arrived on Sunday, was a group of 40 people, including 15 women, from Ludhiana. Hargovind Singh, 50, said, “Many people from our village and neighbouring villages are already here participating in the protest. We also wanted to be a part of this historic fight for our rights. We saw many trucks and trolleys heading towards Delhi on the way.”Earlier in the day, around 10 trolleys, from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Kapurthalan, also managed to come a little ahead of the space where the farmers are sitting.Kejriwal asks party workers, nation to fast for a day to support farmersJugraaj Singh, a farmer from Jalandhar, said, “The number of protesters are increasing day by day and hence we have to expand the space here. That’s why some of us tried to move forward.” However, they were stopped by the police near the petrol pump and heavy barricading was done to restrict any further movement. Jitender Kumar Meena, additional deputy commissioner of police, said some trucks and tractors of the farmers camping at Singhu border had returned back and some new groups in trucks and tractors arrived at Singhu late on Saturday night and Sunday morning. “These farmers have joined the protest. We continue to maintain adequate arrangement in place. The situation has been peaceful,” he said.Chila border: Delhi-Noida road reopened after farmers clear outThe protesters were seen shouting slogans against the government, singing songs, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage, throughout the day at the borders. A group of supporters visiting Singhu border on Sunday, including Harpreet Singh, a class 11 student at a private school in Ramesh Nagar, were seen cleaning the protest site. “Thousands of people are visiting here everyday and there is no limit of food being distributed to everyone here that’s why there’s so much garbage. It’s not good for the health of protesters. So, as I decided to pick plastic waste and bottles as my contribution to the protest,” he said.A group of artists from Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA) were also seen making posters and banners in support of farmers at the border on Sunday. Manish, a member of the group, said, “If there will be no farmers, there won’t be any food or any future.”The protest site at the Ghazipur border remained peaceful on Sunday with the farmer groups spending most of their day delivering speeches, raising slogans against the newly passed farm bills, and cooking and distributing food at langars. As the number of farmers at Ghazipur on Sunday remained limited, those camping at the border said that many other groups from different parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are on their way to join the agitation. “From here, our agitation will only strengthen. More farmer brothers are on their way to join us and strengthen the movement. Our stand has been clear since day one that we want the law to be repealed,” said Rajender Kumar, a farmer from Bulandshahr.Police deployment also remained adequate on Sunday at Ghazipur border with senior police officers taking stock of the situation. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said they are continuously monitoring the situation. “Our forces, along with UP police as well as the paramilitary personnel, are deployed in the area. Farmers are continuing their protests peacefully,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-to-fast-for-a-day-to-protest-against-the-new-laws/story-3CBkwy88qSH8WeqAUVPI5I.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||After niggling troubles, DU students to get an extra hour to upload scripts||Delhi University (DU) officials on Sunday said second and third-year students appearing in the ongoing online open-book exams (OBE) will be allowed an extra hour to submit their answer scripts should they need it, after niggling troubles plagued examinees on the first day of the tests. Earlier, students were allowed four hours to download the question paper, complete the exam, and upload the answer script. Now, students will have five hours to complete the entire process. The second set of open-book exams will be held on Monday, when the order comes into effect.Sunday’s announcement comes after several students, on the first day of the exams on Saturday, complained of troubles while uploading answer scripts. However, the notification ratifying the move, also specified that students who make use of the additional time will need to prove they were unable to submit their scripts within the first four hours, and will need to upload screenshots of the delays or errors.“Screenshots of the failure in uploading answer sheets are recorded by the students after making four-five attempts by way of taking screenshots of the screen and submitting along with the script and saving all such records,” DU dean of examinations DS Rawat said in the notification issued on Sunday. In the event that students are still unable to upload the answer script within five hours, the University has allowed them to mail their papers to the nodal officers of their respective colleges. The email should be sent within 10 minutes of the five-hours elapsing, and students will have to send screenshots of failed attempts to upload the answer on the portal.“Emails sent by students prior to the completion of five hours shall not be accepted,” the notification added. The University has warned students of a possible delay in the results of exams for which answer scripts are sent over mail. “Answer scripts submitted through email in such exceptional cases would entail a delay in result declaration as happened during OBE-1 unlike the answer scripts submitted through online OBE portal,” Rawat said in the notification.The varsity’s decision to conduct OBE as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic was met with staunch opposition from several students and faculty members. Despite this, these exams were held for the university’s 260,000 final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students between August 10 and 31. Several final-year UG students had alleged a delay in the announcement of results and also reported errors in their results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-students-to-get-an-extra-hour-to-submit-online-open-book-exams-answer-scripts/story-3OdxXbpN0wUu7A0KkdLxiI.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Personal finance: Investing in times of Covid-19||Covid-19 pandemic has made us feel uncertain about many things; most indicators suggest that the economy has bottomed out and the jury is still out about its recovery. When the stock market crashed between February 20 and April 7 (many referred to this as the coronavirus crash) several people took their money out of equity mutual funds to invest in fixed deposits (FD), ignoring the long-term prospect of wealth creation that corrections allow. The predisposition towards capital protection and income certainty pushes more people to lock away their money in FDs even though interest rates have fallen sharply in the past year. However, not all FDs are the same.FDs are great financial instruments to invest in. But not all FDs are the same nor is it beneficial to invest in them for long periods. Though deemed the safest among all investments, it makes sense to check the pros and cons before buying one. Here are a few things to keep in mind.Go for scheduled banks Scheduled banks work as per the rules mandated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). People flock to scheduled public sector and major private banks for their FDs and avoid non-scheduled banks like private or small finance banks, even though they may offer high slab rates. However, with amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, co-operative banks are now under the supervision of the RBI. “The amendments are expected to facilitate the making of reconstruction or amalgamation schemes. Earlier, the RBI introduced exposure limits, mandating reporting of large exposures to the Central Repository of Information on Large Credits. These steps are expected to improve the governance situation that ails several co-operative banks,” Adhil Shetty, chief executive officer, BankBazaar, an online market place for financial products and check the credit score, said. As the funds are insured separately, deposits of up to ₹5 lakh are covered in case of a collapse.Avoid investing for long periods of timeThe slowdown in the economy has caused market interest rates to fall. However, with anticipated economic revival, credit demand is expected to increase post-pandemic, thus prompting a rise in market rates. Opening FDs for a long tenure now may lock your FDs with low-interest rates for a long time, said Sahil Arora, director, Paisabazaar.com, which provides virtual debt syndication services plus business support system of banks and financial institution. Instead, he advises depositors to invest in shorter duration FDs. “Depositors should prefer FD tenures of one to two years even if they have financial goals of longer time horizons. This will allow them to re-invest their FDs at higher rates later, as and when the interest-rate cycle turns, without resorting to premature withdrawals,” he said. Besides, investors have to pay penalty ranging between 0.5 and 1% of the interest amount if they withdraw the money prior to the maturity date.Taxable elementsMany FD investors believe that their tax liability ends with payment of Tax Deducted at Source. However, the income earned as interest on the FDs is taxable barring the interest income up to ₹50,000 earned by senior citizens. Suresh Sadagopan, founder, Ladder7 Financial Advisories, a professional financial planning and wealth advisory firm, said, “Most people only look at gross returns and not post-tax returns. FDs attract tax at one’s income slab rates and one must factor this before deciding to invest.” Archit Gupta, founder of ClearTax, an online e-Filing website said that factoring income tax liability is important. “The interest earned on FDs is added to your overall income and taxed at the income tax slab rate you fall under. This is of a great disadvantage if you fall in the highest tax bracket,” he said.FDs are an essential component of an investment portfolio. There is no right time to put aside money in FDs, which means that you can always allocate a portion of your savings in them. However, do not put all your money in FDs as they are other financial instruments that can help grow and save your money.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/investing-in-times-of-covid-19/story-vsW5PSLTaLCuVSoZZuSJNO.html
14-12-2020||Delhi||‘Sanitation crisis ahead if AAP dues remain unpaid’: Delhi’s mayors||Delhi’s mayors, who are protesting outside the residence of Delhi chief minister, on Sunday said if the government does not pay the money it owes to the three municipal corporations, it may lead to a sanitation crisis in the Capital with their staff threatening to go on strike. The mayors of the three civic bodies have been sitting outside the CM’s house for the past seven days, demanding funds as per the recommendations of the Delhi finance commissions. They claim the bodies do not have funds to pay their staff and it may lead to protests and strike. However, the government has maintained it does not owe any money to the civic bodies. North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said, “The three corporations have 70,000 sanitation staff, and we lift close to 10,000 metric tonnes of waste and 100 metric tonnes of biomedical waste. But we have not been able to pay them on time. Does the AAP government want a sanitation crisis in the midst of a pandemic... Our sanitation and medical staff will go on strike if we don’t release their salaries.”Sanitation crisis amid Covid? Civic body leaders seek funds from Delhi govt The North MCD mayor also refuted allegations that Rs 2,400 crore was misappropriated by the north body, an inquiry into which has been ordered by the Delhi government. “They (Delhi government) are levelling baseless allegations. We want them to complete the inquiry in the next seven days and if any misappropriation of funds is found, I will resign. But if they will not be able to establish any misappropriation, then Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should resign,” said Prakash. The mayors also said that despite the fact that they were sitting outside the CM’s house in protest, the government has not initiated a dialogue. Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), said, “We have been sitting here for the past seven days and the CM is not concerned. He has not even called us for a meeting. They are just playing politics at a time when we all need to work together.” The AAP called the protest by the mayors an attempt by the BJP to divert the attention from the ongoing protest by the farmers on Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws that seek to open up agricultural trade. On Friday, the AAP government had ordered an inquiry into the alleged misappropriation of over ₹2,400 crore by the North MCD. AAP leaders also demanded a CBI inquiry into it. South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh said they will not leave the protest site till the funds were released. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “In a democracy, state governments have to listen to the concerns of municipal corporations despite political differences. The mayors are sitting outside the CM’s residence for the employees and not for themselves. The least Kejriwal can do is to listen to their concern.” The AAP said the BJP-ruled corporations were interested in only harassing Arvind Kejriwal. “Even the mayors of BJP-ruled MCDs know that their protest is only an excuse by their high-command to harass CM Arvind Kejriwal and distract from the issue of nationwide farmers protests. The mayors are well aware that Delhi government has given all the funds due and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the MCDs are facing financial ruin. Since they have decided to only protest rather than govern, it is best they resign and let AAP run the MCDs. We will run the MCDs efficiently and within the same budget,” the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/will-resign-if-probe-finds-misappropriation-else-cm-should-quit-north-mcd-mayor/story-TcRztCD9iBUWlhFEXiQYlO.html
14-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers’ protest holds up traffic from Gurugram to interstate border on Delhi-Jaipur highway||Over 500 farmers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana and members of trade unions on Sunday morning blocked the Delhi-Jaipur highway at the Shahjahanpur interstate border in Rajasthan as the police did not let them enter Haryana. Hundreds of commuters were stuck on both carriageways of the highway for around five hours, before the police removed the barricades and let commuters move towards Delhi, and then towards Jaipur.The border remained heavily congested between 1pm and 6pm, while the movement of vehicles remained slow on the entire 86-kilometre stretch, from the Sirhaul border in Gurugram till Shahjahanpur, due to a five-layer police deployment at each traffic junction. Heavy police deployment was seen at Sirhaul, Bilaspur, Panchgaon, Manesar, Sidhrawali, Bawal, Rewari and Bhiwadi.Various farmers’ organisations in Rajasthan and Haryana had joined the agitation on the call of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and had started gathering at the Shahjahanpur border, in Alwar district, on Sunday morning.The protesting farmers staged a dharna at the border point, on the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur national highway, as the police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi. The protesters said they are expecting more farmers to join them on Monday to march towards Delhi, even if the police take action against them.A large number of protesters were seen camping on the service roads during the day. However, many of the protesters returned to their homes in adjoining villages and will return on Monday to resume the protests, said farm leaders.A large contingent of police personnel was deployed at the border and jersey barriers were used to create barricades on the stretch. Although no violence was reported, the police said they will deploy teams during the night as well, as a precautionary measure, to ensure that farmers do not cross the stretch.Swaraj India leader and political activist Yogendra Yadav joined the protesters at Shahjahanpur on Sunday morning. He addressed the farmers and said that if they are not allowed to cross the border, they will sit on dharna on the road, in support of the farmers. “We want to join the farmers in Delhi, but we are not allowed to cross Gurugram, due to which we will extend our support sitting here,” he said.Farmers from Rajasthan had gathered at Kotputli and Behror early morning and had marched till Shahjahanpur border. Yadav said that their plan is to join the farmers who are protesting at Tikri and Singhu borders in Delhi.Hannan Mollah, CPI(M) politburo member and general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, and Medha Patkar, the founder-member of Narmada Bachao Andolan, a people’s movement, were also seen addressing farmers.“The farmers have reached Delhi and others are trying to tell the government that these farm acts are not wanted by them and that they never demanded it,” said Mollah.As a preventive step, the Haryana and Rajasthan administrations sealed all their major borders and imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Apart from the police, personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) were also deployed at the border.“The police personnel at all borders are equipped with water cannons, cranes, JCBs and anti-riot equipment to control the situation if any untoward incident is reported. We have stationed teams at all major intersections and routes connecting to other districts and villages across the national highway to stop farmers from entering Gurugram jurisdiction,” said Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar).Commuters who were driving to Jaipur tried to take a U-turn due to the traffic situation but faced difficulties due to the dividers on the highway. Many commuters helped each other and made temporary arrangements with help of bricks and mud to create a makeshift bridge to take a U-turn. “We left Gurugram around 11am and the route was clear. Upon reaching Bawal, we got stuck in traffic and for the last four hours, we have not even moved two kilometres. My twin daughters are not keeping well and my father is seriously ill, and we were travelling to Jaipur to meet him. We will have to return to Gurugram due to the current situation, as we don’t know if there would be more blockades on the stretch,” said Nikhil Kumar a resident of Sector 45 in Gurugram.Another family of three members was stuck for more than three hours due to the congestion. “It is only after reaching Bawal that we saw the protest. The farmers should not block the highway. Instead, they should protest on service lanes so that commuters do not face inconvenience. It is so inconvenient for the women, who all are dressed up for a wedding,” said Rahul Ahuja, a businessman from Panipat, who was going to Jaipur to attend a wedding.Commuters on both sides were using only one carriageway, which led to traffic congestion. The police intervened to create a passage.The move by farmers’ union to block the Jaipur-Delhi highway comes amid protests by thousands of farmers for the last 17 days at various other border points of the national capital, including Singhu and Tikri, against the farm laws that were passed during the monsoon session of the Parliament.The Gurugram police had deployed more than 2,300 personnel on the stretch. The police had blocked the expressway starting at Bilaspur and diverted traffic through the service lane. The barricades were removed in the evening, around 5pm, by which time the number of protesters had also dwindled to around 100 farmers at the spot.Rashid Ahmad, a social activist and lawyer from Nuh, said more than 400 people from Nuh have taken part in this protest and will march towards Delhi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-protest-holds-up-traffic-from-gurugram-to-interstate-border-on-delhi-jaipur-highway/story-yob4K9eQ2KFy730KzxaBgM.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 638 fresh Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department reported 638 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday and seven deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.62 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.37 lakh have recovered, 7,661 have been reported dead and 16,896 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 294 new cases taking the total count to 1,84,503 and one death took the death toll to 4,361, while PCMC reported 162 new cases taking the final count to 90,911 and one death took the death toll to 1,257. Pune rural reported 182 new cases taking the final count to 86,898 and five deaths took the death toll to 2,008, according to the state health department.The department reported that 3,083 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 17.57 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 93.44%. Also, 3,717 new cases in the state were reported on Sunday taking the total to over 18.80 lakh.In addition, 70 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 49,307. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.56%. Out of 1,17,02,457 laboratory samples, 18,80,416 have been tested positive (16.07%) for COVID19 until today. • Currently 5,12,587 people are in home quarantine and 4,403 people are in institutional quarantine..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-753-fresh-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-in-24-hours/story-gnY5fwWFUzRVqmkBZLFvrJ.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Viaduct connecting Vanaz depot with Metro line complete; track laying will be done by February||PUNE As workers return in full strength, the Pune Metro’s viaduct, connecting the Hill View Park car depot at Vanaz with the Metro rail line has been completed, Maha Metro officials said on Sunday.Earlier last week, Maha-Metro completed most the crucial part of the construction of a viaduct wing for the entry-exit of the Metro at the depot. The depot itself is also almost ready. Hemant Sonawane, general manager of Pune Metro, said, “The work is in progress. We will complete the necessary portion of the depot which will be required for the trial of the Garware to Vanaz depot stretch.” According to Sonawane, there are multiple other components under the Vanaz metro route which may take time to be completed, while the track laying will be done by February. “Stabling lines, which are required to park the train in the depot, will be completing in a few days. The depot has many components of which the stabling line is one of part,” said Sonawane. The depot will cater to a five km priority stretch of Vanaz to Garware College in the first phase. The trial run be in March 2021. The Vanaz Metro depot is coming up on 12.2 hectares and is a crucial part of line 2 - Vanaz to Ramwadi. The total length of line-2 is 14.67km, which will be a fully elevated metro line. It consists of 16 stations Vanza (depot), Anandnagar, Ideal colony, Nal Stop, Garware college, Deccan Gymkhana, Sambhaji Garden, PMC civil court, Mangalwar peth, Pune Railway station, Ruby hall clinic, Bund garden, Yerwada, Kalyaninagar and Ramwadi. Vanaz depot has 15 stabling lines which will be used for parking. There will be one test track, apart from 12 tracks for three coaches. There are three inspection lines and two workshop repairs lines. Vanaz depot Part of Line 2 - Vanaz to Ramwadi Depot total area -1 2.2 hectares15 stabling lines 1 test track3 inspection lines2 workshop repair linesThe depot includes:Engineering train unitReceiving substationPit wheelTreatment plantSewage treatment plant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/viaduct-connecting-vanaz-depot-with-metro-line-complete-track-laying-will-be-done-by-february/story-zCsHHkLvFgVQt0BVIouLbM.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Senior citizen groups on high alert after Kothrud attack on elderly couple||Several agencies providing personnel to service myriad needs in the city are on high alert, along with a host of groups of senior citizens themselves, after personnel from one such agency attacked and robbed a senior couple in Kothrud recently. The four involved in the attack are under arrest.“When we heard about the incident it shocked us and we are worried that many of the members of our senior citizen groups stay alone at home. We decided to create an alert and accordingly a message was sent to all our group members. Often elderly people who are in need of help appoint a caretaker without any proper enquiry. This is risky for them and police verification is necessary, so we have now told all our members to be extra cautious while keeping a caretaker or domestic help,” said Kalapana B, president of Subhashnagar Senior Citizens group. In the Kothrud case, the couple’s son stays in USA and daughter stays in Bavdhan. Both were living alone. Taking advantage of it a caretaker was appointed and later on it was found that he was involved in the robbery. Sudhir Purandare, a senior citizen from Sahakarnagar, said, “Me and my wife stay alone in a big bungalow and we have two caretakers working at house. One of them left job during the lockdown and now we want to hire one again. But after looking at such incidents we are scared, but at the same time can’t we are helpless to do the daily household works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-groups-on-high-alert-after-kothrud-attack-on-elderly-couple/story-lBlgaK8s4RaJgaaIaKrtpI.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Restrictions on unreserved bookings for passenger trains eased: Pune–Daund shuttle in demand||For at least 10,000 train passengers travelling daily on the Pune–Daund route, are expecting that the daily Pune – Daund shuttle (diesel electric multiple unit -DEMU) train begin operations after the railway board, on Sunday, announced that all restrictions on unreserved train bookings for passenger trains will be removed from Monday, December 14.Until now, under the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, travel by train required a reserved ticket.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the central railways (CR) said, “As the railway board has removed the restrictions on unreserved tickets, soon ticketing from automatic ticket vending machines (ATVM) will start. Discussions are going on about starting of other passengers trains.” “There are thousands of people working in emergency services between Daund and Pune - like government offices, banks, the police department, blood banks, hospitals and several other services. The number of passengers travelling between the cities 10,000, so it is necessary that the shuttle DEMU train service be started immediately,” said Vikas Deshpande, secretary, Daund-Pune-Daund Pravasi Sangh. The DEMU train service between Pune and Daund, inaugurated in March, 2017, by the then union railway minister Suresh Prabhu, is a 76-km route with 10 halts– Hadapsar, Manjari Budruk, Loni, Uruli Kanchan, Yavat, Khutbao, Kedgaon, Kadethan, Patas and Daund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restrictions-on-unreserved-bookings-for-passenger-trains-eased-pune-daund-shuttle-in-demand/story-bYzSTe5nt09bgicZCQBT7L.html
14-12-2020||Pune||PMC’s Rs 300-cr road plan to link suburbs with heart of city||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) road department, on Sunday, unveiled a plan to develop road connectivity from Pune’s suburb to the main city areas. According to officials, the 2021-22 civic budget will have an allotment of Rs 300 crore for development of these roads. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have observed that the municipal corporation is spending funds on certain roads in old city areas. So, we have decided to focus on developing DP roads and missing links in the coming year. We have estimated an amount for that. At the same time, we have also proposed funds to build a road network for areas recently merged within the PMC limits.” The road department of PMC every year has budget of at least Rs 500 crore.The civic body is in the process of proposing Rs 140 crore for constructing 50 roads in 2021-22 budget.The length of the roads will be around 30km with work consists of widening of existing and developing of missing links. Civic activists have welcomed the move saying most development should now take place in suburbs.Ashish Mane, a civic activist said, “Actually, development of DP roads and missing links should take on a priority. The civic administration has so far focused on the main city areas and spent too much money on redesign and beautification on existing stretches like Jangli Maharaj road and Fergusson College roads. There are suburbs where people want roads. Every citizen is paying tax and s/he has right to get basic facilities like roads. Only some parts of the city have become ‘smart’ and other areas are still waiting for development.” Proposed budget for 11 villages now under PMC limits For the newly merged villages the plan includes development of 23 roads of around 15km. The road department wants Rs 60 core to develop 23 roads here. The department will strengthen and widen roads in the newly merged villages, with laying of storm-water lines culverts and small bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-rs-300-cr-road-connectivity-plan-to-link-suburbs-with-heart-of-city/story-BX7JWYVlTo6M94IZPakmBI.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Unidentified person booked for emails on minor sent to dad, school principal||An unidentified person has been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Saturday for sending emails to a minor girl’s father and the principal of her school over the past few months.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the teenage girl’s 43-year-old mother.The girl received death threats from the same man while the parents and the principal received an email with illicit details about the girl.The man also suggested in his emails that the girl die by suicide, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 354 (d) (stalking) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 67 and 67(a) of Information Technology Act, 2000 has been registered at Bhosari MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-person-booked-for-emails-on-minor-sent-to-dad-school-principal/story-55UCDlaOltaLnP2iQCHQHP.html
14-12-2020||Pune||Despite court order... ‘White elephant’ sits locked and bolted on Pune’s Ambil Odha floodline for 17 years||PUNE A sports complex constructed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on the Ambil Odha riverbed in Sahakarnagar has been lying under lock and key for the past 17 years.RTI activist Vijay Kumbhar knocked on the doors of the court regarding the construction, deemed in his plea as illegal, after which the court had directed the collector to conduct an inquiry in 2003. However, not action has been taken so far. “We had petitioned the court on the grounds of illegal and unauthorised construction, after which the court asked the district collector to take action. However, no action has been taken for the past 17 years,” said Kumbhar.Corporator Aba Bagul said, “We are taking steps for reopening of the sports complex. Proper arrangements for release of water from the Ambil Odha during the monsoons need to be done. Tenders for construction of a safety wall along the stream have been sanctioned and the work will begin soon.” Corporator Mahesh Wable said, “The entire structure is in the floodline. Floods have been rampant during past two years .” Social worker Rupesh Ture said, “The problem has been created by the elected representatives who are responsible for the current conditions. The basic issues have remained unsolved till date.” Additional Municipal Commissioner ( Special ) Suresh Jagtap said, “The project has been closed for a long time after some people went to court over some legal issue. Since then it is shut.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-court-order-white-elephant-sits-locked-and-bolted-on-ambil-odha-floodline-for-17-years/story-PoMtX1Q0C6EqNZlPdQzTrI.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai doctors turn to their hobbies to beat Covid-19 pandemic stress||For doctors working on the frontline, the strain of working through a pandemic has been immense, but it has also led many to find solace in creative pursuits like painting, poetry, dancing, singing and cooking. Dr Kartik Parelkar, 39, an ear-nose-throat (ENT) surgeon with the state-run Sir JJ Hospital, revived his childhood hobby of painting to combat the stress of being on Covid duty. “Being an ENT surgeon, we are the most vulnerable to acquiring the infection while treating a patient,” he said. Dr Parelkar unwinds by painting wildlife scenes. “The colours relax my mind and make me forget the worries. I get lost into the wilderness when I paint the animals,” he said. Dr Anmon Bhargava, 24, is a postgraduate student at the Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College (GSMC) (also known as KEM Hospital). Bhargava has set up a recording studio in her hostel room to record songs. “To divert my mind from worries, I started singing when the lockdown was declared in March,” she said. Dr Bhargava mixes her own songs and uploads them to her YouTube channel, which currently has 152 subscribers. “This has turned into my biggest stress buster,” she said.Dr Ganesh Choudhari, 38, an anaesthetic from Solapur, makes humorous comic strips that are inspired by what he sees around him in hospital while on duty. “This not only relaxes my mind after work, but also brings a smile to people’s faces amidst the chaos,” said Dr Choudhari who uploads his comics on Twitter.Dr Harsh Jain, 27, from the medicine department of KEM Hospital has recently started writing poems drawing on his experiences during the pandemic. “One night after a mentally draining day at the hospital, I started writing down my thoughts in the form of poems and gradually, this habit lifted my mood. It is healing,” said Dr Jain.In September, Daisy Fancourt, associate professor of behavioural science and health at University College London in the United Kingdom, published a study that found people who participated in arts-related activities for at least 30 minutes a day reported lower rates of anxiety and depression. City psychiatrists also believe creative activities can be therapeutic. “The simplest form of creativity like gardening, cooking … can cheer [someone] up. It might help soothe some feelings of anxiety and isolation associated with the pandemic,” said psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-turn-to-their-hobbies-to-beat-covid-19-pandemic-stress/story-VlDytIcKsqtwAIDiRpRyqJ.html
14-12-2020||Mumbai||At 64, Mumbai resident clears BA in Economics, Sociology||Nearly half a decade after he passed his senior secondary certificate (SSC) exam, 64-year-old Harish Das, a retired advertising professional from the city cleared his final-year Bachelor of Arts (BA) examination from the University of Mumbai (MU) recently. Das, who cleared his BA exam in Economics and Sociology from the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), went back to academics nearly 36 years after a failed attempt at completing his graduation. “I passed my SSC inter exam as it was called back then in 1972 but could not continue my education due to the circumstances at home. For the next 14 years or so, I continued doing odd jobs until I finally came across a good Samaritan who helped me get a job as a clerk with an advertising firm. In between, I enrolled for BA through IDOL and completed two years but couldn’t complete the third due to my job. Despite not having a graduate degree, through my work and sincerity, I could rise as an advertising consultant and finally retired from my job with an ad agency in 2015,” he said. It was after he retired that Das decided to give himself another chance at academics. “All these years, not having a graduate degree had taken a toll on my self-esteem as wherever I went, people remarked, ‘oh you are not a graduate?’ Even in my professional career, I did not get promotions because I did not have a graduation degree. I was motivated to ace the exam some time or the other,” the Goregaon resident added. Das then enrolled for the course in 2019 and appeared for the examination in October this year, in the online mode due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. He said he studied on his own with no tutor or coaching as such. “I only used the university notes and my experience, and applied a lot of general knowledge that I had gained over the years while writing my papers,” Das said. As the university declared its results recently, he was elated to find out that he had passed with 42%. “Some said the score is less, but for me, it was a big achievement to do something that I could not do all these years,” he added. Das’s 28-year-old son Tarun, who works as a media director with an ad agency, said that he was proud of his father. “I was also sceptical when he said he wanted to go back to studies. We all know how difficult it is to study when you have professional commitments. But he was determined, and he studied until 2-,3am, while I was working to ensure that he does well in the exam. We are very happy for him,” he added. In the coming days, Das plans to pursue his MA from the university and is determined to work hard. “I know that a degree is not necessarily a certificate of knowledge but, I want to study and be able to say that I have learnt things formally and also teach others to do the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-64-mumbai-resident-clears-ba-in-economics-sociology/story-kjkzKJ8jDqWncwKiL9tRfO.html
