15-12-2020||Mumbai||Former CM Devendra Fadnavis slams Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government over opposing farm laws||Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the Assembly, on Tuesday slammed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over opposing the Centre’s contentious farm laws. He said most provisions in the three legislations are already implemented in Maharashtra, but the ruling parties — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — are opposing the laws of the Centre for “politics”. Fadnavis said during the United Progress Alliance (UPA) rule at the Centre, the then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar had approved a committee’s report that recommended encouraging participation of private players in the farm sector “The MVA government is doing politics on farm legislations brought by the Centre, as Maharashtra was the first state to implement the reforms in the agriculture marketing sector; allowed contractual farming and private APMCs. The same provisions are part of the farm laws, but the state government is opposing them,” Fadnavis said. Referring to Pawar, who has demanded the withdrawal of the laws, Fadnavis said in the former union minister in his autobiography has insisted that farmers should be allowed to sell their produce wherever they want to. “As a farmer from Baramati when you force me to sell my produce to Mumbai-based APMC then you are forcing me to spend an additional 17% to commission agents. This compulsion needs to be removed and I should be allowed to sell the produce anywhere in the state,” Fadnavis said, quoting the autobiography.The former chief minister said Singh and Pawar had formed a committee headed by the then state minister Harshwardhan Patil on March 2, 2010, to bring in the reforms. The committee, comprising ministers from other states, then submitted its report, which was also approved by the Centre.“Under the present system, the marketable surplus of one area moves out to the consumption centres through the network of middlemen and traders and institutional agencies… The regulatory provision needs to undergo change by providing a free hand to the private sector to its own operator, managing the market’s alternate marketing system with backward and forward linkages. The government may at best formulate rules of the game for the market. The role of government should be of a facilitator only,” Fadnavis said, quoting the committee’s report.The BJP leader also hit out at the MVA government over their decision to shift the Metro car shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg, saying it will delay the project by more than four years and will cost the state an additional expenditure of ₹5,000 crore. Objecting to the state’s decision of tweaking the original plan, Fadnavis said the decision was made even after an expenditure of ₹100 crore. He said Durga Shanker Mishra, Union secretary for ministry of housing and urban affairs, too, has written a letter to the state government expressing his concern over the decision. The opposition leader also said the Maratha community is dismayed over the stay on their quota. “The community is reeling under uncertainty and protesting across the state. Police are detaining their leaders, resisting them from protesting and this is happening for the first time. On the other hand, there is confusion among OBCs as they fear that their reservation will be affected. Government needs to clarify its stand on this,” he said.Fadnavis further said the government has been boasting about effective handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, but 35%-40% of the deaths in the country have been reported in the state. The procurement of medicines and equipment and building of Covid centres is “rattled in corruption”. “Orders were issued without tendering, a few select have benefited out of them,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-cm-devendra-fadnavis-slams-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-government-over-opposing-farm-laws/story-odSNVWVpYp5X1iwUCPm4KP.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP’s Ambala mayoral candidate fails to file nomination papers||Dr Vandana Sharma, the joint mayoral candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jannayak Janata Party for the Ambala municipal corporation could not file her nomination papers at the additional deputy commissioner’s (ADC) office on Tuesday, the penultimate day of the filing process, because of problems related to signatures.Dr Sharma, who is also district chairperson of the child welfare committee, said “My proposer, an advocate, had some confusion about the signature on a document, so we’ll furnish them (papers) on Wednesday at 11 am.”  SDM-cum-returning officer Sachin Gupta confirmed that Sharma had left the ADC’s office. However, mayoral candidates of other parties, including the Congress’s Meena Aggarwal and Gurmeet Kaur of the Ambala Vikas Manch, filed their papers, he addedDr Sharma was accompanied to the ADC’s office by former state BJP chief and party incharge for the polls Subhash Barala, state minister Kamlesh Dhanda, MLA Aseem Goel, district chief Rajesh Batoura and other party leaders. The leaders also attended a rally here before the nominations. Seventeen candidates from different parties including four independents also filed their papers to respective assistant returning officers (AROs). Gupta also said that eligible voters who had filed their names after November 16 this for the assembly electoral rolls had been approved and voter IDs issued to them. “Such voters can submit form A before the returning officer for inclusion in the voter list for MC elections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-s-ambala-mayoral-candidate-fails-to-file-nomination-papers/story-mzqzjUGw0NYo6t5kaQ5iDP.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi man shot dead in Raghubir Nagar, one held||A 30-year-old man was shot dead in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar late Monday night by four unidentified men. On Tuesday, police arrested one of the accused who was caught on CCTV camera footage allegedly dragging the body of the man before fleeing the spot after the murder. Efforts to arrest the rest and to ascertain the reason behind the murder are in progress, police said.The arrested man was identified as Deepak Shukla, a resident of Shivaji Enclave in Raghubir Nagar who worked as a local area financer. Police said they got a call late Monday night from the Guru Gobind Singh Hospital reporting that a man had been admitted with gunshot injury and pronounced dead.At the hospital, police found that the deceased, Gaurav Mahto, 30, was also a resident of the same area. During enquiry, police found an eyewitness who told them that around 8.30pm on Monday, he, Gaurav and two of their friends were partying at one of their houses in Raghubir Nagar.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the witness told police that about half-an-hour later, four men arrived and started an argument with one of their friends. “During the argument the men also fired 2-3 gunshots in the air to scare them. Seeing this, Mahto intervened and one of them then opened fire at him. As he collapsed, the men fled the spot. One of them, later identified as Deepak Shukla, however, stopped for a while and dragged Mahto’s body out, abandoning it on the roadside,” the DCP said.During investigation, police teams checked CCTV camera footage from the area and the man who had dragged the body was identified. “He was identified and raids were conducted at his possible hideouts. We managed to zero in on him within 12 hours of the murder and he was arrested,” Purohit said.Shukla is being questioned and efforts to arrest the other men involved in the murder and to ascertain the reason behind the murder are underway, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-shot-dead-in-raghubir-nagar-one-held/story-KUnCtBbTdK7R5P6EAbqsdP.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Employee held for stealing ₹1.5 lakh from footwear store||An 18-year-old employee of a footwear store in Field Gunj was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing Rs 1.5 lakh from the shop. Police have recovered Rs 44 ,000 from him.The accused has been identified as Ajay Kumar of Azad Nagar, Dhuri Line. The victim, Jaspal Singh, 57, of Dhandra road, Durgi, stated in his complaint that Kumar was working at the shop for five years and was the only employee.Singh said he had locked the main gate of the shop on Monday night before going home. However, the accused had intentionally kept the back door unlocked, from where he entered the shop and stole the money, after breaking the cash box, he said.ASI Kulveer Singh said Kumar has confessed and said he was planning to commit the theft for the last few weeks. He has also said that two other people are also involved in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-employee-held-for-stealing-1-5-lakh-from-footwear-store/story-edQH89tUmXfpZfsizJxl0H.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: 26 women farm labourers join stir at UP Gate||A group of 26 women from Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur, who work in the agricultural fields, have joined the farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border, where the land owning farmers who provided them employment themselves are camping for the past 20 days. The eldest among the new protesters is 80-year-old Ramkali, who, the women said, inspired them all to join the protest. “We work in the fields of the farmers who are part of this protest. The battle that our employers are fighting is our fight as well, since farming is our main occupation and we also consider ourselves farmers or children of farmers. There was no point sitting at home and waiting for farmers to protest and resolve our issues. We have come here to strengthen their agitation,” said Ramkali, sitting on mattresses spread on the road at UP Gate. Most of these women said they were debt-ridden and their only source of income -- the wages they got for working in the fields either as sharecroppers or labourers -- has been affected because their employers are protesting at Delhi’ borders. Many said they earlier owned land but had to sell it under financial duress.The 26 women were accompanied by four children, all aged between five and 12 years, and eight men. They all arrived on Sunday at the border in a tractor trolley covered with tarpaulin sheets to turn it into a makeshift home. Apart from mattresses, the women have also brought along hay to keep warm. Sitting inside the tractor with other women and eating halwa served in the langar, 58-year-old Madhuri Kushwaha, said, “My family owned a small piece of agricultural land. We sold it four years ago for my husband’s treatment. I also took ₹1 lakh loan on interest. My husband did not survive and my family now has a debt of ₹2.5 lakh. All my family members work in the fields. But no work is happening now because the landowners are protesting here. So, we came here in solidarity.” Asked how they are braving the chilling cold at the protest site, one of the women, Morkali Devi, said, “We sit around the bonfire at night. While women and children sleep inside the trolley, the men occupy the space on the road beneath the trolley. They use mattresses or plastic sheets to shield themselves from the cold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-26-women-farm-labourers-join-stir-at-up-gate/story-QV6yGowLRrMW8tmjhMsMqO.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Winter in the shadow of pandemic will be tough to weather for the homeless||Around an hour past sunset, Sonu Sharma wrapped up his paint brushes in a torn bedsheet and zipped up his thin jacket as he hurried towards a makeshift cabin in the Yamuna embankment area, connecting Nigambodh and Kudesia Ghats in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate.The cabin – which he shares with 13 other men – has been his home for the past eight days. By the time he reached, a few men had lit a small fire in the open and were huddling around it. Among them was Sharma’s new cabin mate Dilip Dhar.These men have been forced by the biting cold to leave the pavements they usually lived on to take shelter in the cabin.Winter, this year, in the shadow of the pandemic, is going to be a tough one for the home to weather.With the mercury falling to a minimum of 4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, hundreds of homeless have started searching for night shelters. While a few shelters have electric heaters, inhabitants mostly have to settle for a blanket and a plywood bed with a thin mattress.“We have seen people around us on the pavement frozen to death by morning. A shelter at least ensures us a chance to survive. Outside, we would probably be protected from the disease (Covid-19) but the cold will kill us,” said Mohammad Saqib, a cart puller who now lives at a shelter in south-east Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan.The “disease” fear looms large in the minds of the inhabitants who are forced to share the tiny closed space with numerous others, thereby heightening the risk of transmission. Revenue department officials said they send medical teams periodically to shelters and that no new inhabitant is assigned a space without a Covid-19 test. Those diagnosed as positive are sent to government-run care centres, the officials said.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) has 213 shelters across the city, with a total capacity of accommodating around 18,000 people. But because of social distancing protocols, this year, the capacity has reduced to around 7,000, said a senior revenue official.The capacity is woefully inadequate, considering that unofficial estimates -- the delhi government does not have an official figure -- put the number of homeless in the capital at 150,000.Delhi government officials did not respond to requests for comment.In the winter, shelters across the city see an occupancy of around 11,000. The government plans to bridge this gap with a winter-action plan. The plan includes 250 additional tents – against 75 in 2019 and 60 in 2018. Of the 250 additional tents, 100 have already been set up in the past 10 days, spread across 22 locations, said the senior DUSIB official.“Currently the shelters and additional tents are catering to around 7,000 people at night. Also, this year, there may be lesser occupancy because a lot of people who went to their villages during the lockdown have not returned. But, in case more people come, we can increase the capacity,” the official said.However, the rate at which the homeless are seeking shelter has long surpassed the rate at which the additional tents are being set up, said Sunil Aledia, executive director of the Centre for Holistic Development, which is also one of the several NGOs entrusted with the management of shelters in the city.“Schools in the city will not open, at least till the winter ends. Then, what is stopping the government from using school buildings as shelters? Also, day-to-day delivery of several basic amenities – from electric heaters to medicines – have been affected by the fund crunch wrought by the pandemic. This winter would be a difficult one to pass,” Aledia said.Indu Prakash Singh, member of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for night shelters in Delhi, said: “A review meeting of the committee is scheduled later this week on which all matters regarding shelters will be discussed. The DUSIB has ensured that the capacity issue will not be a problem. But there is a need to strengthen systems to ensure that people in need of shelters are able to get them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/winter-in-the-shadow-of-pandemic-will-be-tough-to-weather-for-the-homeless/story-obbuFtk2Qsz0FV0mxSI0AL.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Highest number of tests, second lowest positivity rate in over 200 days||The Capital conducted a record 85,105 tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, as authorities continued to ramp up testing, even as the number of cases continued to decline and the positivity rate plummetted. Almost half – 42,056 – of all tests on Tuesday were conducted using the more accurate RT-PCR method, also the highest number Delhi has seen so far. Before Tuesday, the most reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests conducted in a single day in Delhi were 40,191 on December 4. Even with the record number of tests, the city saw just 1,617 new cases of Covid-19, bringing down the positivity rate to 1.90% — the second-lowest since the Delhi government started providing testing data consistently. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.Delhi has now added an average of 1,950 new cases of the infection over the past seven days, down from 3,247 in the week ending December 7.The positivity rate — the percentage of positive cases out of all tests conducted — is regarded by experts as a crucial metric to assess an outbreak in a community.According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before an outbreak is considered under control.The lowest daily positivity rate so far was recorded 254 days ago on April 6 when 1.16% of the samples were found to be positive. The average positivity rate over the past seven days has been 2.66%, down sharply from 13.58% in the second week of November when the Capital was in the throes of the third wave of infections, and daily infections consistently crossed the 7,000 mark.The city recorded 41 deaths due to the viral infection as per the daily health bulletin released by the government. This takes the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – to 2.48%. “Delhi has the least case fatality ratio at 1.6, comparatively, Ahmedabad is at 4.0, Mumbai at 3.8, Kolkatta at 2 and Chennai at 1.8,” the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had tweeted. “People are still going out, there are weddings, people are not wearing masks or maintaining social distance and yet the numbers and positivity rate have continued to decline. This seems to be an indicator that most of the people in the city have been exposed to the infection. In the absence of behavioural change, that seems to be the most logical reason for why the numbers are going down, especially after a surge like the one in November,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). She feels that the number of cases is unlikely to spike again to the levels in November, unless the virus mutates significantly. With fewer new cases, the number of active cases, or those currently infected, also dropped below 15,000 on Tuesday — the first time since August 31. The Delhi government has scaled up testing to around 71,800 samples a day on average over the last week. This has increased from an average 52,617 tests conducted a day during the first week of November. After a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah in mid-November, the Delhi government said it planned to scale up testing to between 100,000 and 120,000 a day, at least half of which would be done using RT-PCR tests. The alternate rapid antigen tests are cheaper, easy to deploy outside lab settings, and give results within 15 minutes. However, they are also less accurate and can detect only around half of positive cases correctly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/highest-number-of-tests-second-lowest-positivity-rate-in-over-200-days/story-izC7gNc5Px3BCMii0rK7FN.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||80% ICU beds reserved for Covid patients occupied, will review situation in 10 days, Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to review the reservation of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients after the government informed the court that 80% of the reserved beds are occupied. The government also sought another 10 days to review the situation in view of the wedding season, the cold weather and bad air quality.The court was hearing a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers, through advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, which had challenged the September 12 decision of the Delhi government to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the high court on September 22 by a single judge bench.Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, but refused to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government then approached the Supreme Court against the two orders. But the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the HC order and asked the government to seek relief from the high court.On November 12, a division bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad vacated the stay considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city at that time. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, on Tuesday told justice Navin Chawla that they have been monitoring the occupancy status of hospitals across Delhi, including the 33 hospitals, on a dynamic basis, considering the emergent nature of the pandemic.He told the court that the government would need more time to monitor the situation keeping in mind the wedding season, the bad air quality and rate of infection. He said a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Delhi health minister on December 11, during which it was decided that the order on reserving beds may be continued, in view of the fact that on December 10, the total occupancy of reserved ICU beds was 70.7%. Further, about 138 non-Covid ICU beds were still available with these 33 hospitals.He also said the meeting decided that the situation shall be reviewed after 10 days.According to an affidavit filed by additional standing counsel of Delhi government, Sanjoy Ghose, on December 11, 1,088 of 1,539 Covid ICU/ HDU beds (70.7%) at these 33 hospitals were occupied. Furthermore, in 12 of 33 hospitals, the occupancy of Covid ICU/ HDU beds was more than 80%, while seven hospitals had 100% occupancy. Also, a total of 792 non-Covid ICU beds were available in the 33 hospitals of which 654 were occupied, the affidavit said.However, these facts were disputed by the petitioner counsel, senior advocate Maninder Singh. “Why does the state create infrastructure because you are virtually nationalising everything. 1,782 ICU beds in the government hospitals are vacant. The data means nothing,” he said.Following this, the court asked the government to review the situation and place an updated record before it. The matter would be now heard on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/80-icu-beds-reserved-for-covid-patients-occupied-will-review-situation-in-10-days-delhi-govt-tells-hc/story-k1VMTwRCN79W6nwt3TrhuM.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Only 70,000 old vehicles in Delhi have high security plates, shows data||The Delhi government has so far managed to affix high-security registration plates (HSRPs) on only around 70,000 vehicles registered prior to April 2019. Data with the state transport department showed that despite several drives conducted over the past three years, nearly 25 lakh vehicles in Delhi still do not have high-security registration plates affixed on them. As per rules, vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, in Delhi, have to get HSRP and colour-coded stickers from dealers by applying at bookmyhsrp.com/index.aspxThe new vehicles registered after April 1, 2019, do not need to undergo the process as they come equipped with HSRPs and stickers.Records seen by HT showed that HSRPs have been affixed on around 70,000 old vehicles (registered prior to April 2019) and only 10,000 of them have got the fuel-based colour coded stickers on them.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the reason for the low number of vehicles getting HSRPs was more than one. “Firstly, people, in general, are not very forthcoming. Many still continue to use fancy number plates, which is illegal and entails a fine. Secondly, there were still some teething problems being faced by customers because of which directions have been issued to dealers to ensure that applicants get SMS alerts about every update on their plates and stickers. Thirdly, there is also some laxity in enforcement. I have directed the enforcement teams of the transport department to start an intensive drive again,” he said.,” he said. As many as 239 vehicles were prosecuted across the city for not having high-security number plates on their cars on Tuesday, the first day of the drive, said special commissioner (transport) KK Dahiya. A fine of Rs 5,500 is being slapped on violators as per provisions of the amended Motor Vehicles Act and conditions of registration certificates.“The objective of limited enforcement drive is to sensitise vehicle owners to follow the provisions of MV Act, which includes having HSRP and colour coded stickers. We have started the drive in random selective areas of Delhi. We hope it will lead to more compliance,” he said.The challans were issued in areas like Wazirpur, Saket, Shastri Park, Paschim Vihar, Dwarka, Rajghat, Talkatora Stadium, Akshardham Temple, Delhi Cantonment, Peeragarhi, Pusa, Shahdara, Preet Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Ridge Road and Malai Mandir/RK Puram, data showed. Dahiya said only four-wheelers registered in Delhi are being targeted at the moment. “No action is being taken against vehicles registered in other states and two-wheelers in general, as of now. We will soon intensify the drive with 50 teams as people have been given enough time to switch over to high-security registration plates . HSRPs have been mandatory for a decade now, still, there is low compliance,” he said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has urged the Lieutenant Governor to direct the transport department to postpone the crackdown by six months, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that the exercise can be carried out once the online process is streamlined.Car owners, however, said the issue is also at the supply end and called the process of getting an HSRP and sticker “arduous”. “I had received my slot in the first week of November, but I am yet to get the number plate. The company needs to train its executives better as when I call on their helpline number, it is almost of no help,” said Sunil Vohra, a resident of Pitampura. Some took to Twitter to register their complaint. Sunil Rangra said, “I am running from pillar to post for my HSRP but Rosmerta is not responding . They are harassing law abiding citizens. I have already mailed the CM office, but haven’t received any response. I request the CM office and the transport minister to intervene.” At the same time, there were also several happy customers who lauded the home delivery service started by the government. Anubhav Anand, who got is HSRP affixed three weeks ago said, “The HSRP installation process was a pretty clean and hassle-free experience of booking online and having the new car licence plates installed at the comfort of your home.”Another customer said the company should also provide the contact number of the person assigned to affix the number plate at home.Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited said it has streamlined the entire process. “Our capacity to manufacture HSRP is now 20,000 plates per day and there are over 300 dealers from where clients can pick up the plates or stickers. On an average, we are getting 2,500 bookings every day. From November till now, we have received a total of 23,400 orders, of which affixation of 21,169 plates has been completed through home delivery,” as spokesperson of the company said.Last year, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) had directed HSRP and colour-coded stickers for all vehicles by October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/only-70-000-old-vehicles-in-delhi-have-high-security-plates-shows-data/story-iyQksy6GasD3XvFqyCLjiJ.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Halwara International Airport: Foundation stone laid for boundary wall||A little over a week after the re-carpeting of the approach road to the new Halwara International Airport started, Fatehgarh Sahib member of Parliament (MP) Amar Singh laid the foundation stone for its boundary wall on Tuesday.Singh was accompanied by Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, additional chief administrator (ACA) of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), Bhupinder Singh, airport director SK Saran and Congress leader Kamil Singh Boparai. The MP said that the upcoming airport will boost economic development and generate employment opportunities in Halwara and Raikot. He added that the approach road and boundary wall are critical requirements to start work on the new terminal building.He said that the 2,340-metre boundary wall is being built at a cost of Rs 3.01 crores and will be completed in six months. Sharma said that the work was going on in full swing and the government is fully prepared to start flights as soon as required infrastructure including approach road, boundary wall and the interim terminal building are ready.Boparai said that the establishment of the airport will attract new industries to the district. The Punjab government and Airport Authority of India (AAI) had signed the agreement for a joint venture to set up the airport in 2018. The project will be implemented through a joint venture company (JVC) formed with the majority stake of 51% of the AAI and 49% of the state government through GLADA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/halwara-international-airport-foundation-stone-laid-for-boundary-wall/story-eVMthC78ahSRQUtzTUBVqO.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi court acquits 36 foreigners who attended Tablighi Jamaat meet||A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted 36 foreigners, who were chargesheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin markaz in defiance of the government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic in the country, stating that the attendance register does not even prove that the accused arrived at the markaz on the dates mentioned against their names or that they were staying at the markaz till the end of March.It said that the prosecution has failed to prove the presence of any of the accused persons inside the markaz from March 12 to April 1, and there is no question of any violation. It said that no photographs and videos have been provided by the prosecution as evidence either.Chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg acquitted the foreigners from 14 countries of all charges, stating that there is not even an iota of evidence to prove that the prohibitory orders issued by the ACP, Lajpat Nagar, were published—perusing which the people residing at the markaz could have known about the restrictions on gatherings.The court said that the station house officer (SHO) of Nizamuddin police station was aware of the actual number of persons gathered at the markaz since beginning, yet failed to take any timely measures to ensure the dispersal of the gathering despite being aware of the government guidelines.“Else, if he was not so aware of the actual or even approximate numbers staying inside markaz till the last day of evacuation exercise, he in all probability is deposing falsely about his daily visits to markaz and briefing of the people stranded therein with government guidelines.“In any case, his testimony has failed to pass the test of creditworthiness and hence identification by him of the accused persons in the court is not sufficient to discharge the onus of prosecution to prove the presence of the accused at markaz during the relevant period,” the court stated in its order.The judge also said that even though the original register was produced, however, neither the author nor the person in whose presence the entries were made in the register of the names, states and the passport numbers of the foreign nationals has been examined by the prosecution in its evidence to prove the correctness of the entries made.“…a bare perusal of the register reflects that it has several columns however the column headings are not self-explanatory to ascertain the nature of information contained in each column. In the absence of appropriate column headings, it is difficult to ascertain as to whether the date against the registration number is the date of arrival of a particular person at markaz or date of registration/date of advance booking.“Thus, mere exhibition of the register in evidence shall not have the effect of proof of correctness of the contents of the register. This is besides the fact that the contents of the register do not even otherwise prove that the accused arrived at markaz on the dates mentioned against their names or that they were staying at markaz till March 30-31,” the court said.The court also said that mere uploading of the prohibitory order on the Delhi Police website shall not have the effect of promulgation. It also said that the prosecution has even failed to prove the disobedience of any of the directions contained in the order by any of the accused.“In the case in hand, the prosecution has failed to lead any evidence of promulgation of the order under section 144 CrPC by ACP, Lajpat Nagar, in the sense that not even an iota of evidence about publication thereof so as to bring the same to the notice of persons staying in markaz has been brought on record,” the court said.On August 24, the court had framed charges against the foreigners under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of Epidemic Act, 1897.The charges were also framed under Section 51 (obstruction) Disaster Management Act, 2005.However, the accused were discharged for offences under Section 14 (1) (b) (violation of visa norms) of Foreigners Act, sections 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC.The judge also said that the prosecution has failed to prove the charge u/s 188 IPC against the accused, as there is “no iota of evidence” for the first two prerequisites of promulgation and actual knowledge of the prohibitory order.It said that both the witnesses who were examined were “conspicuously silent” on the mode of the promulgation of the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC while stating that they were not publicised in press, radio or television.“No copy of any newspaper, audio/video clip containing the contents of the order for publication on radio or television has been put on record,” the judge said….The entire examination in chief of both the witnesses is conspicuously silent about the mode and manner of promulgation of order u/s 144 CrP.C. by the ACP Lajpat Nagar,” the judge said.The court said that the witness (Inspector Mukesh Walia, PS-HN Din, New Delhi) had taken a stand that he kept apprising the markaz management about the government guidelines and preventive measures required to be taken during Covid-19. However, even in the communication sent to the management on March 28, there was no mention about the prohibitory notice restricting the gathering of people.The judge also said that handwritten lists of evacuees or list of persons allegedly shifted to different hospitals/quarantine centres were prepared by the medical teams at the time of screening of the persons at the gate of markaz during March 25 to April 1. However, the lists have not been produced either along with the charge sheets or anytime during the prosecution evidence.The court also rejected the submission of the police that they had identified the accused and Inspector Walia had seen one of the accused at the markaz during his visits there between March 12 and April 4. It said that a perusal of the passports reflects that some of the accused were allegedly seized prior to May 15 from different masjids/shelters situated within the jurisdiction of PS Chandni Mahal even though as per the charge sheet, the accused were at hospitals/quarantine centres.It said that the contradiction in the case renders the plea raised by the accused persons in their defence where they had stated that none of them was present at the markaz during the relevant period and they had been picked up from different places so as to maliciously prosecute them upon directions from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India.The foreigners were chargesheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin markaz area allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-court-acquits-36-foreigners-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet/story-ojl7S3x3J3c7qstnqHE1vL.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||HC restrains nurses from strike, forces them to return to the discussion table||Around 3,000 nurses of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) were forced to call off their strike on Tuesday after the Delhi high court restrained them continuing their protests and told them to resume work.The nurses are demanding a hike in salary based on an anomaly in the implementation of the sixth pay commission’s recommendations. The hospital and the Union health ministry both maintain that the interpretation by the AIIMS nurses is not correct. On Tuesday, Justice Navin Chawla, while issuing notice to the nurses’ union on the plea of the hospital, said that the stay is being granted after the AIIMS had given an assurance to the court that it is looking into the grievances of the protesters.“Keeping in view of the submissions and assurances made by AIIMS that it would look into the grievances of the respondents (nurses), this union is restrained from continuing the strike,” the court said.As nearly 3,000 nurses went on the strike, AIIMS Delhi had decided to outsource the nursing services on a contractual basis. The decision was taken in a meeting attended by the chairman, director, deputy director and senior faculty of the AIIMS administration.In its plea filed through advocate VSR Krishna, the AIIMS has contended that it is forced to move the court against the illegal strike declared by the AIIMS Nurses Union from December 14.Appearing for the petitioner, the counsel said the strike was in violation of the Industrial Disputes Act. He said that the strike also violated an earlier order of the division bench prohibiting any sit-in protest or sloganeering on the AIIMS campus by employees.He said the strike is not in public interest, while also stating that the strike is also “illegal” given the fact that the grievances of the nurses’ union are already under consideration by the AIIMS management. It said the AIIMS is discharging essential services and is also engaged in public utility services.The plea said the strike called by the union is gravely against public interest as AIIMS is a premier institution where patients come from all over the country for treatment. It said such a strike gravely prejudices the ability of the nurses to cater and serve these patients.It also said AIIMS is in the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 and is regularly treating Covid patients in addition to its general patient load. It also said no notice of six weeks was given to the institution by the union, before starting the strike which is a violation of the Industrial Disputes Act.After the submissions of the petitioner counsel, the court restrained the nurses from continuing the strike and posted the matter for further hearing to January 18, 2021.The nursing union, however, said they will challenge the high court order.“We are planning to challenge the order and present the court with the details of our demand. That is the only way we have of resolving the issue,” said one of the executive members of the nursing union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-restrains-nurses-from-strike-forces-them-to-return-to-the-discussion-table/story-kwIFTrS3gjBoX9YLZASIwO.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt appoints consultant for road redesign project||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Delhi government has appointed a consultant for its ambitious road redesign project under which 540km of arterial roads in the city will be developed with features such as landscaping, and cycle and pedestrian tracks. Kejriwal chaired a review meeting on the proposal and directed the consultant to submit a detailed project report (DPR) by February next year so that all works can be completed in two years (by early 2023). Public Works Department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain, the PWD secretary, the PWD engineer-in-chief and various other officials of the department were also present in the review meeting.“The consultant is responsible for preparing and submitting a DPR by February, based on which the tenders will be given and the operations to design the 540km of roads will begin by June 2021. People face issues because there are bottlenecks on roads, which lead to traffic congestion,” the government said in a statement. “The priority will be on removing the bottlenecks first, for a smooth flow of traffic and creating an organised lane system. The second goal would be to increase the efficiency of the existing space of the roads in the city so that spaces are best utilised as per their abilities. There will be measured and planned spaces for vehicles, non-motorized vehicles, footpaths, and side-lanes. The footpaths will be widely mapped to an average of 10 feet for the convenience of the pedestrians. These footpaths will be redesigned and reconstructed as per a standard height for the convenience of the physically handicapped. The project will help increase greenery, re-harvesting system will be implemented in the sewer drains,” it said. The chief minister directed that not even an inch of the surface of any road or roadside should be left uncovered, in order to ensure that there is no dust on the roads. Adequate grasses and shrubs will be planted on all surfaces to ensure dust control, a spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-appoints-consultant-for-road-redesign-project/story-gRiRkJYsZTaNRcBJWVcwnK.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||MC to take over Mohali roads and parks under GMADA from Apr 1, 2021||The municipal corporation (MC) will take over maintenance of parks and roads of sectors under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) from April 1, 2021, Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has said. Addressing mediapersons at the MC office in Sector 67 here on Tuesday, Sidhu said residents of sectors 66 to 69 and sector 76 to 80 would also get relief from January 1 as they would start paying a lower water tariff when MC took over the water supply from GMADA, which was charging much higher prices. The MC takeover of parks and roads under GMADA however would be done by April 1, the ensuing fiscal, Sidhu added. The survey of works completed by the Authority was continuing following which the takeover would be completed, he added. Maintenance would be easier and quick as the local councillors would be able to immediately identify and follow up with repair and maintenance of roads and look after nearly 565 big and small parks of the city, Sidhu said. There is a big disparity between GMADA and MC water tariffs as the former charges nearly Rs 5 to Rs 20 per Kilolitres (1,000 litres) depending upon residential/ commercial and other the types of water connections. MC charges vary from Rs1.80 to Rs 5 per KL. Sidhu said the development of the city would get a major push because of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP) under which Rs20 crore had been received. Besides, there was a fresh inflow of Rs45 crore and city beautification and development works costing Rs100 crore were underway. Replying to a media query, Sidhu said that during the tenure of the previous government no provision of funds for public health services had been made. Only funding of Rs4 crore and Rs5 crore had been given to the MC because of which hardly any maintenance work could be carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-to-take-over-mohali-roads-and-parks-under-gmada-from-apr-1-2021/story-AXNDTEYuOPjL4oTj4YXkHN.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 20-yr-old booked for raping woman on pretext of marriage||A 20-year-old employee of a private firm was booked on Tuesday for raping a woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused has been identified as Ashish of Radha Vihar Colony, Bhamian Kalan.The 20-year-old victim is a resident of Ram Nagar, Bhamian Kalan, and pursuing a course in computer applications. She stated in her complaint that Ashish’s aunt lives in the same colony as her and they met six month ago. She said that on August 29, the accused asked her to come to his aunt’s house. But, when she got there, Ashish was alone and told her that his aunt and mother had gone to Uttar Pradesh. Then, he established physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage. In October, Ashish took her to his home and raped her again.The woman alleged that he made excuses every time she asked him to solemnise the marriage. She added that on Sunday, the accused refused to marry her, following which she lodged an FIR.ASI Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered against Ashish under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-20-yr-old-booked-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage/story-4hKEcPX3bJl0elMLIyIMwL.html
15-12-2020||Noida||UP Gate turns into city of tents as farmers’ numbers swell; leaders to hold mahapanchayat on Dec 17||Ghaziabad: Having so far called a Bharat Bandh, going on a hunger strike, protesting at respective district headquarters and freeing up expressways of tolls, among other strategies as part of their protest, farmers are now mulling over their future course of action so as to get the central government to listen to their plight against the three new farm laws. Meanwhile, the UP Gate protest site has turned into a “city of tents”, with the gathering swelling up in numbers.The farmers have held siege at the UP Gate in Ghaziabad since November 28, and blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the National Highway 9 since December 3. Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and its spokesperson, said now it is up to the government to plan a “rann niti” (strategy) to break the deadlock over the farm laws. “We are sitting here and now it is up to the government to make ‘rann niti’. We have a big panchayat at Sisoli in Muzaffarnagar (village of BKU’s founder leader Mahendra Singh Tikait). This time, we will hold this big panchayat at UP Gate. People from western UP will arrive in large numbers; khap panchayats have also been called here. Farmers from other areas and states are already here,” Rakesh Tikait said.He added that every farmer is keeping an eye on outsiders and if found they will be subjected to “gola lathi” – a way of tying up the hands and legs of a person and then putting across a stick behind the knees and held by palms, interlocking the limbs.“We are keeping an eye on outsiders and this time, we will tie them up, gola lathi-style, for two hours and then hand them over to the police. Farmers who are being stopped en route have been asked to stage sit-ins at the site. Our core-committee will decide the future course of action,” he added. Some other BKU leaders said that blocking the entire national highway could also be considered as a future course of action. “They initially floated the narrative that protesting farmers were “naxalites”. Then they said that those on protests were “big farmers” and then later they said they have the support of other groups of farmers. Despite all this, we are showing restraint. The day things go out of hand, there will be a flashpoint,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of BKU.So far as part of the protests, farmers have given a call for Bharat Bandh, besides blocking a portion of highway in Ghaziabad and even making toll plazas free of cost and protesting at district headquarters. “Further, we may choke borders and even highways. We know this will create problems for commuters but we are helpless. How long will we continue to sit here? There is also an attempt to stop our supporters from coming to the site. They are being stopped in Rampur, Brijghat and other places on the highway,” Singh added. UP Gate turns into city of tents Meanwhile, the UP Gate protest site has turned into a city of tents, with farmers camping at the site under temporary tents which have come up off late, besides tractor trolleys, mini trucks and even cars and other vehicles.The BKU leaders estimate that the overall farmers strength at the UP Gate has now reached 4,000-5,000 strong, with about 400-500 tractor trolleys lining up from UP Gate up to Khoda on NH 9, and more likely to arrive with the call of mahapanchayat on December 17.“Farmers have made all arrangements for food and have brought in rations to sustain them for months. We have 24x7 langars and several kitchens operating. Every tractor trolley has carved a space for itself and converted to tents with tarpaulin sheets on top. This serves as a safe house for rest and sleep. The entire area has been turned into a small city in itself. There is nothing to worry about. However, with each day passing, the government’s attitude is more unwelcome,” said Salik Ram Yadav, a farmer leader from Prayagraj. The UP Gate site is seeing daily arrival of tonnes of fruits and vegetables and food is being prepared aplenty to feed everyone. The number of community kitchens and food stalls operating has now gone up to about 10 at the site, while about three to four medical camps have also been set up. Some private hospitals and doctors off late have sent their ambulances and staff for ailing farmers. Shyam Kumar, who has arrived from Roorkee, is selling blankets at the site. “I generally put-up stalls in exhibitions but this time, I tried selling at the UP Gate. Farmers are showing keen interest and some have even purchased blankets,” he added.Like him, Pintu Gupta is selling kurta-pajamas and Jawahar jackets at UP Gate. He is from Ghazipur in UP and lives in Delhi. “These traditional outfits are liked by farmers. So, I came here and put up a stall and stocked various colours of kurta-pajama and sadri,” he said. The temporary library at UP Gate is also attracting farmers. Several youngsters have put up the library on the footpath of NH 9, and said that one of the titles, ‘Kisan Patrika,’ has so far sold about 5,000 copies.“This small book explains the three farm laws in detail and costs ₹5. During the past 12 days, we have sold about 5,000 copies. Other titles are also being sold. We have also offered books free of cost for reading and farmers take them and return after reading,” said Ashish Kumar, a resident of Shahdara in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-gate-turns-into-city-of-tents-as-farmers-numbers-swell-leaders-to-hold-mahapanchayat-on-dec-17/story-iNPTY3EgntEF9G6EVn3riN.html
15-12-2020||Noida||Developer arrested in connection with bike bot ponzi scheme||Greater Noida: A team from the Noida police and the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) on Monday arrested Satinder Bhasin alias Montu Bhasin, the director of Bhasin Group, in connection with the bike bot ponzi scheme. According to the police, Bhasin was allegedly in contact with bike bot mastermind Sanjay Bhati, and had received ₹98 crore as investment from Bhati to allot commercial space in his company-owned Grand Venice Mall. Police said that the suspect was wanted in two FIRs (nos. 385/19 and 697/19) registered at the Dadri police station. The district court had also issued a non-bailable warrant against him in these cases. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the EOW, Meerut, is probing this case. “The EOW in its investigation found Bhasin’s role in the fraudulent activity in the bike bot scheme. He had got some money from bike bot mastermind Sanjay Bhati. The police team conducted a search and arrested him from Surajpur in Greater Noida,” he said. Police said Sanjay Bhati, the alleged owner of Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited (GIPL), had floated the fictitious bike bot scheme. Bhati had allegedly set up the company in 2010, and floated the scheme in 2017. The suspects would allegedly seek ₹62,000 as investment per motorcycle from people. They were allegedly promised ₹9,765 as monthly return from their investments, accumulating to ₹1.17 lakh per annum income. The offer was so lucrative that soon, over 2.25 lakh people made payments for multiple motorcycles and were allegedly cheated to the tune of ₹3,500 crore, said officers.“Police investigations showed that Bhasin had got ₹98 crore transferred to his company’s bank accounts from Bhati. Bhasin had also issued some “allotment letters” for commercial space in his shopping mall to Bhati. However, the commercial property was not officially registered/transferred,” Noida police said in a press note. The police and EOW teams have so far arrested 23 suspects in relation to the bike bot scheme. The developer was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/developer-arrested-in-connection-with-bike-bot-ponzi-scheme/story-eoOXvhhWH7zhcQ7yXuphwO.html
15-12-2020||Noida||Students duped of ₹12 lakh on pretext of merchant navy job||Noida: As many as four youths were allegedly duped of ₹12 lakh by a Noida-based firm on the pretext of providing them merchant navy jobs.A complaint was filed at Sector 20 police station by 21-year-old Rishikesh Kumar Jaiswal, a native of Bihar and a graduate in nautical science.“I had uploaded my resume on an online job portal last year and was contacted by a Noida-based company in August. I checked the company’s profile and it seemed genuine. Then three of my friends also applied with them. We even met their executives in October in Noida after which they took our documents and ₹12 lakh, and assured us that we will get our joining within two weeks,” said Jaiswal.He said that the placement company finally contacted them in January this year. “The company officials asked us to go to Mumbai after which they stopped responding to our calls and messages. We then went to their office in Noida Sector 10, and after a lot of pressure and with help of the local police, they gave us two cheques each which bounced. Then the lockdown happened and they kept giving us fake assurances,” said the complainant, adding that the company officials then said that the joining will happen before Diwali. But when nothing was finalized, the victims came to the Noida office which by then had been abandoned, the police said, adding that the youths later found out that other students across the country had been duped in a similar manner by the suspects.Jaiswal’s three friends are natives of Tamil Nadu, the police said.Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the company under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.“A probe in the matter is underway. We have a few leads and are questioning some people to find more information about the people behind the scam. We will nab them soon,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/students-duped-of-12-lakh-on-pretext-of-merchant-navy-job/story-GlVGeiU0pB6MdqrDRJPINK.html
15-12-2020||Noida||UPPCL offers one-time settlement scheme for power consumers in commercial category||NOIDA: To provide some respite to power consumers in the commercial and industrial category who could not clear their outstanding dues owing to the Covid-19 crisis, the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has asked all the distribution companies in the state to begin ‘Covid-19 one-time settlement (OTS)’ scheme for them. The scheme will be effective between December 15, 2020 and January 31, 2021. Earlier, the OTS scheme was applicable for urban and rural domestic consumers only, said officials of the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL). PVVNL chief engineer, Virendra Nath Singh, said, “The scheme has started from Tuesday and will continue till January 31. Under this scheme, the consumers of various commercial and industrial categories would get 100% waiver on surcharge on pending electricity bills up to November 30.” The defaulters will have to clear the pending dues at one go, the officials said.Singh further said that to avail the benefits of this scheme, the urban consumers will have to apply online with the office of the executive engineer or sub-divisional officer concerned, while in rural areas applications will have to be filed at the common service centre. “This facility will provide big relief to commercial and industrial category consumers, who could not clear their outstanding dues in the wake of pandemic. The scheme will also cover consumers who were slapped with a fine after an anomaly found during an electricity checking drive,” he said. According to the officials, the scheme will benefit shops, hotels, restaurants, hostels, marriage halls, commercial establishments like cinema halls, banks, private hospitals and nursing homes, diagnostic centres, and schools, among others. The scheme will also benefit small and medium industrial units having a contracted load less than 100 HP (75 kW), and mushroom and other farming activities, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uppcl-offers-one-time-settlement-scheme-for-power-consumers-in-commercial-category/story-UwzepdfTW2oU7cG9KqB0aN.html
15-12-2020||Noida||UP govt issues health index , Noida district bags second position||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district, with a composite score of 0.67, stood second in the district-wise health index issued by the state government on Tuesday. The district has maintained this rank for the last nine months.District magistrate Suhas LY said that GB Nagar’s best performing indicator is the percentage of antenatal care (ANC), which calculates the access and use of health care during pregnancy. “The antenatal period presents opportunities for reaching pregnant women with interventions that may be vital to their health and well being, as well as that of their children. Getting antenatal care at least four times increases the likelihood of receiving effective maternal health interventions during the antenatal period. GB Nagar scored a full 100 points in this section,” he said. He added that the percentage of children who received full immunisation is among other best performing indicators. “It was the dedication and commitment of our health officials and workers that the district topped with a full score of 100 in this section as well. Not only that, Bisrakh, Dadri and Jewar blocks of the district are among the top performing blocks in the state,” Suhas said. Bhadohi district topped the list with composite index of 0.74 in the state.Chief medical officer (CMO) of the district Dr Deepak Ohri said that to measure relative performance of a district in terms of composite health indicators, different indicators are computed using an index which summarises the number of outcomes and data integrity indicators. “The ranking of districts helps us identify the reasons for poor performance in terms of availability and quality, and also gives an outline for taking appropriate actions,” he said. Giving details of the methodology of the ranking system, the CMO said that it covers indicators from all critical domains of health, including ANC, delivery, immunisation, postnatal care and communicable diseases. “The coverage and quality of these indicators determine the overall composite index of the district,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-issues-health-index-noida-district-bags-second-position/story-MgLPcaFl7Y5xyv3Zq1Jm1K.html
15-12-2020||Noida||Three killed, two injured as truck hits SUV on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: Three persons died while two others were injured when a truck, going from Noida to Jewar, allegedly lost balance, hit the divider, jumping on to the opposite side of the road and collided with an SUV which was coming from Siddharth Nagar, on Tuesday around 1.30 am. Umesh Bahadur, the station house officer of Jewar police station, said the accident took place near Jewar Bangar village. “Five persons of a family were going from Siddharth Nagar to AIIMS in Delhi via Greater Noida in a Mahindra Scorpio. Police investigations showed that a relative of the victims was admitted to the Delhi hospital for a kidney transplant. They were going to see the patient. The Scorpio was running smoothly on its way. However, when it reached Jewar, a truck on the Noida-Agra side lost balance, hit the divider, and then rammed into the SUV on the opposite side,” Bahadur said. Police said the accident was severe and the occupants of the SUV were critically injured and trapped in the damaged vehicle. He said passersby informed the police, after which a team reached the spot and rushed the victims to a private hospital. The deceased were identified as SUV driver Pawan Dubey, 38, Rinki Kumari, 25, and Anita, 35, residents of Siddharth Nagar. The two injured victims were identified as Suman, 27, and Subhash Kumar, 55. Police said all five persons are relatives.The injured victims have been admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida while the bodies have been sent for post-mortem. The accident also created a traffic jam for about an hour on the Yamuna Expressway. The police team brought cranes and cleared the road. Bahadur said the suspect truck driver managed to escape after the accident. “We found that it was the fault of the truck driver. It appears he was speeding. It is also possible that he may have slept off on the driver’s seat and lost balance of the vehicle. We have seized the truck, which bears a Haryana registration number. We are trying to trace the suspect and the vehicle’s owner,” he said. The victims’ family has not filed a complaint in this regard.Last week, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) had directed Jaypee Infratech Limited, the concessionaire of the expressway, and the traffic police to reduce the speed limit on the expressway to 75 kilometre per hour (kmph) from the current 100 kmph, in view of safety of motorists due to foggy conditions. This was put into place from December 15 till February 15. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that he has directed the officials to ensure compliance of the advisory.The Yamuna Expressway witnessed 357 accidents, in which 822 people were injured and 145 others died, from January to July 31, 2019, as per an RTI reply, while in 2018, at least 659 road accidents took place which resulted in 1,388 injuries and 111 deaths.Built at a cost of ₹12,839 crore by Jaypee Infratech, the 165-km stretch was opened for commercial operations in August 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-killed-two-injured-as-truck-hits-suv-on-yamuna-expressway/story-op6QkPqceJm684TxaaTDfN.html
15-12-2020||Noida||Cold wave grips Noida as city sees season’s coldest day||Noida: Noida saw the coldest day of the season yet on Tuesday, with the minimum temperature dropping to 8 degrees Celsius. According to weather analysts, the mercury is expected to drop further in the coming days.The region is experiencing two conditions – cold wave and cold day – at the same time as both, the minimum and maximum temperatures are falling. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts Wednesday to be even colder as the mercury is set to drop by another degree.The maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 17.5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday against 15.5 degrees a day earlier. On Monday, the minimum temperature for Noida had been recorded at 8.8 degrees Celsius. So far, November 23 was the coldest day of the season, with a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius. The humidity during the morning hours is 100%, as per the IMD. Meanwhile, the average minimum for Delhi-NCR, based on data from the Safdarjung observatory, was recorded 4.1 degrees Celsius, also the season’s lowest, with the IMD predicting Wednesday to see mercury drop to as low as 3 degrees Celsius.“Both the cold wave and cold day conditions will prevail in the region till Friday, December 18. This is because the winds are directly entering NCR from the northern Himalayan states, which have received a fresh and heavy batch of snowfall. The icy cold winds will keep entering the region and the mercury may drop a degree further,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Cold wave is a condition when the minimum temperatures are about 4.5 degrees below the season’s normal, while cold day is a condition when the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below the season’s average. According to the weather department, the fog is over the upper surface that is blocking the sunlight, thereby impacting the maximum temperatures, leading to cold conditions. “Usually the fog is below the surface but currently, due to stronger winds, fog has reached 300 to 400 metres above the surface, which is blocking the sunlight. This is the reason that the maximum temperatures have been impacted as well. The cold conditions will continue for another four days and there will be some rise in mercury after December 18. But the cold conditions will prevail till January,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cold-wave-grips-noida-as-city-sees-season-s-coldest-day/story-waVUDpigXlFDY4X6QNyQSI.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||AIIMS nurses call off strike after 2-hour meet with hospital administration||The Nurses Union of Delhi AIIMS called off their strike on Tuesday night after an around two-hour meeting with the hospital administration, even as the Delhi High Court restrained it from continuing its agitation. On Monday, around 5,000 nurses of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here went on a strike over their long pending demands, including those with regard to the Sixth Central Pay Commission. “They (nurses) have called off their strike and have joined their duties,” AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria told PTI. The hospital administration, along with health ministry officials, held a meeting during which the union was assured that all “local issues” would be addressed immediately, while those pertaining to the ministry will be dealt separately as early as possible, an official privy to the developments said. Following the meeting the Union called off its strike, the official said. The nurses’ union’s demands include correction of an anomaly in the fixation of the initial pay as per the Sixth Central Pay Commission (CPC), redressal of issues such as abolishment of gender-based reservation in the recruiting process of nursing officers and contractual appointments, enhancement of hospital accommodation and cadre restructuring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-nurses-call-off-strike-after-2-hour-meet-with-hospital-administration/story-6VPyjjraHk0SrTjahK75SP.html
15-12-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality drops to ‘poor’ again||Noida: After being in ‘moderate’ category for a day, Noida’s air quality slipped to ‘poor’ on Tuesday as the weather conditions became unfavourable for the ventilation. The air quality of Greater Noida and Ghaziabad also dropped, but stayed within the ‘poor’ levels. On Monday, Noida had reported its best air quality (‘moderate’) since November 17. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Tuesday was 243 against 176 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s air quality was 290 against 256 a day earlier, both ‘poor’. Ghaziabad’s AQI also worsened from lower level of poor category towards the upper level. On Tuesday, the AQI of Ghaziabad was 282 against 243 a day earlier. AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the weather analysts, while the excessive winter conditions make the air heavy and trap the pollutants, the stronger winds would still help with ventilation and if the local emissions spike, the drop in air quality will only be marginal. “The wind speed on Tuesday was 12km per hour while the temperature also dipped leading to cold waves. On Monday, the wind speed was over 15kmph. The winds will prevail for next few days and thus despite resistance due to the low temperatures, the ventilation will be there. So the air quality will be okay and if it worsens, it will be a marginal drop,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The fine particles or PM2.5 levels also spiked and are currently two-time the standards. On Tuesday, PM2.5 for the past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 106.64 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 99.24 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Greater Noida was 131.50 µg/m³ against 119.19 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad on Tuesday also increased to 129.99 µg/m³ against 112.49 µg/m³ on Monday. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI is likely to improve over next few days due to stronger winds. “Though the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to fall, better ventilation conditions are forecasted for the next 72 hours, due to high wind speed and deepen nocturnal boundary layer height. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate today from the moderate to the poor category, and likely to improve on 16th and 17th Dec to the poor to moderate category,” said a SAFAR statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-drops-to-poor-again/story-4qDekAMGr4wtV0YqWDIaeL.html
15-12-2020||Noida||Noida authority issues tender for Vedvan Park||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Tuesday said that it has issued a tender for the Vedvan Park, to be developed in Sector 78. Spread across 12 acres, work on this project is likely to be started by January-end, 2021. According to officials, Noida will spend ₹30 crore on the development of the Vedvan Park. On Tuesday, it issued a tender for horticulture works worth ₹15 crore, and tender for works worth the remaining ₹15 crore, related with civil work, will be issued in the next two days.“This park will be one of its kinds in the city. It will offer a unique opportunity for residents to enjoy at this park,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority. Officials said that the park will be devoted to Indian scriptures and saints. Sector 78, where the park is going to come up, is home to several newly-built group housings. Besides the park, the authority is also hiring agencies for other horticulture projects in the city that include development of two wetlands and a small park to beautify the city.“The Vedvan-themed Park is devoted to Indian scriptures and saints who wrote these scriptures. The objective is to provide residents or visitors an opportunity to understand old scriptures and how these writings can have a positive impact on life. The saints whose sculptures will be built are yet to be decided,” said Singh.Officials said Vedvan will have different varieties of medicinal plants and traditional Indian fruit bearing trees.“Families would be able to take their children to these parks and teach them about spiritual and medicinal values of the trees,” said Singh.Meanwhile, Greater Noida is set to have its first open gym for public use at the City Park on Wednesday, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-issues-tender-for-vedvan-park/story-eTx2ORswPivDVNhlNczAzK.html
15-12-2020||Noida||RITES to prepare estimate for 7km stretch of 44km link road to connect Jewar airport with Ballabhgarh||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has roped in the central government agency, RITES, as the consultant to prepare an estimate for building 7-km long road, which will be part of a 44-km expressway to be built to connect proposed Jewar airport with the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabhgarh in Haryana.“We have asked RITES to prepare an estimate required to construct the 7km stretch that is part of 44km link road. Since the 44km road will be an additional link road between Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, a new bridge will be built across Yamuna. Therefore, RITES will conduct a study and help in finalizing the alignment of the 7km stretch,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, had last year directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to explore options to connect Jewar with the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabhgarh. The objective was to provide an additional link to the proposed international airport at Jewar with the rest of the national capital region, said Yeida officials.Yeida said that once estimate, alignment and site of a new bridge are finalised, NHAI will start work on this 7km stretch as it is already working on this project in Haryana region.“The best thing is that NHAI is funding the entire 44km link road, including the 7km stretch that comes under our jurisdiction. RITES will decide the site of a new bridge as per the alignment, and provide all technical aspects of this project so that we can coordinate with NHAI and work is put on fast-track,” said Singh.Zurich International AG -- the Swiss firm selected to develop the Jewar airport – is likely to start construction for the project by mid-2021, with a completion deadline of 2023-24.“This 44km link road will be ready before 2024 so that the Jewar airport enjoys connectivity with rest of Delhi-NCR areas,” said the Yeida CEO.The international airport at Jewar, with a budget of around Rs 25,000-30,000 crore, is touted as the biggest in the country as it is to be developed on 5,000 hectares of land when it reaches its full capacity, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rites-to-prepare-estimate-for-7km-stretch-of-44km-link-road-to-connect-jewar-airport-with-ballabhgarh/story-y20dZFxa7HLD0GTSUKMp1O.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Look, a flock of birds over Chandigarh’s Matka Chowk||What’s murmuration? It’s a phenomenon resulting from a large group of birds, usually starlings, flying in intricately coordinated patterns across the skies. And now it will be recreated at Matka Chowk, an art installation of birds, in perpetual motion, as the rotary near the Government Museum and Sector 17 gets a revamp, complete with fancy lighting, landscaping and fountains.Beautification plans for the chowk were sanctioned last year by the UT administration with work scheduled to start in February this year before the Covid-19 pandemic delayed things.The project, which has restarted, is likely to be completed in a couple of weeks. The theme of the flock of birds centres around murmuration. “Murmurations at Chandigarh visualises the relationship between a group and the individual by mimicking a swarm of migratory birds. The artwork poetically illustrates how we, as humans, strive to live autonomously within societies defined by rules and conventions,” explains Sandeep Goyal, the man behind the beautification drive. A businessperson, media entrepreneur, philanthropist and the first CEO of the Punjab CSR Authority, Goyal took over the maintenance work of the chowk from the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) around two-and-a-half years back. Proposing a creative uplift to the chowk, Goyal’s designs were forwarded by the CHB to the UT urban planning department, which submitted these to the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee (CHCC). After nearly 18 months and several design tweaks later the CHCC cleared it.Final approvals came from the administration in September for the project that’s entirely funded by Goyal. “360 birds and rods have been installed. The landscaping remains to be done. The water body around the Matka (installation at the chowk) will be repaired and fountain will be changed. Also, the Matka will be refurbished and synchronised with the rest of the design,” said Goyal.Meanwhile, the overhauling of the rotary has been criticised from some quarters as going against the “heritage” of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/look-a-flock-of-birds-over-chandigarh-s-matka-chowk/story-CEVYhOgpE5dKVVQjXAcgqL.html
15-12-2020||Noida||As mercury dips, tractor-trolleys and UP Gate flyover come as saviour for protesting farmers||Ghaziabad: With the minimum temperature hovering around eight degrees Celsius on Tuesday, 97-year-old Soran Singh from Bulandshahr is busy walking at the UP Gate which has now become one of the major protest sites for farmers. Skinny legs with one yet to recover fully from fracture which he suffered three years ago, Singh says that he takes up two-three rounds around the UP Gate to keep himself warm in the biting cold. “The leg still pains a lot but my stick helps me out. The weather is very cold and I retire to sleep late evening in my tractor-trolley where I have made a bed with ‘puaal’ (haystack) and use blanket to cover self,” he said. Around four thousands of farmers at the UP Gate have their tractor-trolleys covered with tarpaulin sheets and converted them to small houses to prevent themselves from winter chill. The vehicles are stuffed with daily use items, along with blankets and quilts. “We are on a warpath. These tractor-trolleys are our homes now till we continue our fight. We have about 20-25 women who sleep inside trolleys while men spread blankets on road below the trolleys. There is limited space inside trolleys, so many women prefer to sleep in sitting position huddled together to ward off winter chill,” said Kunti Devi, who is part of a farmers’ group from Shahjahanpur in UP. The farmers said that they also light up bonfire with pieces of wood. “We have also brought little children with us as they cannot stay back home without their mothers. Women generally get up at 3am and go to water tankers to bathe. The water in tankers is ice-cold,” said Madhuri Kushwaha, another member of the group. Protesters like Premwati Devi who is from Prayagraj said that she had held a roadside corner below the UP Gate flyover along with women from her group as dozens of tractor-trolleys are stationed there. “We have laid down mattresses and are using blankets to cover ourselves. The flyover gives us cover and protects us from dew. Farmers are attuned to face adverse weather conditions throughout the year. So, we are facing winter chill and taking our protest forward,” Premwati added. While majority of the tractor-trolleys are conventional, some of the trolleys which have arrived from Uttarakhand have provision of air-conditioners as well. “The trolley is mounted in form of a cabin behind the tractor and is also modified from inside. The AC unit gets power from the generator and also from the tractor. Several farmer leaders also hold meetings inside. It belongs to one of our farmer leaders,” said Dilbag Singh, a farmer at UP Gate who arrived from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand. The farmers said that the space between two tractor-trolleys is also covered with tarpaulin sheets to create more space to prevent farmers from dew. “The weather is adverse but we are holding ground. If Modiji (the Prime Minister) gives go ahead for our demands, we will go back home. Otherwise, we continue living here in trolleys, More such vehicles will arrive in coming days. Some trolleys have also installed solar panel for providing lights and charging of mobile phones. Many streetlights on this stretch were working initially, but now they are off,” said Prabhjit Singh, another farmer from Udham Singh Nagar. When asked, the National Highways Authority of India officials said that the power connection to the streetlights were cut off by some people and they were using it for running heaters, generators and other electrical appliances. “Just because the wires have been damaged, the streetlights are not functioning at present,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-mercury-dips-tractor-trolleys-and-up-gate-flyover-come-as-saviour-for-protesting-farmers/story-yf7qJ5owW3PAQKJVvQmVQK.html
15-12-2020||City||Ludhiana MC officials told to not allow entry of agents in offices||Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Tuesday conducted a surprise inspection at the municipal corporation(MC) Zone ‘A’ office based on public complaints against agents sitting there. The agents sitting there get work done illegally. The mayor warned the officials of strict action if any of them was caught working in close association with such agents. Sandhu, accompanied by councillor Rakesh Prashar, conducted the inspection at around 11 am. A few unofficial persons, sitting with the staff in Suvidha Kendra, fled the spot on seeing the mayor. The MC officials said that earlier also the mayor had received complaints regarding agents, who are hand in glove with the MC staff and get illegal works done through the backdoor. Mayor Sandhu said, “Strict action will be taken against employees caught benefitting the agents, who ultimately dupe the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-officials-told-to-not-allow-entry-of-agents-in-offices/story-sFLCMngEHg5x6GVRizlSIO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Power cables of Reliance Jio destroyed at three Ludhiana villages||Unidentified miscreants set power cables of Reliance Jio on fire in three villages of Jagraon and Hathur on Monday night. Following this, 4G internet services in the areas ware affected.Police suspect that resentment against the farm laws is the reason behind the crime. Police have lodged two FIRs at Jagraon (city) and Hathur police stations under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 438 (punishment for the mischief described in section 437 commit­ted by fire or explosive substance) and 447 (criminal trespass) of Indian Penal Code.The cases have been registered following the statement of Sachin Kumar of Industrial area, Mohali, an employee of Reliance Jio. He said that miscreants vandalised the company’s towers at Rahlon De Kothey village in Jagraon and Cheema and Lamma villages in Hathur. He added that power cables were set on fire and equipment was vandalised.ASI Sulakhan Singh of Hathur police station said they are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/power-cables-of-reliance-jio-destroyed-at-three-ludhiana-villages/story-sAcszFzUPnQaYN3Zal7aXO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two men held for snatching mobile phone from tea vendor in Ludhiana||Two men were arrested on Tuesday for snatching a mobile phone from a tea vendor near Khanpur Canal Bridge. The accused have been identified as Rajwinder Singh of Giaspura and Anil Sharma of Sector 32, Chandigarh road.The victim, Krishan Singh of Paddi village, stated in his complaint that the accused turned at his tea stall in a car on Monday night and tried to snatch his mobile phone. When he resisted, they threatened him with a sharp-edged weapon, and took it and fled. He jotted down the registration number of the vehicle and informed the police.ASI Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that soon after receiving the complaint, police swung into action and arrested the accused. The mobile phone has been recovered and police have also seized the accused’s vehicle.A case has been registered under Section 379-B of Indian Penal Code at Dehlon police station. Police are investigating to find out if the accused have a previous criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-men-held-for-snatching-mobile-phone-from-tea-vendor-in-ludhiana/story-8kKsbRXlZk0Jj8ZJy36aUI.html
15-12-2020||City||BJP opposes Dawar’s proposal to rename Ludhiana’s Mini Rose Garden||The district unit of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) has opposed Congress MLA (Ludhiana central) Surinder Dawar’s proposal to name Mini Rose Garden in Kidwai Nagar after late BJP veteran leader and former state health minister Satpal Gosain. A group of BJP councillors led by district president Pushpinder Singal met mayor Balkar Sandhu over the issue at MC Zone ‘A’ office on Tuesday and demanded that Lord Mahavir Mini Rose Garden in Kidwai Nagar not be renamed after Gosain as he himself had named the park. Dawar however, said that they had proposed to name the park after Gosain, and the mayor has to take the final decision in this regard. Singal said, “Gosain has done a lot of work for the city and, the Mini Rose Garden was also established due to his efforts. He named the garden after Lord Mahavir, and the civic body should not change it.” “Few Congress leaders, including the MLA and councillors, had proposed that the name should be changed as a tribute to Gosain, but it should not be done. MC should instead name a prominent place, road, or junction after Gosain as he was loved by the people and had worked hard for the development of the city,” he added. A BJP leader said that during the last rites of Gosain on December 1, Dawar and area Congress councillor Gurdeep Neetu had announced that the garden would be named after him. However, the Jain community had objected to the same due to which the BJP had decided that it would not be changed. Despite attempts made to reach the mayor, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-opposes-dawar-s-proposal-to-rename-ludhiana-s-mini-rose-garden/story-QjJ6iVu3Qjrl8HFBcWBF3I.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity students bag awards at national conference||The postgraduate girl students of the department of livestock products technology, college of veterinary science, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, won laurels at the XVI national conference (online) on “Sustainable contribution of ATAMNIRBHAR women veterinarians in the enrichment of production potential in livestock through applications of modern technologies” organised by College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Parbhani, MAFSU, Nagpur, and Indian Association of Women Veterinarian.Jyoti, a PhD scholar, was conferred with the young scientist award for her research work on meat authentication. Apeksha Jangir, an MVSc scholar, won the best poster award for her research work on the development of low-fat functional pork nuggets, carried out under the guidance of Om Prakash Malav.Deepika Jamadar, an MVSc student, won the second prize in oral presentation for the research work on meat and egg-based pasta products, under the guidance of Rajesh V Wagh.Inderjeet Singh, the vice-chancellor of the university, congratulated the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-vet-varsity-students-bag-awards-at-national-conference/story-M9RX4uPLFN1bNl33BH3JaO.html
15-12-2020||City||Attack on Chandigarh goldsmith: 3 accomplices of suspected robbers held||The Mohali police have arrested three accomplices of a man identified as Jaspreet Singh, whose body was found on December 9 with gunshot wounds near Sector 86 here hours after he and two other men reportedly failed to rob a goldsmith’s shop in Chandigarh’s Sector 23.The three men arrested on Tuesday were identified as Baljit Singh, alias Balli, and Balwinder Singh, alias Billa, both from Fazilka, and Preetinder Singh from Mansa, who ran a real estate business together. Balli was also working with an animation company, police said.The prime suspects identified by the police are Lovepreet Singh of Nagoke village in Tarn Taran and Pargat Singh, a resident of Urban Estate, Phase 2, Patiala. They are likely to be arrested soon.Motive behind murderMohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said Lovepreet, Pargat and Jaspreet Singh attempted to rob the goldsmith, and later, after Jaspreet was identified by the police, the other two killed him fearing they would be tracked down.“We have arrested the accomplices of Lovepreet and Pargat, the prime suspects, who will be nabbed soon. On the day of the Chandigarh incident, the arrested persons also helped them. During interrogation they confessed that they used to help Lovepreet and Pargat hide and use their bank accounts for depositing the looted amount. Lovepreet, Pargat and Jaspreet also gave them some share of the looted amount,” said the SSP.The goldsmith was shot at in his Sector 23 shop on December 9 after the suspects visited him saying they wanted to sell gold. After shooting at the shop owner, however, the three men fled from the shop even as CCTV cameras recorded the incident.A few hours after the incident, police discovered a body in Sohana, which later turned out to be that of one of the suspects. Jaspreet Singh was found inside his Tata Tiago car with two gunshot wounds to the head. A case was then registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Sohana police station.SSP Satinder Singh said that the three men arrested on Tuesday had carjacked a Ford Endeavour on November 11 and dismantled it. “We have recovered the SUV’s spare wheel along with an electronic device of the owner from the possession of the arrested persons. The SUV will be recovered soon,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-chandigarh-goldsmith-3-accomplices-of-suspected-robbers-held/story-QpCRCQrupgKIMZ2y1iSTmO.html
15-12-2020||City||Punjab drug smuggling case: STF initiates proceedings to bring kingpins to India||The special task force (STF) has initiated proceedings to bring Harminder Singh Randhawa and Tanveer Bedi, alleged drug smuggling kingpins to Punjab from Thailand and Australia, respectively, for further investigation.The accused are also wanted by the Amritsar police in a 198kg drug haul case. The accused have allegedly been remotely directing local smugglers regarding receipt and delivery of the consignments.Another accused in the case, Manjit Singh alias Manna, had named Harminder and Tanveer as the kingpins of the gang on being questioned by the STF, after he and two of his accomplices were arrested with 28kg heroin and 6kg ice drug.The STF also recovered more drug money belonging to arrested accused Gurdeep Singh Rano, former sarpanch of Payal. The accused had given ₹25 lakh to a resident of Dhamot village as an advance for buying five acres of agricultural land. Inspector Harbans Singh of the STF said that they came to know about the deal and informed the seller that it was drug money. The seller then cancelled the deal with Rano and handed over documents of agreement and ₹12.5 lakh to the STF. He told the STF that he was not aware of it being drug money and promised that he would hand over the rest of the money in a few days.Rano and Ravi Singh alias Happy Randhawa were produced before the court on Tuesday. The court remanded the accused to a day in STF custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-drug-smuggling-case-stf-initiates-proceedings-to-bring-kingpins-to-india/story-UjwKYPLQKlUIk2we5DEv7J.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||President of Ludhiana agri varsity’s teachers’ body accused of misusing post||Fissures have appeared between members of the Punjab Agricultural University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) after ex-president Mukesh Siag accused the incumbent HS Kingra of making a mockery out of the democratic setup of the teachers’ body.In the meantime, Kingra’s hunger strike entered its seventh day on Tuesday. Referring to an email issued by Kingra on December 11 from the dharna site which stated that members of the teachers’ body should not indulge in bickering and mud slinging, Siag replied, “I chose not to bicker but I will take the liberty to respond. I consider you solely responsible for eroding the credibility of PAUTA by not getting the elections conducted in time. You have been misusing your post to disrespect the faculty and bring a bad name to the varsity.”“First, the teachers’ body should get a duly-elected executive. Therefore, irrespective of whoever gets elected, we will be able to take up issues collectively with the administration and government,” he added.While Kingra was not available for comments, KS Sanga, member of the PAUTA executive body, said that the faction led by Siag was backed by vice-chancellor Dhillon and they want to create a rift between members of the teachers’ body. He said the election was delayed due to the pandemic and a few other reasons.“Now, it has been decided that the election will be conducted on January 20. Earlier, vice-chancellor BS Dhillon while addressing the faculty had indicated that Kingra’s post is unconstitutional. Without naming him, the V-C said that an individual was occupying the post for over two years in violation of the constitution of the teachers’ body,” Sanga said.The elections which are scheduled to take place after the stipulated term of one year, have not been conducted since 2019, said a faculty member.Siag urges Kangra to end hunger strikeIn a letter, Siag said, “Irrespective of our differences, I am very concerned about your health. It’s astonishing that your close friends in the group allow you to take such an extreme step. My humble request to you is that you have done your bit, so please end your fast for your family and well- wishers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/president-of-ludhiana-agri-varsity-s-teachers-body-accused-of-misusing-post/story-YC8f6Be4HLjpFlp8XF2DDO.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers continue stir at Haryana-Rajasthan border||Farmers from various states protesting against the new farm laws continued to block a stretch of Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district on Tuesday for the third consecutive day. Farmers’ groups said that they would continue their stir at the Jaisinghpur-Khera border till the Haryana Police allows them to proceed to Delhi. Sanjay Madhav, the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers from both Rajasthan and Haryana, besides other states, were joining the stir in large numbers. “The numbers are multiplying on a daily basis. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have been joining us on a daily basis. They are reaching here in tractors and trolleys and the numbers will continue to increase in the coming days,” said Madhav. He said that farmers from Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan had also arrived at the stir with tractors and trolleys on Tuesday while civil society members and lawyers had also extended support. “For the next few days, our plan is to continue with demonstrations while allowing more farmers to join us. We have been camping here day and night, and won’t relent till the three laws are rolled back,” said Madhav.Farmers across the country have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — passed by Parliament during the monsoon session. The farmers fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and lead to the removal of the minimum support price they receive on important crops. Farmers’ groups and civil society members from Gurugram and Nuh have also extended their support to the stir at the Khera border. Azad Khan, Haryana vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said that farmers from Nuh had joined the agitation and were pitching in with food and other requirements. “We were proceeding towards Delhi but were stopped from doing so by the police. Farmers from Haryana and Rajasthan have come together for the agitation,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-continue-stir-at-haryana-rajasthan-border/story-ug2TXETjyaecdfuniGhPxM.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Anil Vij shifted to Gurugram hospital||Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Tuesday night, after developing a lung infection. Vij was shifted from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak on Tuesday night in an ambulance due to his deteriorating health condition, confirmed health officials. A team of doctors from Medanta hospital reached PGIMS on Tuesday evening. “The health minister reached Gurugram around 9pm, where he was directly admitted to ICU unit of Medanta. He has been put on high flow oxygen to maintain the oxygen saturation level,” said a senior health official, who accompanied Vij from Rohtak to Gurugram. Another senior doctor from PGIMS, said, “The health minister has been diagnosed with Covid-19 pneumonia, leading to infection in lungs. Due to his deteriorating health condition, it was decided by the PGIMS medical board to shift him to Gurugram.” On December 12, Vij, who is also the Haryana home minister, was shifted from Civil Hospital at Ambala to PGIMS in Rohtak. On Monday, Vij was put on convalescent plasma therapy, according to the health bulletin issued by PGIMS. “In view of skiagram (X-ray) finding and status of the pulmonary parameters, the committee (doctors) was of the opinion that he has moderate Covid-19 with bilateral viral pneumonia,” the bulletin said. Last month, Vij had received one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate — Covaxin — which was a part of a two-dose trial. He got the Covid-19 vaccine dose a fortnight before he tested positive for the infection.Doctors and management of Medanta did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/anil-vij-shifted-to-gurugram-hospital/story-UHimKBbiOkPAsxvMgi8rVN.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Health officials undergo Co-WIN system training for vaccine management||From tracking beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccine to monitoring supply and storage of it on a real-time basis, the Gurugram health department officials are getting trained in Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system — a digital platform which will be a repository of information for the management of Covid-19 vaccination in the coming months. Initially, officials said, Covid-19 vaccine will be provided only to the beneficiaries registered by the authorities on Co-WIN, with a self-registration option likely to be added at a later stage.For this, the district health department officials, who have been trained by the state in the last two days on Covid-19 vaccine guidelines, will impart training on December 17 to their medical officers, representatives of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and other health staff on using Co-WIN.“Everything related to Covid-19 vaccine is linked with Co-WIN platform,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, who attended the two-day state-level training on Covid-19 vaccination that concluded on Tuesday. “Co-WIN is the extension of the existing electronic Vaccine Network (eVIN), which is a real-time platform to track the supply and storage of vaccines used in routine immunisation programme,” he said.Functions and operationsCo-WIN keeps a record of everything — from inventory management (supply and storage) of vaccines, monitoring of temperature at the cold chain system, registration of beneficiaries, date and time of vaccination and final certificate on completing the vaccination.“At the district level, it will have all the details of the session sites along with the list of beneficiaries who will be inoculated at a particular site at a particular time,” said Singh.According to the guidelines, Covid-19 vaccine will be provided only to beneficiaries registered on Co-WIN. The process has already started with the registration of healthcare workers in the district. More than 36,000 vaccine beneficiaries for the first phase are already registered on the Co-WIN platform. The process of registering frontline workers, part of the priority group, is yet to be started.According to Singh, with the help of Co-WIN, they will club together at least 100 beneficiaries per session site for inoculation. “At present, we have the list of healthcare workers of private hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and diagnostic labs. Through the application, 100 beneficiaries will be allocated one designated session site, along with the date and time for vaccination,” said Singh.Likewise, for the second dosage of Covid-19 vaccine, the portal will generate the date and time. “And, once the vaccination has been completed, it will also generate a certificate which people can collect at Common Service Centre (CSC),” said Singh.The digital platform will have the list of vaccinating officers and supervisors who will be administering the vaccine. “Through the application, vaccinating officers will verify the registered beneficiary at the session site. Only after authentication, people will be inoculated,” said Singh.The ID proofs should correspond to the details provided while registering on the Co-WIN platform.The vaccination team at session sites will consist of five members. A vaccinating officer, who will be authorized to give vaccine; vaccinating officer 1 (police personnel, civil defence) who will do the registration; vaccinator officer 2, who will verify the identification documents; vaccinator officers 3 and 4, who will be responsible for crowd management.Self-registration on Co-WINThe portal will also have a self-registration link for others who are currently not covered under prioritised population. The self-registration, however, will be available in the later phases of implementation, according to Covid-19 guidelines. Citizens will have to provide basic details like name, date of birth, permanent and current address, details of co-morbidities, along with an ID proof.Planning aheadThe district health department will also reach out to the deputy commissioner regarding the Co-WIN platform and other aspects of vaccination on December 18 as a part of the task force meeting, to discuss issues of manpower, identification of session sites, such as community centres, schools and banquet halls, besides the existing 1,275 sites used for routine immunisation.“MCG will be roped in to provide the list of frontline workers who will have to be registered on the Co-WIN platform. They will be deployed as vaccinating officers, who will be assisting in multiple stages of vaccination from verification of documents to keeping a tab on adverse events following immunisation,” said Dr Virender Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-officials-undergo-co-win-system-training-for-vaccine-management/story-WYsdBtbfXUufLEPyI49JoM.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||53 property deeds in restricted area under DTCP scanner||As many as 53 registries carried out in the restricted area, within a 900-metre radius of the IAF ammunition depot, are under the scanner of the department of town and country planning (DTCP).DTCP officials said that they will probe whether a no-objection certificate has been obtained for carrying out the registry. A report will be submitted to the district administration in this regard in the next week, said officials. The decision was taken following a review meeting on the restricted area, organised by the district administration on Monday. As per the rules, for registration of sale deed of a plot in a controlled area smaller than or equal to one acre, the seller has to obtain a NOC from DTCP. Officials said that the norm for the area of the plots has been changed recently to curb the sale of small plots in agricultural lands. “The meeting was held to discuss the status of the restricted area around IAF ammunition depot, particularly in the 300 metres adjoining the depot. We have been asked to conduct a probe into the registration of 53 property deeds, which took place despite the restrictions. We will check whether NOC was issued by DTCP,” said Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram. As per the norm, there can be no construction in the 900-metre area adjoining an ammunition depot. However, the state government, after several petitions by the local residents, had submitted in the Punjab and Haryana high court that notified area could be reduced to 300 metres, which would pave the way for regularisation of the remaining area, where a large number of residential constructions have come up. The court, however, directed the government to clear the area within 300 metres of the depot before such action is approved. Mann also said that the department has been asked to work jointly with other civic agencies to carry out demolitions in the 300-metre area. “A drone survey will also be conducted in this area to figure out the status of construction and for this, the air force authorities have also permitted that these machines can be flown up to a height of around 10 metres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/53-property-deeds-in-restricted-area-under-dtcp-scanner/story-2sk8JiYHntiaNk3DEr2fWI.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram shivers as mercury hits season’s lowest of 4.5°C||The city recorded a minimum temperature of 4.5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday — the lowest of the season so far — nearly five degrees below the normal and six degrees below the previous day’s minimum temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Tuesday stood at 17.5 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the normal and a slight drop from the previous day’s maximum temperature of 18 degrees Celsius. Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that cold winds from snow-capped mountains were responsible for the drop in mercury. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 20 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 6 degrees on Wednesday. As per the weekly forecast, clear skies will prevail on Wednesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “When the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below the normal, we say that it’s a cold day,” said Srivastava. He said that colder days could be expected this week. Another IMD official said that the minimum temperature could touch three degrees Celsius on Wednesday. “The temperature might settle at three degrees Celsius on Wednesday and hover around four degrees Celsius on Thursday and Friday, after which it might increase a little. The dip in temperature is primarily due to heavy snowfall in northern regions. There is no prediction of rain for now,” said the official. Air quality in the city stayed in the “moderate” category for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Gurugram recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 184 (moderate), a deterioration from Monday’s AQI of 101, which was in the same category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5) — the city’s primary pollutant — was recorded at 132.1 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Tuesday, as per the data by CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. The concentration of PM2.5 pollutants on the previous day stood at 235.45ug/m3. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to remain in the “moderate” category on Wednesday and Thursday. The air quality is likely to start deteriorating marginally from Friday but will remain largely in the poor category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-shivers-as-mercury-hits-season-s-lowest-of-4-5-c/story-YhSWhniiR4ZdLOqNgJgSJM.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Three dead as speeding bus rams van near Farrukhnagar||Three college students were killed and four injured when a speeding Haryana Roadways bus rammed a van they were travelling in, on the way to Farrukhnagar, on Tuesday morning. The police said the collision took place near village Kaliyawas Chowk, 16 kilometres from the city on Gurugram-Farrukhnagar Road, around 8am. The van driver took a right turn towards a petrol pump and the speeding bus coming from Gurugram side rammed the van. The bus driver fled the spot as soon as people started gathering, said police. Seven injured students and at least seven bus passengers were rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared a woman and a man, later found to be cousins, dead. Another student died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 38 on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased have been identified as Varsha (20), Akshay (21) and Prashant (20) of Luksar village in Jhajjar. The bus from Palwal depot was on its way to Jind from Gurugram. Rajesh Rathi (42), who was at the wheel of the van, sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, the police said. Passersby, who witnessed the incident, informed the police control room. They told the police that the speeding bus skidded for at least 50 metres after hitting the van. Rathi said that he picked up students from different villages and dropped them at Shree Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary (SGT) University in Farrukhnagar every day. “It seems the (bus) driver was not looking straight at the road and was talking. Before he could take control of the wheel, the bus rammed my van. I have been ferrying these students for the past one year and this is the first time such an incident has taken place. I am still not able to come out of trauma,” he said. Joginder Singh, sub-inspector of Farrukhnagar police station and investigating officer in the case, said that passersby helped ferry the victims to the hospital. “One of the students died in the afternoon, while undergoing treatment, and two died on the spot. The bodies were handed over to the families on Tuesday, after the autopsy,” Singh said. Singh said the extent of damage suggested that the bus was being driven at a speed higher than 100 kilometres per hour. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Farrukhnagar police station. The police said the deceased were students of nursing, pharmacy and physiotherapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-dead-as-speeding-bus-rams-van-near-farrukhnagar/story-2aHKpu9KDLfG10nE7epUGL.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Community dependence survey, floral sampling done for proposed biodiversity park in Sohna||The district administration’s Gurujal Society — which is responsible for implementing the mandate of the Jal Shakti Abhiyan in Gurugram — has completed its floral sampling and community dependence surveys in Damdama and Kherla villages of Sohna block, where a biodiversity park is proposed to come up. A detailed project report (DPR) for the same is expected to be ready by March 2021, officials said on Tuesday.Gurujal’s proposal aims at reviving a native Aravalli forest on approximately 400 acres of hilly land over the next five years, with plantation work progressing on 50 to 100-acre plots. Preliminary socio-economic and ecological assessments of the area have been completed, as have drone reconnaissance surveys to help in demarcating the park’s boundaries.Gurujal found that the area houses an unspecified leopard population, evidenced by pug marks and droppings found on field visits. As part of the survey, the park has also been divided into 50-acre segments, with vegetation surveys carried out in each. “This gives us a granular picture of where invasive species are present, and where new native species need to be planted. We have already identified a nursery site to cultivate saplings and administrative approvals for nursery development have been completed,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, programme director, Gurujal.The project area, according to ecologist Sunil Harsana, has a richer presence of native rootstock than other Aravalli patches in Gurugram, such as Bandhwari, which have been denuded due to mining and real estate. While invasive species, such as mesquite trees, are also prevalent in the Damdama-Khedla patch, the vegetation is not as denuded, Harsana explained, adding that the biotic pressures on this forest are mainly from grazing and collecting of wood, which is far more manageable than rampant encroachment.The dependency survey found that the residents of Damdama and Kherla villages are highly reliant on the forest for natural resources, particularly for fuelwood. A report prepared by Gurujal states, “Overexploitation of forest resources continues to pose a severe threat... to the forest area of Damdama and Khedla villages.” The current population of both villages was found to be about 10,000 people, across 2,000-odd households.The dependency survey, which studied a sample size of 958 households, found that each household’s level dependence on forest resources depends on the size of the family, the median age of the family, their level of formal education, and their proximity to the forest.“Since forest activities are labour-intensive and require more workforce, it is largely larger families that are more dependent on forest and in both the villages, women are the ones who are visiting the area more for the collection of fuelwood. Households with large families have a higher demand for forest resources, and they have more human resources to meet this demand,” states Gurujal’s survey report.The survey also revealed an inverse relationship between the level of formal education of a household and its dependence on the forest. “Education creates alternate sources of employment, so educated people are less dependant on forest resources as higher education creates better sources of employment and other future opportunities. Hence, it diverts livelihoods to diverse fields from extracting forest resources so, there is an inverse relationship between education and forest dependency in both the villages,” Gurujal observed.It was also found that families with larger landholdings were less dependent on forest produce, since they had access to alternative means of livelihood other than agriculture and cattle grazing. Meanwhile, households with smaller landholdings were present in closer proximity to the forest, and use it to graze a range of livestock, from goats to cows, buffalo, bulls, camels and horses. “Villagers visit the forest area majorly for collection of fuelwood, grazing animals and to visit temples... Grazing and feeding livestock is dependent on forest resources, and it causes ecological pressure on the environment,” the survey report states.“We have to design the DPR keeping the interests of these people in mind. Otherwise, they may resist the development of the park. For example, since most foraging happens for firewood, we will have to redouble our efforts at implementing the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme in the area so that people have fuel to cook with. Our final project report will suggest more such measures so that community dependence on forest resources is made sustainable,” said Kesarwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/community-dependence-survey-floral-sampling-done-for-proposed-biodiversity-park-in-sohna/story-G8G9sP76x65QNHTlutgKXP.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to track sanitation staff using GPS-enabled smartwatches||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to track its sanitation staff through GPS-enabled smartwatches to ensure their attendance at their designated areas of work, officials said.In July, around a dozen sanitation workers were given these smartwatches on a trial basis. MCG officials privy to the matter said that the feedback of the trial was positive and hence, they have decided to extend the coverage to all 8,000 sanitation workers gradually. Besides, the MCG is also attaching GPS machines to all sanitation vehicles.“The smartwatches have been extremely useful in the tracking the 12 sanitation workers as it gave us constant information of their movement and helped us keep a check on whether they were reporting to their designated areas of work. Now, we have decided to extend this to all the sanitation workers working under the MCG and then subsequently, cover other workers, if a need arises. Initially, around 600 sanitation workers will be given the smartwatches and gradually, it would be handed out to all,” a senior MCG official of the health wing said.For the procurement of smartwatches as well as developing an integrated software for the purpose, the MCG has floated a tender in excess of Rs 20 crore last week, said the official.“The feedback of the trial was positive and hence, we are looking to cover more sanitation workers with smartwatches. The MCG is committed to ensuring that all civic works are catered to, and completed in a timely manner,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.The MCG had decided to use these smartwatches after receiving complaints from residents that sanitation workers were failing to turn up, especially in Covid-19 containment zones, and that waste was not being collected for more than a week.The use of GPS-enabled smartwatches has led to protests by workers against public bodies in several cities in the past. In March, the union of sanitation workers of the Chandigarh municipal corporation protested against its use. They carried out a similar protest in October as well.In September, sanitation workers also protested outside the Noida authority office for using smartwatches.Naresh Kumar Malkat, the secretary for the Haryana Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh and a sanitation supervisor for the MCG, said that whenever the civic body starts distributing smartwatches, sanitation workers in Gurugram will also protest against this move.“The smartwatches should be applicable to all MCG employees and not limited to just the sanitation workers. The MCG also needs to realise that most sanitation workers will not have the technological advancement to understand its functioning. They need to organise workshops explaining sanitation workers the way the smartwatches operate, step by step. We don’t expect that the MCG will take any steps in this regard and hence, we too will protest against the move when the distribution starts,” said Malkat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-track-sanitation-staff-using-gps-enabled-smartwatches/story-UbcAx8z69tJ5tWU3uWu5HL.html
15-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP to deploy drones to identify offences in illegal colonies||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has decided to conduct a drone survey of around 700 illegal colonies that have come up in the district. Officials said that the drone survey will help in fixing the geographical range of the offences and identifying the constructions carried out in these colonies. Officials said that this decision has been taken to curb construction of illegal colonies in the city. There are around 650 illegal colonies that have already been identified and listed by the revenue department in its upgraded property registration software, they said. To conduct the survey using a drone, the department has asked its empanelled contractors to submit proposals, which shall be evaluated at the earliest so that the exercise can commence by next month. Sanjiv Mann, a senior town planner, said, “The survey will generate good quality pictures with technical specifications that will help the department finalise the status of each colony. Any new violation can be easily identified and action can be initiated using these pictures. It will also help the government identify the areas where more than 50 percent development has taken place so that a decision can be taken on their notification for grant of services and infrastructure.” Stopping large-scale illegal development of colonies in Gurugram has been a priority for the department of town and country planning in the last one and half years, as these colonies are burdening the city’s infrastructure and also causing revenue loss to the state government, said officials. As per DTCP estimates, around 100 colonies came up in 2019 and 2020 alone on the outskirts of the city, in Bhondsi, Badshahpur, Manesar, Farrukhnagar, Pataudi and Sultanpur, over 500 acres of land. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that they have carried out more than 100 demolition drives in the last one year to curb illegal constrictions and stringent action has been initiated against developers and property dealers. “The drone survey will greatly help in fixing the boundaries and status of construction in these areas. It has already been ensured that registries of properties in such colonies are not carried out by the revenue department,” he said. City-based property dealers suggest that the reason people are buying plots in illegal colonies is that the cost is less, payments can be made in parts and there is no need to follow building plans as prescribed by the DTCP and MCG. Also, many owners prefer to run shops, dairies and other ventures in such colonies, which is not allowed in approved areas, they said.According to Pravesh Singh, a property dealer who is familiar with these colonies, plots in such colonies are available for between Rs 10,000 per square yard and Rs 30,000 per sq yard, whereas the minimum starting price for buying a plot in an authorised colony is Rs 65,000 per sq yard. “The price difference is too high and for the lower-middle class, there is no other option,” he said. Mann, who was earlier the senior town planner of MCG, also said that under the present rules, there is no provision for creating basic infrastructure in illegal colonies. “These settlements need to be notified and only those developed on more than 50 percent can be regularised. The drone survey will also help in checking the level of development in these colonies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-to-deploy-drones-to-identify-offences-in-illegal-colonies/story-0bm1v0LBc8BAwWLMPKNTyI.html
15-12-2020||City||Mohali district sees spike in Covid deaths in December||The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has seen a spike in Mohali district this month, with 39 patients succumbing to the virus till December 15, as compared to 29 and 42 casualties in October and November, respectively. The highest number of deaths, at 122, was recorded in September, followed by 71 in August. After the September surge, which also accounted for 6,116 fresh cases, the number came down to 1,990 in October. However, it is again on the rise, with 3,140 cases in November and 1,701 in the first half of December. Mohali city continues to account for bulk of the cases in the district, with 1,399 (82%) reported in the past 15 days. Civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said people are not taking precautions, and resorting to self-medication instead of going to hospitals on developing symptoms, which is leading to complications and deaths.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said testing has been increased in the district and the civil surgeon has been asked to ensure round-the-clock availability of sampling teams at the district hospital with two dedicated mobile teams for the needy. Fatality rate highest, recovery rate lowest in tricityThree people succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the district’s toll to 318 and fatality rate to 1.85%. Meanwhile, 101 tested positive, including 69 in Mohali city.The district has recorded 17,169 cases so far, of which 14,747 (85.9%) have been cured, including 134 discharged on Tuesday. The number of active cases stands at 2,104.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported two deaths and there was no casualty in Panchkula district for eighth consecutive day.With 42 fresh cases, Chandigarh’s tally has climbed to 18,776, of which 635 are still active.Those who died have been identified as a 61-year-old man from Sector 24 and a 78-year-old man from Sector 30. The death toll stands at 304 (1.6%).Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood was among 139 patients discharged, which took the number of those cured to 17,837 (95%). In Panchkula district, 25 fresh cases surfaced, taking the count to 9,521. Except one case from Pinjore, all cases were reported from Panchkula city.There are 426 active cases in the district, as 8,960 (94%) patients have recovered and 135 (1.4%) have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-district-sees-spike-in-covid-deaths-in-december/story-UjYshiqnVI8wBDNOFnw3FO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Eight SHOs reshuffled in Chandigarh||In a major reshuffle, the Chandigarh Police have transferred 10 inspectors, including eight station house officers (SHOs), besides two sub-inspectors. Among inspectors, Baldev Kumar, SHO, Sector 34, has been moved to the traffic wing. Rajiv Kumar, SHO, Sector 11, will take his place, who in turn has been replaced by Ranjodh Singh, SHO, Sector 36. Meanwhile, Maninder Singh has been transferred from the traffic wing to the Sector 36 police station as the SHO. Paramjit Kaur, SHO, Sector 31, has been transferred to the police lines, and has been replaced by Narinder Singh, SHO, Sector 26. Jasbir Singh, SHO, Sarangpur, is the new SHO, Sector 26. In his place, Lakhbir Singh, SHO, IT Park, has been moved to Sarangpur.Malkiat Singh has been shifted from the traffic wing to Sector 19 as the SHO, in place of Shadi Lal, who has been moved to the IT Park police station. Meanwhile, SI Ravdeep Singh is now the in-charge of police post, Sector 24, and SI Sarita Roy has been transferred to the Sector-36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-shos-reshuffled-in-chandigarh/story-SCCB3LhLTenuNMlWPXkhwO.html
15-12-2020||City||Consumer commission directs CBI to arrest Sunny Enclave promoter||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Mohali, on Tuesday issued directions to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to arrest Jarnail Singh Bajwa, managing director of the Sunny Enclave housing project in Mohali. According to the order, the senior superintendent of police of the CBI, Sector 30,Chandigarh, or the officer who is heading the office has been directed to arrest Bajwa and ensure his presence before the commission on or before the next date of hearing on March 3, 2021. Several house buyers have filed complaints against Bajwa, who faces around 45 cheque bounce cases amounting to ₹20 crore. He was declared a proclaimed offender in August last year and February this year.Raises concern over police workingWhile issuing the directions to the CBI, commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma also raised concern over the police working, adding that in “such peculiar circumstances, where the accused has parted with huge amount of poor litigants and is roaming freely despite issuance of notice of various non-bailable warrants against him, this commission is left with no alternative except to seek the help of some other agencies to maintain the rule of law in the State of Punjab”.“It is important to mention here that the accused is wilfully and intentionally not appearing before the commission. It is also mentioned that as per our record, he is facing a number of execution proceedings that are pending before this commission... We have also noticed that a number of non-bailable warrants are issued through SSP, Mohali, but every time some report comes with the remark that he is not found. We feel that even with the connivance of police, this man is trying to defeat the very purpose of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019,” noted the commission. Bajwa’s advocate Dinesh Kumar Sharma said: “We have not got the copy of the order yet, but we are refunding the money to the parties. Due to the lockdown, we could not sell our properties, and thus, were faced with financial issues. We will be sorting all the issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/consumer-commission-directs-cbi-to-arrest-sunny-enclave-promoter/story-cH0y7pHy5FQxSl1YI9K2JP.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records first ‘cold day’ of season||Chandigarh recorded its first “cold day” of the season on Tuesday, following which India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of cold wave conditions in the coming days.The IMD declares a “cold day” when minimum temperature falls below 10°C and maximum temperature falls 4.5-6.4°C below normal. On Tuesday, even as maximum temperature went up from Monday’s 14.6°C to 17.2°C, it was still five notches below normal. Meanwhile, minimum temperature went down from 11°C to 9.6°C, falling below 10°C for the first time since December 3.Visibility stayed over 1 kilometre in the morning. The weatherman said shallow to moderate fog will be present in the coming mornings, but it will disperse later with sunlight expected during the day. “Due to this, maximum temperature will increase, but clear weather at night will lead to drop in minimum temperature. Recent snowfall in Himachal Pradesh will also contribute to chances of cold wave conditions in and around Chandigarh,” he said. Cold wave occurs when minimum temperature falls 4.5-6.4°C below normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature is expected to remain between 17 and 18 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 7 and 8 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-first-cold-day-of-season/story-oZWqAPWVdlaMm9gwLukKPL.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to go ahead with Tribune flyover project||A year after the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed the axing and transplanting of trees for Chandigarh’s first flyover at Tribune Chowk, the UT administration has decided to go ahead with the project.The 1.6-km flyover is to be built from near the GMCH-32 roundabout up to the railway overbridge near Hallomajra on Dakshin Marg after passing over Tribune Chowk. On March 3 last year, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had laid its foundation stone. To come up at a cost of ₹184 crore, it is being touted as a solution to the traffic chaos witnessed at the busy intersection. However, after an NGO, The Run Club, moved the HC, the uprooting and cutting of trees was stayed in November last year. The project got further delayed as the administration got busy in Covid-19 pandemic management.Now, UT adviser Manoj Parida said a report has been prepared to be submitted in the HC before January 11, which is the next date of hearing. The report is in favour of constructing the flyover. “Earlier, 2,700 trees were to be axed, but now only 700 will be removed. We will go ahead with our plan to construct the ambitious project,” he said.On HC’s directions, Parida in December last year had constituted a technical committee to examine various suggestions on alternatives to the flyover project. As many as seven models were submitted to the committee, comprising senior UT officials and chief engineers from Punjab, Haryana and the National Highways Authority of India. After scrutinising all models, the committee had termed the alternatives unviable. Nearly 1.5 lakh vehicles cross the rotaries of Dakshin Marg and Purv Marg near Tribune Chowk on a daily basis. Initially, the UT administration had planned a 7-km flyover, but the Centre reduced the length to 3.5km. Later, the ministry of road transport and highways further reduced the length to 1.6km. TimelineJune 2016: Centre approves the projectMarch 2019: Foundation stone laid by UT administrator VP Singh BadnoreNovember 2019: High court stays removal of trees on a petition by NGO Run ClubDecember 2019: UT adviser holds public hearing on project as per HC directionsFebruary 2020: Adviser’s technical committee submits report rejecting all alternatives to project||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-go-ahead-with-tribune-flyover-project/story-c7gpiZVTsZNrMUoZjh9KpM.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Cold wave conditions in Delhi from December 16 to 18||Delhi woke up to the coldest day in December, as the minimum temperature dropped to 4.1 degree Celsius on Tuesday morning. The capital is likely to witness cold wave conditions from December 16 to 18, according to forecasts made by the Regional Meteorological Center (RMC) in Delhi. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) designates days as cold wave days in the plains if the minimum temperature is 10 degree Celsius or lower and at the same time 4.5 degrees or more below the normal minimum temperature for the day for two consecutive days. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();North-western winds form Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir are the reason for the recent fall in Delhi’s temperature despite clear skies, HT reported on Tuesday. These states are experiencing heavy snowfall. The Delhi RMC has, however, forecast partly cloudy skies for the national capital from December 19 to 21, with shallow fog in the morning. This will bring relief from the cold. The skies are likely to remain clear until December 18.November was coldest since 1949November was exceptionally cold too in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung station – considered to be representative of Delhi – was 10.2 degree Celsius. This was the lowest since 1949, when the mean minimum temperature was 10.2 degree Celsius. Four cold wave days were also experienced in the month. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();December so far is warmer than 2018To be sure, December so far has not been exceptionally cold in the national capital. The average minimum temperature observed at the Safdarjung station has been 10.15 degree Celsius. This is higher than the average minimum temperature observed during the same period in 2019 (9.05 degree Celsus) and 2018 (9.29 degree Celsius). The average maximum temperature for this period (26.7 degree Celsius) is also higher than that in 2018 (24.7 degree Celsius) and 2019 (23.1 degree Celsius) at the station.This can change as winter progresses. The IMD considers the December to February period as winter. It had predicted below-normal minimum temperatures for most subdivisions of north and northwest India at the beginning of the season. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Minimum temperatures are rising in Delhi and neighbouring areasThe below-normal minimum temperatures and cold wave conditions this year might have to do with moderate La Nina conditions prevailing in the Pacific Ocean. La Nina refers to a weather phenomenon in the east-central Equatorial Pacific when sea surface temperatures are below the long-term average. This leads to colder winters in India. The minimum temperatures in December in both Delhi and India have, however, been rising if we look at the long-term trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cold-wave-conditions-in-delhi-from-december-16-to-18/story-qWgogVP5AZMRYrbVKPLjVK.html
15-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 501 fresh Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department reported 501 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and 11 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.63 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.38 lakh have recovered, 7,677 have been reported dead and 16,781 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 243 new cases taking the total count to 1,84,962 and one death took the death toll to 4,363, while PCMC reported 102 new cases taking the final count to 91,099 and zero deaths took the death toll to 1,257. Pune rural reported 156 new cases taking the final count to 87,223 and ten deaths took the death toll to 2,022, according to the state health department.The department reported that 4,395 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the final count of such cases to over 17.66 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 93.60%. Also, 3,442 new cases in the state were reported on Tuesday taking the total to over 18.86 lakh.In addition, 70 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 49,441. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.56%. Of 1,18,06,808 laboratory samples, 18,86,807 have tested positive (15.98%) for Covid-19 until Tuesday. Currently, 5,24,059 people are in home quarantine and 4,316 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-501-fresh-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-in-24-hours/story-sgWzuEAXxOP3RPXFlj30lK.html
15-12-2020||Dehradun||TV actor dupes old woman by posing as cop, gets arrested by Dehradun police||Dehradun police arrested a television actor from his residence in Mumbai on Tuesday for allegedly duping a Dehradun-based 65-year-old woman of her jewellery by posing as a cop, said police. A team of Dehradun police is bringing him to the city on transit remand from Mumbai and would reach on Wednesday. Pradeep Rana, station house officer of Patel Nagar police station, where a case was registered against the actor for fraud, said, “The actor was booked on December 4 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the elderly woman.” “As per the complaint, the woman was on her way to her house from the market on foot when the actor approached her in a police uniform. He told her to hand over her jewellery citing her security on the street. Believing him, she did the same. The actor wrapped her jewellery in a newspaper,” said Rana. “However, he handed another newspaper packet to the elderly lady and duped her of her jewellery. Later when she reached home, she found her jewellery was missing,” said Rana.Also read: Union Health Ministry announces storage plan for Covid-19 vaccine Superintendent of police, Dehradun (city) Shweta Chaubey, while confirming the actor’s arrest said, “Police while probing the aforementioned case, tracked the accused in Mumbai through electronic surveillance.” “A team then went there and nabbed him after informing the Mumbai police as per procedural norms. After getting a transit remand of two days from the local court, our team is bringing him to Dehradun for further probe,” said Chaubey. The police officers said that the accused committed similar crimes in Chandigarh and other cities in north India as well. He used to travel by air while committing the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/tv-actor-dupes-old-woman-by-posing-as-cop-gets-arrested-by-dehradun-police/story-yao0C4tlYrwQYlAS1zRX5K.html
15-12-2020||City||Round 7 of J&K DDC polls tomorrow||As many as 31 constituencies with 298 candidates in fray will go to polls in Phase 7 of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Similarly, 438 panch and 69 sarpanch seats will also witness voting, said state election commissioner KK Sharma, while addressing a press conference here. Sharma said 31 DDC constituencies, including 13 seats from Kashmir and 18 from Jammu division, will go to polls in this phase. “As many as 148 candidates, including 34 women, are in fray in 13 constituencies of Kashmir. In Jammu division, 150 candidates, including 38 women are in fray for 18 constituencies in this phase,” he said. As many as 6,87,115 electors (3,59,187 men and 3,27,928 women voters) are going to elect their representatives in all 31 DDC constituencies, Sharma said, adding that 1,852 polling stations—1,068 in Kashmir and 784 in Jammu division— have been designated for it. He said of the 117 sarpanch vacancies notified in Phase 7, 30 have been elected unopposed. There shall be a contest in 69 constituencies and 231 candidates, including 79 women, he added. Similarly, he said, of 1,270 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 416 have been elected unopposed. As many as 438 constituencies will go to polls with 1,000 candidates, including 287 women. The SEC said all requisite arrangements, including man power, election material and security arrangements, are in place for this phase. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said adequate arrangements have been put in place to ensure safety of all stakeholders including the voters coming to vote at the polling stations. ‘Sanitizers, thermal scanners and face masks have been arranged at the polling stations to ensure that SOPs issued by the concerned authorities, including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing, are strictly followed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/round-7-of-j-k-ddc-polls-tomorrow/story-ccCweErocHe3tRg33g299H.html
15-12-2020||City||Minor among 3-member gang held for robbery attempt on cab driver||PUNE A minor boy is among three persons arrested for the attempted murder of a cab driver who resisted a robbery bid by the gang on Sinhagad road, early on Monday.The two adults arrested have been identified as Umesh Kant Kumar Gautam alias Ubhya (22) a resident of Raigad nagar in Vadgaon Budrukh; Shankar alias Kolya Nana Raut (18) a resident of Janata Vasahat in Parvati;The 17-year-old boy who was apprehended was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, while the two others were produced in a local court.A complaint in the matter has been lodged by the local police as the cab driver was seriously injured and is now undergoing treatment at a local hospital.The injured driver has been identified as Arun Ranganath Lande (42), a resident of Ganga nagar area of Lakshmi colony in Fursungi.Around 2:30am on Monday, the cab driver was passing through the Panmala area of Sinhagad road area when the three threw concrete blocks at the windshield of his moving car, according to a statement he gave to the police.As the car stopped, the gang then approached the car and demanded money from Lande. When he refused to give them money, they hit him in the head with another concrete block and then rained blows and kicks on him, according to his statement.Assistant police inspector SY Dhumale of Dattawadi police station is investigating the case.A case under Sections 307 (Attempted murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-among-3-member-gang-held-for-robbery-attempt-on-cab-driver/story-C8r1ZsbQNO0v5HbrKEadUP.html
15-12-2020||City||Head-on collision with car kills two-wheeler rider in Chakan||PUNE: A bike rider has died, while the pillion rider sustained grievous injuries, in the early hours of Sunday, as their vehicle collided head-on with a speeding car in Bahul area of Khed, Chakan.The deceased has been identified as Bharat Ashok Latpate (27), a resident of Padalwadi, Rajgurunagar, Khed, while the injured man has been identified as Brahmadev Natharao Gatte (21), a resident of Waghdarwadi, Ambejogai, Beed. While Latpate died on impact, Gutte has a fractured bone in his right leg.The accused has been identified as Kakasaheb Jagannath Katkar (22), a resident of Fulambri taluka of Aurangabad, according to police. He was driving a Suzuki Ertiga owned by his employer who lives in Aurangabad, where the car is registered.The two were riding from Shikrapur towards Chakan and the accused was riding from Chakan towards Shiukrapur in Bahul village in Khed.“ The car driver had brought the car to the area to show it to a potential buyer on behalf of his employer. He was arrested yesterday (Monday) and bailed on Tuesday,” said police sub-inspector Nandkishor Patange, of Chakan police station, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304(a) (causing death by negligence), 337, 338 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-on-collision-with-car-kills-two-wheeler-rider-in-chakan/story-OAkYO34Vkc9MhX4pyjsFzO.html
15-12-2020||City||School bus operators declare bankruptcy as EMI on vehicles begins to seriously hurt||PUNE School bus operators have no declared a crisis of complete economic devastation in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.With schools closed, but all serviceable outgoings still active for bus owners, cue vehicle insurance charges, bus operators are declaring bankruptcy.Baba Giram, one such operator, said, “We are an unorganised sector. Each operator has either one or two buses. Most of these buses are procured on bank finance. With schools closed there is no income. We are forced to pay the EMIs. Almost all sectors have opened up, but only schools have not started and there no chance of it starting soon.”Tanaji Salunke, another bus operator, said, “Since March, there is no income, but we have to insure the buses, even though they are standing still. Because buses are idle, maintenance has increased. As the operators are not able to pay EMI’s, financial institutes are threatening to seize the vehicles.”Nitin Dhole, Nana Kamate and Hemant Kulkarni, a triumvirate of operators, said, “The government must think about our livelihood. All taxes, like professional tax, should be waived. Government must instruct the banks to waive the interest on EMIs for the last few months.”Rashid Inamdar said, “We tried to tie-up with some companies for employee transport, but most of the companies are doing work from home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-bus-operators-declare-bankruptcy-as-emi-on-vehicles-begins-to-seriously-hurt/story-4bHckBhWBJ0r188Wlzag3L.html
15-12-2020||Bhopal||‘Ready to welcome film city in state’: Madhya Pradesh home minister||After Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh government has also shown interest in the development of a ‘film city’ in the state. MP home minister Narottam Mishra said the state government is ready to welcome film city in the state - a move that will not only give employment to people but will also give them an opportunity to show their talent.Mishra made this announcement after a meeting with producer and director Rajkumar Santoshi in Bhopal on Tuesday.Mishra said, “Santoshi wants to develop a film city in MP and open a film academy. We welcome the decision because it will be an opportunity for the residents of the state.” Also read: India, UK to forge 10-year roadmap for ties, push talks on trade dealRajkumar Santoshi is going to start shooting of three movies in Madhya Pradesh from the next year. Santoshi said, “I had a discussion with the home minister over developing a film city and opening a film academy in Bhopal and I am happy with the positive response of the government.”Santoshi said, “The government eased the rules for film shooting in MP and that’s why it has become a favourite place for shooting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ready-to-welcome-film-city-in-state-madhya-pradesh-home-minister/story-Q9SGDakLWCl9Z1CQjPBsGO.html
15-12-2020||City||Plains, lower hills of Himachal to witness dense fog on December 16: MeT||The state meteorological department has issued a warning for dense fog in the plains and lower hills of Himachal Pradesh for Wednesday. State MeT director Manmohan Singh said weather will remain clear throughout the state till December 21. Weather was dry throughout the state in the last 24 hours and maximum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal while no appreciable changes were witnessed in minimum temperatures.Minimum temperature in Shimla was 3.6°C while Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded 0.2°C, 1.6°C, 1.4°C and 2.8°C respectively. Minimum temperature in Una was 7°C, Solan 0.5°C, Palampur 2°C, Bilaspur 8.5°C, Hamirpur 8.2°C, Nahan 6.5°C, Mandi 3.1°C and Kalpa shivered at minus 1.7°C. Keylong was the coldest at minus 6.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plains-lower-hills-of-himachal-to-witness-dense-fog-on-december-16-met/story-gchoGml92IG4kRDWnWCEVN.html
15-12-2020||City||Himachal registers 11 deaths, 435 new coronavirus infections||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 435 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally of positive cases to 50,196. The death toll mounted to 824 after eleven patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 120 were reported in Mandi, 95 in Shimla, 63 in Kangra 39 in Solan, 25 in Bilaspur, 24 in Kullu, 23 in Una, 19 in Lahaul-Spiti, 13 each in Chamba and Hamirpur and nine in Kinnaur. There are 6,792 active cases in the state while the recoveries have reached 42,531 after 576 more patients recovered on Tuesday. Six fatalities were recorded in Shimla, two in Kangra, and one each in Kullu, Mandi, Una. The death rate is 1.6%. This month a total of 9,678 infections have been recorded in the first fortnight—a jump of 24%. The state has recorded 10,825 recoveries during this period. Apart from it 189 people have died due to the virus. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 9,267 cases followed by Mandi at 8,531 and Kangra 6,870. Solan has 5,880 cases, Kullu 4,138, Sirmaur 2,928, Bilaspur 2,615, Chamba 2,538, Hamurpur 2,512, Una 2,510, Kinnaur 1,218 and Lahaul-Spiti 1,189.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-registers-3-deaths-159-new-coronavirus-infections/story-QyoiZkZbiIgkSMu6IOAz5K.html
15-12-2020||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee discharged from hospital||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday afternoon, six days after he was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in blood. He was immediately put on ventilation.Bhattacharjee’s condition improved very fast, said doctors who attended on the veteran CPI(M) leader at a well-known private hospital in south Kolkata. A 13-member medical board was formed for his treatment. Bhattacharjee has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. “Bhattacharjee was in a very critical state when he was admitted and we were extremely concerned. But the doctors chose the correct path of treatment and the former chief minister responded very well. He literally fought back,” Dr Rupali Basu, CEO of Woodlands Hospital, told HT.“He was discharged from hospital with acceptable clinical parameters. He was given homecare advice regarding nutrition, medication, nebulisation, bipap, physiotherapy etc. A team of doctors and nurses went to his home. Bhattacharjee interacted with us and thanked the doctors,” said Dr Basu. Also read: Pranab Mukherjee’s son does not want his book published. Daughter disagreesTill Monday, Bhattacharjee was on intermittent non-invasive ventilator. He was conscious, alert and communicating verbally. He even had food. Bhattacharjee was rushed to the hospital on December 9. He was first admitted in the emergency ward and later shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU). In September last year, the CPI(M) leader was admitted at the same hospital after he complained of an acute breathing problem. His blood pressure was found to be quite low and his oxygen concentration had deteriorated. Bhattacharjee however recovered in a few days. “This time, however, his condition was much worse,” said Dr Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-discharged-from-hospital/story-Colb5VazKwh0PQMJ6hDZqJ.html
15-12-2020||Pune||Attempted murder case against former MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav||PUNE: A case of attempt to murder was registered against Harshvardhan Jadhav, former legislator from Maharashtra, and another person for assaulting an elderly couple on Monday morning. The other accused is a woman identified as Isha Jha, who was in the car with Jadhav. A complaint was lodged by the elderly couple’s son, Aman Chaddha of Bopodi.“The elderly couple was going on a two-wheeler. When they were riding near Jadhav’s car, he opened the door suddenly and the couple fell. They got into a verbal spat and Jadhav and the co-accused beat up the couple. The man is in the hospital undergoing treatment,” said Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4, Pune.Jadhav, who was at the driver’s seat, was arrested while the woman is yet to be apprehended.The incident happened near the Bank of Maharashtra located on the road that connects Sangvi nagar to Breman Chowk area.The man was identified as Ajay Chaddha (in 50s) while his wife was identified as Mamata Chaddha (48).Jadhav has served as a legislator from Kannad in Aurangabad and, in May, had released a video declaring his resignation from active politics after being influenced by spiritual reading. He is married to Sanjana Jadhav, the daughter of central cabinet minister Raosaheb Danve. He was a part of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) when he made the announcement. He has served in other political parties, including Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/attempted-murder-case-against-former-mla-harshvardhan-jadhav/story-yPPQhBvf9n2CSedqsBpa1L.html
15-12-2020||City||Southall spitting row: Indian-origin man sentenced to long-term mental hospital||London A Punjab-origin 36-year-old man who killed a 69-year-old rugby player when the latter objected to him spitting on a Southall street in August 2019, has been sentenced to an indefinite hospital order under the UK’s Mental Health Act, 1983. Gurjeet Singh Lall attacked Allan Isichei, after the two had a brief verbal row over Lall’s spitting in the street. Lall was found guilty of manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility in October; he was not present in court during sentencing on Monday.A person is detained under Section 37 of the mental health act, when the court is satisfied that it is necessary to do so to protect the public from serious harm. The court may also impose restrictions on discharge, which may be subject to permission from the ministry of justice, and conditions.Detective inspector Jamie Stevenson of Scotland Yard said, “It beggars belief that a man could go to his local pub for a quick drink on a Saturday evening and not return home, but that is the terrible reality that Isichei’s family have been left with. His loss is immeasurable, and is of course most felt by his loving family.”“There was no good reason for Lall to have had a knife in his possession that day, and no good reason for him to use it. I am glad that he was convicted after the jury rejected his claim that he was acting in self-defence, and that he has now been detained indefinitely,” he added.A Scotland Yard statement said that Isichei went to a pub before 6pm on the day, and left around 6.30pm. Moments later he encountered Lall as he walked towards his home on St Mary’s Avenue South.The two had a brief verbal disagreement over Lall’s spitting in the street. Words were exchanged and as Isichei walked away, Lall spat on the ground again, at which point Isichei turned. More words were exchanged.Lall produced a knife and used it to stab Allan in a struggle in which the latter managed to disarm him. Apparently not realising how badly he was injured, Isichei got up and walked down the street before stopping. He then staggered to a neighbour’s address and rang the doorbell, pleading for help.Police and paramedics treated him at the scene before placing him in an ambulance that was forced to stop shortly after it left as his condition deteriorated; he was pronounced dead around 8pm.The police traced Lall to his home address after following a blood trail from injuries he had sustained in the incident. A post-mortem found that Isichei had suffered multiple knife injuries. The cause of death was a wound to the abdomen. During police interview, Lall claimed, in a prepared statement, that he had acted in self-defence.Isichei’s family said, “He spent his time putting others before himself and the graphic camera footage shown in court clearly shows he was the victim of someone who chose to carry a knife.”The family added, “Why was a person with a history of carrying knives, who was only arrested while carrying one in January 2019, allowed to be back on the streets unsupervised to carry out this senseless killing?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/southall-spitting-row-indian-origin-man-sentenced-to-long-term-mental-hospital/story-At4T9poZPJJJiu6NSIOtHK.html
15-12-2020||Lucknow||‘Mungerilal ke haseen sapne’: UP minister’s jibe on AAP’s 2022 poll announcement||Uttar Pradesh minister Siddhartha Nath Singh on Tuesday made light of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would contest the 2022 UP assembly elections. Singh said that Kejriwal was a ‘habitual liar’ and that his government had failed to check the spread of Covid-19. In a lighter vein, Singh said Kejriwal’s attempt to enter the state’s political scenario was like ‘Mungerilal ke haseen sapne’ which, he added, would be called ‘Kejriwal ke haseen sapne’ after 2022 UP assembly polls. ‘Mungerilal ke haseen sapne’ was a popular comedy show of the 90s directed by Prakash Jha. Singh reminded Kejriwal of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, which the latter contested and lost badly in Varanasi, and said it was hard to imagine how he turned out the hapless people of UP, Bihar and Jharkhand from Delhi during the trying times of Covid-19. He said the Yogi government received them, provided them free ration, gave them sustenance allowance and got them tested for Covid-19 for free. Singh said, “It is surprising that the Delhi CM has something to comment on UP government despite his failure to meet the expectations of Delhi on more than one occasion.”Also read: PM Modi says farmers surrounding Delhi misguided, blames Opposition“UP has conducted more than two crore Covid-19 tests against 72 lakh done by Delhi. Delhi has a population of 2 crore while UP has a population of about 24 crore and the number of total cases in Delhi is 6.08 lakh and in UP the figure is 5.66 lakh. We are conducting over 1.75 lakh tests daily,” said Singh, who referred to Delhi high court’s observations against Delhi government for ‘poor’ handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Singh said UP government has received accolades from the World Health Organisation for the efficient Covid-19 management. “Now look at the facilities. We have two AIIMS in UP and you are not able to even manage one. We have added 52 new medical colleges in the state in the past four years. If you want to have more facts, we are open for a debate,” Singh said while challenging Kejriwal. Singh further said Kejriwal owed an apology to the people of Purvanchal for saying that they come to Delhi on a ticket of Rs 500 and get free treatment of Rs 5 lakh. He pointed out that “the unemployment rate of Delhi is over 45 per cent and we have given employment to over four lakh youths in the past three-and-a-half years. Over 1.5 crore youths have become self-reliant with the assistance of the state government… Delhi government also claims 1,024 primary schools. We have 1.35 lakh primary schools in UP and over 50,000 of them have been upgraded under ‘Kayakalp’ scheme.”Singh said Kejriwal was in the habit of confusing people. “He is claiming that AAP volunteers are moving around in the state with oximeters. I would suggest you (Kejriwal) to kindly get your oxygen level checked with an oximeter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mungerilal-ke-haseen-sapne-up-minister-s-jibe-on-aap-s-2022-polls-announcement/story-85TRlygf156W686vQeIWtK.html
15-12-2020||Pune||6kg gold worth Rs3.16 cr seized from car in Solapur||PUNE The Solapur rural police crime branch officials, on Sunday, intercepted a vehicle allegedly smuggling six-kilogram gold from Vishakhapatnam to Mumbai.The gold is estimated to be worth Rs 3,16,35,649, according to a statement issued by Solapur police.“We have taken the two men found in the car to the court. There is no case yet as we are awaiting the court’s decision. However, the gold has been seized. If they produce legitimate bills for the same, they can get the gold released. However, if the court decides so, a case will be registered,” said Tejaswi Satpute, superintendent of Solapur police.The gold was found under the mat under the passenger seat of the car wrapped in a white cloth. There were 12 blocks of varied sizes found in the car which is registered in West Bengal.The two men detained have told the police that the two were only couriers and had no idea what was in the car. However, the police found customised packets stitched in the car to carry the gold through suspected smuggling.The Solapur police had received information about a car heading from Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh to Mumbai in Maharashtra.The police kept a close watch on the vehicle heading from Solkapur to Mohol at the toll plaza on the road connecting the two places where the vehicle was intercepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/6kg-gold-worth-rs3-16-cr-seized-from-car-in-solapur/story-6rXQCl3o5O576DuVPHLRlN.html
15-12-2020||City||Himachal govt teachers’ union resents panchayat polls amid pandemic||The Himachal Pradesh Government Teachers’ Union has expressed resentment over the government and the state election department’s decision to hold the panchayat polls amid Covid-19 pandemic.The union president Virendra Chauhan in a statement issued here said the government seems to be in a haste to conduct the election even as there has been a community spread of coronavirus in the state.In any election, more than 80% teachers are deployed on the poll duty. “This may expose the teachers to greater risk of getting infected,” Chauhan said, adding that the election duty is not an easy task as employees have to be in contact with all kinds of people.He demanded that the government should take the responsibility if any teacher on poll duty gets infected. The government and the election department should also announce compensation if any person dies due to the infection, he added. “Otherwise, the elections should be postponed until the situation normalises,” he said.Chauhan said virus cases are likely to rise in winters and the union is worried about the well being of teachers. “We hope that the government and state election department will take notice of our genuine concerns,” he said.The district electoral officers of Shimla, Una, Kullu, Mandi and Hamirpur have issued the reservation roaster for the post of gram panchayat pradhan. The panchayat and urban local bodies (ULB) election are likely to be held in the state in January and announcement is likely be made soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-teachers-union-resents-panchayat-polls-amid-pandemic/story-U0idosrdB9yq9bvB1Te9mL.html
15-12-2020||City||NABARD should focus on agriculture sector to uplift Himachal’s rural economy: CM||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) should work with greater focus on the agriculture sector to strengthen the rural economy in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.He was presiding over the NABARD State Credit Seminar 2021-22, organised by its regional office. The theme of the seminar was ‘Collectivisation of Agricultural Produce for Enhancing Farmers Income’. The CM also released NABARD State Focus Paper-2021-22 and a booklet on ‘Various Refinance Schemes of NABARD’ on the occasion.Thakur expressed hope that ‘The State Focus Paper’ will act as an input for the credit and infrastructure planning by bankers and state government to prioritise allocation of funds for development. He said this annual exercise aims at promoting the increased production in agriculture and allied sectors and generating job opportunities in the farm as well as non-farm sector by the envisaged credit support.“Being a special state, on account of its hilly terrain and other socio-economic conditions, planning needs of Himachal cannot be equated with other states,” the CM said.He said the state needs special parameters while working out its credit and developmental needs and implementing strategies. Average land holdings in Himachal Pradesh is one acre and constitute 88% of total land holdings of the state against the national average of 1.15 hectare and 86.21%respectively. Eighty percent of the total cultivated area in the state is rain-fed. All these factors of the low productivity and production of agriculture pose challenges for the planners and stakeholders, he said.Appreciating the concept of Farmer Producers’ Organisations (FPO) of NABARD, Thakur said the main objective of the FPOs was collectivisation of agricultural produce, value addition and collective marketing so that farmers can fetch better prices of their produce. He said the cumulative assistance sanctioned to the state under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) was ₹8,679.28 crore as on date, which is a major facilitator in creation of infrastructure.The CM said bankers should issue Kissan Credit Cards to each and every eligible farmer in the state to facilitate them in availing credit as per their needs. He said NABARD has estimated ₹ 2,7724.04 crore credit potential in priority sectors in the state for current fiscal, which is 7.22% higher than year plan of ₹ 2,5857.26 crore. Agri laws in farmers’ interestThe CM said the Centre’s three agriculture laws are aimed at protecting the interests of farmers and free them from exploitation at the hands of middlemen. He said farmers will be able to get best price of their produce in any market of their choice.Thakur expressed hope that the professional and personal relationship between NABARD and Himachal Pradesh government will go a long way to benefit people of the state.Congratulates state police for bagging CCTNS awardChief minister Jai Ram Thakur congratulated director general of police Sanjay Kundu and members of Himachal Pradesh Police for being conferred the CCTNS Award for ‘Best Performing State’ in Good Practices on Criminal Crime Tracking Network Information System (CCTNS)/Inter-operative Criminal Justice System (ICJS) among hilly states of the country.Thakur expressed hope that Himachal Pradesh Police will continue its outstanding services to the people of the state in future and earn a name for the state.The award was announced during a two-day seminar organised by the National Crime Records Bureau on CCTNS and Inter-operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS). The seminar was presided by minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy.CCTNS is used by the police to create and share a database of crime and criminals with each other to track them in real time. It is the base for the nation’s crime records and assists in investigation of criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nabard-should-focus-on-agriculture-sector-to-uplift-himachal-s-rural-economy-cm/story-EMqLzhxYkQEOFqBc39TQtK.html
15-12-2020||Bhopal||Minor girl from Nepal travels to MP on marriage promise, rescued after 18 days||A 16-year-old girl, who travelled more than 1,300 km distance from Kathmandu in Nepal to a small district of Sehore in Madhya Pradesh to marry a 21-year-old man, was handed over to her mother after 18 days on Monday, said a member of the child welfare committee (CWC), Bhopal. The cyber experts and officers of the Embassy of Nepal and India traced her with the help of her mobile number locations and her activities on social media on November 27. She was rescued by Sehore police.Police also arrested a resident of Asta, Mahesh Siloriya, 21, who called her to Sehore for marriage, under section 370 (trafficking), said Kripa Shankar Chaubey, member child welfare committee. “The girl’s mother works in a reputed company in the middle east while the girl lives with her father in Nepal. She was quite active on different social media platforms and was easily misguided by Siloriya,” said Chaubey.A senior police officer said that Siloriya had told the girl that he would kill himself if she didn’t come to Sehore.“The girl said she met with Siloriya over Tiktok two years ago. They used to talk with each other through video calls. The girl’s family came to know about their friendship a few months ago and they tried to stop her from talking to the man in India. In November, Siloriya called the girl and asked her to come to Sehore otherwise he would kill himself,” said Sameer Yadav, additional superintendent of police, Sehore. “The girl boarded a Kathmandu-Lucknow flight and reached Lucknow on November 25. He boarded a train on November 26 and reached Bhopal on November 27. She reached Asta via bus where women police personnel rescued her,” said Yadav.Also Read: MP schools to reopen on December 18 for classes 10 and 12, colleges on January 1She was handed over to the child welfare committee, which counselled her and sent her to a shelter, he said.“Her mother reached Sehore on Monday with officers of Embassy of Nepal and took the girl back,” Yadav added. Police interrogated Siloriya to rule out the possibility of an organised trafficking gang’s involvement. As of now, we didn’t find any criminal conspiracy in the matter. Siloriya is a daily wager and worked at a medical shop, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/minor-girl-from-nepal-travels-to-mp-on-marriage-promise-rescued-after-18-days/story-O8262LLiAggryKnPOWA3cP.html
15-12-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP requests EC to deploy central forces, bring in model code of conduct at earliest||The Bharatiya Janata Party has requested the Election Commission of India to deploy central police forces and enforce the Model Code of Conduct in West Bengal at the earliest to avoid wide-scale political violence during the campaign period ahead of the crucial 2021 assembly elections. A BJP delegation from West Bengal, which met the Chief Election Commissioner in New Delhi on Monday, also cited discrepancies in the draft voters’ list and alleged that names of dead voters have not been deleted. “The BJP requests your intervention to ensure early deployment of CPF else the ruling Trinamool Congress, with the active support of West Bengal Police, will make campaign very difficult, resulting in widespread violence,” stated a letter submitted to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC). Accusing the West Bengal Police of showing a partisan role, the BJP alleged that even though the attack on the convoy of JP Nadda, party’s national president, was carried out in full glare, the police remained silent spectators. “Political murders have been going on since the Lok Sabha polls and 132 BJP workers have been killed till date. They have got heightened in the last few months. The state police invariably deflect these as personal enmity and family feud and no action is taken. All this makes normal political activities very challenging.”Also read: PM Modi says farmers surrounding Delhi misguided, blames OppositionThe Trinamool Congress has rubbished the allegations saying that the BJP is doing a drama. “Deployment of central forces ahead of the elections is a routine exercise. Half of the central forces have already been deployed as bodyguards of BJP leaders. It appears as if an entire army is moving with them. What new central force they want? People have seen central forces in previous elections. They will vote for the TMC,” said Kunal Ghosh, a spokesperson of TMC. In a separate letter submitted to the CEC, a BJP leader from the state alleged that constituencies along the Indo-Bangla border have seen a sharp rise in new voter registration.“It gives an impression of illegal cross border infiltration duly supported by the local ruling party activists. This, if allowed, will not only affect the security of the country but will also have a profound impact on the entire election process,” Sabyasachi Dutta, BJP leader, wrote in his letter.The BJP has also requested the poll panel not to utilize member of the West Bengal State Government Employees Federation as they have allegedly pledged their support to the chief minister and her party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-requests-ec-to-deploy-central-forces-bring-in-model-code-of-conduct-at-earliest/story-CofWYd0eTtAl1GSJTsn9nJ.html
15-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC leaders arrested in Bengal’s Murshidabad for assaulting BSF jawan||Days after being accused of inaction, the Murshidabad district police in Bengal have arrested two local Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in the Kandi area for allegedly assaulting a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan on December 11.The injured jawan, Biswajit Sahani, 32, is attached to 169th Battalion. He was posted at Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir till he came home on leave. The jawan’s family lives in the Kalabagan area of Kandi. He is now in hospital. The police arrested Saddam Hossain and Hiran Miyan from Kandi on Monday night for their alleged role in the assault on Sahani. Hossain is a member of the local Mahalandi gram panchayat while Miyan is a TMC leader in Kandi town. Last Friday, Sahani was returning home from the local market on his motorcycle when the TMC was holding a roadshow as part of its new outreach programme, Bangadhani (voice of Bengal). Also read: TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari may join BJP during Amit Shah’s Bengal visitSahani was stopped so that the procession could pass. The BSF jawan requested the TMC men to let him go and this led to an altercation, Sahani’s family said in the police complaint. The TMC workers assaulted Sahani and also vandalised his motorcycle, the complaint said. Sahani was rushed to the Kandi government hospital and was later moved to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore town. His family alleged that officers at Kandi police station did not take action even after receiving a written complaint from the jawan’s father, Biswanath Sahani. Berhampore Lok Sabha member and state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and district Bharatiya Janata Party president Gouri Shankar Ghosh visited the injured jawan in hospital. They strongly criticized the police in public. The jawan’s elder brother, Rajesh Sahani, said, “It is very unfortunate that the police sat on the complaint for almost three days. My brother is still under treatment. The TMC workers had hit him on the head with his own helmet. He was brutally thrashed as well.” “My brother is on leave since February this year as he is undergoing treatment for some physical and psychological problems,” added Rajesh Sahani. Subhas Ghosh, inspector-in-charge of Kandi police station, said, “Saddam Hossain and Hiran Miyan have been booked under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code. They will be produced before the local court on Tuesday. We will pray for their judicial custody for two weeks.” TMC’s district spokesperson Apurba Sarkar, who was leading the rally on Friday, said, “The administration is doing its duty. We have nothing to say on this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-leaders-arrested-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-for-assaulting-bsf-jawan/story-aUfmkL5e01GX6b961nVUXP.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt waives rent of shops at bus stands from April to June||The Haryana government has decided to waive the entire rent of shops located at bus stands of Haryana Roadways from April 1 to June 30, 2020. Besides, 50% rent of such shops will also be waived from July 1 to July 31, 2020. Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma said that a proposal to this effect has been approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The state government’s fleet of buses was grounded during this period due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-waives-rent-of-shops-at-bus-stands-from-april-to-june/story-ulNjGHki8RzdPuekgzjDuN.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC restrains protesting nurses from continuing their strike at AIIMS, asks them to resume work||Delhi High Court on Tuesday restrained thousands of protesting nurses of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) from continuing their strike over their long-pending demands and asked them to resume work. The court also issued a notice to the nurses’ union on the plea of the hospital.“Keeping in view of the submissions and assurances made by AIIMS that it would look into the grievances of the respondents (nurses), this union is restrained from continuing the strike,” Justice Navin Chawla said.WATCH | ‘Open to talks with authorities’: AIIMS nurse union on strike AIIMS, through its counsel VSR Krishna, told the court that these are services matters and discussions are held at regular intervals to look into grievances. The court issued a notice and posted the matter for further hearing on Jan 18, 2021.As nearly 3,000 nurses went on the strike, AIIMS Delhi decided to outsource the nursing services on a contractual basis. The decision was taken in a meeting attended by the chairman, director, deputy director and senior faculty of the AIIMS administration.“Our Union is ready for talks with the administration. We are feeling bad for patients but we’re helpless as our demands haven’t been met. We had given notice for strike a month ago but even then the administration didn’t listen to our demands,” Harish Kalja, the president of AIIMS Nurses Union, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“There was no need for us to strike. We were busy serving the people. But the government retracted from the demands that were met earlier. None of our demands are new. All of our demands are important. But the demand of 6th Central Pay Commission is of priority,” he added.On government orders to nurses to join back duty, Kalja said “The citizens of the country are witnessing here that the government is not ready to hold talks with us. This is really unfortunate.”The Delhi Nurses Federation on Tuesday extended support to the ongoing indefinite strike by Delhi’s AIIMS Nurses Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-restrains-protesting-nurses-from-continuing-their-strike-at-aiims-asks-them-to-resume-work/story-CULVqbLOKMHqSb5n9EVdyO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt pensioners can submit life certificate till February 28||Haryana government pensioners can submit the mandatory life certificate up to February 28, 2021, to continue receiving pension, an official spokesperson said on Tuesday. Earlier, due to the Covid -19 pandemic and in view of the vulnerability of the elderly, the state government had extended the date to submit the life certificate till December 31. According to the rules, state government pensioners and family pensioners have to submit the life certificate in November every year for further continuation of pension. The government stops the pension automatically if the life certificate is not received in November. An official spokesperson said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, pensioners have been given time from November 1 to February 28, 2021, to submit their Jeevan Pramaan Patras (life certificates). During this period, the pensioners will continue to receive their pension, the spokesperson said. The government has asked the pensioners to update information regarding their Parivar Pehchan Patra by January 15, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-pensioners-can-submit-life-certificate-till-february-28/story-8eeXedz7aA3M5VCNLoNedK.html
15-12-2020||Pune||National Family Health Survey: Sex ratio in Pune district drops to 918 females per 1,000 males in 2019-20||The National Family Health Survey (NFHS), in its fifth district survey, has found that Pune’s sex ratio has dropped from 924 females per 1,000 males as of 2015-16, to 918 females in 2019-20. The results of the survey, released to HT on Monday, also found that 70.6% of married women used some family planning method in 2015-16. This has gone down to 57.8% as of 2019-20. The survey was conducted in 2019 across 786 households in Pune district. The survey was conducted from June 19, 2019, to December 30, 2019, by the Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR). In Pune, information was gathered from 832 women and 140 men. The women’s schedule covered a wide variety of topics, including marriage, fertility, contraception, children’s immunisation and healthcare, nutrition, reproductive health, sexual behaviour, HIV/AIDS, women’s empowerment, and domestic violence, which are all primary health indicators in the district. The survey found that in Pune district, the female to male sex ratio has been further imbalanced in the past four years, with the gap between the two genders wideneing. The district reported six fewer females per thousand males in the year 2019-2020 as compared to the year 2015-16. The survey also showed that the at birth, the sex ratio for children, in terms of females per 1,000 males, also went down from 927 to 873 in these three years. The survey also revealed that the percentage of women married before the age of 18 in Pune as 24.5% in 2015-2016 and went down to 24% in 2019-20. It also found that 3.3% of girls surveyed aged 15-19 years were already mothers or pregnant at the time of the survey. This figure was 5.5% in 2015-16. With regards to usage of family planning methods, the data showed that in 2015-16, 70.6% of the currently married women aged 15-49 years used some method, which went down to 57.8% in 2019-20. The survey further showed that about 55.5% of the women had used some form of sterilisation in 2015-2016; this went down to 43.4% in 2019-20. National Family Health Survey - 5 (2019-2020)Fieldwork for the survey was conducted from June 19, 2019 to December 30, 2019 by Indian Institute of Health Management Research in the state(data for Pune district) Information gathered from 786 households832 women140 men Indicators/NFHS-5 (2019-20)/ NFHS-4 (2015-16) Population and Household Profile Female population age 6 years and above who ever attended school (%)== 84.8== 82.3Population below age 15 years (%) 22.8 ==21.5 Sex ratio of the total population (females per 1,000 males) 918== 924Sex ratio at birth for children born in the last five years (females per 1,000 males) 873==927 Data shows that there is drastic fall in female sex ratio in past three years Current use of family planning methods (currently married women age 15–49 years)Any method (%) 57.8== 70.6Any modern method 6 (%) 55.9==69.8Female sterilization (%) 43.3==55.5 Data also states that the percentage of married women who used any of the modern methods of family planning has also reduced in the district||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/national-family-health-survey-sex-ratio-in-pune-district-drops-to-918-females-per-1-000-males-in-2019-20/story-0uwjIuQeSeTHsEFqYuhd5J.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP protests outside Assembly over women safety, reservation||Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Tuesday held a protest outside the state Assembly on the second of the winter session, over various issues including women safety and Maratha reservation.Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council alleged that the government is running away from discussions and is facing strong opposition.“The Maharashtra government does not seem to be serious about Maratha reservation. It should put all its efforts in the Supreme Court for the Maratha Reservation. The government should also take care that OBC (Other Backward Class) reservations remain intact and unchanged,” he said.BJP leader Pravin Darekar also commented upon the Bill approved by Maharashtra Cabinet, to be called the “Shakti Act”, in which it is said it has the provision of death for crimes against women and children.“Shakti Law was our demand and we are happy that the law is being brought but there was no need to do hurry. The discussions are a must for any kind of additions or amendment in proposed Bills but the government seems to be in a hurry to just avoid a discussion,” said Darekar.Meanwhile, former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “Shakti Law is a very crucial Law and if it is passed in hurry, it won’t be effective. The government never talked to us about this, they should take this Bill to the next session if there is less time today but they should not hurry.”The Bill to be called the “Shakti Act”, will come up for discussion and approval in both houses of the legislature during winter session, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had said on December 10 after cabinet approved the bill in a meeting.The two-day winter session of the legislature begun in Mumbai from December 14.In another development, Independent MLA Ravi Rana representing the Badnera Vidhan Sabha constituency of Amaravati district has given a breach of privilege motion against Mumbai Police Commissioner and Amravati Police Commissioner for “illegally detaining” him in Amaravati during his protest for farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-protests-outside-assembly-over-women-safety-reservation/story-WdhShNlMUnxy4yBwLbbxoI.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: NCB summons Arjun Rampal again||Actor Arjun Rampal has been called again by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officers for questioning in connection with the Bollywood drugs case. NCB had already questioned Rampal and his partner Gabriella Demetriades and arrested Gabriella’s brother in the case.A senior NCB officer confirmed the development and said they wish to question the actor again in the light of some fresh evidence. The actor may join the probe again on December 16, NCB sources said.Last month, the Central anti-narcotics agency had conducted a search at Rampal’s residence in Bandra and had seized electronics gadgets and some medicine which are restricted under the NDPS Act. He was then questioned for nearly seven hours on November 13.His partner Demetriades was questioned twice after she was held responsible for the narcotics. NCB involved Rampal and Demetriades in the investigation after they discovered the involvement of Demetriades’ brother Agisilaos Demetriades in drug cases and found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, said an NCB officer.Agisilaos was arrested on October 17 from a resort at Lonawala where he was staying with his fiance. NCB officials recovered 0.8 grams of a black-coloured sticky substance purported to be hashish (charas). Alprazolam tablets were also found in a search at his Khar residence. Officials said Agisilaos was in constant touch with several drug peddlers who allegedly supplied drugs to Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and others persons arrested for their alleged involvement in the drug case related to death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, said NCB officials.Agisilaos was dealing in a variety of drugs. Electronic evidence showed that he was in touch with Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda, who are linked with Rhea and Showik Chakraborty.NCB, which has been investigating the drug angle into late actor Rajput’s death, has till now arrested 28 people, including Bollywood celebrities like comedienne Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa.Previously, top actors like Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh have also been questioned by the NCB officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-ncb-summons-arjun-rampal-again/story-aFUWNs0P4rL40vaUdVoEWJ.html
15-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand okays police reforms, hiring of experts to solve complex crimes||Uttarakhand has agreed to a series of police reforms for achieving modernisation and efficacy including hiring of professionals to solve complex cybercrimes and economic offences apart from introduction of a digitised system for policing.These reforms, to be introduced over the next two years, were discussed between director general of police Ashok Kumar and State home secretary Nitesh Jha on Monday at the police headquarters. These suggestions were offered by nine committees formed by Kumar to consider necessary reforms and turning the State police SMART which, when expanded, stands for sensitive and strict, modern with mobility, alert and accountable, reliable and responsible and trained and techno-savvy. “The suggestions for the reformative measures given by the committees were discussed in detail with the home secretary who in principle agreed to implement most of them,” said DGP Kumar.“Among the major reforms, state police would hire the services of professionals in solving cases of cybercrime and economic offences which are becoming complex and serious day by day. Apart from this, e-beat book system would also be implemented to digitise the working in police stations,” said Kumar. He also announced that the State police would soon acquire 100 MUVs to improve the mobility and response time of police. “These cars will have modern equipment on the lines of UP’s Dial 100 mechanism. To modernise the city police, we would equip them with short-range weapons instead of long-range ones. The tourist police will also be improved with development of new infrastructure for them,” Kumar added. On reducing the stress of posting in hilly areas among the personnel, Kumar said that its tenure would be halved. “The posting tenure in hilly areas would be reduced to 8 from 16 years for constables and for head constables, it would be reduced from 12 to 6 years and 8 to 4 years for sub-inspectors,” said Kumar. Also Read: Prisoner kills inmate over pet dog, three missing puppies in Uttarakhand’s open jail The DGP said that the department will reward commoners for helping the injured in road accidents to remove the existing fear that doing so will entangle them in various police procedures. “The DGP will offer a cash reward up to Rs 1 lakh to those helping the injured in road accidents so that more people come forward to help. We would also increase the cash reward limit of DGP to police personnel from existing Rs 20,000 to Rs 2 lakh. A separate budget will be there for it,” said Kumar. Among the other important reforms, he said, “Police would introduce the entry of women in fire service and continue the practice of serving e-summons, which was introduced during the pandemic to deal with restrictions. We have also planned a new PHQ building soon which would be spread in an area of about two acres.” Also Read: Sherwood College: Uttarakhand police books 50 people including principal Home secretary Nitesh Jha said that the home department has agreed to most of the reforms except a few on financial grounds which, too, would be resolved soon. Jha added that a three-member committee including retired senior IAS officers Madhukar Gupta, Indu Pandey and retired DGP Anil Raturi has been formed for solving the issue regarding handing over of revenue police areas to the regular police.Uttarakhand is the only State with nearly 60% area still under revenue police, a system introduced by the British in 1861, in which revenue officials double up as cops with the right to arrest an accused and investigate cases. The British made system was made keeping the low crime rate in the hilly areas around a century and half ago and has now become obsolete, according to experts. “We have agreed on most of the reforms and we would first work on developing the recruitment process of new personnel and improving the infrastructure in police stations,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-okays-police-reforms-hiring-of-experts-to-solve-complex-crimes/story-E53KYKDE3TY2G7NX01cw0N.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||HC seeks AAP govt, DDA stand on contempt plea over quake stability orders||The Delhi High Court has sought responses of the AAP government, the DDA and the three municipal corporations on a plea seeking contempt action against them for allegedly not complying with judicial orders on ensuring seismic stability of buildings in the national capital.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan Tuesday issued notices to them as also to the New Delhi Municipal Council on the plea filed by lawyer Arpit Bhargava, who has claimed that the court’s earlier orders on making the national capital ready to face any major earthquake have not been complied with yet.The high court’s earlier orders had come on Bhargava’s PIL filed in 2015 claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi was poor and in case of a major earthquake there could be a large number of casualties.The petition is still pending before the high court which from time to time has directed the Delhi government and civic authorities to develop an action plan.In June this year, after 11 minor tremors struck Delhi in a matter of days from April 12 onwards, Bhargava moved an application seeking setting up of a monitoring committee to ensure timely implementation of the action plan for strengthening buildings in Delhi. The court had, thereafter, issued several directions to the authorities to survey whether buildings in Delhi were compliant with the norms of seismic stability, identify non-compliant ones, take necessary action and also develop an action plan.In his plea seeking contempt action against the authorities, Bhargava has said that “despite serious intervention by the high court over a period of five years”, the authorities “have shown little concern for larger public interest and did not move an inch” to formulate and implement an action plan.He has contended that there has been a “deliberate and wilful non compliance/violation of various orders” passed by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-aap-govt-dda-stand-on-contempt-plea-over-quake-stability-orders/story-wW6mzTOuVByyUQqvozEeJN.html
15-12-2020||Patna||IPS officer with IT skills makes policing accessible, accountable in Bihar district||Sheohar police became the first in Bihar to launch an interactive website and a mobile application to bring policing closer to people by giving them easier access to policing services and bringing greater transparency in functioning of the police force.Only a few states including Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have been recognised by the Centre for making information technology (IT) a bridge between the people and the police.Sheohar police app, launched in June 2020, lets residents seek online appointments with the superintendent of police (SP), schedule or reschedule their appointments, get SMS updates about appointments and status of their work, access action taken reports, check status of passport applications online, procure character certificates. The app also has a panic button which connects the person directly with the SP in case of any emergency. The police-people mobile app interface is the brainchild of 2014 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Santosh Kumar, posted as Sheohar SP. He made a presentation before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior officials from the Union home ministry at the 54th All India Conference of Director Generals and Inspector Generals of Police -2020, earlier this month.“It is a proud moment for Bihar police in general and Sheohar police in particular to get recognised at the national level. The initiative is transparent, corruption-free and unbiased. Other states are also following, as it has instilled confidence about policing and developed a bonding of trust between police and people,” said the SP, who is an engineering graduate from Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSIT), Delhi University. Also Read: Bihar BJP launches counter offensive in support of farm laws with mega outreachThe website sheoharpolice.bihar.gov.in and Sheohar police app improve police-people access and ensure availability of basic facilities at the click of a button, he added. During the conference, PM Modi had asked government officials to strive to improve the image of the police force to inspire confidence among all sections of society, including women and children, and use technology to usher in proactive policing that factors in the feedback of the common man. “Sheohar has done well to lead by example. Drawing people closer and winning their trust is what makes policing easy. More districts in Bihar will follow the model,” said a police headquarters official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ips-officer-with-it-skills-makes-policing-accessible-accountable-in-bihar-district/story-m23NjyRbjJ9B9pvwT07thJ.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir, Ladakh as cold wave grips region||A week before the onset of the harsh winter period of Chillai Kalan in Kashmir, sub-zero temperatures prevailed across the valley and Ladakh. The tourist resort of Gulmarg was the coldest at minus 10.2 degrees Celsius followed by Pahalgam at minus 5.3 degrees. “The night was chilling cold in Srinagar that witnessed a low of minus 3.2 degrees. It was relatively better in Jammu at 9.1 degrees,” an official of the meteorological department said. Also read: Mercury dips to 4.1°C in Delhi; minimum temperatures to drop in most of NW IndiaLeh in the Union Territory of Ladakh recorded a minimum of minus 7.9 degrees Celsius on Monday night, while Kargil was colder at minus 13.8 degrees and Drass was the coldest at minus 18.6 degrees. The night temperatures started dipping in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after the weather opened up following the snowfall on Saturday. The weather office has forecast dry weather till December 19. THREE STAGES OF WINTER IN KASHMIR Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages, starting with the 40-day intense cold period from December 21, which is locally called Chillai Kalan, followed by 20 days that are less intense and known as Chillai Khurd and lastly 10 days of mild cold or Chille Bache. Srinagar got this winter’s first spell of snowfall on Saturday, while areas in south Kashmir and the upper reaches received heavy snow yet again after a fresh western disturbance hit the region. Kashmir had received December’s first rain and snowfall earlier this week. Last month, the valley got three spells of snow and rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sub-zero-temperatures-in-kashmir-ladakh-as-cold-wave-grips-region/story-84n7rMufe4NLe9dhRI3LfJ.html
15-12-2020||Patna||2 Maoists held in West Champaran were plotting ‘major’ revenge attack||A joint team special task force (STF) of Bihar police arrested two hardcore Maoists from separate places from West Champaran district and seized explosives from their possession on Sunday, police said. The arrested Maoists have been identified as Ramakant Rai, 58, and Basanti Oraon, 55. Police officials say the arrests were made after intelligence inputs of the ultras plotting to execute something ‘major’. “We had information that they were planning to execute some major Naxalite activities on December 13 to avenge the July incident,” said Dhamendra Jha, assistant superintendent of police (Operation), Bagaha.4 Maoists were gunned down by the security personnel in an armed encounter in July this year. “But on the basis of the tip off, we arrested the two Maoists and seized seven electric detonators from their possession, four of them from Basanti Oraon and remaining from Ramakant,” Jha said. On July 10 this year, security personnel had gunned down four hardcore Maoists at Charpaniya Done area and seized Maoist literature and a diary from the spot, containing details about the cadres spread across the villages in and around Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) area.Also Read: CoBRA deputy commandant wounded in Bastar IED blast dies“Both Basanti and Ramakant are actively involved in spreading the insurgent movement and were assigned the task of making new recruitments in the VTR area by the ultra left organisation. Some other members have also been identified,” said Jha. Police have lodged a case against the duo under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Also Read: Two Maoists killed in Odisha encounterIn August 2018, armed Maoists raided a village and gunned down a former village headman near Bherihari village under Valmikinagar police station of West Champaran.On September 30, 2016, Maoists had injured forest employees in an attack on Manor anti-poaching camp in VTR’s Ganouli area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-maoists-held-in-bihar-s-west-champaran-were-plotting-major-revenge-attack/story-a2y51jDnqLJEwK5WjL6THP.html
15-12-2020||Education||MP schools to reopen on December 18 for classes 10 and 12, colleges on January 1||Schools for class 10 and 12 students in Madhya Pradesh will reopen from December 18 while colleges will reopen from January 1, said an official. The decisions on resumption of classes in schools and colleges were taken by the school education department and higher education department in Bhopal on Monday. “The decision of reopening of schools for class 10 and 12 has been taken to help the students in the preparation for the board exams. The department has asked school administrations to follow the guidelines of Covid 19 including proper sanitization, using masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Inder Singh Parmar, the school education minister.School principals have also been asked to decide on reopening of schools for students of class 9 and 11 by the end of this week, said the minister. Earlier, in a review meeting of the school education department held on December 4, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced that schools for class 1 to class 8 will reopen from April 1, 2021. “The students of class 5 and class 8 will be promoted to higher classes on the basis of their performances in the project work,” said an officer of the school education department. Also Read: Science stream classes to resume in higher education institutes in MP from Jan 1Meanwhile, higher education minister Mohan Singh Yadav said colleges in MP will be reopened in a phased manner from January 1. “Regular practical classes in colleges will begin from January 1. Colleges classes for final year undergraduate and post-graduates will resume from January 10 and the remaining classes will restart from January 20,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mp-schools-to-reopen-on-december-18-for-classes-10-and-12-colleges-on-january-1/story-qE9lTqAbGlQwXPjM6n2ZMM.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 reaches Himachal’s Hikkim village, home to world’s highest post office||Four residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in the remote Hikkim village, located at a height of 14,400 feet in Spiti valley of Himachal Pradesh. “All four have mild symptoms and are in home isolation. We are trying to trace their contact history,” Kaza additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi said on Tuesday. The state health department has sent a team to conduct random sampling in the three sparsely populated villages of Hikkim, Langza and Comic in the mountains of Spiti. Also read: Covid-19 vaccine update: US begins vaccination drive, Russia claims its Sputnik V over 91% effectiveAt present, no cases have been reported from Langza, which has a population of 136, and Comic that is home to 87 people. Hikkim village has a population of 200. It has the world’s highest post office that is a vital means of communication for villagers and those staying in adjoining hamlets. Besides, the post office serves as a bank where villagers operate savings accounts. Tourists, who make it this far to Hikkim village, take pride in mailing their letters from the highest post office. WEDDING FUNCTIONS LED TO RISE IN CASES IN NOVEMBER Despite being sparsely populated, some villages of Spiti valley saw a rise in Covid-19 infections in November due to social gatherings, particularly wedding ceremonies. Ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, the health department has gathered 4,646 samples in Spiti of which 473 tested positive. As many as 445 people have recovered from coronavirus infection. The total number of active cases is 25. Two persons have died due to the contagion. WINTER, POLL PLANS COULD AGGRAVATE SITUATION The number of daily fatalities due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh is at a record high, while both the numbers of infections and admissions continue to rise. Health experts say the next few months will be challenging for the state with the harsh winter setting in and the state government planning to hold local body elections next month after imposing restrictions. The experts fear campaigning can aggravate the Covid-19 spread in Himachal where 49,761 people have been infected with Covid-19 and 813 have died due to the virus Shimla, Kullu, Mandi and Kangra districts are the worst affected in the state. More than 220 people have died of Covid-19 so far in Shimla district alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-reaches-himachal-s-hikkim-village-home-to-world-s-highest-post-office/story-Mm6XD5LnN6Z8wKlMpDT1eO.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Save aircraft carrier Viraat from dismantling: Shiv Sena to Centre||The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra on Monday urged the Centre to grant a No Objection Certificate (NOC) for the transfer of the decommissioned aircraft carrier Viraat, being dismantled at Alang in Gujarat, to convert it into a museum.In a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, party MP and spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi stated, “It would be a crying shame if we let go our history without giving the benefit of knowledge to our future generation.“Viraat’s preservation is well merited and deserving of strong consideration. It can be saved if the Government of India so desires. I am certain that the Maharashtra Government will be ready to cooperate in restoring and preserving the historic ship”.Chaturvedi pointed out that a sea harrier monument was recently dedicated to Mumbai with an aim to motivate the youth to serve the nation.She said the monument keeps the legacy of Viraat alive.Viraat, the world’s longest serving warship that was decommissioned by the Indian Navy three years ago, arrived off the Alang coast in Gujarat for dismantling in September this year.The warship, which was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987, was purchased by Shree Ram Group for a sum of Rs 38.54 crore at an auction in July this year.Chaturvedi further said a model of INS Mumbai was also dedicated to the city of Mumbai at Worli.“Let Viraat be a living, breathing and thriving memorial of India’s nationalism, patriotism and pride. Let us be preservers than destroyers of our rich history,” she said.Though there is an offer to convert the warship into a museum it awaits a No Objection Certificate from the Defence Ministry for transfer of the ship, she wrote. “Granting the NoC would help save the ship. We must use our decommissioned naval ships to help citizens better understand the significance of India’s maritime history,” Chaturvedi stated.Viraat holds the record for being the world’s longest serving warship.It was the second centaur-class aircraft carrier which was in service with the Indian Navy for 29 years before being decommissioned in March 2017.There were proposals in the past to preserve it as a maritime museum.In July 2019, the Central government said in Parliament that the decision to scrap Viraat was taken in due consultation with the Indian Navy.It is the second aircraft carrier to be broken down in India. In 2014, Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai.In November, 2018, the Maharashtra government cleared an estimate of Rs 852 crore for the ambitious maritime museum project - which was to be located in Sindhudurg district along the coastal Konkan belt of the state.In May, 2019, the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) floated Expressions of Interest (EOI) for converting Viraat into an integrated tourism facility and for operating it on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) basis.However, there were no takers for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/save-aircraft-carrier-viraat-from-dismantling-shiv-sena-to-centre/story-cMngWKEELQaUMwt8WOQOKO.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Artist by the road||Like the pages of an art-gallery coffee table book, the pavement wall consists of a series of hand-drawn paintings. One shows a woman peeking out from behind her veil. Nearby, with a setting sun in the background, a woman is sitting on a seaside cliff while a man in glasses gazes towards the viewer. Who can these people be? What is their story?“There is no story,” says Sarju Gihara, the painter. In his 20s, he has drawn these panels on the boundary wall of Gurugram’s Government Industrial Training Institute. His painting stall, crammed up with paint cans and brushes, stands on the pavement facing the busy Mehrauli Road. Slim and solemn, Mr Gihara has brooding eyes and a soothing voice. His calm face evokes the immense patience that artists cultivate during long sittings, working on a same canvas for hours or even for days.“I actually saw two separate images on the newspaper, they fascinated me and I put them together,” he says, referring to the panel with no story.There are other art works, too, along the wall. And next to his stall, on a single wooden frame, the introspective portraits of two men draw the attention —“this is me, and this is my friend Ramu.”Mr Gihara now takes out his mobile and scrolls through pictures of the works he executed as assignments for a handful of institutions in the city. One is a wall-sized Taj Mahal in a government school. He is blushing, as if showing off wasn’t part of his nature.“I’m not para-likha (literate),” he clarifies without any prompt. But he has painted the word ‘painter’ in Hindi in many places along the wall. “A friend wrote it for me on a sheet of paper, and I simply drew the alphabets, as I would have drawn people or nature.”Mr Gihara’s father, a native of Badaun in UP, has been running a bamboo blinds stall on this same footpath, a bit farther away, for years. “I’ve spent my whole life here,” Mr Gihara says. Gesturing towards the roadside, he mutters that “this whole stretch is my childhood.”While well-versed in his father’s profession, the young man’s passion lies in drawing and painting, and it has been so since his early years. Like many artists, he is trying to earn through his art. He also paints shop hoardings and sign boards on commission.His father used to paint too, but gave that up after his marriage. Mr Gihara will never do that, he says. “My dream is to become a kabildar (talented) painter and earn through my abilities... I’m nowhere near it, but I’m trying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-artist-by-the-road/story-ejMZaVLs9JfrVuBnwJR7UM.html
15-12-2020||City||The downfall of Mohali’s Purab Premium Apartments||Once touted as a game changer in high-storey housing projects in the city, the Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88 have failed to meet the high expectations and are, in fact, hitting new lows.Poor facilities, unsafe surroundings and absence of a security system have made the Rs 750-crore project untouchable among prospective buyers. And a lack of interest by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has been one of the key reasons behind the downfall of the 15-storey housing project the contract for which was given to Simplex Infrastructure Private Limited.Out of a total 1,620 flats, built in three categories, almost half of the flats are empty, and going by the past record, are unlikely to fill up in the future, too. Besides, of the total flats, 954 have been allotted, but only 600 families are residing there. Also, 186 units are either surrendered by the allottees or unsold, while 480 dwellings are still not ready for allotment.On Monday, the residents of Purab Premium held a protest outside PUDA Bhawan in Sector 62 against GMADA. The allottees even stated they were ready to sell their property, but no one was ready to buy.Written complaint submitted to VBWhat’s more, the project also came under the scanner of the Punjab vigilance Bureau after residents in a written complaint had alleged that sub-standard material was used in the construction and that whatever was promised in the brochure before they invited applications was not in the detailed notice inviting tenders (DNIT). The residents also alleged huge financial irregularities.Col Dalwinder Singh (retd), general secretary of the residents association said, “The project was publicised as a dream project with world-class amenities, but this remained only on paper. Of all other projects launched by private builders, Purab Premium Apartments are considered the worst and no one is ready to buy a flat here.”A resident, SK Loona, said the residents felt insecure as many tenants were staying as paying guests and created ruckus for them. Many tenants were staying without proper rent agreements or police verification and some had shown forged documents, he added.Other residents have alleged that GMADA installed a low-capacity and poor-quality water tank on the top floors of the building and that the tanks were unable to bear the pressure and were breaking down.Out of a total 38, 50% of lifts were not working, housekeeping services had not been restored, horticulture services were not being provided, basement parking was not yet ready, CCTV cameras were non-functional, and neither were light sensors and light timers. Since the outbreak, cleaning of the common area, garbage lifting and horticulture were not being carried out and even prior to that, the arrangements were sporadic.Chief engineer of GMADA Devinder Singh said, “Since the agency abandoned work, it took some time to allot the work at our own risk and cost. Now, we have allotted the maintenance work and it will be sorted out soon.”Last year in October, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had imposed a fine of ₹59 lakh on GMADA for illegal use of electricity in different cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-downfall-of-mohali-s-purab-premium-apartments/story-qVESMi41Hm3ow8cPLiBxIP.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||U-16 All India Tennis Association Championship Series: Top seeds Aryan, Harleen enter quarterfinals||Top seeds Aryan Thakur and Harleen Kaur Dhanda recorded easy victories in the U-16 boys and girls pre-quarterfinal matches, respectively, during the ongoing All India Tennis Association Championship Series at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association stadium in Sector 10 on Monday.With the wins, both the top seeds enter the quarter-finals. While Aryan beat Mehraab Singh Rai 8-0, Harleen thrashed Radha Sadhra 8-2.In other U-16 boys matches, second seed Navya Verma overpowered Yash Solanky 8-0, Arnav Bishnoi defeated Arpit Garg 8-4 and sixth seed Anirudh Sangra got the better of Manvir Singh Hundal 8-1.In the U-16 girls matches, second seed Radhika Vasudeva, Vanya Arora and Harleen Kaur Dhanda moved into quarter-finals. Radhika Vasudeva defeated Shriya Singh 8-3 in easy tie. Unseeded Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu upset seventh seed Bhumi Kakkar in a close contested match 8-6.Gurmanat played consistently with good momentum, to defeat Bhumi Kakkar. Fourth seed Vanya Arora blanked Saira 8-0. Ananya Dogra, Maitreyi Phogat, Bhumika Gupta and Riya Kaushik also advanced into quarter-finals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/u-16-all-india-tennis-association-championship-series-top-seeds-aryan-harleen-enter-quarterfinals/story-WZ3MQrqGtl4wD8l95BKM8N.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Handing over GMSH-16 to private player to set up medical college on Chandigarh admn’s mind||Even as it is persuading the central government to upgrade Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to a medical college, the UT administration is now also mulling over handing over the facility to a private player for achieving this.The alternative is based on a scheme proposed by the Niti Aayog - “Scheme to link new and/or existing private medical colleges with functional district hospitals through PPP”. Under the scheme, the entire infrastructure of the hospital will be handed over to a private player and in exchange, the corporate will establish the medical college and operate the OPD services. Of the total beds of the hospital, half will be marked as “market beds” and the rest as “regulated beds”. Market beds will have a market price tag, which will help subsidise the regulated beds. Confirming the proposal, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We had earlier submitted a detailed project report with the ministry of health and family welfare for establishing an undergraduate medical college at GMSH-16. Now, we are also exploring a new scheme under which the hospital will be handed over to a private player for upgrading it to a medical college.” UT officials are scheduled to attend a meeting with the central government officials and the Niti Aayog on the issue on Tuesday. “We will further examine the alternative after attending the meeting,” said Parida. Adding that it is still in concept stage, Parida said, “In any privatisation plan, existing service conditions of employees are protected.”100 more MBBS seats for cityUnder the plan submitted with the government, the medical college is proposed to offer 100 MBBS seats, associated with the 500-bed hospital. GMSH, spread over 12 acres, is already offering Diplomate of National Board programmes in five specialities. In order to establish the medical college’s academic block, libraries and hostels, UT had earmarked 15 acres at Sarangpur village. The city currently has only 150 MBBS seats at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, which also has 125 seats for postgraduate programmes. The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research offers only postgraduate programmes with around 310 seats. The process for affiliation of the proposed medical college has also begun, and requisite documents have been submitted to Panjab University. For departments, such as anatomy, which have not been established at GMSH, but are a basic requirement for the MBBS course, faculty members from GMCH, Sector 32, will be roped in until the new college starts functioning in a full-fledged manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/handing-over-gmsh-16-to-private-player-to-set-up-medical-college-on-chandigarh-admn-s-mind/story-6LzoDnylRU5HzmxRdsM0vM.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two farmers returning from Singhu Border killed in road mishap in Kharar||Two farmers returning from the protest site at Singhu Border were killed and 10 of their co-passengers were injured after the mini-truck they were travelling in collided with a truck loaded with gravel near village Bhagomajra of Kharar around 10pm on Monday. The deceased are Sukhdev Singh, 63, of Dhadlian village, Fatehgarh Sahib and Deep Singh, 80, of Popilian village, Mohali. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, where Sukhdev and Deep were declared brought dead. One of the farmers, who was in a critical condition, was rushed to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh. After the collision, the truck overturned and all the gravel scattered on the road, leading to a traffic jam.Manpreet Singh, who was driving the mini truck, said, “The truck was coming from the wrong side. Just as a trolly overtook us we collided into the truck.” Manpreet’s left leg was fractured in the mishap. Another farmer, Mahipal Singh said, we all knew each other and had gone to Delhi on Saturday to participate in the protest against the farm reform bills. Superintendent of police (SP) Harvinder Singh Virk said a case has been registered against the truck driver who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-farmers-returning-from-singhu-border-killed-in-road-mishap-in-kharar/story-EnMbLJSZ21O5PnhiJiIjrN.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sippy Sidhu Murder: CBI says no evidence found against judge’s daughter||Five years after city based lawyer Sippy Sidhu’s murder, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has informed the CBI court that it has no evidence of the involvement of a former Punjab and Haryana high court judge’s daughter in the crime. The Federal agency, however, has said it will like to keep investigations open as it has “strong suspicions about the role of (woman’s name hidden) to eliminate Sippy Sidhu.”Lawyer Sukhmanpreet ‘Sippy’ Singh Sidhu, 36, was shot dead in a Sector 27 park in Chandigarh on September 20, 2015. The case was transferred to CBI in 2016 after allegations by his family about the involvement of the judge’s daughter. The woman, reportedly a friend of Sippy, was summoned and questioned twice by Chandigarh police during the initial probe. Sippy’s family had held protests alleging that she was being shielded by the police. The UT administration had on January 22, 2016, recommended a CBI probe in the case. Why final report if probe kept open, asks courtAccording to the order of the special magistrate court for CBI, Ravish Kaushik, the CBI report said that despite thorough investigations the bureau could not gather sufficient evidence against the “accused.” Even though CBI termed the report “final”, it requested the court to give directions to continue further investigations and accept an “untraced report”. To this, the court said it “fails to understand” how this report could be treated as final if investigations were kept open. “If investigations on certain aspects are still pending then why is the CBI filing an untraced report?” the court asked. It (court) has now has directed the investigating officer to clarify if the document is a final report, untraced report or just a simple status report.Directions were also issued to CBI to submit the documents and statements of the witnesses mentioned in the report.Sippy’s mother Deepinder Kaur Sidhu has also questioned the final report, alleging “from the outset we have been saying it’s the judge’s daughter who is involved. If they have submitted any such final report, then they must have been pressurised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sippy-sidhu-murder-cbi-says-no-evidence-found-against-judge-s-daughter/story-Qmbo7FVW57hwMhgxixNCsI.html
15-12-2020||City||Punjab man sets off on horseback to join farmers’ agitation||Thirty-year-old Manu Sekhon from Alamwala village of Punjab’s Muktsar district reached Sirsa on Monday afternoon mounted on a horse, with which he embarked on his journey a day before to join the farmers’ protest at Tikri border. He is being supported by four of his friends, who are escorting him in a car.Sekhon said his elder brother Gurvinder Grewal had been camping at Tikri border for the last two weeks to protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.“I am a professional horse rider and decided to reach the dharna site on horseback. My family cultivates on nearly 100 acres of land and we know the consequences of these three laws. I will travel 335km on my horse to reach Tikri border. After that, I am planning to visit Chilla, Ghazipur and Singhu border to extend support to the farmers,” he added.He said there was no need to carry food or other essential items because everything was being provided by farmers on the way to Delhi borders. “The farmers are coming forward to feed my horse too. The farming community is so humble that they are making all arrangements for humans as well as animals while the Union government is so egoist that it is not listening to the farmers’ grievances,” he added.The rider further said farmers from Haryana and Punjab are coming in large numbers to join the agitation at Delhi border.“In our absence, my parents will look after our fields. I will return home only after the Union government repeals these three laws,” Sekhon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-man-sets-off-on-horseback-to-join-farmers-agitation/story-q9CXc0F2zQkEmCrx1jAhrJ.html
15-12-2020||City||Former servicemen from Haryana plan to return 3,200 gallantry medals||Expressing solidarity with protesting farmers, former servicemen from Haryana have collected 3,200 gallantry medals which they are planning to return to President Ram Nath Kovind if the government fails to repeal the three controversial farm laws.Kapil Dev, a resident of Haryana, who had retired from the rank of naik, said the former servicemen under the banner of ‘Sabka Sainik Sangharsh Committee’, which comprises retired soldiers from Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, have written a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind to return 25,000 medals in protest against these three laws.“We have collected over 3,200 medals so far and waiting for the President’s reply. This government has failed to understand the pain of farmers and soldiers. We are deeply hurt by the Haryana government’s decision of digging roads and using water cannons and tear gas to restrict farmers from reaching Delhi borders. Our sons are fighting on the border and we are growing food for the nation. But there are some people who are calling us terrorists, Khalistanis and Maoists,” he added.Balwan Singh, 80, from Jhajjar, said eight men from his family have sacrificed their lives for the nation. “We know very well how to secure the borders and feed the people of this country. These politicians neither know how to grow food nor how to protect the nation, but still they are explaining us the benefits of these three farm laws. It is a very shameful act,” he added. Subedar Major (retd) SP Singh from Punjab’s Gurdaspur said he served in the army for 30 years before retiring in 2013.“I had been cultivating on my two acres of land. The government wants to keep soldiers and farmers in deplorable conditions. The government brought these laws to ruin farmers. Those people, whose forefathers never went to the border and fields, are telling the benefits of these laws and calling us anti-national,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-servicemen-from-haryana-plan-to-return-3-200-gallantry-medals/story-gAfugRaSA7H3CylcGLX6NO.html
15-12-2020||City||Farmers protest outside DC offices in Haryana||Farmers came out in large numbers and took out protest marches before holding day-long demonstrations outside the offices of deputy commissioners (DCs) in Haryana as the agitation against Centre’s three farm laws evoked massive response on Monday. Not only the opposition parties, but different employees’ bodies such as Haryana Sarv Karamchari Sangh and Asha Workers’ Association also extended support to the peasants. The agitation has already brought several farmer associations on a single platform. The protests remained peaceful. In Karnal, hundreds of Sarv Karamchari Sangh members marched in support of the farmers, while in Kurukshetra, the district bar association joined the dharnas at the mini secretariat. In Rohtak, farmers came out on tractors and assembled outside DC office. The farmers held protests outside the offices of DCs in Hisar, Bhiwani, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, Fatehabad and many other districts. “Everybody should come forward to join this fight for the future of the farming community,” said Ratan Mann, Haryana BKU (Tikait) state president. Vikram Kisana, a farm leader protesting at Kaithal mini secretariat, said even as elderly farmers and women were protesting in harsh winter conditions, the government was not taking them seriously. He said that the farmers’ agitation has now become a “jan andolan”. The district authorities had made elaborate arrangements and heavy police deployment was made around the mini secretariat buildings. In Rohtak, police placed barricades near the DC office. In Jind, farmers removed barricades outside DC’s office and entered the building to give their memorandum. Former Congress’ Meham MLA Anand Singh Dangi sat with farmers outside Rohtak DC office, while former INLD MLA Om Prakash from Loharu extended support to the farmers at Bhiwani’s Siwani. Protesters had started assembling around 9am and lifted their protests at 5pm after submitting memorandums of their demands to the DCs. Gherao Kanwar Pal’s residence in YamunanagarFarmers and activists affiliated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU, Charuni) gathered outside the residence of Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal in Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri as part of their protest against the three farm laws on Monday. The protesting farmers asked the minister to “leave” the government to stand in their support. Earlier, farmers with support from the district bar association, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, and other unions had staged a sit-in at Jagadhri Grain Market. Similar protests were seen in Ambala. Dushyant urges farmers to end stirUrging farm unions to end the agitation and hold talks with the Centre, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday said the central government had been working in the interest of farmers.“The farmer organisations should also take steps that are beneficial for the agriculture sector...as the farmers are facing losses due to this protest,” he said in Delhi after meeting Union road and transport minister Nitin Gadkari to expedite road development works in the state.In a statement, an official spokesperson said that during the meeting with Gadkari, the deputy CM discussed various issues, including farmers’ agitation.Responding to a question regarding the same, he said, “A positive solution is expected soon.”Stating that “initially the farmer organisations wanted to include the MSP in writing,” he said now the central government has agreed to it.Dushyant said under the Bharatmala project, three greenfield corridors were being constructed in the state — first from Amritsar to Gujarat, second from Gurugram to Gujarat and third from Ismailabad (Kurukshetra) to Narnaul.He said that the state government had placed a demand for the construction of East-West Corridor in Haryana before Gadkari and two proposals were sent by the state government to the Centre in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-outside-dc-offices-in-haryana/story-kmKGtTsyUBN9AOapiJL5nN.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC reprieve for bank CEO booked in ₹3.18-crore loan fraud case||The Bombay high court (HC) has granted interim protection from arrest to Sanjay Sawant, chief executive officer (CEO) of Raigad Sahakari Bank, booked in connection with purported fraudulent disbursement of ₹3.18 crore as loans against forged life insurance policies drawn in the name of 124 Mumbai residents.The alleged fraud came to light after one of the bank’s account holders, Jayashree Sawant, received communication from the bank for repayment of a loan of ₹5.75 lakh.On May 18, 2019, Kalachowky police station registered an offence based on her complaint, alleging that one Adavkar had forged life insurance policies in her name and used them to obtain the loan.The investigation revealed that in all, loans of ₹3.18 crore were disbursed by the bank in the name of 124 residents, using similar modus. Police have since arrested some bank officials and private individuals linked with the fraud. Sawant, the bank’s CEO, had moved HC, claiming that though loans were sanctioned under his signature, he had to depend on the report made by his subordinates. He maintained that the forged documents were so similar to originals that it was impossible to notice any difference. He urged the court to grant him pre-arrest bail, claiming that he was misled by the main accused Adavkar, an agent of the bank, and some of his bank officials.Assistant public prosecutor Pallavi Dabholkar opposed the plea by pointing out that Adavkar was appointed to the bank by the Sawant himself — indicating that the CEO was hand in glove with the prime accused. She submitted that looking at the large number of victims, it was impossible to believe that the CEO had no role to play in the fraud.Justice Sarang Kotwal, however, noticed that the charge-sheet filed in June against other accused in the case made no reference to any role played by Sawant. The judge felt that it was possible that the bank CEO was misled by the forged documents, and granted him interim anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reprieve-for-bank-ceo-booked-in-3-18-crore-loan-fraud-case/story-IqHkzJGMOGdL4Q3pNGl2CO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Virus spread in Haryana continues to dip for third week in row||After a gap of 49 days, fresh coronavirus infections reported in Haryana came down to a four-digit figure last week as the decline continued for a third successive week. The state reported 8,496 new cases between December 7 and 13 as compared to 11,374 the week before, according to the health department data. The weekly drop in infections was thus of 2,878. The decline had started in the last week of November after a sharp surge in infections during the festive season and due to a range of relaxations in terms of allowing different activities, including reopening of educational institutions. The three-week dip in number of new infections is significant in view of enormous amount of sampling, particularly the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, being done for the last three weeks. The RT-PCR is considered the gold standard test for Covid-19 diagnosis. Over 8 lakh samples tested in 21 daysA health official said more than eight lakh samples were tested in the last three weeks and in about 87% of these, RT-PCR kits were used. Officials, however, said that the decline in infections should not lead to lowering of guard as a fresh spike in cases can occur during the winters. As per the sampling data, a record 2.81 lakh people were tested across the state during November 23-29 followed by 2.79 lakh people during November 30-December 6 and 2.43 lakh last week. Following the aggressive testing, the positivity rate in the state has shown a gradual decline. It came down to 6.4% from last week’s 6.54%, data showed. Seven of the 22 districts have a critical positivity rate of more than 6% with Karnal dropping out of the critical category, according to last week’s data. The other critical districts also showed a decrease in positivity rate. Faridabad’s positivity rate came down to 11.7% from 12.1%, while Gurugram’s dipped to 9.2% from 9.6%. Rewari recorded positivity rate of 8.2% from last week’s 8.37% and Hisar’s rate came down to 7.2% from 7.6%. Panchkula maintained 7.7% positivity rate, while Panipat district’s positivity rate dropped to 7.4% from 7.5%. Ambala’s rate plunged to 6.8% from 7.1%. Thirteen districts — Karnal, Mahendergarh, Sonepat, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Palwal, Jind, Kaithal and Jhajjar — had positivity rate of less than or 6%, but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Charkhi Dadri (1.6%) and Nuh (1.2%) maintained their desirable positivity rate of less than 2 %. Meanwhile, the state death toll due to the disease rose to 2,733 on Monday with 16 more fatalities, while 993 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 2,53,385. The fresh fatalities included four from Hisar, three from Panipat and two each from Sonepat, Rohtak and Fatehabad districts. The bulletin said that among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (197) and Faridabad (175). Haryana’s recovery rate is 95.33%, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-spread-in-haryana-continues-to-dip-for-third-week-in-row/story-kiy9gUuJDEGU3jrt8CpxPI.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Accused is not influential, her tweets about Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Aaditya Thackeray, did not incite anyone, claims her counsel||The counsel for Thane resident Sunaina Holey, who has been booked under section 505(2) and 153(A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for posting abusive tweets against chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and his son minister Aditya Thackeray, has submitted that as per a Supreme Court (SC) judgement, Holey is not an influential person and hence her tweets and comments should be disregarded. Her attorney said that her comments posted between July 25 and 28 on Twitter should not be treated like comments made by politicians and journalists that incite hatred among communities. Holey has applied for quashing of the first information report (FIR) against her by the Mumbai Police and cyber cell. In his submissions to the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud referred to the SC judgement of July 2020 in the Amish Devgan case, wherein it was observed that cognisance needed to be taken against controversial statements made by influential people. While referring to Devgan, the Apex court held that the statements made by him during a television programme were objectionable as they hurt the sentiments of a community. Dr Chandrachud then referred to the other observations made by the SC bench, wherein it had laid down a principle with regards to application of section 153(A). He submitted that the principle clearly distinguished between statements and comments made by influential people and those made by the common man. He submitted that as Holey was neither a journalist nor a politician, she would fall in the latter category and hence, her comments against the CM and his son should be disregarded. He further submitted that the statements in no way created any law and order situation, and the entire premise of her booking was misconceived. However, senior counsel Manoj Mohite opposed the submission and informed that Holey followed the central ruling party on Twitter and had thousands of followers, implying that her tweets could have resulted in inciting people and creating a law and order situation. While responding to a query by the bench in an earlier hearing as to how foreign courts dealt with the issue, Dr Chandrachud, while referring to a judgement by the US Supreme Court in the Whitney versus the State of California, submitted that the court had made an observation which is a classic. “The court held that bad speech could be reformed by more speech and not by silencing it,” he said. He further cited sections of the judgement which differentiated between advocating and inciting. Dr Chandrachud said that courts across the globe had upheld the right to freedom of speech and expression wherein the individual was advocating a thought but not inciting others. In the case of Holey, he submitted that she had only expressed her views but had not incited anyone against the CM and his son. Due to paucity of time, the court adjourned the matter and posted it for hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/accused-is-not-influential-her-tweets-about-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-aaditya-thackeray-did-not-incite-anyone-claims-her-counsel/story-0uMbhom9qS46OSR6Q2u3hO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||You’ll sell your soul if it serves your purpose: Punjab CM hits back at Kejriwal||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday hit out at his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal for making “desperate attempts” to hide his government’s failure to protect famers’ interests, adding that it will not save him and his Aam Aadmi Party from their wrath in the next Punjab assembly elections. “Just as every Punjabi knows that I am not one to be cowed down by any amount of false enforcement directorate (ED) or other cases, they also know that you (Kejriwal) will sell your soul if it serves your purpose,” he said, reacting to the AAP leader’s Twitter post that alleged Amarinder struck a deal with the Centre to get his son’s ED case forgiven.Daring Kejriwal to cite an instance when he (Amarinder) backed off under pressure of ED or any other agency, the Punjab CM pointed out that from the Operation Bluestar to SYL and now farm laws issue, he had always done the right thing for his people. Asserting that the whole world had seen how Kejriwal had sold off farmers’ interests by notifying one of the farm laws in the national capital at a time when farmers were preparing to march to Delhi, Amarinder said the Delhi chief minister had exposed his own “setting” with the central government/Taking a dig at Kejriwal’s anger over the conspiracy of certain vested interests to undermine the farmers’ agitation by linking it with anti-nationalism, the Punjab CM said farmers needed no endorsement of their genuineness from the man who had hobnobbed with Khalistanis in the run up to the 2017 state polls. Meanwhile, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) leaders Manish Tiwari, Ravneet Bittu and Jasbir Singh Dimpa also lambasted Kejriwal and his party for trying to mislead people with their “fake propaganda” and using old pictures of Amarinder Singh with Ambanis, and spreading lies and unsubstantiated accusations against the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/you-ll-sell-your-soul-if-it-serves-your-purpose-punjab-cm-hits-back-at-kejriwal/story-40QaWrk9FYl6LjYrmpfYbL.html
15-12-2020||City||Widows, kin of farm suicide victims in Punjab to join stir at Delhi’s Tikri border||Widows and kin of farmers and farm labourers who committed suicide due to agricultural debt in Punjab will be protesting at the Tikri border of the national capital on December 16. Holding photographs of the deceased farmers, their kin will raise the issue of farm suicides and agrarian crisis in the state. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), which has been protesting against the Centre’s new agriculture laws at the Tikri border for the past two weeks, claimed it has collected data from news reports that shows over 1,900 farmers have committed suicide since 2017.“The families of farmers and farm labourers approached us to raise the issue. We have decided to hold a dharna at the Tikri border on December 16,” said Jaswinder Singh Longowal, state executive president of the union. “We have given a call to all victim families to reach the border as we have decided to highlight the issue of farm suicides. A massive protest will be held with photographs of deceased farmers.”Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of the union, said four buses will ferry families of farm suicide victims from the district on Tuesday morning. “The remaining families will move on Wednesday,” he said.45-year-old farm labourer dies at Singhu borderThree days after joining protesters at the national capital’s Singhu border, a 45-year-old farm labourer from Moga district died on Monday morning.Makhan Singh of Bhinder Kalan village had reached the Singhu border to support the farmers’ protest on Friday. Villagers said he was not affiliated to any farm union and had joined the protest in solidarity. While listening to speeches near the main stage, his condition suddenly deteriorated on Monday morning. He was rushed to a hospital in Sonepat, where doctors declared him brought dead. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained.Makhan is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter, who got married last month. Farm unions have demanded compensation and job for his next of kin from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/widows-kin-of-farm-suicide-victims-in-punjab-to-join-stir-at-delhi-s-tikri-border/story-wWP8ELQqX2mc32f2wMIclM.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Juhu residents complain of Mumbai civic body’s inaction on illegal construction||Residents of a building at Juhu have criticised the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for dragging its feet regarding a dangerous illegal construction in the area. Residents of Archana Kutir building claim that they have been complaining for the past three months about dangerous illegal constructions around their property, for which no action has been initiated by the civic body so far.Since the first week of October, residents have sent close to 70 emails complaining about the illegal structures to the state government and BMC, but no reply has been received. The ground-plus-five-storey structure is surrounded by a compound wall which is sandwiched between two alleged illegal structures. The wall has developed cracks, and residents fear that it may collapse at any point.Kunal Bharti, secretary of Archana Kutir building, said, “The adjacent resto-bar Copa Lounge has constructed a wooden partition on our compound. There was a space between the bar and our compound which they have encroached on. We have been complaining to the local administrative ward, but no action has been initiated.”Replying to the complaints, Kabir Luthryia, one of the owners of Copa, said, “We have proof that the wooden partition on their compound wall existed since the past eight years. The residents of Archana Kutir had agreed to have it constructed. They had first made noise complaints against us, and to tackle that we had put up the wooden partition so that the sound would be confined to our area. It is of no use to us, and we will remove it immediately.”On the other side of the Kutir building, construction work on a residential structure on a plot named Periera Villa has also damaged the compound wall. Peeyush Gupta, secretary of Archana Kutir, said, “The building is being illegally constructed, and we are tired of complaining to the BMC about this since months. Despite the structure being under construction, some of the flats have been sold and families have occupied rooms in this building, which does not have an occupation certificate yet. No action has been initiated against them.”When residents tried contacting Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward (Juhu), he did not revert to their queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/juhu-residents-complain-of-mumbai-civic-body-s-inaction-on-illegal-construction/story-A4aJzdSw9z0pvdmveNvejM.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farm unions, political parties protest across Punjab||In response to a call given by the joint action committee of 32 farm unions, their members staged protests at all district headquarters in Punjab on Monday. Braving the cold weather, they gathered outside district administrative complexes to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, which they labelled pro-corporate and anti-farmer. Even political parties, including the ruling Congress besides Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, held separate protests. No untoward incident was reported at any of these protests. Congress state chief Sunil Jakhar led the party’s protest at the Shambhu border in Patiala district. Addressing a number of cabinet ministers and party MPs and MLAs, he said as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre had agreed that the three agriculture laws had many flaws, it should scrap them immediately. Jakhar said instead of making amendments, the Union government must roll back these bills without any further delay. “The permanent solution for agrarian crisis is easy if the Centre agrees to guarantee MSP to farmers and empower states to formulate laws on agriculture,” he said. Also targeting Akalis, he said they were hand in glove with the BJP in enacting the laws, and even the AAP government had already implemented them in Delhi. Meanwhile, the district administrative complex in Patiala saw protests by farm bodies. Hundreds of farmers also held dharnas outside deputy commissioner offices in Sangrur and Barnala districts.“Our main leadership is protesting on the border of the national capital, and the second rung leadership are leading the protests here,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakounda) in Patiala. In Bathinda, it was a show of strength for farm groups, particularly left-leaning Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), which held separate protest outside the civil hospital and also took out a peaceful march. It was joined by a large number of women and children. Activists of other farm bodies in Bathinda protested outside the district administrative complex, where AAP MLA Baljinder Kaur also joined. AAP workers also held protests at other district headquarters. Leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) staged a protest at Golden Gate on the outskirts of Amritsar. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal slammed the BJP for creating a communal divide to torpedo the farmers’ stir. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SCPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur also took part in the protest. Even farm bodies protested at the district headquarters in Amritsar and other parts of Majha. However, Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, which has its base in Majha, protested separately on railway tracks near Jandiala Guru, where they have been sitting since the farm laws were passed. Though the ‘rail roko’ has been lifted in the entire state, KMSC continues to block passenger trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-unions-political-parties-protest-across-punjab/story-EmMX58E8pu2Bpbg8MMJWAP.html
15-12-2020||City||Punjabi University’s liabilities piled up even as state grant doubled in five years||Even as the annual grant being provided to Punjabi University by the state government has doubled in the past five years, the funds are still not enough to clear the varsity’s liabilities of over ₹200 crore. The grant has gone up from ₹76.7 crore in 2014-15 to ₹152.97 crore in 2019-20. In the ongoing fiscal, the varsity is expecting funds worth ₹108 crore, while the government has already provided ₹20 crore as a special grant for it to clear its committed expenditure.However, the university’s expenditure in 2020-21 is pegged at ₹676 crore, against an expected income of ₹380 crore, leaving ₹296-crore deficit. The university also has an overdraft of ₹140 crore, which is expected to touch ₹150 crore by the end of the year.The extent of financial mismanagement can be gauged from the fact that the varsity is finding it hard to arrange funds for paying salaries and pensions for November. In October, former vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman had approached the state government for a bailout package of ₹300 crore.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the issue has been discussed at the secretary level, and the higher education department has been asked to submit a detailed report on how such a situation arose.“The varsity liabilities are more than the annual budget of the higher education department. The government cannot afford to clear liabilities, as it is required to see how and why the varsity landed in such a financial mess,” the minister said, adding that despite lesser annual grant, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, was doing fine.“As far as Punjabi University is concerned, besides annual grant, we have provided special bailout packages to meet expenditure every year. The government cannot provide such packages every year,” he said.Meanwhile, newly appointed V-C Ravneet Kaur said “serious talks” are on with senior officials of finance and higher education departments.“A special financial plan is also in the works to be presented before the state government to seek immediate funds,” she said, adding that meetings are being held to identify reasons behind the financial crunch. “The state government will be briefed about it,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-s-liabilities-piled-up-even-as-state-grant-doubled-in-five-years/story-yH1TuayHjgJjGJVl0IkaaN.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Shakti bill: Will deny hope of justice, 90 groups tell Maharashtra CM||Women’s rights groups have opposed sections of the newly-tabled Shakti bill, likely to be taken up Tuesday, for introducing the death penalty for rape, gang rape and penetrative sexual assault against children, and for suggesting an amendment to Section 375 on presumption of consent, which they said would make it difficult for the prosecution to establish the offence of rape.State home minister Anil Deshmukh tabled the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Special Courts and Machinery for the Implementation of the Shakti Bill, 2020 on the first day of the winter session on Monday, The bills propose amendments to criminal laws in the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC), the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (Pocso Act), as well as seek the establishment of special trial courts. Once passed, the bills will also require the Centre’s nod.Over 90 women’s rights groups, activists, lawyers and academics wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray last week stating that the bills would “completely deny women any hope of justice” and sought “a larger consultation with activists, lawyers and academicians who are working on these issues”.The issue of consent has remained a contentious one in the history of sexual assault legislation. In 2013, the Justice JS Verma Committee — formed after the death of the 23-year-old physiotherapist who was brutally assaulted in Delhi by a group of men — arrived at a set of amendments to the Criminal Law to provide for a quicker trial and enhanced punishment in cases of heinous assault against women.The Criminal Law Amendment Act, passed in 2013, amended Section 375 (which penalizes rape) to explain consent as “unequivocal voluntary agreement”, “through words, gestures or any form of verbal or non-verbal communications” — this was not part of the penal code previously, and clarified that the absence of “no” on part of a woman in the act of sex cannot be construed as a “yes”.The Shakti bill seeks to add an explanation to Section 375 — “where parties are adults and the conduct of such parties from all circumstances surrounding the same appears that there was consent or implied consent, a presumption of consent will be made” — which, legal experts said, negates the clarity offered by the current law.“In a lot of cases, the accused takes the plea of consent. With such an explanation added, it will become impossible for the prosecution to establish rape. Such an explanation negates and nullifies the very offence of rape,” the letter stated.Women’s rights activists have also raised concerns over the introduction of the death penalty for specific heinous crimes, including penetrative sexual assault against children and gang rape, which they said will not help survivors of assault. “It is the certainty of investigation, trial and punishment that works as a deterrent rather than the severity of punishment,” it added.Veena Gowda, who practices with the Bombay High Court and is one of the signatories of the letter said, “The government should implement existing laws to curb violence against women, and have dedicated gender budgets. The provisions of the Shakti bill have been made without considering similar, already existing provisions in the law.”The bills also seek to punish the filing of “false complaints” or providing “false information” regarding sexual and other offences against women solely with the intention to humiliate, extort, threaten or defame the accused.This would only prove to be a deterrent to women from filing complaints or providing information regarding sexual offences, leading to a lower reporting rate for sexual offences, activists said.Nandita Shah, co-director of rights group Akshara Centre, and one of the signatories, said, “The way they are looking at false cases, and even the clause on the death penalty will only end up leaving women more vulnerable. So while the intention might be that the government wants to protect women, it doesn’t have to be done in this way. We are hoping they will take some criticism on board, and not pass the bill without further discussion. If it gets passed on Tuesday, we will have to look for ways for protection against clauses.”The Shakti Bill has been tabled along the lines of the Disha Act, passed by the Andhra Pradesh legislature in February, which also carried stricter punishments including the death penalty for heinous crimes of violence against women and children, a 21-day deadline for the trial of brutal assault cases, and penalizing the harassment of women on digital and social media. The Shakti bill mandates investigation and filing of the charge sheet within 15 days and the trial to be completed in 30 days after filing of the charge sheet.Chandra Iyengar, former home secretary of Maharashtra said, “It is important to have a legislation with dedicated provisions to curb violence against women and children. It is the state’s attempts to show vulnerable groups that the power of the state is behind you. Some aspects of the bill definitely need more debate, such as the clause on presumption of consent. However, with respect to the death penalty, my view is what other equally stringent punishment exists to deter perpetrators of violence?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shakti-bill-will-deny-hope-of-justice-90-groups-tell-maharashtra-cm/story-4Q56c190nXd2DumkQEmIZN.html
15-12-2020||City||Church defends move to include rape accused former bishop Mulakkal’s photo in calendar||The Thrissur Archdiocese of Syro-Malabar church on Monday justified its decision to include the photo of rape accused former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal in the church calendar, saying he was only an accused in the case and was not officially removed from the post. “Mulakkal is facing some charges and his trial is progressing. As of now, he is only an accused. He continues to be a bishop and only his administrative duties have been divested. Calendar was a routine exercise and there is no room for a controversy in this,” said Father Akkamatathil Raphael, managing editor of the church mouthpiece.Angry believers and church reformers had protested and burnt copies of the calendar at many places in Kerala on Sunday, after Mulakkal’s photo was printed displaying his date of birth (March 25) and other basic details on the March page. Protestors said glorification of such a person by an official church publication was against human rights and natural justice. “By trying to project Mulakkal as a person of worthy reverence, church authorities are justifying his actions too. This is against natural justice,” said Augustine Vattoly, former convener of the Save Our Sisters Forum (SOS). SOS was formed in the wake of sit-in protest by five nuns against Mulakkal two years ago in Kochi. The case against former bishop surfaced in 2018 after a 43-year-old nun complained to the police in Kottayam that he had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. Mulakkal denied the charges, saying he was framed after he took action against her for financial irregularities at the convent. Later, a special investigation team of Kerala Police arrested him and he was removed from the post of bishop later. The trial in the case is in its final stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/church-defends-move-to-include-rape-accused-former-bishop-mulakkal-s-photo-in-calendar/story-gkiat5CuOHelEhOAyS5z8J.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Runaway couple from Fatehabad lands in soup over wrong info to high court||A Fatehabad youth and a girl are in for a trouble with the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issuing contempt notices against both of them for supplying wrong information in their plea before the court. The authorities have also been asked to apprise the court in February of action taken in their case under the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act as at the time of marriage, both of them were found underage. The couple in the plea filed on September 24 had claimed that the boy was 21 years’ old and girl’s age was stated to be 20. The plea was filed seeking protection of their life and liberty as they had married on September 21 against the wishes of their parents.However, family members of one of them got whiff of the petition and appeared during the proceedings through a lawyer on September 24, stating that they were minors. This prompted court to get their age verified. The court also made it clear that if both of them are found to be below the marriageable age, the court would not prohibit their prosecution. On October 5, the authorities apprised the court that the girl was 17 years and six months old, while the youth’s age was 20. The court questioned their counsel as to how marriage was conducted between minors. However, no satisfactory response was forthcoming from them. Upon this, the court sought response from the duo by October 29 as to why they should not be proceeded against under the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act. No response, however, came from both of them on the adjourned date. The court, while referring the matter to contempt of court, said that if no reply is filed by the them to the notice issued to them, no further latitude will be given and it will be taken that they have nothing further to say in the matter and naturally, therefore the contempt petition would be taken to its logical end. Now, the contempt of court bench on Monday has sought response from them as to why contempt proceedings should not be initiated and further, an affidavit has been sought from either Fatehabad superintendent of police or deputy superintendent of police with action-taken report on February 16 in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/runaway-couple-from-fatehabad-lands-in-soup-over-wrong-info-to-high-court/story-6VXMaNTHaS9Nahi9lEmjvI.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Pratap Sarnaik moves breach of privilege motion over Kangana Ranaut’s tweet||Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik on Monday moved a breach of privilege motion over a tweet by actor Kangana Ranaut which was carried by several news outlets. In a letter submitted to the principal secretary of the state legislature, Sarnaik sought breach of privilege motion against the print, electronic and social media for allegedly publishing false stories based on Ranaut’s tweet. While Sarnaik has named Ranaut and quoted her tweet, the legislator has not named any media outlet in his letter.The Sena legislator, in the letter, said that electronic media and print media outlets ran unverified news stating that a Pakistani credit card was allegedly found at his place by Enforcement Directorate (ED) during their searches, leading to defamation of his family. He requested the principal secretary of the state legislature to forward his notice to the Privilege Committee of Maharashtra Assembly so that an inquiry can be initiated.Sarnaik, in his notice, said ED conducted two raids at his residence and found nothing suspicious during the raids. “ED called me and my son for inquiry and we are cooperating with ED and there is no issue... But after Kangana’s tweet, some electronic media and print media published news on December 12 and 13 against me that were defaming and baseless as ED has officially said nothing about seizures in their raids,” Sarnaik said. He, however, quoted Ranaut’s tweet in his letter: “He had threatened to break my face when I had said Mumbai was feeling like POK. India recognise those who are staking everything for you and those who are taking everything from you. Where you place your faith their lies your future. India Pakistan na ban jaye sambhalo yaaron. (sic)” Ranaut had tweeted this on December 12 in response to a tweet by a Dharmendra Chhonkar, where he said, “@KanganaTeam was right. Credit Card of Pakistan National recovered from Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s residence.” “This is absolutely baseless and incorrect. It has been defamatory and therefore request you to forward the notice to the privilege committee of the state assembly for further action,” Sarnaik said in the notice. Later speaking to reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan, Sarnaik said, “I have submitted the motion today. I am of the firm opinion that such news reports are only meant to defame me. I have filed a breach of privilege motion against Ranaut for publishing false stories, including ‘Pakistani credit card was found at Pratap Sarnaik’s home’, ‘Rafael [fighter jet] documents were found’, ‘documents of partnership with Donald Trump were found’, etc. to defame me and my family.”In the monsoon session of the legislature held in September, Sarnaik had moved a privilege motion against Republic TV’s editor-in chief Arnab Goswami, stating that the news anchor referred to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a disrespectful manner and presented news with malafide intent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-pratap-sarnaik-moves-breach-of-privilege-motion-over-kangana-ranaut-s-tweet/story-eXND2tAAI9QPKy1RrvEfmI.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Destination Goa: Travel portals record surge in Indians travelling for Christmas and New Year||While Goa saw an influx in domestic travellers after flying restrictions were gradually lifted from various parts of the country, travel to the tourist state had initially dropped drastically after Maharashtra implemented new rules for those seeking entry from its neighbouring state. However, the new testing rules have been unable to deter travellers for too long according to travel portals.Shubhangi Arora, a Delhi-based media professional paid ₹15,000 for her return ticket to Goa. “I have booked my trip to Goa for the New Year. I expected my air ticket to cost less than ₹10,000, but I was surprised to see that despite the government’s cap on airfares, tickets are not as cheap as expected.”Tickets from Mumbai to Goa for December 24 and return on January 2 cost above ₹12,000 on most web portals.Sources from Mumbai airport said that currently, 20 flights operate between Mumbai and Goa daily.Yatra.com spokesperson said that while being conscious of the safety norms, travellers are going ahead to book their trips. “Over the years, Goa has been one of the many preferred domestic destinations for customers around Christmas and New Year. Year after year, the demand for this destination has increased, with more people visiting it to spend quality time with their friends and family. This year too, we have witnessed a spike of about 37% in terms of booking inquiries,” said the spokesperson.EaseMyTrip co-founder Nishant Pitti said that until last month, maximum people were booking their air tickets only three days before the travel date. Now, people are booking flights to Goa in advance for Christmas and New Year. “We are seeing that traffic for Goa has picked up again for Christmas and New Year travel, which is a good sign,” he said.According to MakeMyTrip, aside from Goa, Lonavala, Mahabaleshwar, Pondicherry, Coorg, Shimla, Manali and Darjeeling are also seeing an increase in searches and bookings for the upcoming winter holiday season. “Flight bookings on MakeMyTrip indicate a 25% month-on-month growth to domestic leisure destinations, and we hope to see this traction growing during the Christmas and New Year period. As state-wise travel regulations continue to evolve, travellers are willing to wait it out and firm up their bookings within a week or less from the travel date. Currently, hotel bookings for the Christmas and New Year period stand at one-third during the same period last year. However, the recovery in the past few months makes us confident that these numbers will continue to show an upward trend as we close in on the holiday season,” said Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer, MakeMyTrip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/destination-goa-travel-portals-record-surge-in-indians-travelling-for-christmas-and-new-year/story-IC3Qyk1UoDyo1mYs7zyGyL.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||₹21,992-crore supplementary budget tabled by Maharashtra government; ₹1,000-crore for farmers||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on the first day of the winter session on Monday tabled supplementary demands worth around ₹21,992 crore, in addition to the annual budget.Of this, the notable expenditure of around ₹10,000 crore will be made for farmers. Of this ₹2,850 crore will be used for procuring paddy at minimum support price (MSP) and giving bonus to paddy growers, ₹2,211 crore to help farmers affected due to natural calamities, ₹2,000 crore for repairs and maintenance of roads and bridges and their constructions under hybrid annuity scheme, ₹1,000 crore for the state’s share of Prime Minister Crop Insurance scheme, ₹902 crore for National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and ₹877 crore for infrastructure development in municipal corporations and nagar parishads.Supplementary budget refers to additional expenditure required for the year for unforeseen expenses over and above the annual budget.During the monsoon session, the state government had sought ₹29,084 crore over and above the annual budgetary outlay.The supplementary demands tabled by deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar made a provision of ₹1,000 crore as financial aid to Maharashtra State Road Transportation Corporation (MSRTC) — a state-run corporation — to provide salary to their staff till the end of the financial year (March 2021). Currently reeling with financial trouble, MSRTC needs ₹150 crore every month to pay salary to its staff. The amount of ₹1,000 crore will be used to provide salary from November to March whereas the remaining ₹150 crore will be given back to the state as the state had provided the amount from the state contingency fund to pay October salary to the staff, said an official, wishing not to be named.It has earmarked ₹475 crore for the legislators for local area development (LAD) funds. Under Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) LAD scheme, each MLA gets funds of ₹3 crore a year for development works in his or her constituency. For the proposed memorial of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar at Indu Mill Compound, ₹100 crore has been earmarked.Further, it has allocated ₹39.72 crore for Shiv Bhojan Thali, a staple food scheme for the poor. Under the scheme, which is a pet project of the MVA government launched in January this year, the original cost of a thali is ₹10 but was reduced by half due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of its preparation for Covid-19 vaccination programme, the state government has sought ₹22 crore to store Covid-19 vaccine in air-conditioned facilities with negative pressure.The state has been preparing to administer Covid-19 vaccine to around 3.25 crore people in three phases that includes health workers, frontline workers and citizens above the age of 50 years and those suffering with comorbidities.It has also decided to allocate ₹50 crore as ex-gratia to be given to the families of police personnel who died after being infected with Covid-19. Similarly, the state revenue department has sought ₹5 crore to be given to the next of kin of the employees who died during Covid-19 pandemic.The state government has also earmarked ₹3 crore as fees for the legal team representing it in the Supreme Court for Maratha reservation case, a politically sensitive subject for Maharashtra.Day one of winter session sees several protests The first day of the winter session of Maharashtra legislature saw a number of protests by Opposition leaders inside and outside Vidhan Bhavan premises. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, along with other BJP legislators, held a sit-in protest on the staircase of the legislature building demanding adequate compensation for the farmers affected by floods. Independent MLA Ravi Rana, too, held a protest by wearing a banner with a demand for giving adequate compensation to the agrarian community. BJP MLA Gopichand Padalkar, clad in a traditional attire of Dhangar community, tried to enter Vidhan Bhavan while beating a drum, but was denied entry. The BJP leader held a sit-in protest at the entrance and was later allowed to come in without a drum. He was demanding reservation for Dhangars, a shepherd community in the state.Patole seeks budget session for full durationMumbaiExpressing his discontent over the curtailment of the duration of the winter session, Assembly speaker Nana Patole has asked the state to hold budget session for full duration. “Curtailment of the session is not a good sign for a healthy democracy... The government should prepare a plan to ensure that the budget session be held for its full duration,” he said. 21 people test positiveMumbaiTwenty-one people from the state legislature, Mantralaya staff, police and service providing agencies were found Covid-19 positive during the two-day drive of tests ahead of winter session. More than 2,700 RT-PCR tests were conducted in three days as mandatory condition to seek admission to Vidhan Bhavan for the session on December 14 and 15. No legislator was found positive during the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/21-992-crore-supplementary-budget-tabled-by-maharashtra-government-1-000-crore-for-farmers/story-4szaFH7FyTCgutUR7s8ewO.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 2,949 new Covid-19 infections, tally rises to 1,883,365||After 24 days, Maharashtra reported fewer than 3,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day with 2,949 new infections taking the tally to 1,883,365 on Monday. The lower numbers are, however, attributed to fewer tests. In the past 24 hours, 45,905 samples were tested, while the average of the past seven days was 53,041. State health department officials, meanwhile, said infection rate was on the decline and that herd immunity could be playing a major role in the drop in number of infections.Maharashtra also added 60 fatalities on Monday to take the toll to 48,269. Of the fatalities reported on Monday, 27 occurred in the past 48 hours and eight were in the past week. The remaining 25 deaths were from the period before last week. The case fatality rate (CFR) remained constant at 2.56%.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 477 fresh infections to take its tally to 291,113. It also reported fatalities in single digits with seven deaths, pushing the toll to 10,984.Health department officials said the rate of infection was under control as the positivity rate, a key parameter to see how rapidly the infection is spreading, is around 7%. The state has witnessed a dip in the overall positivity rate in the state over from nearly 20% in October to nearly 16% in December. On October 13, the overall positivity rate was 19.89%, which dropped to 17.9% on November 13. The overall positivity rate on Monday stood at 16.03%.A state health department official said the infection spread was seeing a dip, which is why the positivity rate was going down gradually. “If one looks at the positivity rate of just one month, between November 14 and December 14, it shows a substantial decline in positivity rate. The positivity rate in this period was 7.05%, lower than the overall positivity rate. A significant percentage of the population could have developed antibodies, which is a reason for lower infection rates now. We are happy that the numbers are showing a dip, but the administration remains on guard,” he said, requesting anonymity. State surveillance officer, Dr Pradeep Awate said, “The declining trend is continuing, which is a relieving part. The rate of infection is decreasing and herd immunity could be playing a major role in it.”Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of communicable diseases prevention control and member of the state-appointed technical committee, echoed Awate’s view on herd immunity and said, “The Serosurveys that have been carried out in Mumbai and Pune are indicators that congested areas that saw many cases are now seeing fewer cases. Indications are that a herd immunity-like situation is occurring in the state. There are a lot of people who were affected, but might not be detected. However, we are still seeing cases coming out, so the viral activity has not stopped.”After a brief upswing in active cases, they have dipped marginally in the state. The active cases in the state had seen a slight increase between December 10 and 13. The state’s active caseload had gone to 74,104 on Sunday after it had dropped to 71,910 on December 10. Mumbai, too, had seen a rise in active caseload, which reached 13,112 on Sunday, a jump from 11,886 on December 10. The active caseload in the state, however, dipped on Monday to 72,383, owing to more discharges recorded on Monday. Mumbai now has 13,582 active cases. State authorities have attributed the increase in active cases to a delay in logging in discharges.In the last 24 hours, 4,160 patients were discharged, which took the tally of recovered patients to 17,61,615. The state’s overall recovery rate stood at 93.54%. The state has so far tested 11,748,362 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 16.03%. Currently, 504,406 people are in home quarantine and 4,335 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-2-949-new-covid-19-infections-tally-rises-to-1-883-365/story-ooVSZhsfgH4XlZvuu0rmHK.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||2 clubs, 2 restaurants in Mumbai raided, fined ₹43K by BMC for flouting Covid-19 rules||Cracking the whip on restaurants and nightclubs running till late hours and flouting Covid-19 rules, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) raided two restaurants and two nightclubs on Sunday night and fined 560 visitors for not wearing masks. The civic body has also issued show-cause notices to the clubs for violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and operating beyond the deadline. This comes days after BMC announced that it would carry out random inspections at nightclubs that are not following any safety measures.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “There were gross violations found at Bombay Adda in Bandra last night [Sunday]. Nearly 275 people were fined for not wearing masks. We want to advise and warn citizens that the Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet. We are strongly against imposing a night curfew; however, citizens should not create havoc around Christmas and New Year, which will force us to impose the curfew.”A first information report (FIR) was registered against Bombay Adda by the BMC for flouting Covid-19 rules. A senior civic official said, “There was no social distancing followed at the Bandra club, and many were not wearing masks. A fine of ₹30,000 was imposed on the club.” Bombay Adda refused to comment of the matter.The other three establishments fined are located in Dadar, Kandivli and Malad.A total of ₹43, 200 in fines was collected from all four establishments.According to the Epidemic Act, more than 50 people are not allowed to gather at any location at a time. The Covid-19 curve of the city started declining since November, and BMC fears that such gatherings could lead to another surge in cases. This is not the first time that the BMC has raided night clubs. On December 5, BMC raided three nightclubs in Bandra and Lower Parel, after receiving a tip that the clubs were operating past the deadline. Subsequently, around 1,000 people were asked to leave the premises by BMC officials during the raid. Many were also fined by for not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-clubs-2-restaurants-in-mumbai-raided-fined-43k-by-bmc-for-flouting-covid-19-rules/story-aTLmj5mHkVL7CpJqCAutPJ.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farm reform bills: Protesters lay siege to Ferozepur Road in Ludhiana||Activists affiliated with at least 13 farmer and trade unions laid siege to Ferozepur Road outside the Mini Secretariat on Monday to register their protest against the contentious farm reform laws. A farmer leader, requesting anonymity, said, “Instead of rolling back the laws, the Centre is maligning farmers as Khalistanis and beguiled men backed by urban naxals.”The protest, which began as a peaceful sit-in, turned disruptive when workers of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrah faction) laid siege to both sides of the road and demanded that deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma visit the site and receive their memorandum. This led to a mammoth traffic jam on both sides of the busy Ferozepur Road. Serpentine queues enveloped Bhai Wala Chowk and Bharat Nagar Chowk.Soon, the traffic police swung into action and diverted vehicles heading from Jagraon Bridge to Mall Road and Bus stand, while the traffic heading from Bhai Bala Chowk was diverted towards Pakhowal Road and Ghumar Mandi. The change in routes led to further chaos in Fountain Chowk and other parts of the city.Protest lasted two hoursThe traffic conundrum lasted for nearly two hours as protesters raised slogans against the ruling BJP government and the local administration. The farmers were backed by lawyers and the Sanchar Nigam Executive Association, a body representing 900 BSNL officials. Some industrialists also formed a human chain on National Highway- 44 near Dhandari to support the protesting farmers.Eight BKU farmer bodies that were protesting at a fuel station near Bharat Nagar Chowk were seen instructing their volunteers not to interact with the media saying a few irresponsible statements had dented their protest. The activists held placards explaining how the new bills were anti-farmer and pro-corporate.The protesters were only pacified after Sharma arrived on the site and received their memorandum around 4pm.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugraha’s Ahmedgarh block in-charge Gurmail Singh said, “Our non-violent protest is our strength. Until yesterday, the government was not bothered by our plight but now the world is taking note of our protest. The government is dismissing us as ‘anti-nationals’ and our protest as ‘politically motivated’ but their tactics to tarnish our image seems to be backfiring on them.”“The meetings between the Centre and farmer leaders have exposed the ministers’ agenda. The incumbent regime is only looking forward to benefit their crony-capitalist friends,” he said.On why the farmers were not accepting the proposed amendments, he said, “The big corporates would ensure the amendments are tweaked, scrapping the laws is the only solution.” ‘All sections of society on guillotine’Retired excise and taxation officer Balkaur Singh, who is not associated with the Ugraha faction, said, “This is not a mere farmer protest. All sections of society will be affected. If the big corporates occupy each sector, land owners, and grocery owners will be reduced to peasants and work for them.” Amrik Singh Kadian of the BKU Kadian faction said, “We will not leave the Singhu Border until the government scraps the three controversial laws. They are testing our patience, but with each passing day our protest is gathering momentum. It is heartening to see that even after being beaten up, none of our protesting farmers have resorted to violence. We will emerge victorious in the end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-reform-bills-protesters-lay-siege-to-ferozepur-road-in-ludhiana/story-wWUZebYy4ZKH5bx2GG32MJ.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Hrithik Roshan-Kangana Ranaut email fight case transferred from Mumbai cyber cell to CIU||Actor Hrithik Roshan’s 2016 first information report (FIR) against actor Kangana Ranaut, which was previously probed by the Mumbai cyber police station, has now been transferred to the crime branch’s crime intelligence unit (CIU) after Roshan’s lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani recently wrote to Mumbai Police reminding them that there has not been any progress in the case since 2016. The actor had filed a complaint after getting hundreds of emails from Ranaut’s account.A crime branch officer confirmed the development on Monday and said that CIU will check where exactly the investigation had stopped and will continue the probe.Roshan had filed a complaint with the cybercrime police station in 2016 against unidentified individuals under sections 419 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66(c) and 66 (d) of the Information Technology Act.“Our client also met top police officers when he reiterated all the facts and informed them about the trauma being caused to him and his family. He also reiterated his request for a timely investigation. However, till date, there has been no progress in the investigation, and the aforementioned case is still pending. We thus request to kindly look in the matter and issue appropriate orders to kindly direct completion of investigation at the earliest since the same is pending since 2016,” states the letter sent by the actor’s lawyer to Mumbai Police (HT has a copy).Roshan, in a letter to the then police commissioner Rakesh Maria and the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) cybercrime division, had alleged that a person was in contact with his friends and fans using a fake email address. Roshan came to know about the fake account when he started receiving calls from his friends asking why he was not replying to their e-mails.Actor Ranaut’s name came into the picture after the e-mail exchanges between her and an account supposedly belonging to Roshan were leaked to the media.The cyber police station had then recorded the statements of Ranaut and her sister while investigating the fake e-mail account case. Her lawyer had then questioned the “genuineness of the entire complaint lodged by Roshan.”The public battle between the two actors started after Ranaut in an interview referred to Roshan (“silly ex”) without naming him. Following this, in March 2016, Roshan and Ranaut had sent legal notices to each other.At the centre of the mud-slinging was an email ID from which Ranaut claimed to have received messages from Roshan, which proved they were in a relationship. Roshan, however, said he had never had an email account with that ID, and that it was an impostor who had been communicating with Ranaut all along.He then filed the police complaint to track down the person responsible for the fake email ID from which Kangana had received the emails. However, police were unable to track the user.An officer had then said that the emails originated from a US server, and in the absence of data from there, no user could be identified.The police previously also contemplated closing the case in absence of evidence, sources said.Reacting to the latest development, Kangana’s team tweeted, “His sob story starts again, so many years since our break up and his divorce but he refuses to move on, refuses to date any woman, just when I gather courage to find some hope in my personal life he starts the same drama again, @iHrithik kab tak royega ek chote se affair keliye?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hrithik-roshan-kangana-ranaut-email-fight-case-transferred-from-mumbai-cyber-cell-to-ciu/story-saGqaX1xlcLsXOopkhagPN.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Suicide pact: Ludhiana teen succumbs a day after mother’s death||A day after a woman and her 14-year-old daughter were found hanging in their house at Raghubir Park , Haibowal, the teenager succumbed to her injuries at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Monday morning. On the basis of the suicide note, police have booked Tony, a fruit vendor, his wife Nidhi and the victims’ neighbour Anu for abetment of suicide. The trio are still on the run.The teenager and her mother had hung themselves on the first floor of the house on Saturday night. While the woman was declared dead on arrival, her daughter struggled for life for 33 hours before succumbing. The woman’s husband said that Tony, a fruit vendor, who frequently visited their neighbour Anu, had sent objectionable messages to the minor girl on a social networking site. After a police complaint was lodged, the two parties compromised and the accused stopped coming to Anu’s house. On December 12, the accused accosted the victims in the street and humiliated them. Anu again sent indecent messages to his daughter, following which his wife and daughter ended their lives, the complainant said. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harmesh Lal, who is investigating the case, said it appears to be a case of suicide pact. An FIR under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suicide-pact-ludhiana-teen-succumbs-a-day-after-mother-s-death-in/story-483yoCLt0RN8enMwRaDs5N.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CET cell extends deadline of pre-admission registration for professional courses||The state common entrance test (CET) cell late on Monday released a notification extending the pre-admission registration process for all professional courses. This notification is applicable to all undergraduate and postgraduate courses including engineering, pharmacy, architecture and management courses.According to the notification, the registration process for admissions to BTech courses in state institutes has been extended till December 22 instead of the original date of December 15. Similarly, registrations for BArch and MBA/MMS courses have been extended from December 13 to December 20.“A revised and detailed activity schedule for admissions will be published with two-three days on the official website www.mahacet.org,” stated the notification.With admissions to first-year professional courses delayed again, several institutes are worried about the academic time left for the incoming batch. “It looks like the registration process has been extended because the CET cell is yet to release results of common entrance exams conducted for various courses. In this case, first-year batches of all professional courses will only get to start their academic year by mid or end of January 2021, which will be ridiculous,” said the director of a city-based management institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-cell-extends-deadline-of-pre-admission-registration-for-professional-courses/story-KfIWdeWQh6qjDqTPhfujQO.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 booked for bailing out drug peddler on fake identity in Ludhiana||The police here have booked two persons for submitting fake identification documents in the court to bail out a drugs case accused.The duo has been identified as Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh.During the investigation, the police found that the accused had applied online for the copy of a land record in Gaunspur village and paid Rs 200 as fee. The land belonged to one Naveen Bhatia. Following this, the accused procured a fake Aadhaar card in his name. While Harpreet posed as Naveen in the court, Gurpreet disguised as one Paramjit Singh.The accused then submitted these fake documents in the court and availed bail for Harjinder Singh, alias Jinder, who was arrested by the Sadar police of Khanna in a drug peddling case on December 2. When the documents were scanned, the court sensed something irregular and ordered an investigation.ASI Sukhpal Singh said that he visited Gaunspur and verified the documents with the sarpanch and nambardar, who clarified that people with such names didn’t live in the village and the property documents are were forged.Later, the police found that a builder named Naveen Bhatia was developing a colony near the village and the accused used this information to forge documents in his name.A under sections 420, 465, 467, 471, 474 and 120-B of the IPC has been lodged against the accused at the Division 5 police station. A hunt is on to arrest the accused, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-booked-for-bailing-out-drug-peddler-on-fake-identity-in-ludhiana/story-GBQJN8IaiXJIojdQC4rmeL.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||17 Maharashtra government bungalows including CM Uddhav Thackeray’s residence on list of water bill defaulters, says RTI activist; CMO denies allegation||As many as 17 government bungalows occupied by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar and other senior ministers are in the list of defaulters for water bill dues worth ₹2,456,469, according to information collated by Right To Information (RTI) activist Shakeel Ahmed Shaikh. The chief minister’s office (CMO) has, however, denied the charges and clarified that the two bungalows occupied by the CM have no water bills pending. All government offices and official residences are managed and maintained by the state’s public works department. Shaikh said that as per the information collated from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) website, Varsha and Torna — the bungalows occupied by Thackeray — owe ₹28,719 towards water bills from April to October. Similarly, the dues for Devgiri, which is occupied by Pawar, are ₹135,300, and ₹115,288 is due for Seva Sadan which is occupied by water resources minister Jayant Patil. The highest due at ₹144,415 is for water usage at Ramtek, the bungalow occupied by food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal. Interestingly, the list also includes Sagar, the official bungalow occupied by Leader of Opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis, for dues to the tune of ₹124,553. The state guest house Sahyadri’s unpaid water bill is ₹745,856, Shaikh said.A clarification issued by the CMO stated there are no dues for water usage at Varsha and Toran. “The water works department of BMC has given a report which says there is no unpaid bill for water usage at both the bungalows,” the statement reads. The statement, however, does not have any clarification for the unpaid bills for other bungalows occupied by other ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/17-maharashtra-government-bungalows-including-cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-residence-on-list-of-water-bill-defaulters-says-rti-activist-cmo-denies-allegation/story-84ggMcoOo2gQE8qej5S3kM.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Withdraw collector’s order allotting Kanjurmarg land for Mumbai Metro car shed, then proceed by law, HC asks Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday asked the state government to consider withdrawing October 1, 2020, order of the Mumbai suburban district collector, allotting 102 acres of salt pan land at Kanjurmarg for construction of an integrated Metro car shed.“We can’t allow this order to remain in force,” said the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni. “Prima facie, we are of the view that the matter should go back to the collector. It’s better you settle these issues before you proceed further (with the construction of the proposed Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg),” the bench added.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni responded to the suggestion, saying he will take instructions and inform the government’s response, to the court suggestion on Wednesday.The bench also delineated further possible course of action, saying either the collector withdraws the order or the bench will set it aside on the ground of procedural infirmities. Then, the court said, the collector will be free to proceed in accordance with law and status quo, as on the date of withdrawal or striking down will be maintained in the meantime.The court was hearing a petition filed by the central government seeking a stay on the metro car shed work at Kanjurmarg. Staking claim over the salt pan lands, the central government has moved HC challenging October 1, 2020 order of the collector, allotting 102 acres out of Survey No 275 (part) to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).On October 6, the collector transferred possession of the salt pan land to MMRDA and two days later the authority, in turn, handed it over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited, which is constructing the Metro car shed.Centre has claimed that the entire salt pan lands in the belt, including the 102 acres at Kanjurmarg, belong to its salt department and has always been under the administrative control of the deputy salt commissioner.By a separate petition Centre has also challenged November 1, 2018, the order of the Maharashtra revenue minister, upholding addition of names of the state government and some private parties in ownership column of several salt pan lands at Nahur, Mulund, Kanjurmarg, Mandale, Malvani and Pahadi areas of Mumbai.The court on Monday also heard a petition filed by one Maheshkumar Garodia, who too has challenged the Collector’s order and subsequent transfer of possession of the salt pan land for the Metro car shed.HC’s suggestion came after senior advocate Shyam Mehta, who represented Garodia, pointed out that Garodia, a legal representative of the erstwhile salt manufacturer had a beneficial interest in a vast tract of salt pan land, including the 102 acres plot, and he has filed a suit concerning the entire land leased to his predecessors and interim orders are granted in his favour, first by HC, which are subsequently confirmed by Bombay city civil court, after the suit was transferred there.Mehta pointed out to the bench that the Collector was aware of the fact that Garodia was in possession of the land, that the suit was pending, that there was an interim injunction in his favour, but no notice was issued to him before transferring the land to MMRDA and handing over its possession for construction of the metro car shed.Mehta submitted that till January 2020 the technical advisory committee of the state government maintained that Kanjurmarg was not viable for construction of the metro car shed. Therefore, they changed the reservation of the land at Aarey Colony and spent over Rs. 200 crores for preparations at Aarey Colony. And now they are claiming that the Kanjurmarg land is most suitable for the project.HC found force in Mehta’s complaint that the October 1 order does not even refer to the petitioner and the court proceeding. “The order itself shows that the Collector is aware of the pending suit, but he just turns a blind eye towards the court proceedings,” said the bench. “Is this a proper exercise of power,” the judges asked and opined that the order could not be allowed to continue.The salt pan land at Kanjurmarg has become a bone of serious contention between the Maharashtra government and the Centre. Earlier, Devendra Fadnavis of BJP had decided to construct the car shed for Mumbai Metro line 3 at Aarey Colony, despite steep opposition to vast tree cutting required for the car shed.After Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress combine government came in power in Maharashtra, it responded positively to cry of environmentalists and shifted the metro car shed to Kanjurmarg - a location which the Fadnavis government had specifically rejected.Uddhav Thackeray led government has now decided to construct an integrated metro car shed at Kanjur Marg for metro line 3, 4, 4A and 6, instead of constructing #separate car sheds for these lines individually.Senior advocate Milind Sathe and advocate Saket Mone, who represented the project proponent MMRDA, on Monday highlighted financial benefits of constructing the integrated car shed. They said MMRDA will have to spend an additional amount of ₹2,328 crore on land acquisition and ₹1,600 crore as operational costs, if the integrated car shed at Kanjur Marg was stayed by HC.They added that there will be loss of ₹2.5 to ₹3 crore per day if the court stayed the ongoing work of Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/withdraw-collector-s-order-allotting-kanjurmarg-land-for-mumbai-metro-car-shed-then-proceed-by-law-hc-asks-maharashtra-government/story-epytgfMy1LuoLR7Y8M4xYO.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||More schools reopen for Class 9 to 12 in Maharashtra, attendance increases||Three weeks after the Maharashtra education department reopened school for Class 9 to 12 in several parts of the state, the number of students attending schools has seen a 60% increase with more schools reopening, data shared by the education department has revealed. According to the data, as on December 14, nearly 8 lakh students were attending schools every day while more than 15,000 schools have reopened over the past 3 weeks. On November 23, the education department reopened more than 9,000 schools in various parts of the state such as Chandrapur, Solapur, Satara, Beed and Amravati. Schools said that since the gradual reopening, the number of students seems to be increasing. “We are seeing a good response from students now. More than 80% of students in Class 10 are attending school now, which is a good sign. Parents are sending their children as the initial anxiety and fear seem to be receding a bit,” said Balu Bhoyar, principal, Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur. As on Monday, more than 90% schools reopened in Gadchiroli, Osmanabad, Satara, Solapur, Jalgaon and Nanded districts. A total of 50% schools for Class 9 to 12 reopened in the state by Monday. “Students are enthusiastic about attending schools and the attendance is seeing a steady rise. All the safety rules with respect to Covid-19 are being followed by schools. Teachers who have tested positive have been isolated and taken care of,” tweeted state education minister Varsha Gaikwad. Teachers said some parents were still sceptical about sending their children to school due to the fear of contracting the virus. “When we ask them to fill an undertaking before sending students, they get a bit worried and hence do not sending children yet,” said the teacher of a school in Latur. As per the standard operating procedures laid down by the education department, only 50% students in these schools are asked to attend classes on a rotational basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-schools-reopen-for-class-9-to-12-in-maharashtra-attendance-increases/story-Kjo5ZD6h08wIBAxBTv98JI.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Libraries shut, Mumbai colleges provide e-library, e-books access to students||The Covid-19 pandemic had already turned regular classrooms into virtual lecture rooms and now libraries, too, have moved online for several city colleges. Students, who would flock libraries for reference books before exams, are being provided with access to e-libraries, e-books and in some cases, teachers are even sharing reference material and notes online. “Our online classes have been running very smoothly and teachers have ensured students have all necessary reference books in e-book version for easy accessibility,” said Sobhana Vasudevan, principal RA Podar College, Matunga, adding that teachers at their college have also formed groups of students to ensure reference notes are shared among the class. “In case of non-availability of an e-version of any book, teachers share prints of necessary notes to ensure students are not at loss,” said Vasudevan.The concept of subject textbooks is common for traditional courses in the science, commerce and arts stream. However, students of unaided or self-financed courses heavily depend on reference books as study material. Most colleges follow the University of Mumbai prescribed curriculum and reference books mentioned by the Board of Studies (BoS), making it convenient for students to find study material in libraries.“Every year, the exercise of putting notes together for certain topics is marked as assignments for students in order to encourage them to read more. This year, most teachers ensured the reference material is posted in virtual classrooms, so that students don’t struggle for notes before exams,” said co-ordinator for the Bachelor in Mass Media (BMM) course at a suburban college. What has also helped is that several colleges, over the past few years, have already set-up their e-libraries to ensure easy accessibility of books for students and staff. “Our students have the advantage of referring to any book from our library online, and this has been very advantageous during the entire semester for both students and teachers. Sharing notes for every subject became easier and we’ve also been conducting our semester exams smoothly,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal of N M College, Vile Parle. Students, too, have formed their own groups on social media and are sharing notes among themselves. “My friend and I found out about a BCom in Banking and Insurance (BBI) students’ group on Facebook, where students from several colleges share notes of different subjects given to them by their respective teachers. This way we have managed to amass a lot of notes and be better prepared for exams,” said Yash Dedhia, a second-year student at Wilson College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/libraries-shut-mumbai-colleges-provide-e-library-e-books-access-to-students/story-IYLbmGNRQHABGsA9hoBvCM.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Overnight rain in Mumbai brings down temperatures and pollution||Sporadic spells of light showers in the city and suburbs between Sunday and Monday not only led to the coldest day this season but also helped disperse pollutants making it the best air quality since October 19. The air quality index (AQI) on Monday was 76, falling under the satisfactory category, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The last time Mumbai recorded an AQI lower than this was 68 (satisfactory) on October 19 and thereafter the AQI started rising. It was 90 (satisfactory) on October 20 and fluctuated between the poor and moderate categories up till Diwali (November 14). The AQI remained in the moderate category through rest of November with isolated spikes (on a few days) with poor AQI. However, after almost two months, light showers over the past four days improved air quality. Mumbai witnessed intermittent spells of light showers between Sunday night and Monday morning allowing a marginal drop in minimum temperatures and considerable drop in maximum temperatures leading to cool conditions. Between 11.30pm Sunday and 8.30am Monday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 4.8mm rain while 13.8mm was recorded at Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm Monday, 6.2mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai and 1.1mm in the suburbs. Maximum rain between Sunday and Monday was recorded at Kandivali at 18.6mm followed by Colaba and Mazagaon 8.4mm. This allowed the maximum temperature to drop to 26.9 degrees Celsius, 5.4 degree Celsius below normal in the suburbs, which is the lowest this season and second lowest for the month in nine years. The lowest maximum temperature over the past decade was recorded on December 6, 2017, at 23.6 degrees Celsius. On Monday, south Mumbai recorded the maximum temperature at 27 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degree Celsius below normal. On Sunday the maximum temperature was 27.6 and 27.4 degree Celsius in the suburbs and south Mumbai respectively. The minimum temperature fell marginally from previous days to 22 degrees Celsius, both in the suburbs and in south Mumbai, which was above normal. Mulund, Kandivali, and Powai had the lowest minimum temperatures in the city below 20 degrees Celsius. The weather bureau predicted the possibility of light rain for Tuesday as well. “Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received light to moderate intermittent overnight showers that continued on Monday morning. Satellite images had indicated heavy cloud cover over north Konkan region,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD). Showers are expected till Wednesday, according to IMD, due to the confluence of northwesterly (coming from western disturbance over north) and southeasterly winds (coming from a low-pressure system over the Arabian Sea) extending over northwest India. “December rain is not routine for Mumbai but showers led to traffic snarls, poor visibility, moist and wet conditions through the city, said Hosalikar. He highlighted that weather radar images on Monday had shown a cloud patch from Raigad (Navi Mumbai, Alibag, Panvel), over MMR (Mumbai, Thane, Palghar), and Nashik. Meanwhile, apart from Mumbai, Nashik recorded 9.8mm rain, Harnai 4.4mm, Thane 4.2mm, and Mahabaleshwar 2.2mm. Is it common to see such weather in Mumbai during December? Scientists researching tropical meteorology said two weather systems - the formation of western disturbances (WD) during this time of the year was common over northern parts of the country and the Himalayan plain while the occurrence of low-pressure weather systems over the Arabian Sea was being observed during this time of the year as well. “However, the simultaneous formation of the WD and low-pressure system at the same time is quite interesting. We need to study how rare this and understand how the confluence of winds from these two systems plays a role during December for both coastal cities and those in interior parts of Maharashtra,” said Dr. Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Management, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/overnight-rain-in-mumbai-brings-down-temperatures-and-pollution/story-8UyuENG8P6hXV5OL5kpAWK.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: A year on, no police officer found guilty for clashes at Jamia||Delhi Police has decided to absolve its personnel of charges that they had used excess force when they stormed the Jamia Milia Islamia campus on December 15 last year, officers familiar with the findings of a probe into the incident said, adding that the statements of around 60 witnesses were recorded and CCTV camera footage from the spot was analysed before reaching this decision.An inquiry into the incident was ordered after images of purported police brutality on the campus that evening went viral on social media. Separately, the police arrested 22 persons for the violence that broke out in and around the university on December 13 and December 15. Also Read| A year after Jamia violence: Lives upended, campus stays on edgeOfficers privy to the details of the probe said on condition of anonymity that the crime branch inquiry committee did not find any officer guilty, prima facie (at first sight), and has not recommended action against its personnel. The 22 arrested persons, which include locals (about three are students such as Sharjeel Imam and Asif Iqbal Tanha) have been charged under sections of rioting, damaging public property, criminal conspiracy, obstructing public servant in discharge of his/her duty.The police are likely to submit the findings of the inquiry report to the Delhi high court, which is hearing several pleas filed by civil society groups seeking action against the police.On the evening of December 15, 2019, Delhi Police entered the university campus, fired tear gas shells and baton-charged students and some locals inside after violence broke out near the university. Police said at the time that the rioters, a majority of whom were local residents, had entered the campus and hurled stones from inside. Police defended the decision to enter the campus, saying it was taken in order to catch the rioters. After the incident, however, several videos surfaced on social media in which police teams were seen breaking CCTV cameras, beating students, and firing tear gas shells on the campus, particularly its central library.HT has learnt from many senior police officers that the crime branch was ordered to start a probe because it involved verifying CCTV camera footage and analysing multiple videos posted on social media groups. Within the Delhi Police, the crime branch functions as a unit that’s separate from the local force.Unlike other inquiry proceedings in the past, when officers had been transferred from their place of posting while an investigation into a police action was underway, no officer was transferred or rebuked for their involvement in alleged brutality on the Jamia campus.HT contacted the crime branch chief special commissioner of police, Praveer Ranjan, for a response, but received no response despite repeated text messages and phone calls. Police spokesperson Eish Singhal, also deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said: “ The case is sub-judice. The courts are hearing the matter.”A crime branch officer, who did not wish to be named, said: “No one was indicted in the inquiry because the findings did not support the allegations. There is CCTV footage of the incident, which shows rioters pelting stones from inside the campus. There are also videos of police urging rioters to come out peacefully or not indulge in any violence. Even the National Rights Human Commission did not find fault in police’s act of entering the university.”A university spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.Retired Indian Police Service officer Vikram Singh, who was the director general of Uttar Pradesh police between 2007 and 2009, said that unlike other cases, the Jamia violence case should have been dealt with differently.“Police should have finished their inquiry and come public with their findings within a month or 90 days at the most... This case involved students. It does not take more than a month to complete inquiry in such cases. People have the right to know,” Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-a-year-on-no-police-officer-found-guilty-for-clashes-at-jamia/story-msWzhAfewrd2dJQZ9hDgLN.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Kalita trying to create narrative to implicate Kapil Mishra, say police||The Delhi Police on Monday claimed before a city court that Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Devangana Kalita, an accused in a north-east Delhi riots case, was creating a “narrative” in the media to show that BJP leader Kapil Mishra was behind the communal violence and, if the investigation, the prosecution and the country were to continue on the foundation of what was being reported in the media, then that would the end of the rule of law.Police told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that there was allegedly another narrative of “inscrutable indolence” created by the accused to show the prosecution in a bad light. The court was hearing the bail application of Kalita.Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, claimed that the accused was creating “narratives” to allegedly show that Mishra was behind the riots and making these narratives viral to make people believe that it was the truth.“The accused is trying to show that Kapil Mishra was behind all these and that the police were investigating only one side. The accused first create a narrative and then they make it viral and then make people believe that this is what happened as everybody is saying so. The accused create a narrative and file multiple petitions on it. Media houses pick it up and media houses will continue to pick up the narrative because if it has been pleaded in the petitions, then most of the people will start believing that,” Prasad said.He further said narratives were created to show that the police were allegedly carrying out a biased investigation. He said from the statements of witnesses, it was seen that the narrative that supporters of the amended citizenship laws started the riots was false.As per the case of the prosecution, Kalita was a part of the organisation Pinjra Tod which actively participated in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and instigated the riots.To this, Kalita’s counsel Adit Pujari said just because Kalita was part of the Pinjra Tod group, it does not mean that she supported Sharjeel Imam, another accused in the riots conspiracy case. He further said there were posters to free Imam at the farmers’ protests as well.“Are all those farmers also part of the riots too? Multiple people have different views. That’s the beauty of a democracy,” he said.The court will further hear the bail plea on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-kalita-trying-to-create-narrative-to-implicate-kapil-mishra-say-police/story-GnCefYnrSGBqaiF9XVLEFM.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Positivity rate among contacts lower than among general population, shows data submitted to court||Only 2.77% of the people who were traced as contacts of a Covid-19 patient were found to be positive till date, according to the data submitted by the Delhi government in the Delhi high court. In comparison, Delhi’s cumulative positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among those tested – was 8.36% (as on Monday), as per the government data. This is contrary to what experts say -- that the positivity rate should be as high as 50 to 70% among close contacts; for example, those in the same family. Also, the daily positivity rate had shot up to almost 37% during the first surge in Covid cases in June and July, and up to 30% for RT-PCR tests during the recent November surge. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn a status report filed through the additional standing counsel Satyakam, the Delhi government informed the court that a total of 19, 54,261 contacts had been traced for positive cases out whom 54,154 tested positive. With 601,150 cases, this means that just over three contacts were traced for every case in the city. The data also showed that very few people – 0.008% or 562 of the 665,513 placed under quarantine – violated it. The data was submitted to a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad on Monday while hearing a plea by a lawyer Rakesh Malhotra seeking a ramping up of testing in the city. As per the data, the positivity rate among the contacts was the highest in the south-east district, where 6.48% of the 48,755 contacts were found positive. This was followed by Shahdara with 5.19% and north-west with 3.65%. On Monday, Delhi reported 1,376 new cases of the infection with fewer than the average 63,944 tests. The city also reported 60 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total toll to 10,074 so far. After reporting fewer than 50 deaths for two days in a row, the numbers went up on Monday. This has also increased the 10-day case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among those tested positive – to 2.54%, as per the daily health bulletin. Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology, All India Institute Medical Sciences said, “The positivity rate among contacts should be much higher than that of the general population. In fact, studies show that it could be as high as 50% to 70% among close contacts such as family members, depending on whether the index patient was symptomatic and also the duration of contact.” During the hearing on Monday, the bench asked the Delhi government to give the districts which has seen a surge in the number of cases so that testing can be ramped up in these areas. It also sought to know the current situation while also seeking to know whether the government had started a fresh sero survey. The matter was adjourned on Monday due to the paucity of time and would be now heard on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/positivity-rate-among-contacts-lower-than-among-general-population-shows-data-submitted-to-court/story-IwZ67hjWn3mIFhymS4AMUO.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||DDA to announce new housing scheme, offer 1,175 new flats||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is soon going to announce its new housing scheme that will offer 1175 flats, mostly in the middle and high income group, in December end or January next year, said a senior DDA official.The land-owning agency will table the proposal for the 2021 housing scheme in the next authority meeting, which was earlier scheduled to be held on December 10. A new date is yet to be finalised.Of the 1,175 flats, 700 will be in the Middle Income Group (MIG) category, 200 in the High Income Group (HIG) category and the rest will be in the economically weaker section. The flats are located in south-west Delhi’s Dwarka and south-east Delhi’s Jasola.According to a senior DDA official, the MIG flats, which is around 1200-1300 sqft, will cost close to R1.2 crore, while the HIG flats, which are 150-170 sqft, will cost more than Rs 2crore.“Once the proposal is passed by the authority, we will launch the 2021 housing scheme. The 700 MIG flats are located in two sectors (16B and 19B) in Dwarka, while the HIG flats are in Jasola. The EWS flats are located in Manglapuri in Dwarka,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. After three unsuccessful housing schemes, the land-owning agency is hoping for a good response this time around to its new housing scheme as the flats on offer will be spacious and located in areas which are well connected to the rest of the city.Last year, the DDA has put 18,000 flats for sale initially, but had to reduce the number of flats in the scheme to 10,294 later, as it didn’t get the desired response. The land-owning agency had received 45,012 applications for its flats, but it could sell only 8,438 flats — 488 HIG, 1,555 in MIG, 5,172 in low income group (LIG) and 1,223 EWS category flats — of which close to 6,000 flats were later returned, according to a senior official aware of the development.One of the main reasons for poor response to DDA’s housing schemes in the past has been the location of the flats. A majority of the flats put on sale by the DDA last year were located in Narela, which is not well connected with the rest of the city.“We are hopeful that this scheme will receive a good response, as the flats are located in Dwarka and Jasola, both places being well connected with public transport,” said the official.Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner of DDA, said, “It will be profitable for DDA to construct more housing in Dwarka as compared to Narela, as the former is a developed area and is well-connected to the Metro. Even Jasola is has good public transport system in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-to-announce-new-housing-scheme-offer-1-175-new-flats/story-cufwFSJIE3DuxiGWxoqzNK.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Students should not be charged for digital degrees, Delhi court tells DU||The Delhi University on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it had constituted a committee for proposing charges for issuance of digital degree certificate on whose recommendations, it is charging ₹750 from the students for whom the printed degree has not been issued and ₹1,000 from the students for whom the printed degree has been issued.The DU, represented by advocate Mohinder Rupal, told Justice Pratibha Singh that the reason behind charging the students for the digital degrees is that several people have to be employed to process these degrees. He also said that since the timeline is too short, the varsity is adopting these measures, there won’t be any need for charging more.“…but I can’t say anything right now. We have to do it on war footing,” he said.However, the court said that the students should not be charged for the digital degrees and that they should be free of cost.“There is a problem. I think degree certificates should be given free of cost. Paper is costing more, there you are not charging but for creating an electronic degree , you are charging!,” the bench remarked.It asked the Delhi University as to whether issuance of digital degree certificates will be made an annual regular feature or it is only for this academic year after the students raised several grievances on the imposition of an exorbitant fee proposed to be charged for the provision of digital degrees.The court was hearing a plea by a few students who had moved to the court seeking directions to the University to declare their results and issue the degrees.Appearing for the students, their counsel Sarthak Maggon, told the court that the University, in their consolidated annual fee charged to the students, already accounts for provision of degree certificates/migration certificates and hence they should not be permitted to charge students for providing a digital copy of the same degree.He said that such a charge imposes additional burden on the students and it would be exorbitant given that production of digital degrees after putting into place the appropriate format must not be chargeable at par with physical printed degrees since the nature of production and procurement of such degrees is cost effective once the technical infrastructure has been appropriately set up.The varsity in its affidavit has justified the charges of digital degree, stating that it has adopted General Financial Regulations, 2017 regarding transactions involving financial implications which makes the user Charges as an essential component of the non- tax revenues.During the hearing, the judge also sought to know whether the transmission of data for uploading on Digilocker with respect to all the students in all courses of DU is going to be followed in feature and if so, within what timelines.The court said that there has to be a proper timeline for uploading the data while adding that, immediately upon declaration of results, a digital degree is being generated within a period of one month and that data should be transmitted to the Digilocker.The matter would be now heard on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/students-should-not-be-charged-for-digital-degrees-delhi-court-tells-du/story-efbQmT61tCrFtPx3zQmyKN.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Govt narrows on five firms for the next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project||The Centre has narrowed down on five construction firms for the next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project— the redevelopment and restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue, which includes the majority of the Rajpath stretch and the row of government offices that are parallel to it, senior officials said.According to officials aware of the development, the five firms — Tata Projects Limited, Shapoorji Pallonji Group, ITD Cementation, NCC limited and PSP Projects limited — submitted their technical bids on Monday. “The technical bids will now be evaluated. After this, those who qualify will place their financial bids in a few days,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. “Seven bidders had participated in the pre-bidding meeting for the project held in November,” the official added.Tata Projects Limited has also been tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex after it emerged as the lower bidder for the tender with a bid of Rs 861.90 crore when financial bids for the project opened on September 16, and was awarded the contract to construct the building on September 29. When contacted by HT a spokesperson for the firm declined to comment.The nodal agency for the project; the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has also revised the estimated cost for the project from ₹463 crore to ₹502 crore, according to the modified tender document reviewed by HT. The tender for the redevelopment of the Central Vista avenue also mandates the firms to maintain it for five years from completion, and requires that the project be complete within 300 days. Work will also need to be carried out in patches in order to minimise the portion of the avenue that is cordoned off at any given time, according to the tender floated in November. This phase will also require contractors to install air purifiers and keep construction noise under preset thresholds, HT had reported on November 9.“The contractor may have to execute the work in three shifts with large manpower of workers, supervisors and professional engineers,” the tender document said.Whichever firm is selected, it will be responsible for comprehensive maintenance and operation for a period of 60 months after completion of construction. The second phase of the project will include the demolition of dozens of office buildings.Broadly, the plan includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings.According to the revised cost estimates: Rs372.9 crore will be for the ‘Civil Work & Horticulture Component’, Rs 113.7 crore for the ‘Electrical & Mechanical component’ and Rs15.51 crore for ‘Operation & Maintenance’ for five years. “This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough guide,” according to the tender document.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the entire project is slated to be finished by 2024.“The work is to be carried out strictly within 10 months i.e. the period available between two Republic Day Celebrations i.e. RDC 2021 & 2022. There is no scope of failure in completing the project by November, 2021 after starting the work in Feb, 2021… The work is to be completed within a short period of 10 months. This condition has been incorporated to check the financial strength as well as capability to mobilize resources required for a work of this magnitude,” CPWD had noted in a pre-bidding meeting held in November according to minutes of the meeting reviewed by HT. The work on the second phase of the project comes at a time when the apex court last week had directed the Centre to immediately stop all construction and ancillary activities in the historically significant Central Vista area of New Delhi where a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and union ministries’ offices are planned to be built. The Supreme Court, had however, allowed the government to proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony on December 10, and procedural paperwork stating that there cannot be alterations to the site.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament House on Thursday, describing the event as a milestone in India’s democratic history and asserting that the building will become the symbol of a 21st century nation and Aatmanirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India.In the ambitious Central Vista project the new Parliament complex, has an earlier deadline of 2022 under the Central Vista redevelopment plan, and will be among the first plans to be finalised. The redevelopment will also see shifting of the Prime Minister and the Vice President’s residence, North and South Block turning into a museum as well as new administrative offices with an underground metro on either side of the avenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-narrows-on-five-firms-for-the-next-phase-of-the-central-vista-redevelopment-project/story-AG2gAy4hNlBfXbryFXB1dP.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Mayors set up ‘offices’ outside Delhi CM residence||The mayors of the three BJP-led municipal corporations started clearing pending files from their makeshift offices from outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Monday, the eighth day of their protest against the government for alleged non-payment of dues. The deadlock between the mayors and the government entered into its eighth day on Monday.From Tuesday, between 1pm and 2pm, the mayors will conduct public dealings from the same location.On Monday, files pertaining to development work and other administrative works were brought to the temporary office outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Flag Staff Road residence by municipal officials. The mayors said that they will continue doing office work from here till the time the chief minister orders for the release of Rs 13,000 crore, which they allege the government owes to the municipal corporation.The three mayors started their office work around 11.30 am and met officials throughout the day to clear pending work, as they had not been attending office for the past one week. The mayors said that the public can come and meet them at their makeshift office between 1pm and 2pm.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “Today, we met a few people from the public. But from Tuesday, we will do public dealings from here. Those who come to our office at the Civic Centre will be redirected to come and meet us here. They can tell us in advance and we will take the necessary police permission. Unlike Kejriwal, we can’t let the public suffer.”In the temporary tent erected outside the CM’s residence, the mayors had set up their offices by putting banners which read “Mayor’s office” followed by the name of the respective corporation.“We had called the additional commissioners and heads of the departments to discuss pending work. We have given them instructions that the municipal work shouldn’t suffer due to our protest. Now onwards, the files will be brought here for clearance,” south corporation mayor, Anamika Mithilesh Singh, said.Nirmal Jain, mayor of East corporation, added, “It is unfortunate that the CM doesn’t want to talk to the mayors and find a solution to the problem. After all the issue we are raising will have an impact on Delhi. But he is just not concerned.”Reacting to the ongoing protest of the mayors, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said the BJP is just doing “drama all day” and “playing dirty politics”.“The mayors of the BJP ruled MCD are sitting outside the residence of Delhi chief minister and chilling there. At the same time, the commissioners of the BJP ruled MCD are on leave for the last 15 days. The mayors have left the MCD to God. The people of Delhi want cleanliness and governance and they are now regretting about electing them,” said senior leader and AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj. He said the AAP has also exposed a scam of Rs 2500 crores, wherein the north MCD waived off the money owed to it by the South MCD. “This scam is much bigger than the Commonwealth Games scam which happened under the then chief minister Sheila Dixit. This is the biggest scam in the history of Delhi, but the BJP has not responded on this matter as well,” Bhardwaj said. BJP complaints to NCW against AAPThe Delhi BJP has filed a complaint with the National Commission for Women (NCW) against the AAP-led Delhi government for installing CCTV cameras near the tent setup by the mayors outside the CM’s residence. Citing privacy of women councillors, who have been sitting on protest outside the CM’s residence, the BJP said the CCTVs were being installed in violation of the “Delhi Rules for regulations of CCTV camera systems in NCT of Delhi 2018.Demanding an inquiry, the BJP said the way CCTVs were being installed invaded the privacy of female councillors.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “What happened yesterday outside CM’s residence was unfortunate. It is a question of privacy of women councillors. Why do they want to install CCTVs near the tent? There are already so many CCTVs in the area. We have requested the commission inquire into the matter.”Senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said by disallowing to install CCTV cameras outside the CM’s residence, the BJP mayors and councillors are trying to hide their misdeeds. “They did not only manhandled the officials who were installing the cameras, but also broke the devices. They are definitely trying to hide some conspiracy which they are hatching by sitting outside the CM’s residence,” he said. Bhardwaj said the cameras overlook the street and have nothing to do with privacy. “By that logic, the cameras installed at similar location outside the LG’s office should also be removed and broken. Why didn’t the BJP raise the privacy issue on that? The cameras were not being put to peep into anyone’s house. The logic of woman’s privacy and all is totally absurd,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-set-up-offices-outside-cm-residence/story-2v7fks7TSaTqxcuau0cvTJ.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Nearly 3,000 AIIMS nurses go on strike to demand better pay||Nearly 3,000 nurses working at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) went on an indefinite strike from Monday onwards seeking higher remuneration due to an “anomaly” in the implementation of the previous pay commission’s recommendations. As per Harish Kajla, president of the AIIMS nursing union, there was an anomaly in implementing the sixth pay commission’s recommendations and after several meeting their demand had been accepted by the health minister last year. However, nothing changed on the ground. The AIIMS administration, however, claimed that the anomaly was “perceived” by the nurses and the sixth pay commission committee members and the finance department had clearly said that there was no anomaly in the implementation. “Unfortunately at this time of a pandemic, the nurses have gone on a strike. The nurses union had put in 23 demands, almost all of which were met by the institute or the government. One demand of a perceived anomaly as per the sixth pay commission remains. Multiple meetings have been held, even with one of the committee members who drafted the pay commission recommendations. It has been explained to the nurses union that their interpretation is not correct and beyond the purview of the notification,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. He added, “At this time, when the country is going through so many hardships, when a lot of people have had to accept pay cuts and loss of their jobs, the nurses are asking for a pay hike. It seems very inappropriate.” “Today, some contract nurses were hired. AIIMS is known for the quality of treatment and the administration wants to leave the lives of people in the hands of nurses on contract now,” said Kajla. The AIIMS administration however said that the patients were being managed by resident doctors, senior faculty members and staff. “We have around 4,000 nurses at AIIMS; the senior nurses – of ranks of assistant nursing officer and above – have not gone on strike. Nearly 3,000 level I and II nurses are on strike. We have put more senior residents on duty to cover for the striking nurses. The senior faculty and other staff members are managing the patients,” said a senior official, on condition of anonymity. Further, the administration has stated that the strike is in contravention of a Delhi high court order that says no employee or staff can cease work for any reason or shout slogans and hold demonstrations within 500 metres of the campus. Meanwhile, a government official said that since the demand for salary is not covered under the previous circular, the Central government has agreed to view it as a fresh demand. “This will therefore have to be examined as a fresh demand. It was also stated that the Ministry is open to placing the fresh demand before appropriate authorities for sympathetic consideration and therefore the AllMS Nurses Union may be requested to reconsider and withdraw the call for any strike, especially during these trying times, due to the national priority of effectively tackling Covid-19 pandemic,” read an order dated December 14 by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nearly-3-000-aiims-nurses-go-on-strike-to-demand-better-pay/story-a60vqAzrpsTgjHHuJOKivN.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL office in Ludhiana’s Fountain Chowk crying for attention||Walking into the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited’s (PSPCL’s) two-storeyed sub-station building in Fountain Chowk, one is met by a sight of absolute dilapidation, with broken window panes, piled up meters and eclectic clutter greeting visitors at the onset.  Long forgotten files, loose electric wire and damaged transformers can be seen collecting dust in the building that has a footfall of 50 to 80 people daily.As per officials, the civil maintenance wing of the PSPCL is in charge of the 60- year-old building’s upkeep. Stagnant water and choked sewerage near the entrance of the building also paint a grim picture. Piled up electricity meters at the entrance, near the stairs and loose hanging wires endanger visitors.A visitor, Suresh Pal, said, “I visited the Fountain Chowk office today to deposit my electricity bill. I have to stand in queue every time as there is only one cash counter.” “At the entrance of the building, electricity meters have been stacked up and bicycles are parked inside the building. The wires of electricity meters installed in the building are hanging in the open. The authorities are clearly not bothered about the safety of their own staff and the public visiting the office.”Parvesh Kumar, a 65-year-old, visitor, said, “The condition of the office is miserable and the department is making no attempts to improve the facilities. I live in Ghumar Mandi and prefer paying my electricity bill at this office. The windows panes make the vist all the more daunting in the cold weather.”An official requesting anonymity, said, “There is a need to repair the building as all the window panes are broken and damaged transformers, pipes and wires are kept in the rear of the office in the open. The condition of the toilets is also deplorable. The higher authorities must provide better facilities to the workers.”When contacted, SS Josan, chief engineer of protection and maintenance wing, said, “I will look into the matter and visit the sub-station office.” He asserted that they had received no intimation from officials regarding need for maintenance, but they will take cognisance of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pspcl-office-at-ludhiana-s-fountain-chowk-crying-for-attention/story-IyEJqEuGKbIPpFsqZQQXsL.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves, temperature falls||While the national capital’s temperature fell, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) officially announcing the onset of winter, strong winds that blew over Delhi from Sunday night helped improve its air quality from “very poor” to “moderate”.Despite Monday being a sunny day, the minimum and maximum temperatures fell in Delhi. According to IMD, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for Delhi, was 8.4°C and the maximum temperature was 19.4°C, which was four degrees below the season’s normal.On Sunday, Delhi recorded a maximum of 20.7°C—three notches below normal. The minimum, meanwhile, was recorded 11.1°C.Scientists said that cold northwesterly winds from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, which are experiencing heavy snowfall, are the reason for the fall in Delhi’s temperature.“Even though the sky is clear and it is sunny, the cold winds are not allowing the ground to get warm and this is the reason we are feeling colder,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said.Meanwhile, the Central Pollution Control Board data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) reading of Delhi on Monday was 160, in the “moderate” range, which is uncommon for the month of December when the low temperature and wind speed lead to high pollution.In many pollution monitoring stations, such as the ones in Aya Nagar, Lodhi Road, Pusa, and Indira Gandhi International Airport, the average hourly AQI readings had reached the “satisfactory” zone.On Sunday, the overall AQI reading was recorded 305, in the “very poor” zone. IMD scientists said that strong winds which continued to blow over Delhi from Sunday evening helped dispersal of pollution particles.Srivastava said, “After the passing of a western disturbance, which took place on Saturday, wind speeds tend to pick up and that’s what Delhi experienced. On Sunday night, winds picked up and continued to blow through the night, which is rare because, during winters, wind at night tends to be calm. On Monday too, the winds were consistent and the average speed was around 12-15kmph.”Srivastava said that the wind speed is expected to improve further on Tuesday, which will keep the pollution levels low.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, also said that air quality over the next few days is expected to remain in the “moderate” to “poor” range. “We do not see any major deterioration at least for the next three or four days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-improves-temperature-falls/story-2BiGOLnlC6SkBhoMkOnTaN.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Police deploy cargo containers as barricades at Singhu border||Delhi Police on Monday placed cargo containers at Singhu border near the barricades that divides the security personnel from protesting farmers. Two cargo containers were seen placed at the border on Monday which police officers said are being used to replace with the mud-laden dumpers that have been stationed here since Day One of the agitation. The protests, overall, remained peaceful at Delhi’s borders on Monday.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said that deployment at Singhu border remained the same as the farmers’ agitation entered into its 18th day on Monday. More public announcement systems were installed on Monday by the Delhi police and a drone was also used to keep an eye on the gathering now spreads across 5-6 kilometers on the Delhi-Sonepat highway.Additional deputy commissioner of police, Jitendra Kumar Meena, said that the situation continued to remain peaceful at Singhu border on Monday. “We ensured sufficient deployment and the situation is being continuously monitored,” he added.The day was also peaceful at Ghazipur border on Monday even as some protesting farmers tried to block the other two carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut expressway earlier in the day. However, they were immediately disbursed by the police and their own leaders.Traffic at the Delhi-Meerut Expressway also remained the same, with one carriageway leading from Ghaziabad to Delhi closed and the other connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad operating as normal. The NH-24 service lane, which has been blocked by the farmers November 27 onwards, also continued to remain closed for traffic on Monday.Chilla border that was closed by the farmers since December 1, and was cleared on Sunday morning, witnessed normal traffic movement on Monday. However, because a small group of farmers had stayed back, still occupying one lane near the central verge at the Gautam Buddha Dwar, on the Delhi - Noida border, the traffic moving from Noida to Delhi slowed down.Apart from Chilla and Ghazipur borders, seven borders that continued to remain completely blocked, are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-deploy-cargo-containers-as-barricades-at-singhu-border/story-cg407Ar8m4YiCbfvPGEbxO.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Supporters of VM Singh stay put at Ghazipur, say ‘outside groups’ trying to divide and rule||A day after farmer leader Sardar VM Singh expressed his dissatisfaction with the ongoing agitation, triggering a deluge of criticism from other protesters, members and supporters of his organisation, the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, assembled at the Ghazipur border on Monday and alleged that some “outside groups”, at behest of the Centre, have been trying to divide protesting farmers. They asserted that they will continue to participate in the ongoing agitation.Singh on Sunday told HT that the agitation was “not going right” and farmer unions should not make scrapping of the laws a precondition for talks with the government or shut the door on negotiations. Several leaders of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a platform leading the protests, dissociated themselves from Singh’s comments. The national working committee of the AIKSCC on Monday removed VM Singh as its convener.Around 500 to 600 farmers from parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Uttarakhand, who are associated with Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, have been participating in the protest at the Ghazipur border since December 3. Prior to that, they were protesting at the Burari ground.Tarun Chawdhary, a farmer from Hapur and a member of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, said, “There are people who are working for the government and trying to play the divide and rule game. Some of them are sitting here among us. Whatever VM Singh said was wrongly interpreted. He has been fighting for the rights of farmers for years. It’s because of him that we, sugarcane farmers, have managed to survive in UP over these years.”On Monday, several posters and banners of VM Singh and his party were spotted at the protest site. There were around 20-24 trucks and trolleys of his supporters parked on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, where farmers have been protesting since November 26. Kulwinder Singh, another farmer from Pilibhit in UP, said, “There have been rumors on social media about VM Singh and his supporters opting out of the protests. But they are all wrong. We have two demands --- complete repeal of new farm laws and a law on Minimum Support Price (MSP). We will not go anywhere till the government accepts these demands.”VM Singh had said the farmer unions had “shifted goalposts”. “Our initial demand was about legislating a private member’s bill in Parliament to guarantee MSP...If the government brings a law to guarantee MSP, then farmers shouldn’t care about whether Adani or Ambani is buying (produce),” he said. Sardar Jagdeep Singh, a farmer from Saharanpur and a supporter of VM Singh, said, “Our leader knows much more about laws than any other person protesting here. Some of the protesting groups are trying to sideline him. But we will stay put and continue our protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/supporters-of-vm-singh-stay-put-at-ghazipur-say-outside-groups-trying-to-divide-and-rule/story-UYYnKpitu27repPT8l2sCL.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh trade barbs over new farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh were on Monday locked in a political slugfest over contentious farm laws that have prompted protests across the country, questioning each other’s intent on supporting farmers who have hunkered down at the Capital’s borders, even as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader observed a day-long fast to oppose the pieces of legislation.Kejriwal said the new farm laws will lead to immense inflation and will only favour a few capitalists, as he termed them “anti-farmer and anti-common man”. The Delhi CM, who joined AAP leaders, ministers, MLAs and volunteers at the party office for the fast in support of the protesting farmers, said the new farm laws “gives licence to inflate”.Addressing party workers at the AAP headquarters on Rouse Avenue Road, Kejriwal said the three farm laws will increase the prices of essential commodities by “about 16 times in just four years” and added that the new legislation legalised unlimited hoarding of farm produce.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal criticised the Punjab CM for mocking his fast by calling it “theatrics”. “Captain, I have stood with the farmers from the beginning. Did not let Delhi’s Stadium become a jail, fought the Center. I am supporting the farmers by serving them. You set-up a deal with the Centre to get your son’s ED (Enforcement Directorate) case forgiven, sold the farmers’ movement? Why?” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.In response, Singh said he cannot be “cowed down” by any ED case. “Just as every Punjabi knows, I am not one to be cowed down by ED or other cases, you Mr @ArvindKejriwal will even sell your soul if it serves your political purposes. If you think farmers are going to be taken in by your dramatics then you are totally mistaken,” Singh tweeted.Kejriwal said that the Punjab CM was “part of the committee which drafted these bills. These Bills are YOUR ‘gift’ to the nation.” “Captain sahib, why do BJP leaders never accuse u of double standards the way they accuse all other leaders?” he added.Singh said Kejriwal’s “desperate” attempts to “hide” his government’s “utter failure” to protect farmers’ interests will not save him from their wrath, nor will they safeguard his party from being decimated in the next Punjab assembly elections.To this, the Punjab CM said: “These farm laws were NOT discussed at any meeting & your repeated lies will not change that Mr @ArvindKejriwal. And naturally BJP can’t accuse me of double standards as I don’t have any nexus with them like you have. They after all have to cover up their collusion with you!”Kejriwal responded to Singh again, saying: “Its a part of record that ur committee drafted these laws. YOU had the power to stop these laws, tell the people of this country that such laws were being contemplated by the centre. Why did u go along wid the centre?”Joining the day-long fast by AAP leaders later in the day, Kejriwal said the laws will give “big private companies” the licence to rapidly increase prices of commodities. “These laws will cause massive price hike in the country and running your households will become very difficult as salaries won’t increase at the same rate. Do not think that you are doing any favour to the farmers by supporting them in their protest. In fact, the protesting farmers are doing a favour to all of us. If not rolled back, these laws will push the common man into a major crisis. We all need to protest against these laws. The AAP is standing beside farmers and supporting their demands,” he said.The day-long hunger strike was also observed by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, environment minister Gopal Rai and food minister Imran Hussain. Many other AAP leaders and volunteers also joined the protest across different states in support of the farmers, the party said.Delhi assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel also observed a day-long fast. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra criticised Kejriwal for his hunger strike. “The farmers’ movement has become a battle of political groups, not farmers. Look at the AAP and Captain Amarinder Singh’s tweet war, they are fighting each other. Do you think they are fighting for the interest of farmers? No, they are fighting to see who can sit on the throne without doing any work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-amarinder-trade-barbs-over-new-farm-laws/story-GN67lqVWNc9CUUULltIlhI.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Several farmers keep day-long fast, warn of indefinite hunger strike if demands not met||Eighty-five-year-old Randheer Singh from Haryana, 40-year-old Arjun Arya from Madhya Pradesh and 28-year-old Seema Bharti from Uttar Pradesh came together on Monday to observe a 10-hour hunger strike at Delhi’s borders, to strengthen their demand for the withdrawal of the three new farm laws. The farmers said Monday’s ten-hour strike, from 8am to 5pm, was a symbolic protest and it may soon take the shape of an indefinite hunger strike, if the government doesn’t agree to their demands.Also Read| Will resume talks, but with some riders: Farmer unionsSingh, a farmer from Jind, has been camping at Singhu border since November 26 when the police had stopped them from entering Delhi. After more than a fortnight of peaceful protest, farmer groups had given a call for hunger strike on Monday after multiple rounds of talks with the government failed.One of the eldest members of the group to observe the hunger strike, Singh said, “Even on the 18th day of our protest, we are all full of energy as we were on Day One. The movement is not about us individuals anymore. Even if any of us have to sacrifice ourselves, we will not step back,” Singh said.At Singhu border, at least 10 farmers, three of them women, observed the day-long hunger strike. One of them, Seema Bharti, a 28-year-old farmer from Sindhauli in Uttar Pradesh, said if the government remains deaf to their requests, they will intensify the protest. “If nothing works, we will walk into Delhi like we had planned and make the government heed our demands,” she said.Apart from Singhu, a group of 10 farmers observed the fast at Ghazipur border, and another group of 20 of went without food at the Tikri border.At the Chilla border, two farmers were seen observing the ten-hour fast.Rakesh Tikait, 51, leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union Takait (BKU) faction in Uttar Pradesh were among those who kept the fast at Ghazipur. “It’s unfortunate that the government has forced farmers, who provide food to the nation, to go on a hunger strike. We had on Sunday said that we are ready for discussions but the government has not extended an invitation as of now. It government clearly doesn’t think about the farmers,” he said.At Tikri border, at least 20 farmers took part in the hunger strike. Among them was Bogh Mansa, 68, a farmer from Mansa district of Punjab. “The government has neither been able to explain how the new farm laws are good nor been able to tell us why they can’t be withdrawn,” he said.Two farmers took part in the hunger strike at Chilla border. Brushing aside the rumours that farmers have left the site, Yogesh Pratap Singh, 35, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said, “There have been rumours that we have backed out but that’s not true. We just opened the road for the convenience of the people. We will sit here and protest for as long as it takes.”A group of students and activists on Monday also participated in a protest held in Shaheedi Park, ITO. “The new farm laws would cause enormous harm to the public, marginal farmers, and urban-rural workers by forcing them to buy essential commodities at inflated prices. Moreover, the introduction of contract farming through another law aims to hand over the reins to corporates. These laws have shown that the BJP government is anti-people, anti-worker and anti-small farmer,” said Dinesh Kumar, member of Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS), a student organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/several-farmers-keep-day-long-fast-warn-of-indefinite-hunger-strike-if-demands-not-met/story-UQUBl0MFkPNfNG0KtKCHQK.html
15-12-2020||Delhi||Deadly fungal infection reported in patient with Covid-19 at Ganga Ram hospital||Doctors from a city hospital have seen an increase in cases of a rare fungal infection with immune-compromised coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients getting it. If not detected early, the infection – Mucormycosis also known as black fungus – can kill half the patients and lead to loss of vision or jaw in others. Sir Ganga Ram hospital has seen 10 cases of Mucormycosis in the last 15 days in patients who either had Covid-19 or had recently recovered from it. In comparison, the hospital sees about five cases of the infection in a year. Also Read: Remdesivir may be highly effective against coronavirus, case study finds“Like any fungal infection, Mucormycosis is opportunistic and happens in mostly immune-compromised patients like those with diabetes, kidney disease, or those who have had transplants. Even in the cases that we have seen recently, the patients had other comorbid conditions but Covid-19 seems to have weakened their immunity further. Also, many Covid-19 patients are given steroids and other drugs that might lower their immunity further,” said Dr. Shaloo Bageja, senior eye surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. A 32-year-old businessman from West Delhi was diagnosed with Covid-19 on November 20. His fever did not break for four days and he started getting excessive cough and breathing difficulty. He was admitted to a hospital and was given antiviral drugs, steroids, oxygen and other supplements. He was discharged after seven days. He returned to the hospital with a nagging left-side nose obstruction and eye swelling. He did not respond to antibiotics and pain killers and started losing vision rapidly on the affected side. The entire left-side of the face had become numb. His tests revealed that he had Mucormycosis. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe infection had affected his left sinus, eye, upper jaw bone and muscles, and even the brain. Surgeons had to remove the affected tissue. He was given antiviral medications and critical care support. He survived but was disfigured. “Early clinical suspicion on symptoms such as nose obstruction, swelling in the eye or cheeks, and black dry crusts in the nose should immediately prompt the conduct of a biopsy in the OPD and start of the antifungal therapy as early as possible,” said Dr Manish Munjal, senior ENT surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “Especially if a patient has a history of Covid-19 and other comorbidities,” said Dr Bagheja. The symptoms may take a couple of weeks to just a couple of days to become grave. “The spread of the infection depends on how your immune system is working. It may take up to two weeks for the situation to become grave where we might need to remove the eyes of the patients. However, in the current cases we saw that the infection got worse even within a couple of days and it also happened in young patients – 30 to 40 year olds,” said Dr Bagheja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/deadly-fungal-infection-reported-in-patient-with-covid-19-at-ganga-ram-hospital/story-ayia134CSHDNzNqnbIl5qL.html
15-12-2020||Pune||Forest dept takes action against visitors bringing pets to Taljai forest area||The state forest department has begun to take action against visitors bringing their pets to the Pachgaon Parvati forest area, which encompasses the Taljai area as well. “Over the past week, several morning walkers complained verbally to the forest officer on duty in the Pachgaon Parvati forest area about pets being walked in the area. We took action starting at 4 am until 9 am where upon we penalised visitors with pets. One person faced a penalty of Rs 2000,” said Deepak Pawar, deputy conservator of forests. The forest officials are taking action based on rules as per the India Forest Act 1927, section 26, and the Wildlife protection act. The India forest Act 1927, section 26, states that the forest officer may evict from a reserved forest or from any land in a reserved forest, any person who, in such forest, trespasses or pastures cattle, or permits cattle to trespass, or clears or breaks up such land for cultivation or for any other purpose and may demolish any building erected or construction. “We have given a fair warning today, and we plan to continue the vigil every morning. If people with pets still don’t pay any heed to this, they we will take strict action and also bring charges against them,” said Rahul Patil, district forest officer. “By bringing pets into the forest area, they are disrupting the biodiversity, and scaring the wild animals and birds. Sudden barking, or even two dogs fighting could also cause harm to other walkers,” Patil added. Amit Shahane, a regular walker, and resident of Sahakar nagar said, “Post lockdown, when the tekdis were opened to walkers, we saw several owners bring their pets in cars or on two-wheelers for walks in the forest area. There is an ignorance of the rule that pets are not allowed in a forest area and also there is no vigilance from the forest department. If we leave the main gate where forest staff are, there are atleast five entry points from were pets and their owners can enter the forest. Infact, had it not been for some joggers’ complaints, no one would have taken action.” On the issue of vigilance, forest officer Patil replied, “We have begun the tendering process for the compound wall demarcating forest area, of which 300 metres is yet to be complete. Once it is done, we will have better vigil over the forest area and also stop illegal entry into the forest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-dept-takes-action-against-visitors-bringing-pets-to-taljai-forest-area/story-4MCnblV784t0z72MqYkCOJ.html
15-12-2020||Pune||English-medium schools in Pune to shut down ops between Dec 15 and 17 to protest non-payment of fees by parents||Most English-medium schools in Pune and surrounding areas, which are a part of the Federation of Schools Association in Maharashtra (FSAM), will remain shut between December 15 and December 17, said the federation. The schools took the decision on Monday to protest against the non-payment of fees by over 50 per cent of parents. Rajendra Singh, state president of FSAM, said that the schools are struggling to survive due to financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and claimed that almost 1,400 schools will take part in their protest.“There are only 30 per cent parents who have given the fees. At least 58 per cent parents who are capable of paying fees have not yet paid. This puts the schools in a tough spot. There is infrastructure expenditure and teaching and non-teaching staff which continues to be paid by schools. In this situation, paying fees is important. How are schools going to survive if parents don’t pay the fee?” asked Singh. “In case the issue is not resolved till the end of December, our schools across Maharashtra may start an indefinite closure of online teaching in January,” said SinghJayshree Venkatraman, principal, SNBP international school, Rahatani, said that the school has five branches across the city and 1,000 teaching and non-teaching staff.“We have communicated properly with the parents since the start. We understand that the parents are affected, but there is only so much we can help. It is difficult for us to run the school till March because of financial crisis. We have time and again waived the fees of annual concerts, transport and others. But we still have to pay the teachers who are working day and night for the students,” said Venkatraman.Milind Ladge, Aryan World School from Warje, who is also a part of the school strike, said that his total staff is over 900. “As the lockdown started, we have been hit very hard. The first instalment was due on March 15, but because of the lockdown the fee payment got delayed. Even then we communicated to the parents that they should pay the fees as the pandemic gets over. Till October, I have paid my staff in full. Since, then there has been discrepancy in payment as all our funds are over,” said Ladge. Advocate Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents Association (IWPA), said that as far as the fee is concerned during the pandemic, schools cannot commit 100 per cent fees. “We are willing to pay the fees, but not 100 per cent. We have told the government to conducts audit of schools. If the audits are done, the scenario will be clear. Other states have given a relief to parents. So, in Maharashtra why is nothing happening? Why are schools not ready for audit? They have not followed school fee regulations for the last couple of years. The government should take over these schools or provide aid. Parents are not demanding relief every year. Government should intervene,” said Sahai.Schools which will be shut for three days*SNBP International Schools*Indira School*Priyadarshini Group of Schools*Aryan World School*Orbis School*Innovera school *City pride school*Saraswati Bhuwan English School *Kunjir public school *Master mind school*Dwarka international school*Novel School||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-400-schools-in-pune-to-shut-between-dec-15-and-17-to-protest-non-payment-of-fees-by-parents/story-EKbsTzZijajGJO4gsa2VrI.html
15-12-2020||Pune||Seven held for kidnap and murder of a man over financial dispute in Pune||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch, on Monday, arrested seven men in a case of kidnap and murder over a financial dispute. The deceased man has been identified as Sachin, alias Andya Lakshman Choudhury (26), a resident of Rupinagar, Talwade. The men arrested by crime branch Unit 1 officials have been identified as Nakul, alias Sunny Anil Kuchekar (25), a resident of Valhekarwadi in Chinchwad; and Gaurav Ramesh Dangle (22), a resident of Chinchwadgaon. The others booked in the case have been identified as Arjun Mahadev Gopale, a resident of Shirgaon; Yogesh Dinesh Sawant, Akash alias Guddya Prakas Bhalerao, and Rupesh Prakash Akhade, all residents of Rupinagar, according to a statement issued by Unit 1 of the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch. “Sachin used to work for Yogesh Sawant and handled his financial dealings. The deceased had four body offences against him and a proposal for his externment is underway,” said senior police inspector Satish Mane of Chikhali police station. Sawant suspected Choudhury of mishandling his money. He teamed up with Kuchekar, who has five cases registered against him. Choudhury’s body was found floating in the Pavna river. He had been assaulted in the head with a stone and on the body with rods, before being thrown off a bridge in Paradwadi, Maval, according to the police. “Policeman Pramod Hiralkar recieved information that Sunny Kuchekar, who is on record at the Chinchwad police station, is involved in the murder and is on his way to Mahabaleshwar to evade arrest. The two teams then set a trap on roads leading from Chinchwadgaon towards the highway,” read a statement from senior police inspector Amarnath Waghmode of Unit 1. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s father Lakshman Hukmaram Choudhury (47), who was in the house when his son was kidnapped. A case under Sections 365, 368, 323, 506, 143, 149 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Chikhali police station initially. The sections for murder and criminal conspiracy were added when the body was recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-held-for-kidnap-and-murder-of-a-man-over-financial-dispute/story-0Ce1Sdbw56sqyr46JLT32K.html
15-12-2020||Pune||Pune forecast to stay in rain cloud on Dec 15||PUNE On Monday, Pune city witnessed its forecast, unseasonal rainfall, with a maximum temperature of 23.6 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 17.7 degrees Celsius.Five mm of rainfall was recorded at Shivajinagar and two mm at Lohegaon, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD forecast cloudy weather along with light showers in the city on December 15 as well.“There are chances of shallow fog or mist at isolated places in and around the city/district. There may be less visibility in some areas,” said the IMD.The lowest minimum temperature on Monday was reported at 15.7 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.Lowest Dec day temp so far for a decadePune experienced its lowest day temperature for the last 10 years for the month of December on Monday at 23.6 degrees Celsius. Year Lowest day temperature (in degrees Celsius)2020 23.62010 and 2014 24.92018 25.42017 and 2019 25.7Source: IMD PunePune air quality moderateThe System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) noted that the air quality in Pune is moderate as of December 14. The Air Quality Index (AQI) is expected to remain in the moderate category due to cloudy conditions and scattered rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-forecast-to-stay-in-rain-cloud-on-dec-15/story-mCTwjaGhRouZx8ArZnR0DJ.html
15-12-2020||Pune||Rain in winter puts grape, pomegranate, mango and tomato crops at risk: Maha farmers||PUNE The unseasonal rainfall is expected to affect the grape, pomegranate, mango and tomato crops in Maharashtra, according to farmers.Jagannath Khapre, president, All India Grapes Export Association, said, “Due to the change in weather and rain, grape producers will get affected. It is tough to estimate the losses immediately. Grapes crack due to the cold.”Khapre added, “Grape vineyards have been seeing bad weather for the last three years. Earlier, rains washed out the crop. Due to lockdown, grape producers sold their produce at throw away prices.”Grape farmer Shankar Gangude from Nashik district said, “My grape crop is ready. I was planning to sell the grapes in the next two weeks as almost all grapes are ready. Due to the change in weather, I am now worried. Grape is a very sensitive crop and its production cost is very high.” Khapre expects the grape crops pan-Maharashtra, Nashik, Pune, Sangli, Solapur, and Latur – to be affected by the rain.Hari Patil, a pomegranate farmer from Sangola in Solapur district, said, “Apart from grapes, these rains are going to affect the pomegranate and tomato crops as well.”Rohit Gadre from Ratnagiri said, “Due to the rain and cold, we are worrying about the flowering of the mango crop. It might bring down mango production everywhere. This is mainly the flowering season for the mango fruit.”Covid lockdowns bigger threat for exportersMaharashtra is the largest grape exporter in India. All India Grapes Export Association president Jagannath Khapre said, “We are more worried about Covid-19 than the weather. Recently, England and Germany announced lock downs. Our grapes take 21 days to reach various countries. Grape season is going to start and if any country announces a lock down, it would be a huge loss for exporters and farmers here in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-in-winter-puts-grape-pomegranate-mango-and-tomato-crops-at-risk-farmers/story-qO4UNEPTzMqA1RNwwWNNlN.html
15-12-2020||Bhopal||Women from Chambal stitch a success story, turn crisis into opportunity||A group of 10 women from a backward village in Madhya Pradesh that has the poorest sex and child at birth sex ratios in the Chambal division, have proved their mettle and earned everyone’s respect by not only becoming the sole bread-earners of their families during the economic crisis engendered by coronavirus pandemic but also helped 100 other women earn their livelihoods. It’s their journey from debt-ridden women to becoming owners of a café and stitching centre, which is inspiring all. The ten women of Dhurkuda village of Morena district, where the female sex ratio is 871 for 1,000 men-- which is 60 points lower than the state’s average sex ratio of 931-- and child sex ratio is just 794 girls for 1,000 boys i.e., 124 points lower than the state average of 918, according to census 2011, dreamt in January of becoming entrepreneurs for financially supporting their families. According to the women, they took a loan of Rs 1 lakh and started a dry mushroom business. However, they were left in debt of Rs 50,000 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. They faced criticism and embarrassment as their business failed. The women started making masks in April. They invited at least 100 other women from different villages to become a part of their mask-making business.“They changed their destiny with their hard work and made 83,000 masks from May to November. They earned Rs 8.3 lakh and made Rs 4.3 lakh of profit. Now, these women have started a Didi café and stitching centre at tehsil office in Pahargarh block and some of them emerged as sole bread-earners of their families,” said Dinesh Singh, district project manager of National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) of Morena. A member of the group Aradhna Dhakad, 40, said, “In our area, women are still treated as second-class citizens who have no voice and say in anything.” “I am a post graduate and I wanted to do something to improve the condition of women in my village. In January, I came in contact with these nine women and we decided to do some work to set an example that women can also earn money,” said Aradhna. She says forming a self-help group to sell dry mushrooms was the first step.“We took a loan of Rs 1 lakh under National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and started the work of drying mushrooms in January. But before we could have started the business, lockdown was imposed in the country. We were in debt of Rs 50,000.” Aradhna says it opened them up to severe criticism. “People started giving suggestions and opinions to us that women should stay at home and women don’t understand the basics of business,” she said.Another member of the group, Ravita Shakya, 28, said, “We failed in our business and my husband, who was a labourer, also came back from Delhi to the village after the lockdown. We were facing a tough time as we didn’t have money to have food properly. I was ready to do any hard work to help my family financially.” Ravita said it was Morena district project manager of NRLM, Dinesh Singh, who told them about the demand for masks in rural areas. “We collected Rs 2,000 to purchase clothes and other items to start stitching masks,” said Ravita. Also Read: Little trade in MP mandis in October after passing of farm laws, traders say“We stitched about 300 masks in a month and earned Rs 3,000. It boosted our confidence and panchayat secretaries and sarpanchs helped us in selling the masks,” said Anita Dhakad, another member of the group. She went on to say that the pioneering group of women then contacted at least 100 more women, mainly migrant labourers from different villages, for stitching masks and gave them Rs 25 per 10 masks. “In the past seven months, we stitched about 83,000 masks,” said Anita. “When we earned Rs 3,000 by selling masks, I can’t explain my happiness as my son was ill and I didn’t have money for his treatment. All the women of the group decided to give money for treatment of my son,” said Renu Jatav, 30. Also Read: 14-yr-old MP girl sold by father for Rs 4 lakh to Rajasthan man, raped: CopShe also acknowledges a swift change in how she is now treated by her family and others. “As my husband has no work, I bear financial burden of my family. Now, family members and other relatives have started respecting me,” said Renu. Aradhna Dhakad, said the women have decided to establish a more permanent business. “We started a café and a stitching centre in December first week. We are getting good response as women and men both are coming to us for work and guidance,” said Aradhna. Morena district collector Anurag Verma hopes this group’s story may perhaps help in mindset change. “We will promote the story of these 10 women in the area to change the mindset of people towards women and to empower women. Such successful stories will definitely improve the sex ratio of the district,” Verma said. (With inputs from Shiv Pratap Singh from Morena)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/women-from-chambal-stitch-a-success-story-turn-crisis-into-opportunity/story-Qyhy47uAyabVcFqHSkMMoJ.html
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir accuses BJP of creating communal divide to torpedo farmers’ protest||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday accused the BJP, its former ally, of creating a communal divide to derail the farmers’ protest on the outskirts of Delhi. “I’ve been told by our senior party leader in Delhi that the BJP has asked its cadre to name the farmers’ stir as Sikh vs Hindu and torpedo the struggle. While doing so, that party wants to create a rift between the communities. But we won’t let it succeed. Hindu-Sikh unity remained intact even during the bad days in Punjab and it will stay intact even now,” Sukhbir said while addressing a protest against the farm laws in Amritsar. Accusing the BJP of pitting people from different faiths against each other to win elections, Sukhbir said: “It is making a similar attempt in Punjab now.” Asserting that the BJP-led government had not only targeted federalism but also the freedom to protest, he said: “These farm bills will damage the farmers’ interest and benefit the corporates.” Sukhbir’s wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who too addressed the protesters, had quit the Narendra Modi government in September, opposing the new farm laws aimed at liberalising the agriculture sector. Harsimrat was the only SAD representative in the Modi government. The SAD, one of the oldest BJP allies, has since backed the farmers’ agitation, demanding the three laws be repealed.SYMBOLIC CEREMONY IN BACKDROP OF FARMERS’ STIRSukhbir addressed the gathering after attending the bhog ceremony of the akhand path at Akal Takht to mark the 100th foundation day of the SAD. Initially, the SAD had planned a three-day programme at Anandpur Sahib to mark its centenary but cancelled the programme, saying the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws would suffer if the event was held on a large scale. It decided to mark the occasion symbolically at the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, where the party’s foundation was laid in 1920. Interacting with the media, the SAD chief said, “The party still stands by the Anandpur Sahib resolution that demands more powers for the states. This resolution was once dubbed as a separatist one, but today it’s become a necessity. Because of our stand, other states have started demanding that the federal structure be strengthened.” He said that the party will reach out to families of Akali workers who made sacrifices for the Panth, Punjab and the country in 100 years and honour them. AKAL TAKHT JATHEDAR GIVES EVENT A MISS Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh skipped the event. In his absence, Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh presented the SAD president with a siropa (robe of honour), while former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh looked on. Giani Harpreet Singh, who sent his personal assistant Jaspal Singh to represent him, faced criticism from Sikh bodies for favouring the SAD while addressing the function organised by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to mark its 100th foundation day a month ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-accuses-bjp-of-creating-communal-divide-to-torpedo-farmers-protest/story-wyJQRoD8qJjXgNsLsYVeKK.html
15-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra becomes first state in India to get dedicated action plan to protect pangolins||The Maharashtra forest department is set to be the first state in India to have a dedicated action plan for conservation of pangolins – the world’s most trafficked animal. Pangolins are listed in Schedule I of India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, implying the highest degree of protection. The principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF-wildlife) recently got nod from the state for its proposal to form a study group to prepare a five-year conservation action plan for pangolins. “We have been informed that the proposal has been accepted,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF-wildlife, adding, “The committee will look into aspects such as population estimation, distribution, habitat protection and most importantly, illicit trafficking hotspots. Unlike tigers and leopards, these are species that have never been in focus despite having a huge ecological role.” M Maranko, regional deputy director (west), Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), said, “Maharashtra will be the first state to have such a plan. People eat pangolin meat, their scales are valuable in the international market, and are kept by some as a sign of good luck or for superstitions allegedly involving witchcraft. This activates the illegal trade. Our mandate is to coordinate with states, collect intelligence and make the public and enforcement agencies aware.” Kakodkar said the proposal was planned based on a detailed proposal by Vishwas Katdare, member of the State Board of Wildlife and IUCN Species Survival Commission Pangolin Specialist group member. “Katdare has been actively working towards pangolin conservation in Ratnagiri for the past four years and will be a leading member of this committee,” he said, adding the panel will be headed by additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife-west) Sunil Limaye and also include the WCCB, among other members. “Stray cases of pangolin poaching are regularly being reported from Maharashtra. To address this, we need inputs from local people (primary data) to understand the trade and its channels. We need to understand whether it is happening at the local level or if there is an organised network (secondary data). There will be a special focus on Mumbai to check whether the city as a port is functioning as a hub for this trade,” said Kakodkar. Katdare, the founder of Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra (SNM), a non-profit operating for the past 26 years, has been studying the population using 40 camera traps and spreading awareness about pangolins across Ratnagiri. Over the past two years, 23 pangolins have been rescued by local people with help from SNM and the forest department. From October, SNM extended their research to Sindhudurg district. “Taking this in perspective, I submitted the proposal to the department to have a roadmap for protecting this species across Maharashtra where pangolins are distributed in maximum numbers along Konkan and Vidarbha. These mammals can survive in different types of habitats, and thus monitoring them is key,” said Katdare. Meanwhile, WCCB has seen six major cases of pangolin in Maharashtra in 2020. On June 10, six persons were arrested from Nanded and one from Pune where two live pangolins were rescued and on August 30 six persons were arrested at Satara with a live pangolin and items worth Rs. 1.10 lakh. Maranko explained that based on interrogations with those involved in the trade, they found out that the modus operandi involved local villagers training hunting dogs to catch pangolins. “These dogs are weekly taken to forest areas where they track the scent of pangolins and lead villagers to their burrows. Once pangolins are caught, their scales are removed and sent to the supplier. Their meat is partially processed, consumed by local villagers, and also given to the dogs, which are made dependent on the pangolin meat to easily repeat the process,” he said. Experts welcomed Maharashtra’s decision and said other states needed to follow it. “As long as the pangolin’s habitat is protected along with strict control on illegal trade, we can have some hope for the species,” said Aniruddha Mookerjee, consultant wildlife advisor, WildCRU, University of Oxford. While Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Odisha in central India are the major areas for pangolin trapping, the scales move to the north east for export, he explained. “The consumption of pangolin meat is much higher in the north eastern states. If states like Assam and Meghalaya can join the states in central India in creating a holistic plan for conservation of both the subspecies, it should have a far better chance of survival,” said Mookerjee. In February, a study by the South China Agricultural University identified pangolins as the potential intermediate host of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). The study announced the discovery of a 99% genetic match between the new 2019-nCoV virus and a strain of the virus found in pangolins. “We thought that after Covid-19, the trade would reduce but unfortunately in all probability it appears to be the same,” said Saket Badola, head, TRAFFIC India, a wildlife trade monitoring group, adding, “There have been limited efforts to understand the population distribution and estimation for pangolins. We have been flagging this issue repeatedly. However, with interventions being introduced in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand doing a population estimation exercise with the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, and MP also involved in good work through targeted approaches, awareness among enforcement agencies is much more, and it is clear they are prepared.” PANGOLIN TRADE ENTERS GUJARAT FROM MAHA, FOREST DEPARTMENT FLAGS ISSUE The PCCF of the Gujarat forest department wrote to Kakodkar recently about a latest case busted at a farmhouse in Navsari district during the last week of November wherein a live pangolin was seized, which was brought by one of the accused from Katkol village in Nagpur. In all 13 people were arrested in a joint operation by the WCCB and forest department. However, since the live animal was transported from Maharashtra, the PCCF from Gujarat requested the state to address such wildlife crimes. PANGOLINS: WHY SHOULD YOU CARE? - Pangolins or scaly ant-eaters that are nocturnal creatures spend most of their life as solitary animals (except during mating). - Being insectivorous mammals, they feed on eggs, larvae and adults of ants and termites acting as biological pest controlling agents. Their long sticky tongue is used for feeding on insects and are devoid of any teeth. Remain inactive and hide in their burrows during day-time. They roll their body to form a ball like structure in-case they sense the presence of predators in their vicinity. They secrete strong odour through their anal glands that is used in defense. - The keratin scales are believed to have medicinal properties and are used widely in traditional Chinese. The scales are also used in manufacture of boots, bullet-proof jackets etc. The scales and skin of an adult Pangolin together weighs about 3.5 kg. - Pangolin are listed in Schedule I of India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, implying the highest degree of protection, and grouped as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. - The species is also listed under the Appendix I of the International Convention of Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) which prohibits international commercial trade. - Among eight pangolin species globally, four each are found in Asia and Africa. India is home to two species - Chinese pangolin (Manis pentadactyla) and the Indian Pangolin (Manis crassicaudata). Chinese pangolin is known to occur in Northern and North-Eastern India. Indian Pangolin is widely distributed throughout the country except the Himalayan region. (Source: Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-first-state-to-plan-to-protect-pangolins/story-ngKVBhW3Sj2yKfP2JuZJsJ.html
