17-12-2020||Mumbai||Will declare you fugitives if you fail to appear: Court to Iqbal Mirchi’s family||The special court under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act (FEOA), 2018, asked Junaid and Asif Memon, sons of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, as well as his widow Hajra, to appear before the court by February 16, failing which it would declare the three as fugitive economic offenders. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had on December 4 approached the special court to declare the three as fugitive economic offenders as they had failed to respond to warrants issued against them and have not returned to India despite repetitive summons and warrants. The court accepted the agency’s argument. The agency had initiated a money laundering investigation against Mirchi and his family on September 26, 2019. While probing the matter, ED had provisionally attached assets worth around ₹798 crore linked to the family in India and abroad under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The central agency officers had also arrested five accused including Dewan Housing Finance Corporation’s (DHFL) Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and Humayun Merchant in the case. ED’s probe has revealed that DHFL had allegedly extended loans to a firm, Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd, which purportedly routed money to Mirchi. An aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, Mirchi had died in the United Kingdom (UK) in August 2013. DHFL came under ED’s scanner when the agency was examining properties linked to Mirchi in Worli. The three properties have already been attached by ED under PMLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-declare-you-fugitives-if-you-fail-to-appear-court-to-iqbal-mirchi-s-family/story-Cszgrm8AjjlUtM1X6ztTlJ.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Online fraud: Ludhiana doctor duped of ₹69,000||Online fraudsters duped a doctor of Rs 69,900 after hacking her mobile phone. The accused have been identified as Ardhendu Adhikari and Saidul Islam of West Bengal and Gandhi Samit of Ahmadabad, Gujarat.The victim, Dr Bhavita Lekhi of Civil Lines, stated in her complaint that she had tried to recharge her mobile phone using an online wallet but it wasn’t successful. Following this, she had complained to the customer care of her service provider. The next day, the accused called her from an unknown number, and said they will help her get the money back.They asked her to download the mobile application Team Viewer and recharge her mobile phone with Rs 1 which she did. Later, the accused stole Rs 69,900 from her bank account.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said a case has been registered under Sections 420 and 120 B of Indian Penal Code at Division Number 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-fraud-ludhiana-doctor-duped-of-69-000/story-TMqv11CLLX8BvDhlNotzAP.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to install plastic reverse vending machines at 30 locations||To reduce plastic waste generation, the municipal corporation (MC) will be installing plastic reverse vending machines at 30 sites across the city under the Smart City Mission. Automatic sanitary napkin vending machines and electric incinerators will also be installed at different locations to promote hygiene among women. The matter was taken up in the meeting of the technical committee of the Smart City Mission held on Thursday. Technical bids for the tender were also approved. It was proposed that residents should get coupons for dumping plastic in the reverse vending machines.Different projects including maintenance of over 1,400 cameras installed under safe city project in the city, construction of additional floor at the parking lot of district administration complex, annual maintenance of Ludhiana safe city project, beautification and refurbishment of Mini Rose Garden in Kidwai Nagar, purchasing pump sets, thermal scanners among other equipment for fire brigade, among others were discussed in the meeting and required approvals were given. The MC is also working on the project concerning the beautification of the statues of BR Ambedkar, Kartar Singh Sarabha, and Mahatma Gandhi installed across the city. Pardeep Sabharwal, MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer of Ludhiana Smart City Limited, said, “The city-level technical committee has given the required approvals. The projects will now be tabled in front of the state-level technical committee. The plastic reverse vending machines are expected to be installed in the city in the coming months.” Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan library to go digitalSanjay Goel, one of the directors of LSCL, said that the MC will also transform its library in Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan into a digital one. The city-level technical committee approved the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-install-plastic-reverse-vending-machines-at-30-locations/story-iopuOCjwOEJ1MBqJI6VbhO.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Road rage: Told not to drive on wrong side, Ludhiana man opens fire in air||Despite the night curfew imposed in the state, a resident of Mahavir Enclave not only ventured out, but also opened fire in the air after a 28-year-old man objected to him driving on the wrong side of the road on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.The accused has been identified as Akshit Malhotra. Police said he was under the influence of alcohol when the incident took place.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Umesh Kumar of Aggar Nagar. Kumar said that him and his brother Dhruv Jindal were returning from the hospital where his sister-in-law is admitted. When they were near the ICICI bank on Ferozepur Road, they saw that the accused was driving on the wrong side of the road.Kumar said that he told Malhotra to correct himself it could endanger the lives of others also. The accused, who was under influence of liquor, started abusing him and opened fire in the air with his pistol.Kumar added that he left the spot and went home. The next morning, he lodged an FIR.Assistant sub-inspector Davinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act. A hunt is on for Malhotra’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-rage-told-not-to-drive-on-wrong-side-ludhiana-man-opens-fire-in-air/story-LgO7zOJYFQ2mQ71up6kFxJ.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||25-yr-old booked for raping woman on pretext of marriage in Ludhiana||A resident of New Shakti Nagar was booked on Thursday for raping a woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused has been identified as Rajit Verma, 25.The victim is a resident of the same locality as the accused. She stated in her complaint that she was in a relationship with Verma for the last five year. He had promised to solemnise their marriage and also introduced her to his mother and sister.The victim alleged that Verma had established physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage and also clicked lewd pictures of her. Later, he married another woman, she said.She added that the accused threatened to upload the pictures on social networking sites if she registers a complaint with the police.ASI Baldev Raj, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/25-yr-old-booked-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage-in-ludhiana/story-FF0kvqhIjUCaN4cA8rLLEN.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||50 swachhata monitors to safeguard Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah||In a bid to discourage residents from polluting the Buddha Nullah — a seasonal stream that drains into the Sutlej — the civic body has decided to deploy a dedicated team of 50 swachhata monitors who will fine violators and ensure residents’ compliance. A trial for the same will be conducted on Friday and teams will be permanently deputed on the site from Monday. The teams cover the entire stretch, spanning 14-km, within the city. The staff will work in two shifts from 6 am to 6pm. The police will mediate any disagreements between staff and residents. Stopping residents from dumping waste into the nullah has proved to be a Sisyphean task for the municipal corporation so far. The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal had also directed the MC to rectify the problem. Clumps of waste can be seen accumulated at different points in the sullied rivulet, whose stench is unbearable. The civic body has also started surveying industrial units situated on the banks of the nullah, to keep a check on dumping of industrial waste, especially hosiery waste, into the rivulet. Efforts are being made to ensure door-to-door lifting of garbage from houses situated in the vicinity of the stream. Officials, on condition of anonymity, said the MC will also start a project to install iron fencing alongside the stream under the smart city mission. MC health branch nodal officer Ashwani Sahota said the MC had also involved traffic marshals for conducting awareness drives. The marshals have also been organising awareness drives in areas alongside the rivulet for the last few days. Violators may be fined upto ₹5,000 MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The state government is already working on a ₹650 crore project to clean Buddha Nullah but the civic body has decided to stop residents from dumping waste in the nullah first. MC employees will be deputed along the banks of the nullah and challans of upto ₹5,000 will be imposed on violators as per the solid waste bylaws notified by the local bodies’ department.”Swachh Bharat Mission state project director Puran Singh, who has been in the city for the last two days, has been chalking plans to stop the residents from dumping waste in the nullah. Singh also visited schools and colleges to involve students and National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets in the awareness drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-swachhata-monitors-to-safeguard-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah/story-YQa6xx6g1JDdAUKvCQNw4O.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Third sero-survey to begin next week in Ludhiana||With both the cold wave and Covid cases intensifying in the state, the health department will conduct the third sero-survey to assess public exposure to the deadly virus next week. Teams from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will visit Ludhiana to collect samples, which will be checked for presence of Covid antibodies. A flurry of activity was witnessed in the health department on Thursday as officials compiled a list of existing and new Covid hotspots in the city and rural areas of the district ahead of the survey.Confirming the same, state epidemiologist Rajesh Bhasker said, “In the last two surveys, the ICMR team had carried out sampling in 12 districts, including Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Moga, Faridkot, Sangrur and Bathinda. Ludhiana with 54.6% total positivity and 71.7% urban positivity was found to be the worst hit, followed by Ferozepur, Jalandhar and Mohali.” The health department had also predicted that the district would be hit by a second wave of infections in the second week of December. However, no surge has been witnessed so far. Health and family welfare special secretary Amit Kumar said, “Delhi and parts of Haryana have been hit by consecutive wave of Covid, but we have managed to flatten the curve in Punjab. We have increased contact tracing and sampling. Each day we collect 32,000 samples to check the spread of infection,” said Kumar.On the other hand, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the urban population was heading toward attaining herd immunity. “If over 60% of the population was found to have antibodies, it will be an indication of the public developing herd immunity.”As per the government data, urban areas showed a positivity rate of 30.5%, while rural areas reported 21.0% positivity.Each district was assigned the task of collecting a sample size of 400 — 200 each from rural and urban areas.The samples were collected from Jugiana, Janakpuri, Madhopuri, Samrala, Gill, Sahnewal and Janakpuri, Koom Kalan, Pakhowal, Manupur, Sidhwan Bet, Sudhar, Field Gunj and Civil Lines.A total 4,678 participants were interviewed from across the state and their blood samples collected. Of these, 1,201 tested immunoglobulin (IgG ) reactive, of which only 4.03% were symptomatic and 95.9% were asymptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/third-sero-survey-to-begin-next-week-in-ludhiana/story-kBbVm77107YJ3Gh8viwXnL.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Do not take coercive step against BJP leader Girish Mahajan: Bombay HC to Pune Police||In a reprieve for former Maharashtra minister Girish Mahajan and his personal assistant Rameshwar Naik, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday restrained the Pune Police from taking any coercive steps against them in connection with an offence registered at Kothrud police station in Pune.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik granted the relief to the BJP legislator and his assistant, after their counsel, senior advocate Milind Sathe, pointed out that the offence was registered on December 9 this year, around three years after the alleged incident which took place in first week of January 2018.The offence was originally registered at Nimbhora police station in Jalgaon district on December 9 on the basis of a complaint lodged by advocate Vijay Patil, trustee of Jalgaon District Maratha Vidya Prasarak Samaj, which runs several educational institutes in the district.The first information report (FIR) was later transferred to Kothrud police station for investigation as the incident had taken place within its jurisdiction.Patil, in his complaint to the police, alleged he was invited by some persons to Pune under the guise of collecting some documents connected with the trust. However, when he reached Pune he was first taken to a hotel and then to a flat where he threatened with dire consequences if he and others failed to resign from the trust.He alleged he was told by his alleged kidnappers in clear terms that Girishbhau (Mahajan) wanted to take control over the trust, and therefore wanted Patil and other trustees to resign.Claiming that the complaint was nothing but a concocted story, Sathe pointed out that no act has been attributed to the former minister and the complaint merely makes some references to him but the references do not amount to any offence.The senior advocate further submitted the delay of about three years goes to the root of the matter and the FIR was liable to be quashed on that ground itself.HC found substance in his submissions and restrained police from taking any coercive action against Mahajan and Naik till January 7, 2021, when the petitions filed by them are posted for further hearing. HC has also called for the record of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-not-take-coercive-step-against-bjp-leader-girish-mahajan-bombay-hc-to-pune-police/story-IiVzed9HISozQ2i3DjcCtK.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Selectors to scout local talent at Twenty-20 cricket tournament in Ludhiana||The Twenty-20 (T-20) tournament, which is all set to kick off on Friday, is likely to prove to be a launch pad for local talent as selectors for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy will keep a close watch on the game and players’ performance . Around 15 players, who have played in the Indian Premier League (IPL), will also participate in the tournament that is being organised by the Ludhiana district cricket association. Former international player and member of the organising committee Bhupinder Singh (senior) said, “The tournament will open several doors for young talent, who may get a chance to play for Punjab or in prestigious tournaments organised by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and Indian Premier League (IPL). Many players have secured a berth in the Indian cricket team on the basis of their performance in IPL.”“Local players will get a chance to play with state-level players, including those who had performed in the IPL with international players,”said Bhupinder.“Mandeep Singh, Gurkirat Singh Mann, Sandeep Sharma, Barinder Sran, Anmolpreet Singh, Arshdeep Singh, Harpreet Brar, Prabhsimran Singh, who had represented different IPL teams will participate in the tournament. The local players will learn a lot from them,” he said.Former Ranji Trophy player and Ludhiana District Cricket Association president Satish Kumar Mangal said the tournament will be played with the rules set by the BCCI, which will give exposure to young talent.Association general secretary Sunny Bhalla said the MC had agreed to allot six acres of land for the stadium. “We have requested another four acres of land for the Players Cricket Association (PCA ) to make the stadium in Ludhiana a world-class one.” The inaugural edition of the state-level league-cum-knockout T-20 cricket tournament, which starts on Friday will go on till December 27. The tournament carries a cash prize of ₹1.50 lakh for the winning team and ₹75,000 for the runner-up.Bhupinder said the top eight teams from Punjab – including Punjab Reds, Punjab Blues, Patiala Colts HRCF, Ludhiana Eleven, Jalandhar Eleven, Mohali legends, Malwa Heroes and Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar, are participating in the cricket tournament, which will see 15 matches at GRD Academy grounds, Humbran Road, Ludhiana and Hara Cricket Academy ground, Badhowal village, and Ferozepur Road, Ludhiana.Each team will play three league matches and the top two teams from each group will clash in the semi-finals and subsequent winners will figure in the final match.Satish Kumar Mangal, former Ranji Trophy player, and president Ludhiana district cricket association (LDCA) said the T-20 cricket tournament is all set to become an annual feature in the PCA calendar and will go a long way in emergence of new heroes on the state cricket scene..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/selectors-to-scout-local-talent-at-twenty-20-cricket-tournament-in-ludhiana/story-tt8Txn7vOl6CItzOnVvDCJ.html
17-12-2020||City||BJP’s stubbornness responsible for deaths of farmers, claims AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition (LoP) in the Vidhan Sabha, Harpal Singh Cheema, slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday for its stubbornness over the farm bills and held the party responsible for the deaths of farmers during the “Kisan andolan”. Cheema and other AAP leaders including deputy leader of opposition and Jagraon MLA Sarabjit Kaur Manuke were in Ludhiana to induct a few Congress leaders into the party fold. The Congress leaders who joined AAP include former district president of youth Congress, Raman Chandi, Surinder Saini and Baljinder Singh Bhaskar. Cheema said that the Captain Amarinder Singh-led state government has failed to fulfil any its pre-poll promises made to all sections of the society. He said that AAP had served farmers in the best possible way, while Congress gave its consent to pass the ordinances in the first place. Cheema also slammed MP Ravneet Bittu for making vague statements just to remain in the headlines. Cheema said that the state government should announce financial aid and a government job for the family members of the farmers who died during the protests. Also the deceased farmers should be given the status of martyrs, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-s-stubbornness-responsible-for-deaths-of-farmers-claims-aap/story-fi8c369q1VZbbkUGfJZJuK.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer held for morphing 15-yr-old’s pictures in Ludhiana||A labourer was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly morphing the pictures of a 15-year-old girl and threatening to circulate them. The accused has been identified as Rakesh Kumar, 27, of Millar Ganj.The FIR was lodged following the statement of the victim’s father, who is a resident of Palm Vihar, Pakhowal Road. He said the accused had sent a message to his daughter on a social networking site. When she replied, he asked for her phone number. She blocked the account, but he started sending her messages from another account. Kumar allegedly downloaded her pictures and morphed them. Then, he threatened to circulate the pictures, if the victim did not share her number.Inspector Jagdev Singh, SHO at Sadar police station, said that the accused is married. He was produced before a court on Thursday that remanded him to one-day police custody.A case has been registered under Sections 354-D and 506 of Indian Penal Code and Section 67-A of Information and Technology Act at Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-held-for-morphing-15-yr-old-s-pics/story-Z1tnRZOYyBs50s9kj6YQmL.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police cracks down on wanted criminals||While handling crime in the city, the Mumbai Police has turned to the age-old adage of ‘prevention is better than cure’ as the Mumbai police commissioner along with other senior police officers have conceptualised a multi-dimensional approach to crackdown on the city’s most wanted and absconding criminals.Not only have police stations across Mumbai been asked to prepare a list of 25 most wanted criminals in their jurisdiction, but they have also been asked to charge people under the Maharashtra Prevention Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act and to get courts to declare absconding criminals proclaimed offenders and confiscate their property. The Mumbai Police has also decided to make habitual offenders execute a legal bond where the amount of bond will be calculated after taking into consideration the annual income of the family. Earlier, the offender could execute a legal bond by paying a sum of ₹10,000 to ₹15,000. “A slew of measures has been planned to crackdown on wanted and absconding criminals. Every police station has been asked to prepare a list of 25 most wanted criminals in their jurisdiction and regularly update the list of anti-social elements,” said Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The wanted and absconding criminals could be involved in heinous bodily offences, underworld activities, terror suspects, habitual criminals, economic offenders, cyber fraudsters among others. “We planned to do the review as we found that the police stations had not reviewed its most wanted and absconding criminal list since many years. The idea is to launch a fresh action against such criminals,” said Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police, law and order. Patil also said that a plan has been put in place to get courts to declare criminals who are absconding as proclaimed offenders under section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code which will allow the police to attach properties belonging to them. To ensure that the plan falls in place, dedicated teams will be formed at police station, zonal, region, city and state levels, he said.“These dedicated teams will be entrusted with tasks of apprehending the wanted and absconding offenders and taking other necessary action. These teams would co-ordinate with each other through superior officers of additional commissioner and deputy commissioner ranks,” added Patil.Apart from this, the Mumbai Police also plans to invoke the MPDA Act against anti-social elements and criminals as the act gives the commissioner of police powers to send a criminal behind bars for a period of two years. A senior police officer said, “The commissioner has also instructed us to increase the amount of legal bond from the existing ₹10,000 or ₹15,000 for habitual offenders after calculating their annual income. Offenders will have to pay their yearly income as a legal bond from now on. This will become an effective deterrent.” The humane side of Mumbai Police would also be showcased with the commissioner of police introducing a criminal adoption system. “Criminals who have been active in the past three years would be brought under its purview. Under this system, dedicated policemen at the police station level would encourage such people to get out of the crime world and will help them with rehabilitation. It’s a reformative, corrective and proactive policing scheme,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-cracks-down-on-wanted-criminals/story-gY0mpzRugGoC5LxBJ2DXxO.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Couple killed as car hits motorcycle on Dera Bassi overbridge||A 45-year-old man and his wife, 40, were killed after a car hit their motorcycle on the railway overbridge at Dera Bassi on Thursday evening. Ram Avtar and his wife Sushila were on their way home when a car hit their two wheeler from the rear, following which the former died on the spot after his head hit the divider on the road. Sushila, who also sustained head injuries, was declared dead at the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital.The car driver fled from the scene, where a traffic build-up after the mishap soon led to an hour-long jam.The couple was from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh and police were trying to locate their local residence till this report was filed.The bodies have been kept at the Civil Hospital mortuary and a postmortem will be conducted on Friday, said investigating officer, inspector Satnam Singh.A case has been registered against the driver of the car who is yet to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/couple-killed-as-car-hits-motorcycle-on-dera-bassi-overbridge/story-Mp1RoL8qSM5RxzHJ2hmchO.html
17-12-2020||City||Farmers brave cold wave as they camp at Haryana border||Ram Singh, a 62-year-old farmer from Gharsana tehsil in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar district, has been sleeping in his tractor for the past three days in Shahjahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border. Singh, along with some other farmers from Gharsana, has been camping at the site even as a cold wave sweeps across the region. While braving the cold was not easy, Singh said that the discomfort was negligible in comparison to the dangers posed by the new farm laws. “While the older farmers are sleeping in tractors and trolleys, the younger ones sleep on the road. Our sisters and daughters are not able to sleep at night. The conditions are harsh but we are ready to face it all. Until the government relents, we will continue to agitate under all challenging circumstances,” said Singh. He is among around 5,000 farmers, from states such as Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Haryana, who have gathered at Shahjahanpur at the Delhi-Jaipur highway to join the movement against the new farm laws. Farmers across the country have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — passed by Parliament during the monsoon session. The farmers fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and lead to the removal of the minimum support price(MSP) they receive on important crops. While the aim of the farmers is to join the agitation in Delhi, they’ve been restricted at the interstate border by the Rewari Police for the past five days. Farmer groups have stationed their caravan at one of the carriageways since the police in Haryana are not allowing them to move ahead. While this section of the Delhi-Jaipur highway is blocked, traffic movement has not been significantly hit due to route diversion.Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police(Rewari), said that the police were on the vigil and wouldn’t allow farmers to block the highway. “We have deployed enough strength on the highway. We will not let farmers block the highway. We have placed barricades on one side of the carriageway,” said Jorwal. He said that around 1,000 farmers in total were protesting at both Banipur Chowk and Shahjahanpur border. “Why is the Haryana government stopping us from going to the national Capital? Are we not living in a democracy? They tell us that people from Rajasthan cannot enter Haryana,” said Singh. He said that the treatment of the government towards farmers had been shocking, “We have not seen this kind of inconsiderate behaviour from governments before.” Singh said that the new laws threatened the existence of farmers and they were prepared for a long fight. “We are ready to stay here for one whole year or two, if required. We will not budge till the laws are rolled back. This is a countrywide movement that affects all farmers,” said Singh. Multiple groups of farmers from Rajasthan and Gujarat are camping in tarpaulin tents at the site. Farmers have reached the borders from places such as Churu, Mundwa in Rajasthan and Himatnagar, Modasa in Gujarat. “On a daily basis, batches of farmers from different villages are joining the agitation. We will continue to strengthen our numbers here before we decide to head to Delhi. Till the time the three laws are rolled back, we will continue to protest. Be it for weeks or months,” said Mangal Singh, a farmer from Sikar in Rajasthan. Harvinder Singh Gehlot, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar, said that the goal was to reach Delhi and strengthen the ongoing agitation. He said that more batches of farmers would be joining the agitation at Shahjahanpur following which the groups will march ahead. “We are very clear about our demands. We want the government to roll back the laws and ensure that crops are procured as per the MSP formula proposed by the MS Swaminathan committee report. We seek the improvement of conditions for all farmers. This movement is not restricted to Punjab and Haryana alone,” said Gehlot. Sanjay Madhav, the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that while the dipping mercury levels were causing discomfort, farmers were committed to the movement and in high spirits.“Despite the cold wave, farmers remain undaunted. Support for our movement is increasing daily. More groups of farmers are joining us and we expect the agitation here to grow more in the coming days. We will strengthen the movement here before moving ahead,” said Madhav||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-brave-cold-wave-as-they-camp-at-haryana-border/story-Iapba64xlPeGwNnw1xgfVM.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to examine concerns over lease of Aravalli land||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said on Thursday that it is examining concerns raised over a lease agreement between the urban local body and a public sector oil and gas company that allows the latter to construct a petrol pump on Aravalli land in Chakkarpur village. MCG officials said they will “clear any apprehensions” in the matter before moving forward with the lease agreement. City-based NGO IAmGurgaon, which is behind eco-restoration projects such as the Wazirabad bundh and the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, had written to the municipal commissioner earlier this week, seeking cancellation of the lease agreement. It has been alleged by the NGO, as well as city environmentalists, that lease agreement violates multiple environmental statutes relating to the protection of Aravalli forests.The lease (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times) was signed on March 15, 2019, for setting up a petrol pump on a 150-square metre (sq m) land parcel in Chakkarpur. The lease has been granted to a public sector entity for a period of 30 years, with a payable rent of ₹2.25 lakh per month (subject to a 25% increase every three years). The petrol pump itself is yet to come up on the allotted parcel (recorded as khasra number 611/4 in revenue books).However, it has been pointed out in IAmGurgaon’s communique, dated December 14, that the area in question is a protected Aravalli forest falling under the land use category of “gair mumkin pahad” or uncultivable hilly lands. These lands are protected under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s (MoEFCC) Aravalli Notification of May 7, 1992, which prohibits any non-forest activities in the Aravallis.Addressing these concerns, municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “We have received representation regarding the apprehensions related to grant of lease of land for fuel retail outlet (petrol pump). Environmental concerns about forest and Aravalli notification have been raised, citing various environmental regulations and orders of courts. We are examining the case to clear all apprehensions before moving forward with the lease. The applicant will have to get all environmental and forest clearances from concerned government department before getting permission from MCG.”Meanwhile, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), which is empowered to enforce the Aravalli Notification (1992) in Gurugram, said it will probe the matter. “We will seek a report from the revenue department to ascertain the status of the land. If there is any illegality, we will take appropriate action. The mandate of the Aravalli Notification will be followed in letter and spirit. I cannot say anything further for the moment,” said Kuldeep Singh, HSPCB’s regional officer in Gurugram.Moreover, prior to the signing of the lease agreement by the MCG in March last year, the corporation had approached the GMDA’s urban environment division in early 2019, seeking to restore the area’s natural Aravalli habitat. “Keeping in mind the environmental sensitivity of the area, the MCG had assigned the area to the GMDA for restoration and the GMDA has signed an MOU with our organisation, IAmGurgaon, to protect and enhance the forest, waterbody and biodiversity in this area,” states IAmGurgaon’s letter.“The area had already been earmarked for ecorestoration. Any diversion for non-forestry purposes in the area will hinder our attempts at reviving the natural ecosystem. The area is also a low-lying Aravalli forest and helps to reduce the run-off on Golf Course Road, which has recently suffered major flooding,” said Latika Thukral, founder, IAmGurgaon.This view also found support among officials. A senior IAS officer, who has formerly served in the GMDA’s urban environment division as well as the forest department, said on the condition of anonymity, “This lease agreement, ab initio, does not stand. The land is an Aravalli forest, and must be protected as per various Supreme Court orders. It sets a bad precedent when forests are diverted for a non-essential utility — in this case a petrol pump.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-examine-concerns-over-lease-of-aravalli-land/story-SjLtNnjY9G9AAFomKw5axL.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||Govt schools to deliver sanitary pads to girl students at residences||Government schools will start delivering sanitary pads to residences of girl students in classes 6 to 12, two months after the state decided to provide sanitary pads to female students on a monthly basis.In a letter addressed to the district education officers (DEOs) on Thursday, the directorate of school education asked schools to make arrangements for the delivery of sanitary pads to students who have not been visiting school due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.The department will be supplying sanitary pads along with the monthly midday meal ration. During the pandemic, midday meals are being delivered to students at their homes. “Midday meal ration for December will be distributed among students. While doing so, sanitary pads should also be delivered to students,” stated the directive issued by the department.While schools across the state have reopened for physical classroom sessions for students in classes 10 and 12, sessions for students in classes 9 and 11 will start from December 21.Suman Sharma, the principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that the school had procured supplies for two months and would start the disbursal from Friday. “We have collected the supplies and will ask teachers to start the delivery process from tomorrow. We have already distributed midday meals for this month, so separate visits will be made from tomorrow onwards,” said Sharma.She said that teachers would be visiting the houses of girls to deliver the supplies, comprising two packs each, on a monthly basis.Sharma said that the school will try to rope in female teachers for the job so that students can be sensitised about menstrual hygiene. “Since stigma is attached to menstrual hygiene, we will try to involve more female teachers for the distribution process so that parents or students are not hesitant in accepting the supplies,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-schools-to-deliver-sanitary-pads-to-girl-students-at-residences/story-U03926RULAk09TyUiUh4yK.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||Homebuyers in Sare Homes demand delivery of flats||More than 100 homebuyers of Sare Homes project in Sector 92 on Thursday held a protest at the office of Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera), demanding the handover of their flats, which are almost complete.The buyers said that in the previous hearing held by H-Rera in September, assurance was given that all the houses in Phase 3, which were near completion, would be allowed to be completed by buyers themselves and possession will be given.The buyers on Thursday said that despite the lapse of two months, there is no positive development in this matter and that they are being hindered despite having paid almost 95% of the flat price. “It was promised that the flats would be handed over to us in October but nothing has happened,” said Pamposh Sadhu, a buyer and member of Sare Home Phase 3 Buyers Association, which is in the process of getting registered.Sadhu said that there are 850 flats in Phase 3, of which 325 have been delivered. In the rest, almost 98% of work is completed. “These flats can be handed over as people are ready to finish the remaining work themselves and make balance payments to the company,” he said.Samir Kumar, member, H-Rera, said that the issue of Sare Homes project is under consideration and the authority will be issuing a direction in this regard soon. “These are complex issues and resolving these takes time but we will certainly ensure that grievances of buyers are resolved at the earliest,” he said.A senior official of the company said that they have already assented to handing over the flats to the buyers if they want to complete their work themselves and pay the balance to the company. “Almost 99% of work is completed in 500 flats and these can be given to buyers. Only a few thousand rupees would be required to finish these,” he said, adding that currently the project was being overseen by H-Rera.In another development, the residents of BPTP Generations project called upon district town planner and submitted that a revenue road which had been recently opened by the department should be closed as the security of the residents was threatened. “The revenue road was closed by recently it has been opened on the request of a society nearby but this has caused problems to our residents,” said Parikshit Vats.RS Bhath, district town planner, said that the revenue road was opened after a complaint by residents of a nearby society and it was done as per rules. “The revenue road can’t be closed, but we will explore the possibility that land of revenue road can be exchanged, but this comes under the domain of MCG. We will take up this matter with them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/homebuyers-in-sare-homes-demand-delivery-of-flats/story-UiggnInA2uOzMorUgwkebJ.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP to prepare report on takeover of Sare Homes project||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) will prepare a detailed report for initiating takeover of the Sare Home residential project in Sector 92 and submit the same to the government by next month. The move comes after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed officials to work out modalities for the process last month.The department held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the matter in detail and the district town planner of the enforcement wing was asked to prepare a report on the assets, liabilities, construction status, infrastructure and rights of the stakeholders.Residents in the Sare Home project have alleged that there were a number of deficiencies with the project, including a non-existent fire fighting system, missing boundary walls and hundreds of undelivered flats.Two phases of the five-phase project are yet to be delivered and electricity connections were frequently disconnected due to non-payment of the bill by the developer, alleged residents. As many as 1,500 flats are yet to be delivered.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that he will seek information from the developer, homebuyers and government departments concerned, including the electricity board and public health department.“I have sought the details of the terms and conditions of the specific licence to understand how Sare Home developer operated, being an FDI, and the transfer of licence from the original allottee. We have also sought details on the number of units constructed, sold and which are still not delivered. The status of construction of infrastructure and other services is also being sought,” said Bhath.The department will also seek a status report from the fire department, public health department and other stakeholders regarding shortcomings in the infrastructure.“We will prepare a comprehensive report and submit it to the government as per the directions of the chief minister. The final call on this will be taken by headquarters in Chandigarh as taking over a project is a complex matter,” he said.Pravin Malik, president, Sare Homes’ residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that the government should work towards taking over the project. “The project is still viable. The buyers have to pay around Rs 200 crore for their properties and this can be used to finish the project,” said Malik.A senior Sare Home official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the project has been delayed due to issues such as delays in permissions, demonetisation, construction ban and other issues, which were beyond the control of the company.“Even today, the project is cash positive as there are around Rs 200 crore receivables. The matter is sub judice, in Delhi high court, as a US-based investor had approached the courts in US and Delhi to get relief in this matter,” he said.The official quoted above said that there is no official spokesperson to answer queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-to-prepare-report-on-takeover-of-sare-homes-project/story-ooSGJwIjivxwUy6979lhQP.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||Coldest day of season as temperatures hit new lows||The city woke up to the coldest day of this winter season, with the maximum temperature dropping to 13.1 degrees Celsius on Thursday, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature fell to 4 degrees Celsius in the early hours on Thursday, marking a new low this season for both nighttime and daytime temperatures in Gurugram.The maximum temperature was nine degrees below the normal, while the minimum temperature was four degrees below the normal, as per the IMD’s Palam observatory.Weather in Gurugram also remained colder than in the capital, where the IMD recorded a minimum temperature of 4.6 degrees, and a maximum temperature of 15.1 degrees, at Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory. However, temperatures at Delhi’s Palam observatory — which is the closest weather station to Gurugram — were lower, with a minimum reading of 13.2 degrees Celsius and maximum reading of 4.5 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature in Gurugram on Wednesday was at 16.6 degrees Celsius, which indicates a three degrees Celsius drop in the daytime temperature.“Cold winds are blowing from the northwest of the National Capital Region, and their influence over Gurugram is more than in Delhi, since the city lies in the eastern part of Delhi-NCR. Over the next two days, there will be a further decline in both the day and night temperatures across the region,” said Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist who has been tracking weather patterns in Haryana and Delhi-NCR.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram, the minimum temperature is expected to remain around four degrees Celsius till at least December 19, with “cold day” conditions likely to persist.The IMD defines a “cold day” as one in which the minimum temperature remains under 10 degrees, and the maximum temperature remains less than 4.5 degrees Celsius (or 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal). The minimum temperature is expected to remain around 4 degrees Celsius till at least Saturday, while the maximum temperature is expected to remain below 15 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, air quality in the city deteriorated slightly on Thursday, but remained in the “poor” category, recording 246 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. The AQI was 221 the previous day.Experts attributed the relatively low level of pollution to high wind speeds, of up to 10kmph, which prevailed on Thursday. “These are cold winds blowing from the north and into the plains. While they are responsible for the sudden dip in daytime temperature, they are also what is keeping pollutants from accumulating in the region,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coldest-day-of-season-as-temperatures-hit-new-lows/story-yDL30Rwh1BgXkdRlYtuyWL.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Vij health condition stable, says health department||The health condition of Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who is undergoing treatment in Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital for lung infection due to Covid-19, is stable, according to a bulletin issued by the health department on Thursday.Since December 15, Vij has been undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital after he was diagnosed with Covid-19 pneumonia at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak on December 12. As per Thursday’s health bulletin, “The home minister’s investigations as per protocol have been done and the results are satisfactory. His condition is stable, responding to treatment and maintaining vital parameters on high flow nasal cannula on oxygen support.”Vij, 67, is on high flow oxygen support since being admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta. Vij’s health is being continuously monitored by a team of doctors, along with the Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav. “He is well rested and the team of doctors examined him during the morning rounds,” the bulletin read. As reported by HT earlier, doctors privy to the matter have said that Vij is likely to remain in the ICU as the next two to three days are crucial for his treatment, since he has multiple co-morbidities diabetes, hypertension, thyroid and heart disease. Vij was tested positive on December 5 and was admitted to Civil Hospital in Ambala. He was shifted to PGIMS, Rohtak, on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-vij-health-condition-stable-says-health-department/story-OnCTvfqlAtTjLjEUgxuCyN.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh ADC, two SPs transferred||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and two Indian Police Service (IPS) officials have been transferred from the city on Union home ministry orders received on Thursday. Additional deputy commissioner Nazuk Kumar, a 2016 batch IAS officer, has been transferred to Mizoram. She was also holding the charges of additional registrar Cooperative Societies, secretary, Red Cross Society, director-cum-special secretary technical education, and director, information technology. Vineet Kumar, who was holding the charge of superintendent of police, city operations, and commandant, home guards, has also been transferred to Mizoram, while Neha Yadav who was SP, economic offences wing, crime against women and cyber crime investigation cell, has been moved to Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-adc-two-sps-transferred/story-mkGi8yU8RCJCS2eoZlBw1M.html
17-12-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot govt failed on all fronts, says Rajasthan BJP||The opposition BJP in Rajasthan hit out at the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government on Thursday, saying it has “failed” on all fronts and “betrayed” the people of the state in its two years in office. On the second anniversary of the Congress government, Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said “anti-incumbency” has developed against the government in the last two years and it will score a “hit wicket with its own deeds”. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria raised 13 questions to the Congress government about the farmers’ loan waiver, unemployment allowance, increase in power tariff, increase in crime graph and recruitment among others. Taking a dig at the government, Poonia said it has “failed to deliver on all fronts and has no right to celebrate the anniversary”. Due to infighting, neither the Congress nor the state government was able to function properly, he alleged. “There is a long list of failures. Crimes against women have increased, law and order has completely deteriorated, contractual employees have not been regularised yet, 59 lakh farmers are waiting for complete loan waiver, unemployed youths are not being given allowance,” he claimed. Poonia said the chief minister blamed the BJP for trying to topple his government but it will fall on its own and “score a hit wicket”. He said the people of Rajasthan are suffering due to the internal issues and infighting of the Congress and the public will release its report card in the 2023 assembly elections. Meanwhile, BJP’s youth wing Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) held demonstrations across the state against the Gehlot government. BJYM state president Himanshu Sharma said that effigies of the chief minister were burnt during the demonstrations held against the state government on completion of its two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-govt-failed-on-all-fronts-says-rajasthan-bjp/story-N5WZfgAvRwPYTMccK0hKRN.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Assault on senior forest official: Kurukshetra DFO gets bail||A Kurukshetra divisional forest officer (DFO) who was arrested by Ambala police for allegedly assaulting an Indian forest service (IFS) official senior to him was granted bail by a court on Thursday. Virender Gill was booked on December 9 on a complaint by the chief conservator of forests (north circle) G Raman at the Baldev Nagar Police Station. Raman alleged that Gill assaulted him after he refused to clear a few files and payments at his office at the Forest Complex in Ambala City’s Company Bagh. Deputy superintendent of police (Barara) Rajnish Kumar, who is investigating the case, said, “Gill was produced before a court based on the offences and was granted bail. The rest of the case related to the tender and files is the department’s internal matter.”Another police officer said the prosecution had asked for judicial custody of Gill, but the court granted bail based on the charges. G Raman, in his police statement, said that Gill had wanted an e-tender approved even though it had been issued by him in violation of rules. Gill explained that he wanted Raman’s go-ahead for carrying out plantation in December, 2020. “I refused his proposal as it is technically incorrect and environmentally not viable to carry out the plantation in the... month. It was further explained to him that since December was one of the coldest month and plantation gets affected by the frost, therefore, plantation should not be done in these winter months of the year.”Allegedly warning Raman that the consequences of not approving the files would not be good, Gill handed him another file related to payment of labourers for approval. “On perusal of the file it was found incomplete and the details were no given as sought earlier on the same issue. In unwarranted act of anger, he shouted and leaned on the table and snatched the file...” Raman said. Gill was booked under sections 186, 332, 353, 506 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. Commenting on the matter, Raman later said, “This is a court process. The state has to see what to do next.”On being asked about the amount of tender/files, he said, “The labour payment approval was worth Rs 24 lakh, but I couldn’t see the other e-tender file as I had already refused, citing the month of plantation. The amount could be double than the labour payment figure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/assault-on-senior-forest-official-kurukshetra-dfo-gets-bail/story-MZtF2jhTTkScIUdp7eh3iK.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Open Chandigarh apni mandis, demand locals||People in the city want the local farmer markets or apni mandis with controlled prices to reopen, saying it’s a free-for-all by door to door vendors who are overcharging for fruits and vegetables. The Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), too, has written to the UT administration asking that farmers be directly allowed to sell products to consumers. The UT Market Committee has also stopped sharing a list of fixed rates for the day to be displayed by vendors registered with the municipal corporation (MC).Confirming this, a market committee official who did not want to be named as he’s not authorised to speak to the media, said, “Vendors with rehris who don’t follow the rate list are doing well and others allotted space by the MC have stopped putting up their stalls, so a rate list is not being issued now.” MC started fixing fruit and vegetable rates during the lockdown when Chandigarh Transport Union buses were brought into service to supply produce to all sectors. However, when markets opened and the bus services were discontinued vendors stopped displaying lists.A round of the markets on Thursday revealed that most vegetables were being sold at marked up prices. Tomatoes, which cost Rs 25 per kg when bought in bulk from wholesalers, were being sold for Rs 50 per kg. Onions (Rs 30 per kg) were being sold for Rs 50 per kg and capsicum (Rs 20 per kg) were going for Rs 80 per kg. On CRAWFED’s letter to the UT administration, Hitesh Puri, chairman of the welfare associations’ body, said, “Since the market committee is not issuing any rate list now, how will the authorities keep a check on how much the vendors are charging? Mandis should be opened, policemen should be stationed there to ensure that all Covid-19 safety standards are maintained.”On overcharging by vendors, Puri said, “Residents should stop buying from the door to door vendors or simply not pay them what they ask for.” Jatinder Singh, secretary of the Sector 40-B Residents’ Welfare Association, also added that in sectors 46 and 37, some of the vendors had collected to form a mini mandi with fairer prices. “While I recently bought peas for Rs 30 per kg from a vendor outside my house, the same were available for Rs 20 per kg here. The administration must allow mandis to open to keep a check vendors and vegetable prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/open-chandigarh-apni-mandis-demand-locals/story-Aj91QRBzeojvMVVTeFjo5I.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||12,000 names missing from voters’ list: Mohali DC orders probe||Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Thursday ordered an inquiry into 12,000 missing names in the voter’s list in Dera Bassi following a complaint by NK Sharma, the city’s MLA from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Dayalan said additional deputy commissioner (general) Aashika Jain will conduct the probe and submit the list in 15 days. He also directed all electoral registration officers (EROs) to go through the provisions of The Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994, The Punjab Municipal Election Rules, 1994 and the instructions issued by the State Election Commission (SEC). They will ensure strict compliance of the same throughout the entire process of elections, including adherence to given dates and the publication of the final electoral rolls, Dayalan said.Complaining about the missing voters’ names, NK Sharma had alleged that the Congress had murdered democracy by modifying the voters’ list. He also alleged that local Congress member Deepinder Singh Dhillon could have had a hand in excluding the voters’ names from the final list. Sharma had alleged that even the names of sitting councillors had been deleted and threatened to stage a protest against SDM Dera Bassi, MC executive officer and other officials for working “at the behest of Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-000-voter-names-missing-from-list-mohali-dc-orders-probe/story-2ObyLSoFKAOgEUluPK5eKL.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||‘Are you affected personally’: HC to lawyer who wants Kangana’s Twitter handle suspended||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said that it would decide on whether to consider a plea which sought the suspension of actor Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter profile as a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), according to a report filed by Livelaw .com.Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, a Mumbai-based lawyer, in his criminal writ petition said that Twitter should be directed to permanently suspend or disable Ranaut’s profile to stop the spread of hate in the country. He added that the social media platform should be directed to follow laws to prevent any misuse.The lawyer also accused Kangana of using the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput for her own gains. She did the same thing with the ongoing agitation of farmers, he said citing a few controversial tweets put out by Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel which allegedly incited hatred against communities. Arguing before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik on Thursday, Deshmukh pointed out that he had written to the police and the state authorities in the past seeking action against Ranaut and her sister. But the judges wanted to know whether the plea was a PIL to which Deshmukh responded it was not.“Then how can we act in a criminal case on the basis of claims made by a third party, who is in no way affected personally? Is this a PIL? If not, then you will have to show personal injury to you, how it is affecting you,” the bench told Deshmukh, according to news agency PTI.The bench directed Deshmukh to ponder whether the issue should be raised through a PIL or the criminal writ petition should continue and adjourned the matter till Monday.Meanwhile, government lawyer Y P Yagnik highlighted that the plea did not state how the tweets flagged by Deshmukh affected the public at large. “This is a very vague petition. Twitter is an international body. One can not seek vague reliefs like these, Yagnik added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/are-you-affected-personally-hc-to-lawyer-who-wants-kangana-s-twitter-handle-suspended/story-Rzeb3Z4nutPjyIa9Wtd0HO.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||HC dismisses plea by BJP MP and MLA to quash summons in defamation case||The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed pleas by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and party MLA Vijender Gupta seeking the quashing of summons issued against them in a defamation complaint filed by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.“Both the petitions are dismissed,” justice Anu Malhotra said. A detailed copy of the judgment is awaited.The court said the apparent prima facie intent of the tweet of the petitioner was at least with the knowledge to believe that the imputations made in the tweet would harm the reputation of the complainant.Malhorta said whether the tweets if, et al, were for public good can be determined by the trial court when the defence would make it contentions.Sisodia had filed the defamation case against the two BJP leaders and others for allegedly levelling corruption charges against him. Gupta and Tiwari had challenged the trial court’s November 28, 2019, order summoning them and others as accused in the criminal defamation case. The others named in the complaint are MPs Hans Raj Hans and Pravesh Verma, MLAs Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Vijender Gupta and BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana. SIsodia alleged that these leaders had levelled corruption charges against him in relation to the Delhi government’s classroom renovation in government schools.The deputy chief minister had filed the criminal defamation case against these leaders for making false and defamatory statements in print, electronic and social media. Sisodia said all the allegations made by the BJP leaders, jointly and individually, were false, defamatory and derogatory and were made with an intention to harm and damage his reputation and goodwill.Gupta later said, “We will approach the Supreme Court in this matter.”Tiwari said, “We will take necessary legal measures and approach the apex court. I had raised an important issue of corruption in the functioning of the AAP-led Delhi government and the matter is subjudice.”The accused were earlier granted bail after they appeared before the trial court. The maximum punishment is two years for the offence of defamation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-dismisses-plea-by-bjp-mp-and-mla-to-quash-summons-in-defamation-case/story-4po4cpVDaxUCCTJggAFWgJ.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Despite promise, PMC fails to offer compensation to civic staff who died of Covid-19||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had announced a compensation of Rs 1 crore and a civic job for a family member of the municipal corporation employee who succumbs to Covid-19 while on duty. However, the civic body has not paid any amount to many such employees who died due to the infection.At least 46 civic employees have lost their lives due to Covid-19 since April and of these, the labour welfare department has proposed compensation for 21 employees and tabled it in front of the general body for approval. Most of the deceased employees were conservancy staffs, who had been working at forefront during the pandemic.Shivaji Duandkar, chief labour officer, who is also handling charge of the municipal secretary, said, “We scrutinised 21 proposals which claimed Rs 1 crore compensation. The proposal has been tabled in the general body meeting. However, it is still pending as the general body has not met due to the pandemic.”As per the scheme, the municipal corporation will contribute Rs 50 lakh and the central government will provide the remaining Rs 50 lakh to the victim’s family. At present, the corporation has sent a proposal of Rs 50 lakh to the state government which will be sent to the central government for final approval. Kishor, brother of Vinod Nandgaonkar, a civic employee, said, “My younger brother who was working as part of the conservancy staff in the Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri ward office died on duty due to Covid-19. It is very painful that the corporation had promised to give compensation, but we haven’t received it even after six months.”Diksha Mane, daughter of late Deepak Mane, a civic employee, who died in June, said, “My father was working with the drainage department. He died due to Covid-19 infection. Corporation has not given us anything. I am studying in Class 9 and live with my mother. We don’t have any other source of income. Now, we are using our savings. Corporation should do something as early as possible.” City mayor Murlidhar Mohol had instructed the municipal commissioner to execute the scheme and prepare details for it. “The corporation has decided to give Rs 25 lakh to the family of the victim who died due to Covid-19 and offer a job to one of the family members or give Rs 50 lakh without offering job to family member. It has not been delayed. We will disburse the money soon.”“As far as the Rs 1 crore compensation amount is concerned, we are ready to pay the amount of Rs 50 lakh and remaining will be paid by the central government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-promise-pmc-fails-to-offer-compensation-to-civic-staff-who-died-of-covid-19/story-0GMjOXFyB4J0Q7Ku17Q3IL.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Pune distrtict reports 725 fresh Covid-19 cases, five deaths in 24 hours||The state health department reported 725 fresh Covid-19 cases in Pune district on Thursday. Five deaths were reported in Pune district in 24 hours which puts the Covid-related death toll at 7,654. The district has 3.63 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.4 lakh have recovered, and 16,865 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 210 fresh Covid cases taking the final count to 85,856. Three deaths took the rural toll to 2,027, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 357 new Covid cases, taking its total count to 1,87,308. Two deaths reported on Thursday, moved to PMC death toll to 4,559. PCMC reported 158 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its final count to 91,937. No deaths were reported on Thursday. The death toll in PCMC stands at 1,259. The recovery rate in the state is 94.10%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Currently 5,06,914 people are in home quarantine and 4,033 people are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-distrtict-reports-725-fresh-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-in-24-hours/story-yPdjXZgn7iO5OlOCNEoeCO.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Dhol sellers drum a brisk business at Singhu protest site||While most businesses around the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border have suffered losses over the past 20 days owing to the road blockade, one group is busy doing a bit of brisk business -- dhol sellers from nearby Bawana who have reached the protest venue in large numbers to make the most of the ongoing agitation. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are buying these small brown drums, known as dhols, in plenty -- some to take them home as presents for their children, others to “loudly cheer and celebrate” as and when their agitation becomes “victorious”.One such seller, Muzahir Ali, said he and most of the other hawkers live in Bawana’s slum colony and decided to come to Singhu as their sales had dipped in the months following the Covid-19 lockdown.“Apart from toy shops and fairs, these dhols sell the most at protest sites and right now, there is no bigger protest spot than Singhu. So, about 30 of us have been selling dhols here every day,” Ali said. Ali and the others are actually toy sellers, but the only toy they have been bringing to Singhu is dhol.Salman Naved, another dhol seller, said he was among the first to reach the spot, about a week ago. “On the first day itself, I sold over 20 dhols. The farmers here don’t even try to bargain the price the down,” Naved said. Jarnail Singh, a farmer from Mullapur village in Ludhiana, who purchased three dhols from Ali for ₹150 said he would take them back for his two children and one he would beat all the way while driving home, as and when the government gives in to the demands of the farmers.“My children think I am enjoying at a fair and they want me to bring back something from here. So, I’ll take the dhols back as mementoes,” Jarnail Singh said. Shahid Khan, another dhol seller, said he had to wrap up his toy stall in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, after the lockdown. “This protest is a boon for us. We’ll try to make up a little of the losses we sustained during the lockdown,” Khan, who sold four dhols by early afternoon on Thursday, said. The sellers said they purchase these dhols for as little as ₹50 per piece and sell them at Singhu for as much as ₹150 per piece. “In Sadar Bazar toy market, these dhols go for only ₹70-80,” Khan said.Bhajan Singh, a 65-year-old farmer from Lakhoke Behram village in Ferozpur, said he was buying a drum from Khan for himself. “The government doesn’t seem to be hearing us. Maybe the dhols will help carry our voice to those in power,” Bhajan Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dhol-sellers-drum-a-brisk-business-at-singhu-protest-site/story-zo8VDWdqvRnvib0FTiWEwL.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Man shot and injured near Jama Masjid, hunt on for three men||A 27-year-old man was shot and injured by three men near Jama Masjid early Thursday allegedly over a previous enmity, police said. The injured man is out of danger and efforts to arrest the three men are on, said senior police officers.According to the police, they received information from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital around 2.46am that a man has been admitted with a gunshot wound to the leg. A police team rushed to the hospital and met the injured Nafees Ahmed, a resident of Raqab Ganj, who alleged that he was attacked by one Siddhu and his two associates.“The man told the police that he had some quarrel with Siddhu. He stated that on Thursday morning, when he was returning home, Siddhu and his two friends intercepted him. They picked up a fight with him and when he tried to leave the area, they took out a pistol and fired two shots in the air. When he tried to call for help, the men fired at him and fled the spot,” said a police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said Ahmed sustained a single bullet gunshot wound to the leg. “His statement was recorded based on which a case of attempt to murder has been registered at the Jama Masjid police station. We have identified the suspects and efforts are on to arrest them,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-shot-and-injured-near-jama-masjid-hunt-on-for-three-men/story-emn3XUDrbBFWOOdUrykDBJ.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn seals nine more areas as Covid cases continue to rise||With Chandigarh’s Covid-19 cases inching closer to the 19,000 mark, the UT administration on Thursday declared nine new micro-containment zones. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the issue of the Covid-19 outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones. These include parts of Sectors 7, 15, 20, 23, 26, 35-A, 46 and 63, besides Dadumajra Colony. Parida said regular screening and monitoring of these areas will continue. As many as six micro-containment zones were declared on December 11 as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-seals-nine-more-areas-as-covid-cases-continue-to-rise/story-eC5Rtfcru4o9Zg9P9AyVoK.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman duped of ₹54,500 in online iPhone purchase||A Manimajra resident looking to buy an iPhone online lost Rs 54,500 to fraudsters.In her complaint, Varinda Kalia told the police that in April, she saw an online advertisement about an iPhone for sale. She got in touch with the seller, who claimed to be an electronics dealer. The seller claimed he made deals through WhatsApp only and asked Kalia to pay Rs 54,500 upfront for the phone. Kalia alleged that despite making the complete payment, the seller neither delivered the phone nor refunded the money. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Manimajra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-duped-of-54-500-in-online-iphone-purchase/story-kji82s1EvminF1zU76ikeN.html
17-12-2020||City||CII Partnership Summit 2020: L-G calls for unlocking J&K’s potential in multi-dimensional way||Lt governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday called for unlocking the potential of Jammu and Kashmir in a multi-dimensional fashion, through systemic interventions at individual and community levels. The purpose of such interventions is to effectively support and encourage young individuals to achieve their true potential, he said.He was addressing the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Partnership Summit-2020 organised through the virtual mode.During his address, Sinha underscored the significance of the summit and observed that its theme, ‘Partnership for Lives, Livelihood & Growth’ was very important because a country cannot exist as an island, and each and every sector of our economy is interwoven.“Since we are pulling ourselves together to restart the engine of economic growth that was partially disrupted due to the global pandemic, we cannot live and grow alone. We have to be together to multiply comprehensive development in every sector,” he said.He further called for joint efforts by the government, private enterprises, and civil society groups to overcome social, ecological, and economic challenges for a post-Covid world.He also congratulated CII on its 125th anniversary and commended the organisation for growing new business and being the voice of change and leadership for the existing ones.“I am greatly enthused with the idea that CII and its members have incubated and led centres of excellence in various states/UTs,” said Sinha.He called upon the CII and its members to partner with J&K. “We’re open for business. And we’re set for growth, which is sustainable and builds businesses with purpose. Come and partner with us. And enrich this summit with your ideas and your inputs,” the L-G remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cii-partnership-summit-2020-l-g-calls-for-unlocking-j-k-s-potential-in-multi-dimensional-way/story-k6YcRW2J2vjUlkrfYHgVkN.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kin of man murdered near Batra Cinema in 2017 get ₹9-lakh relief||The family of a 29-year-old man, who was murdered near Batra Cinema, Sector 37, in February 2017, has been awarded Rs 9 lakh as compensation by the District Legal Services Authority.On February 3, 2017, Ashok of Bhaskar Colony was brutally attacked by five persons, including four juveniles and a 26-year-old man, named Kala, alias Ghoru. He later died at PGIMER.Over three years later, on November 27, 2020, the court additional district and sessions judge, Rajeev Goyal, found the five accused guilty of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and awarded them rigorous imprisonment for life with possibility of remission, commutation etc.On December 11, the judgment was received from the office of member secretary, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, regarding enquiry under Section 357-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure for compensation to the victim on account of suffering loss and injury, and for rehabilitation. Following this, a legal aid advocate was assigned and notice to parties and investigating officer was issued on December 11. They appeared before the CJM-cum-secretary, DLSA, on December 15 and their statement was recorded. On Thursday, Ashok Kumar Mann, CJM-cum-secretary, DLSA ordered, “After examining the entire case and verifying the contents of the claims with regard to the murder of the husband/son of applicants/victims – K Anandi (wife of victim), Tanpal (father of victim) and Angama (mother of victim) arising out of the reported criminal activity, it is clearly evident that it is a fit case for granting compensation to the victim.”“In view of the meagre income of the victim’s family, coupled with other factual, social and economic aspects, compensation to the tune of Rs 9 lakh is hereby awarded to the applicants/victims – K Anandi, Tanpal and Angama,” the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kin-of-man-murdered-near-batra-cinema-in-2017-get-9-lakh-relief/story-C2KRpNpjqAoiJH18mNidFI.html
17-12-2020||Pune||State scraps Pimpri Chinchwad New Town Development Authority||Pune: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Thursday, gave instructions for the scrapping of the Pimpri Chinchwad New Town Development Authority (PCNDTA), established in 1972. Now, the PCNDTA will be part of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and its land bank will be handed over to the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). Following the chief minister’s decision, the government will now officially start the process of ending the PCNDTA. Thackeray is the president of PMRDA. A board of directors meeting was conducted on Thursday via video conferencing.Of the two authorities - PMRDA and PCNDTA - the role of PCNDTA had become minor and hence it was decided to scrap it.PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase said, “The governing body’s meeting has been conducted on Thursday evening. There are two major decisions and one of them is to scrap PCNDTA, as both PMRDA and PCNTDA have the same roles. The area would get merged in PCMC and the land bank will be with PMRDA.”PCNTDA was established in 1972 with a mandate to create a Pimpri-Chinchwad new town, with well thought out goals and objectives. Since its inception, it has been instrumental in developing urban housing and commercial infrastructure for the rapidly growing population of Pimpri-Chinchwad. PCNTDA was mandated by the government of Maharashtra to develop 43 sq km to house a population of five lakh citizens. It has till date acquired and developed 10.8 sq km. The area has been developed in sectors comprising housing and commercial use. Civic amenities and urban infrastructure have been provided by the PCNTDA.Create land bank on the line of MMRDAChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday instructed PMRDA to create a land bank like MMRDA and develop it accordingly. PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase said, “The chief minister asked us to create a land bank like MMRDA. Private as well as government land will be acquired by PMRDA to create the land bank.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-scraps-pimpri-chinchwad-new-town-development-authority/story-Nx6dnYAlOpFI6ES67KdzlM.html
17-12-2020||City||Himachal civic body polls on January 10||The state election commission (SEC) on Thursday announced that all local body elections will be held in a single phase on January 10, 2021, and the results will be declared the same day.The SEC informed that the elections will be conducted in adherence to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines will be followed.The nominations for the civic bodies will be filed on December 24, 26 and December 28 between 11am and 3pm, said state election commissioner P Mitra in a notification issued here on Thursday. The nomination papers would be scrutinized on December 29. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is December 31. The list of candidates, including the names of contestants and their symbol will be prepared and affixed latest by December 31.The SEC said polling for the nagar panchayat and nagar parishad elections will be held on January 10 and the results would be announced on the same day. There are 29 nagar parishads and 21 nagar panchayats across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-civic-body-polls-on-january-10/story-w0qmUkMCuC8p9ywSiHCsFN.html
17-12-2020||City||CPI (M) demands withdrawal of ‘inflated’ water bills by Shimla MC||Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Thursday lashed out at the Shimla municipal corporation (MC) for issuing “inflated” water and garbage collection bills for the past several months and demanded their immediate withdrawal.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that ever since the BJP assumed power in the MC, it has been hiking garbage collection bills, water bills, property taxes etc. He said that being a statutory body, the MC should be allowed to perform its duties independently and supply drinking water like before by disbanding Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL). “Under pressure from the government and World Bank, the entire system of the Shimla MC was diluted and a company called SJPNL was formed to privatise the portable water system. As a result, three years after its formation, people are being issued highly inflated and unreasonable water bills and the MC has no control over this company,” said Chauhan.“Instead of providing relief to the people during the pandemic, the administration is increasing financial burden on the people by issuing inflated bills,” he added.The party has warned the MC that if it does not withdraw the said bills and disband SJPNL, then the party will mobilise the citizens against the “anti-people policies” and lax practices by the government and the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-demands-withdrawal-of-inflated-water-bills-by-shimla-mc/story-6LxPvhIq8Pgmig7Rl4m3VJ.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Official seeks bribe to approve nurse’s leave: PGI launches inquiry||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has launched an internal investigation against a senior official for allegedly seeking bribe from a nursing officer, it has been learnt.The inquiry is being conducted by the vigilance cell of the institute against an assistant administrative officer posted in the nursing branch following a written complaint last week that he was demanding Rs 1.5 lakh for approving her study leave, officials privy to the matter said.The complaint alleges that the officer in his conversation had stated that he would pay two more officials from this amount.Meanwhile, the Nursing Welfare Association of the institute has also shot off a letter to PGIMER director, alleging that “high level of corrupt practices are going on in the institute and this was demoralising the employees and also affecting the image of the institute”. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said an investigation had been launched in this matter and if the charges were proven, strict action will be taken against the official concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/official-seeks-bribe-to-approve-nurse-s-leave-pgi-launches-inquiry/story-WsE3bLkeLbMjUTF0uIIbhK.html
17-12-2020||City||50% of Himachalis feel depressed by consuming Covid content: Survey||Months after Himachal Pradesh witnessed a sudden rise in suicide cases during the nationwide lockdown, content related to Covid-19 on social media and television is leading to anxiety and depression among people in the otherwise peaceful hilly state, a study has revealed.Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority (HPSMHA) recently conducted a statewide survey to assess the psychological impact of the pandemic. Himachal Pradesh University’s psychology department along with HPSMHA sent questionnaires to 5,200 subscribers in Shimla, Chamba and Mandi districts.Respondents were asked to answer nine questions such as whether they had lost their job due to the pandemic and if they had experienced suicidal thoughts or suicidal tendencies during the pandemic. The survey sample included respondents residing in both rural and urban areas. Within five categories, the respondents comprised government employees, self-employed persons, unemployed people, and students. The survey was conducted over three weeks.“About 50% persons who took the survey felt anxious or depressed after going through Covid-19 related content and news on the social media,” said senior medical superintendent of Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, Boileauganj, and CEO of state mental health authority.After analysing the feedback, the HPSHMA will send its observation to the state government for its consideration. Generally, about 10% of the population suffers from common mental disorders like depression and anxiety and the study would reflect the trend in different age groups, males and females, urban and rural population and upper, middle and lower economic classes.The issue of mental health and increasing suicides was flagged by the department of police which during the lockdown gathered data from across police stations in the state. As many as 709 suicides were reported last year (2019), but there has been a spurt in these cases during the ongoing pandemic and 657 suicides were reported in the first nine months till September 30, this year. The highest of 302 suicides were reported in the months of May, June and July.As per the data collated by the police, people between the ages 18 and 35 are most vulnerable to suicide. The most common reasons for taking the extreme step are financial crisis, unemployment, marital issues, bankruptcy, drug addiction, health issues or illness, failure in examinations, love affairs, or family problems. Domestic violence, economic distress, failed relationships; unemployment, health, setback in business; drug abuse and alcoholism are factors that drove people to end their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-of-himachalis-feel-depressed-by-consuming-covid-content-survey/story-Q2X4WRWJ4ExYbQqJAtQSuM.html
17-12-2020||City||J&K DDC polls: Subdued show by regional parties in last leg of campaigning||As the last phase of district development council (DDC) elections is scheduled on December 19, parties were seen canvassing across Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday.However, only the BJP and Apni Party held rallies in nearly all of the poll-bound constituencies, while campaigning by the top regional parties like the PDP and NC seemed subdued. Even Congress ran a low-key campaign across the UT.The last round of the eight-phase DDC polls will be held on Saturday and results for the 280 seats will be declared on December 22.During the vote-seeking exercise, the BJP strengthened its poll campaign with the help of its top national leaders who arrived in the UT and promoted the DDC candidates. On the contrary, the top leaders of the biggest regional parties like the NC and PDP mostly stayed away from grassroots campaigning.NC and PAGD president Farooq Abdullah had at the start of the elections issued a short video on social media seeking votes for the alliance candidates. However, leaders like Mehbooba Mufti blamed the administration for not allowing her to travel during the DDC polls. Only People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone addressed three to four rallies in Kupwara district promoting PAGD candidates, mainly from his own party.NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said the party has a strong cadre base across J&K who ran the campaign...“Our district and provincial leaders too were part of the poll campaign and the results will portray our hard work.”Claiming that the administration created impediments to their poll campaign, PDP spokesman Tahir Sayeed said party president Mehbooba Mufti was not allowed to travel to South Kashmir and other areas. “Security was denied to our top leaders so we devised a plan which involved grassroots cadres in the canvassing process.” He alleged that only the BJP and its “B team” (referring to Apni Party) were given a free hand to run their campaign. “We were not given a level playing field by the administration,” he rued.BJP in-charge for Kashmir, Vibodh Gupta said the BJP takes every election seriously. “For us, this is a big election and our national leaders participated in the rallies held in all parts of the UT, especially in Kashmir as we wanted that party flag should reach every corner of the valley.”In case of Congress, not a single national leader visited J&K to boost the morale of the cadres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-ddc-polls-subdued-show-by-regional-parties-in-last-leg-of-campaigning/story-GJLsiXn2lGGqiuSRHg5alM.html
17-12-2020||City||Himachal logs 10 deaths, 463 fresh virus infections||Ten more people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the death toll to 846, officials said.Four deaths were reported in Shimla district, two in Kinnaur and one each in Kangra, Hamirpur, Mandi and Chamba.The tally of positive cases also reached 51,143 after 463 fresh infections were registered. Also, 532 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 44,109. There are 6,139 active cases in the state.Of the new cases, 171 were reported in Mandi district, 88 in Kangra, 63 in Shimla, 50 in Solan, 24 in Kullu, 22 in Chamba, 14 in Una, 10 in Hamirpur, seven in Lahaul Spiti, six in Bilaspur and four each in Kinnaur and Sirmaur districts.With 9,431 cases, Shimla is the worst-hit district followed by Mandi where 8,848 people have tested positive till date. As many as 7,006 cases have been reported in Kangra, 5,965 in Solan, 4,183 in Kullu, 2,970 in Sirmaur; 2,633 in Bilaspur, 2,530 in Una, 2,598 in Chamba 2,559 in Hamirpur, 1,224 in Kinnaur and 1,196 in Lahaul-Spiti district.About 6,49,519 have been tested in Himachal till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-9-deaths-153-fresh-virus-infections/story-oEQo8DmqpMEF3gupbvV03K.html
17-12-2020||City||Shimla hoteliers demand lifting of night curfew for holiday season||Seeking the state government’s help to revive the tourism and hospitality sector during the upcoming holiday season, hoteliers here have demanded relaxation in the night curfew and permission to eateries in Shimla to open on Sundays.While addressing a press conference here, Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood said the tourism industry is unquestionably the largest employer and economic activity generator in Himachal, but the state government has not given any relief to the sector. The government employees are getting their salaries and all benefits, while the self-employed businessmen are suffering due to the insensitive decisions of the government, he rued.He said that the government without taking citizens into confidence imposed the night curfew.“Maximum tourist activity takes place on Saturdays and Sundays, and by imposing the lockdown on Sundays, the government is only creating hurdles in the economic revival of the indutsry. All establishments, including those where tourists eat and buy essentials from were ordered to be closed on Sundays, causing much inconvenience to them,” said Sanjay.“Targeting tourists on the Mall Road seems to be a hobby of the administration,” he added.Sanjay alleged that the administration thinks Mall Road to be the epicentre of the pandemic where scores of policemen are regularly seen bullying the common people. “There is no logic to the draconian step of imposing night curfew and closing all establishments on Sunday as the government has no statistics to prove that the spurt in Covid cases was due to tourists.”He added that the association has sent figures to the tourism department which show that hardly any tourism-related employees, employers or other staffers have been afflicted with the disease. In Shimla district, there are more positive cases in the suburbs and rural areas than in the main town frequented by the tourists.“The hotel industry has been fighting for survival during the past many months and was looking forward to the coming tourist season and there is no logic of the night curfew during the peak tourist season of Christmas and New Year,” he said.The hoteliers have also blamed the state government for the surge in Covid-19 cases and have claimed that the decision to reopen state borders was ill-planned and there was no regulation on the inflow of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-hoteliers-demand-lifting-of-night-curfew-for-holiday-season/story-C561v4uZEEP3eVZ9rtIoaI.html
17-12-2020||Kolkata||Switching sides: ‘History is repeating itself in West Bengal,’ says opposition||Even as Trinamool Congress supremo, Mamata Banerjee is crying foul and alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party has nibbled into her party, opposition leaders and political experts said it was the TMC which had started the practice of defection. They said the history is just repeating itself after a decade. On Wednesday, Banerjee had alleged that the BJP was calling up veteran leaders of her party, including the TMC’s state president, in a bid to break the party. The BJP has refuted the charges. “BJP called up Subrata Bakshi, TMC’s state president and a Rajya Sabha MP, and tried to fix a meeting. Anubrata Mondol (another TMC veteran) called me up from Birbhum district and said that he received a call from a BJP leader from Delhi who wanted to fix a meeting. Look at the audacity and the extent to which BJP can go. How dangerous? They don’t have the minimum courtesy,” said Banerjee, while speaking at a rally in Cooch Behar on Thursday. This is, however, not the first time that the TMC has accused the BJP of trying to break the party. The party chief had earlier alleged that the BJP was distributing money and using central agencies to scare TMC leaders into joining the BJP. “Those who got scared switched sides,” she said. Also read: Farmers protest at this stage should be allowed, observes SCWhile former TMC leaders and legislators including Mukul Roy, Saumitra Khan and Anupam Hazra had earlier switched sides and are now with the BJP holding seniors posts, the latest in the line was TMC MLA from Cooch Behar (south), Mihir Goswami. Former transport minister Suvendu Adhikari has also resigned and speculations are rife that he, along with a few other TMC leaders, could join the BJP soon. “A political party will not survive if it doesn’t have any policies and values. It can take birth but will not be able to sustain. The TMC came to power opposing the CPIM and the Congress and now except for abusing the Prime Minister and Union home minister and branding the BJP a communal party, they have no task. So the end of the TMC has started and no political leader will stay in that party. It is just a matter of time,” said Mukul Roy, BJP’s national vice president. Opposition leaders have hit back saying that it was Banerjee and her party who first started the trend of breaking other parties using force and now she is being paid back in the same coin.“History has a nasty habit of repeating itself and Banerjee is being paid back in the same coin. Several Congress legislators in the party’s bastions in Murshidabad and Malda were forced to quit and were threatened of being implicated in false cases if they don’t join TMC. Those who did the job for the TMC at that time are now with the BJP and are doing the same thing with her,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha. Several Congress leaders and legislators including Manas Bhunia, Ajoy De, Saumitra Khan, Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury and Humayun Kabir had deserted the party since 2011 to join the TMC. Some have been given ministerial berths. Similarly, legislators and leaders from various Left parties, including Chhaya Dolai, Anantadeb Adhikary Dasarath Tirkey and Sunil Mandal, had joined the TMC over the past 10 years. “Many a time during the Left Front’s regime it happened that there was a neck-to-neck tie with the TMC which was then in the opposition. We, however, made no efforts to break into the TMC. It was Banerjee’s party which started this game after she came to power in 2011. Since then, multiple legislators from various Left parties have joined the TMC,” said Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the assembly.While Khan deserted the TMC to join the BJP later on, Mandal, now a TMC MLA, has already expressed his disgruntlement and has threatened to resign. Also read: China puts the pedal to the metal on vaccine diplomacy. There are concerns“Those who are suffering from an existential crisis are making such baseless allegations. Mamata Banerjee has been working for the people and will continue to do so. There would not be any difference if one or two leaders switch sides,” said Chandrima Bhattacharya, state minister and senior TMC leader. The TMC had won 184 seats out of the 294 assembly seats in the 2011 elections when it came to power overthrowing 34 years of Left Front regime. The seat count increased to 211 in 2016 elections. Political experts also said that defection has never been the practice in West Bengal barring one in the 60’s. It was a practice which started after 2011. “Defection was never the trend in Bengal politics. But the TMC government started this. Opposition leaders were roped in either by force or by luring them. Now, the TMC is at the receiving end,” said Amal Kumar Mukhopadhyay, political commentator and former principal of Presidency College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/switching-sides-history-is-repeating-itself-in-west-bengal-says-opposition/story-wJ41zTCHl3dM12PCZoaP0K.html
17-12-2020||Bhopal||PM Modi’s virtual address to MP farmers to be telecast live across 23k villages||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers virtually in a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, a day after hundreds of farmers from the state, under the banner of Ekta Parishad, started foot march from Morena, the home district of Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, to support the farmers’ protest in the national capital demanding repeal of three central farm laws.The PM’s virtual address will be telecast live across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh, a state government official said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will join the programme from Raisen. During the event, the state government will transfer Rs 1,600 crore to the accounts of 3.5 million farmers as relief funds against crop loss, said the official of public relation department.“The previous Congress-led state government did injustice with the farmers by not transferring relief funds into their accounts. The previous Congress government did not even deposit the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna. But BJP is determined to work for the welfare of farmers. We have already deposited the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna and are now going to transfer relief funds,” the chief minister said.Also read: Farmers protest should be allowed, observes SCOn Wednesday, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya had said that farmers in Malwa are supporting the farm laws and are ready to show the support. Addressing farmers’ meet in Indore, Vijaywargiya said, “Four lakh farmers in on 1 lakh tractors are ready to march towards Delhi in support of the law. They are just waiting for the nod of cabinet minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan. It will take only 10 days to reach Delhi from Malwa region.” Pradhan was also present at the meeting.On the other hand, hundreds of farmers under the banner of Ekta Parishad started foot march from Morena to Dholpur in Rajasthan on Thursday against the farm laws. Ekta Parishad president PV Rajgopal said farmers from across MP have joined the march. “The foot march will end in Dholpur on Saturday and thereafter, we will leave for Delhi in vehicles. Our motive is not a protest but to resolve the problem. We are willing to convince the Central government in favour of farmers,” said Rajgopal.MP Kisan Congress state president Dinesh Gurjar, local Congress MLAs Ravindra Singh Tomar and Ajab Singh Kushwaha are participating in the march. Some local tribal leaders are also taking part in the march. A tribal leader, Kasturi, who only uses first name, said, “We are supporting the protest because it is a fight for the rights of farmers.” Earlier too, Ekta Parishad held a successful Jan Satyagraha on October 2, 2012, against then UPA government demanding National Land Reforms Act. Former Union minister of rural development Jairam Ramesh had agreed to draft a national land reform act to help poor and homeless people on the sixth day of the march.MP Congress Committee also announced to stage protest on December 19 in districts of MP to support the farmers’ protest. Former chief minister and MPCC president Kamal Nath, Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh and other leaders will participate in the protest.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting at Delhi borders since November 27 braving the chilly nights asking the Central government to scrap the three farm laws passed in the monsoon session of Parliament in September. Farmers in different parts of India have held demonstrations to support the protests around the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/pm-modi-s-virtual-address-to-madhya-pradesh-farmers-to-be-telecast-live-across-23k-villages/story-W4KvtauIvuLuvjzIobNJzM.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves IOCL’s proposal to set up compressed biogas plant||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday gave in-principle approval to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) for setting up a compressed biogas (CBG) plant at the site of closed cooperative sugar mills at Rakhra in Patiala.The plant, to be developed in collaboration with Sugarfed, will help reduce stubble burning through use of paddy straw for biogas generation, and will also nurture soil fertility through organic manure production, according to a government statement here.The decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here.The upcoming CBG plant, which will create direct and indirect employment opportunities, will have capacity of 30 tonnes CBG (compressed bio gas) production, with daily feedstock capacity of approximately 300 tonnes of paddy straw per day.It would also generate organic manure to the tune of about 75,000 tonnes per annum.Moreover, CBG being an environment-friendly fuel with the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 98 per cent, the plant would help in minimising dependency on fossil fuels, and thus become a major contributor to promoting circular economy.The CBG plant would also be instrumental in reducing stubble burning in fields, thereby containing air pollution in Punjab.It will also thus help in augmenting the savings of farmers, as well as in restoring soil fertility and carbon content, the statement said.Apart from these, it would also provide additional income or revenue to the state government through tax on sale of CBG produced from the proposed plant.At a cabinet sub-committee meeting, headed by Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, IOCL had informed that the project would involve production of biogas from rice straw and other biomass at an estimated cost of Rs 180 crore.IOCL would procure straw from farmers through cooperative societies. The rates for purchase/supply of rice straw would be settled after mutual negotiations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-approves-iocl-s-proposal-to-set-up-compressed-biogas-plant/story-28Ib0NDOhLFore5xuyNIlJ.html
17-12-2020||City||Hizbul Mujahideen militant held after gunfight in Anantnag||A militant was arrested in an injured condition during an encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said.A police spokesman said after receiving specific inputs, a checkpoint was established at Sangam Naina road near Gund Baba Khaleel area of Anantnag. “During checking, two suspected persons riding a motorcycle were signalled to stop. However, the pillion rider fired upon the joint party in order to escape. The fire was retaliated, leading to a brief encounter, in which an active militant got injured while the motorcyclist managed to escape from the spot. After receiving gunshot injuries, the militant was arrested by the joint party and shifted to hospital for treatment,” the spokesman said. The militant was identified as Zaheer Abbas Lone of Pulwama. He is affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen. “Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered from the site of encounter. All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe their complicity in other terror crimes. A case under relevant sections of law has been registered and investigation has been initiated,” the spokesman said.CRPF personnel hurt in grenade attackA CRPF personnel was injured in a grenade attack in Anantnag on Thursday. The militants had lobbed the grenade on a joint deployment of police and CRPF at Bijbhera area. “A CRPF personnel of 40 BN CRPF got injured in the attack The injured personnel was evacuated to nearby hospital for the treatment,” an official said.A case has been registered and the area has been cordoned off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hizbul-mujahideen-militant-held-after-gunfight-in-anantnag/story-wQiVjBgcw6mPJBKMocBshJ.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Congress, NCP bat for Pune civic polls on ballot paper||PUNE: Following the success in graduate and teachers’ constituency polls, the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) local units have demanded municipal corporation polls to be conducted on ballot paper instead of electronic voting machine (EVM).Congress leader and former city unit president Abhay Chhajed said, “Many developed countries with better technology are still holding elections on ballot paper. The recently US elections were conducted on ballot papers and the results were declared after two-three days. Why are we in a hurry? We are using EVM for fast counting of votes.”Chhajed said, “There are some doubts in the mind of political workers and voters. It is my opinion that polls should be conducted on ballot paper. I am following the issue with state-level leaders for the municipal elections slated in a year. Even senior leaders are shown positive response.”NCP city unit president and MLA Chetan Tupe said, “Many political parties have raised objections for EVM. Recently in the graduate constituency, elections were held on ballot paper and results are different. For the last many years, it is considered that the educated and middle class are not voting for the Congress and NCP. The BJP also carried out maximum voter registrations. Yet, for the first time, the Congress and NCP made history in the graduate constituency. The outcome was same in Nagpur and other regions.”Tupe said, “It shows that graduate and middle-class people are voting for the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena too. The EVM practice shows that they are not our voters. We claim that if the elections are conducted on ballot paper, the results in municipal elections will also be different.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congress-ncp-bat-for-pune-civic-polls-on-ballot-paper/story-sm6zN2nb9L2ZWdc2LDIP4O.html
17-12-2020||City||68.43%, 58.64% voter turnout recorded in round 7 of panch, sarpanch bypolls in J&K||The seventh phase of the panch and sarpanch bypolls in Jammu and Kashmir held on Wednesday has recorded 68.43% and 58.64% voter turnout respectively, state election commissioner KK Sharma said on Thursday.He said the panch bypolls were held in 438 vacant seats in the seventh phase. Out of a total 76,866 electors (including 39,727 men and 37,139 women), 52,599 people voted during the bypolls for which 1,000 candidates were in fray. Sharma said Jammu division recorded 72.95% and Kashmir 68.22% voter turnout in this phase for panch seats. Similarly, he said 58.64% voting was registered on vacant 69 sarpanch constituencies in which out of a total of 1,12,856 electors (including 59,114 men and 53,742 women), 66,175 people voted to choose their representatives. He added that 74.92% polling was registered in Jammu division whereas Kashmir saw 52.72% turnout for sarpanch bypolls. Sharma said for sarpanch bypolls in Jammu division, Udhampur district recorded the highest voter turnout of 81.38% followed by 80.16% in Reasi and 77.68% in Rajouri. Similarly in Kashmir division, Bandipora district topped with 68.82% followed by 54.54% in Budgam and 53.02% in Baramulla. While giving information about the highest voter turnout in both the divisions, the SEC said that in panch bypolls, Bandipora recorded the highest voter turnout of 75.66% in Kashmir division followed by Ganderbal 75.06% and Kupwara 71.22%. Similarly, Rajouri topped the polling percentage with 84.85% followed by Reasi 83.98% and Doda 78.38%, he added. The SEC said the polling was peaceful and smooth across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/68-43-58-64-voter-turnout-recorded-in-round-7-of-panch-sarpanch-bypolls-in-j-k/story-EILiTa0SFboXvtjl5J0qCO.html
17-12-2020||Kolkata||Second setback: Jitendra Tiwari quits TMC ahead of Amit Shah’s visit; may join BJP||In a second loss to Trinamool Congress party within 24 hours, MLA Jitendra Tiwari on Thursday exited the party stating that he has not being allowed to work for the people.The MLA has also resigned from his post of primary member of the party. Tiwari becomes the second leader to resign from the party within a span of 24 hours, following the footsteps of rebel TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari who resigned from the party on Wednesday.“I have resigned from the post of the chairman of the Board of Administrators of Asansol Municipal Corporation. If I am not allowed to work, what will I do with the post? So, I resigned,” Tiwari was quoted as saying by the news agency PTI.“There is no point in continuing in the TMC as I am not being allowed to work for the people,” Tiwari alleged.His exit comes when the speculations are rife with reports of TMC leaders switching parties and joining Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), even as the chief minister Mamata Banerjee has alleged that BJP leaders are trying to coerce her party members to exit and join the “saffron camp”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/second-setback-jitendra-tiwari-quits-tmc-ahead-of-amit-shah-s-visit-may-join-bjp/story-QfnFoxi91dIIPD82JNPKOM.html
17-12-2020||Pune||India’s first Waqf liaison centre set up in Pune||Pune: The country’s first Waqf liaison centre is been set up in Pune by prominent philanthropist, Fareed Tungekar, in association with a city-based NGO. The office will serve as a platform for Waqf research and development in the country, where legal experts, serving and retired Waqf board officials, including officials from the central and state governments, will guide trustees on various aspects of the Waqf’s SOPs. The office is in Kondhwa and will be inaugurated by state minister Nawab Malik and Vishwajeet Kadam on Friday, being recognised as Minorities’ Day. Former income tax chief commissioner A J Khan and chief advisor of the Maharashtra Waqf Liberation and Protection Task Force, a nationwide organisation handling Waqf and legal issues, said that the centre has been set up to guide the community regarding Waqf protection and development. “The waqf lands available with the Muslim community are precious and have to be utilised for socio-economic development. Also, a number of encroachments have been present on Waqf land which need to be removed. We will create awareness about how to legally fight such type of cases and develop Waqf lands for starting schools, colleges, hospitals, skill development centres, and providing scholarship to the poor and the needy,” Khan said. Saleem Mulla, president of the Waqf liaison centre task force, said, “The centre will legally take up all the issues related to Waqf with the central and state governments with special focus on education, health and skill development in the Muslim community. Currently, our focus will be on setting up of a national skills university for Muslims in Pune, which was already sanctioned by previous CM Devendra Fadnavis; 100 acres of land and Rs 100 crore corpus fund has been donated,” he said. Khan said, “Now with the liaison centre, we will guide all the parties in pursuing the path of Waqf for national development by investing Waqf wealth in construction of schools, hospitals and universities.” What is Waqf?Waqf means to stop, retain, prevent from transfer any kind of property so declared. The intention of the “waqif”, the person assigning the property/properties, immovable or movable, is of prime importance. Generally Waqf properties are “Fi Sabeelillah” in nature meaning (for God, creation of God, the weak, the needy, the wayfarer, the community at large for religious and secular uses)Maharashtra has over 100,000 acres of Waqf land. The total estimated value of Waqf land in Pune is Rs 10,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/india-s-first-waqf-liaison-centre-set-up-in-pune/story-4CxBDJ8dEDeAsn9eAU06kJ.html
17-12-2020||Pune||SPPU, Guardian Giripremi join hands for courses on mountaineering||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM), Pune tie up to develop courses on mountaineering. While SPPU will launch the adventure and mountaineering studies as part of its innovative initiatives, GGIM will provide professional expertise to conduct trainings, research and inputs for curriculum development. The memorandum of understanding (MOU) was signed in the presence of SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar, pro-vice-chancellor NS Umarani, GGIM director Umesh Zirpe and senior officials from both the institutions on Wednesday. “The courses details will be announced soon and shall benefit students, professionals and others common individuals interested in the initiative. SPPU is the first university to offer certificate and diploma courses in mountaineering and adventure,” said Prof Karmalkar. SPPU’s sports department director Deepak Mane said, “Continuing our engagements with various professionals, this initiative will help students and other stakeholders to get training for practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-guardian-giripremi-join-hands-for-courses-on-mountaineering/story-qpMlu2zQmnGGW4Yg6NydZP.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Rahim’s tomb: Delhi’s monument of love gets new lease of life after six-year conservation||Rahim’s tomb, Delhi’s own monument of love built nearly 50 years before the iconic Taj Mahal, which stood in a ruinous condition with a “risk of collapse” has finally received a new lease of life after six-year-long “monumental conservation” work.A multi-disciplinary team of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), in partnership with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and support of a corporate conglomerate, worked extensively on the project which married traditional craftsmanship with cutting-edge technology.“After completing the ambitious Humayun’s Tomb conservation project in 2014, we began work on the tomb of Abdur Rahim Khan-i-Khanan located in Nizamuddin area. And thus began a journey of restoring the tomb of a man who was a celebrated poet, a nobleman and one of the ‘Navratnas’ in Akbar’s court,” said AKTC CEO, Ratish Nanda.“He also patronised construction of monumental buildings - canals, tanks, enclosed gardens - in Agra, Lahore, Delhi and Burhanpur, among other Indian cities,” Nanda said. The Delhi-based conservation architect said the restored tomb was the mausoleum that Rahim had built in 1598 for his wife, Mah Banu. It is the grandest of his surviving buildings, inspired by the architectural style of Humayun’s Tomb (built in 1558) and, in turn, inspiring the Taj Mahal completed in (1653) as historian Percy Brown had reckoned, Nanda said. Upon his death, Rahim was also buried in the same mausoleum.According to AKTC, with 1,75,000 man-days of work by master craftsmen, this is perhaps the “largest conservation effort” ever undertaken at any monument of national importance in India post-Independence, and also the “first ever privately undertaken conservation effort” under the Corporate Social Responsibility.“The project was very complex and full of challenges. The volume of work involved and using both traditional knowledge and state-of-the-art technology, we overcame various challenges. InterGlobe Foundation’s support through their CSR funds helped in sustaining the project work, which given its complexity was carried out literally on a monumental scale over six years,” Nanda said.He said the cultural site that sits next to the main road in Nizamuddin area is slated to be re-opened to the public from Thursday evening.Nanda said before starting the actual conservation work, an extensive research was conducted on the monument, including from the archives.“The last time a major architectural intervention was in the 1920s when the ASI had provided masonry support to overhanging sandstone blocks on the facade – saving the structure from sure collapse. These early 20th century repairs, using Delhi quartzite stone, have been retained during the present conservation effort,” he added.The lofty double dome was originally clad with marble said to have been quarried from here, as older buildings tended to be. Though several peer reviews suggested completing the marble cladding on the dome, on the advice of the ASI restoration of marble cladding was limited to the base. This served the dual purpose of strengthening the base as well as to indicate to visitors the original finish of the dome, according to AKTC.“As in Humayun’s Tomb project, we used 3D laser scanning to identify the cracks, which is a very effective tool. Also, on cleaning layers of soot and 20th century paint layers, the principal tomb chamber and five arched bays on each facade of the ground level arcade were found to be ornamented with breathtaking incised plaster patterns,” Nanda said.Rahim had ornamented his wife’s mausoleum with diverse motifs in plaster and stone, the AKTC said.“As with his poetry, these patterns include both geometric and floral patterns commonly seen in mausoleums, but also patterns seen in Hindu buildings, like ‘swastik’ and peacock. Each of the arches of the ground level arcade boast of medallions of varying designs in the spandrels of the arches. Where there was evidence of original design, the medallions were restored, carefully matching the quality of the 16th century craftsmen,” it said. Nanda said Rahim’s tomb, situated beside Mathura Road, is important also for the syncretic cultural legacy that he has left behind and it is very much part of the city’s skyline, adding another layer of aesthetics to the historic Nizamuddin area.   “His own atelier produced beautifully illustrated translations of the Ramayan and Mahabharata into Persian and a set of Ragamala paintings. On account of his poetry and dohas, drawings from the Hindu religious narratives and customs of veneration, Rahim is often compared with the Bhakti movement poets – Surdas, Tulsidas, Kabir,” Nanda said.The conservation effort on the monument has included celebrating Rahim’s cultural legacy too.Two major publications, ‘Celebrating Rahim’ and ‘Abdur Rahim Khan-i-khanan – Kavya, Saundarya, Sarthakta’ have been produced. Both include new research by several scholars on the multi-faceted Rahim and his literary achievements, he added.Built on the riverbank, Rahim’s garden mausoleum stood within an enclosed garden stretching to the Arab Serai in the Humayun’s Tomb complex to the north. “Sadly, much of this was lost in the 20th century when residential neighbourhoods were built here. More recently, a road to the southern side of the mausoleum disrupted the historic link with the river – now, Barapullah Nallah,” according to AKTC.“From the centre of the southern river-facing facade, a vaulted passage leads to the crypt chamber with a unique circumambulatory path around the grave platform. Above this stands the lofty tomb chamber roofed by a double dome. Stone medallions of numerous designs, incised plaster patterns including the sacred ‘swastika’, floral motifs on the wall surfaces adorn the structure,” it said.A conservation effort of this magnitude and complexity required to benefit from a wide spectrum of advice, and “over 60 independent peer reviews have been carried out since 2015,” Nanda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rahim-s-tomb-delhi-s-monument-of-love-gets-new-lease-of-life-after-six-year-conservation/story-eydTrpb6ygWAO9WdwGfiFP.html
17-12-2020||Lucknow||‘It will be the best’: CM Yogi okays name, logo, design of Jewar airport||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the Noida International Airport, coming up at Jewar in Gautam Buddha Nagar, would be the best and that the state government will leave no stone unturned in making it a world-class airport. Yogi, who viewed a presentation on the airport, said it would be a pride of India and would come up as a global brand. He said the airport would add to the development of industrial infrastructure, boost tourism, promote exports, ease air traffic and lead to creation of more jobs. He said the civil aviation sector is a means of making multi-dimensional progress that would lead to economic development. The Uttar Pradesh government has selected Zurich Airport International AG for the development of Jewar airport. Giving his nod to name, logo and design of the Jewar airport, Yogi said the state government would provide all possible help for its development. The logo of the new airport has the state bird Saras (crane) on it and its design has been prepared on the pattern of world-class airports in London, Moscow and Milan. Also read: ‘Farm laws made to ensure poll funding for BJP’: Kejriwal’s sharp jibe at CentreUP’s director and special secretary, civil aviation, Surendra Singh said the master plan of the new airport has been sent to the union civil aviation ministry for approval. He said, as per terms of the concession agreement, the process of signing the support agreement has to be done by April 5, 2021. Singh said a letter in this regard has been sent and the same may be completed this month. Singh said the new airport would have two runways. The number of runways will later be increased to five. It will initially have a passenger capacity of 12 million per year. It would be developed in four phases and would have an annual capacity of flying 70 million passengers in 2050, he said. Singh informed the chief minister that district magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar has acquired 1,334 hectares of land for the airport. He said along with this, 48.097 hectare of land has been acquired for resettlement and rehabilitation purpose. He said, as of now, the land has been acquired for the development of two runways while 3,418 hectares more would be acquired for developing three more runways. Also read: ‘Blatant misuse of power,’ says Mamata on MHA’s fresh letter on IPS officersTimeline*Union civil aviation ministry gave site clearance on July 6, 2017. *Financial bids were opened on November 29, 2019, and Zurich Airport International AG quoted maximum premium of Rs 400.97 per passenger. *UP government selected the Zurich company on December 16, 2019. *Environment clearance was granted on March 9, 2020. *Union civil aviation ministry gave in-principle approval on May 4, 2018, and security clearance on May 18, 2020. *Zurich International Airport AG’s SPV Yamuna International Airport and Uttar Pradesh government’s Noida International Airport signed concession agreement on October 7, 2020. *Concessioner Yamuna International Airport made a presentation about master plan of Noida International Airport on December 4, 2020, and the same has been sent to the Union civil aviation ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/it-will-be-the-best-cm-yogi-okays-name-logo-design-of-jewar-airport/story-Ahyi1fLDT9fMyuWACOLxzK.html
17-12-2020||City||Jai Ram virtually inaugurates ‘She Haat’ in Sirmour district||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday virtually inaugurated ₹70 lakh ‘She Haat’, a wayside amenities rural haat, a local shop, restaurant, guest room and Kaushal Vikas Kendra at Bagh Pashog village in Pachhad assembly constituency of Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmour district.Thakur said the entire project is being run by a group of 25 SHG women to empower them for self employment by selling traditional, natural, organic produce and also serve Pahari food and provide home stay facilities to visitors. The CM said the ‘She Haat’ also has a two bedroom guesthouse, solar power plant, rainwater harvesting system and waste composting, acupressure track and air purifying plants. It has e-vehicle for women to easily ply from their houses and will also be used to ferry natural spring water, he added. Thakur said the women in this ‘She Haat’ will work in three shifts. “The state government is committed to expand this experiment in other parts of Himachal as it will provide employment opportunities to rural women,” he added. He said people of the Pachhad area had given their wholehearted support in the by elections and BJP candidate Reena Kashyap won by a huge margin. He urged the people to elect honest, hardworking and dedicated candidates in the Panchayati Raj Institutions polls so that the pace of development gets a boost at the grassroot level. MP Suresh Kashyap said the ‘She Haat’ is an innovative scheme envisioned by the CM for women empowerment and making them economically independent. He said the state government has initiated several schemes for ensuring empowerment of women and other weaker sections of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-virtually-inaugurates-she-haat-in-sirmour-district/story-oYuMb6l2anTJ5T4d9LhBoL.html
17-12-2020||City||Cold wave continues in Himachal, dense fog likely in six districts tomorrow||Cold wave conditions continued in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday as the minimum and maximum temperatures remained three to four degrees below normal. However, weather was mostly clear throughout the state with dense fog in plains and lower hills and frost in middle and higher reaches. The state’s meterological department has issued a yellow warning of dense fog and cold wave for Friday in isolated places of Bilaspur, Una, Hamirpur, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur districts.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said visibility will be less than 500 metres in isolated places of these districts, which will lead to disruption of traffic movement and crops in these areas are likely be damaged by frost. He advised people to stay updated. The weather will remain dry throughout the state till December 23. Minimum temperature in Shimla was 2.7°C while Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded minus 1.2°C, 1.2°C, 0.4°C and 1.4°C respectively. Minimum temperature in Una was 1.5°C, minus 1.6°C in Solan, 0°C in Palampur, 3°C in Bilaspur, 2.7°C in Hamirpur, 2.5°C in Nahan, 1.1°C in Mandi and minus 4.5°C in Kalpa of Kinnaur district. Keylong was coldest at minus 8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cold-wave-continues-in-himachal-dense-fog-likely-in-six-districts-tomorrow/story-g6j76ypt73t4xTwFWpsIcM.html
17-12-2020||City||HPPSC announces tentative schedule for 21 exams to be conducted in 2021||The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has issued the tentative dates for various examinations, including Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) to be conducted in 2021. The HPAS combined competitive preliminary examination is scheduled to be held on the last Sunday of May 2021 while the HPAS combined competitive mains examination is tentatively scheduled for first week of August 2021.Secretary, HPPSC, Ashutosh Garg said the commission has issued tentative schedule of computer-based examinations for the upcoming months of 2021. The advance schedule of examinations has been issued so that prospective candidates can prepare timely course of action. “The tentative dates of examination are subject to availability of venues and conducive conditions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.Examinations for the posts of manager (general) in HP General Industries Corporation under the department of industries, HP works manager in HRTC under the department of transport, assistant professor (architecture) in the department of technical education, planning officer in the department of town and country planning, veterinary officer in the department of animal are tentatively scheduled for February, 2021 while examinations for the post of lecturer, Applied Science and Humanities (Polytechnic), English in the department of technical education, lecturer, Applied Science and Humanities (Polytechnic) Mathematics in the department of technical education, lecturer, Applied Science and Humanities (Polytechnic) Chemistry in the department of technical education, lecturer, Computer Engineering (Polytechnic) in the department of technical education, lecturer, Electronics and Communication Engineering (Polytechnic) in the department of technical education are tentatively scheduled for March 2021.Examination for the post of civil judge (preliminary) is tentatively scheduled for first Sunday of March 2021 while civil judge (mains) exam is tentatively scheduled for last week of March 2021. Examinations for the post of workshop superintendent (Polytechnic) in the department of technical education, lecturer, Mechanical Engineering (Polytechnic) in the department of technical education and lecturer, Automobile Engineering (Polytechnic) in the department of technical education will be held in April 2021.Range Forest Officer (Preliminary) exam will be conducted during the second week of April, 2021 while Range Forest Officer (Mains) exam will be conducted during last week of June 2021. Besides, examinations for the posts of assistant engineer (civil and electrical) in the department of public works will be conducted in May, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hppsc-announces-tentative-schedule-for-21-exams-to-be-conducted-in-2021/story-AEysYN9DzhMuT7GaoryWiJ.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Can’t allow residential areas to become protest sites: Delhi HC on petition against sit-in outside CM Kejriwal’s house||Hearing a contempt plea against the protest outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, the Delhi high court on Thursday said it cannot allow a residential colony to become a designated site for protest, Ramlila Maidan or Jantar Mantar. “There is no problem if you come, protest and then go away. But this is going on for 11 days. Once you set a precedent, anyone will come and squat there. If this is permitted for all times to come, then you know what is the state of certain areas, like Ramlila ground and Jantar Mantar, where squatting and protests are permitted? We cannot have that kind of situation in a residential colony,” the court said.It also said that right to protest is a fundamental right under the Constitution but it should not go to such an extent where their (protesters’) right to protest gets hampered.The plea was filed by the Civil Lines Residents Association against the protest outside Kejriwal’s residence on the grounds that it was blocking a road and causing inconvenience to the residents. The mayors of the three municipal corporations have been protesting outside Kejriwal’s residence seeking release of funds and clearance of alleged pending dues.The association has contended that the protest has been permitted in a residential area and roads leading there have been barricaded in violation of the high court’s earlier order of 2017 restricting dharnas in residential areas.The court observed that tents had come up in the area and there were news reports that the mayors were going to run their offices from there. The judge sought to know from the city police how offices could be run from there and also what arrangements were in place for the protesters to go about their daily routines.It said, “Public functionaries deal with all kinds of people. Today, it is one group of people who are protesting, the staff is protesting...But once a precedent is set, tomorrow, there will be another group of people protesting there and then you will come running,” the court said.The matter would be now heard on December 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-t-allow-residential-areas-to-become-protest-sites-delhi-hc-on-petition-against-sit-in-outside-cm-kejriwal-s-house/story-pRHTBa1ca5T92fKIkpBFOK.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Operation flush out: Pune police arrest 50 criminals in crackdown||In a combing operation on Tuesday the city police under the direction of police commissioner Amitabh Gupta has arrested over fifty criminals.Police seized as many as 40 choppers, five swords, three countrymade firearms and nine live cartridges during the crackdown which lasted for twenty-four hours.Officials said the combing operation was conducted by Pune city police on December 15 (9pm to 1am) involving five zonal deputy commissioners of police and deputy commissioner of police (crime), 12 assistant commissioners of police, 30 inspectors of police stations, nine crime branch field units, and their teams and 28 probationary sub-inspectors.Joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve and, additional CP(crime) Ashok Morale supervised the operation. Morale said, “The crackdown was part of an “operation flush out” launched against the criminals in the city and the action was effective in spreading a message amongst the wrongdoers.”More than 1,213 criminals under various heads were checked and 57 were found with weapons (five with pistols, others with sharp-edged weapons), and cases under Arms Act registered against them.As many as 223 externees were checked, out of which nine were found (six by crime branch) and 142 cases were registered against them under the Bombay Police Act.Also, five pistols and nine rounds were seized by the crime branch, along with 30 sharp-edged weapons.Anti-narcotics cell conducted checking of offenders of narcotics and seized 12 gms MD and 1.2kg ganja.Social security cell checked lodges and rescued three victims and arrested one accused in the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA) case.Anti-extortion cell checked 328 gang members and 79 were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/operation-flush-out-pune-police-arrest-50-criminals-in-crackdown/story-sedhJxJOlJMTUx2ZgpUVZO.html
17-12-2020||Kolkata||Deputy Election Commissioner oversees poll preparedness in Bengal||Amid high-pitched political campaigns for next year’s battle of ballots in West Bengal, Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain on Thursday held hectic parleys with district officials to review poll preparedness across the state.Sources close to the chief electoral officer in Bengal said Jain, who arrived in the city on Wednesday night, will be interacting with government officials over the next two days.He is also likely to coordinate with health officials to find out about the Covid-19 safety measures that need to be put in place during the poll process.The opposition BJP had earlier claimed that free and fair polls cannot be held under the state administration, and sought the deployment of central forces in the run-up to the elections.The ruling TMC quashed the claim and said the saffron party would keep looking for such excuses as it would need them to justify its electoral reverses later.Assembly polls are slated to be held in the state in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/deputy-election-commissioner-oversees-poll-preparedness-in-bengal/story-6PXtnMDxV8rdwo6BZat1CN.html
17-12-2020||Pune||One injured, 8 vehicles damaged in multi-vehicle pile-up on Mumbai-Bengaluru highway||An autorickshaw driver was injured after the vehicle was hit by a sixteen-tyre truck leading to a multi-vehicle pile-up at Navale bridge on the bypass of Mumbai-Bengaluru highway Wednesday morning.The injured man has been identified as Ashok Arjun Nagarkar (46), while the accused has been identified as Raosaheb Murlidhar Kute (39).The injured was rushed to the hospital and currently is out of danger, traffic police stated.At least eight vehicles were damaged in the accident and traffic was disrupted for over an hour following the accident, said officials of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.Praveen Jarde, police sub-inspector attached to the police station, said, “After hitting an autorickshaw, the truck dashed against at least eight vehicles mainly cars which resulted in a multi-vehicle pile-up. The driver of the heavy-duty truck lost control over the steering which led to the accident. “The driver has been booked for rash driving and a case is lodged at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station,” he said.DCP (traffic) Rahul Srirame said that the accident took place around 10 am on Wednesday. “The cause of the accident is being ascertained and one person has been injured. The vehicle pile-up has been removed and cranes were brought in to clear the accident spot.”“It is the sixth accident which took place at the same spot on Navale bridge,” he said.In November three people were killed and six others were injured in an accident at the same spot.The police in their observations said that drivers taking advantage of the slope shut down the engine to save fuel causing brake failure and accidents. The authorities, a few months back, have put up warnings on roadsides near the accident-prone stretch alerting drivers to not shut engine or put on neutral gear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-injured-8-vehicles-damaged-in-multi-vehicle-pile-up-on-mumbai-bengaluru-highway/story-4EL8dEJd4k5eALQ0FFCg1K.html
17-12-2020||City||Madhya Pradesh: Four arrested for killing man by putting adhesive in his mouth, nose||Four persons including a minor were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing a man by first putting a heavy duty adhesive in his mouth and nose in a bid to suffocate him to death and then stabbing him. The crime was reported from Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal, police said. “Two brothers, 19, and 16, both residents of a village in Morena district, killed their maternal uncle, 22-year-old Girraj Kushwaha, on December 9. They had Brahmjeet Kushwaha, 21 and Dileep Kushwaha, 22, as their accomplices. Girraj’s body was recovered on December 12 near Pagara dam in Joura,” said Anurag Sujaniya, superintendent of police, Morena. The SP said, “Girraj was fond of a cousin of the accused. The family had fixed the girl’s marriage with Brahmjeet but Girraj threatened him not to marry the girl. Upset with Girraj, the accused decided to kill him.” “The minor, Brahmjeet and Dileep took Girraj to a house in Pachbegha area in Joura on December 9. They beat him up and later the two brothers put a heavy duty adhesive in his mouth after tying his hands and legs. Once the man fell unconscious, the accused stabbed him and threw him near the dam,” said Sujaniya. Police recovered two bikes, a knife and two empty tubes of the adhesive. The accused were produced before the court on Thursday which sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/madhya-pradesh-four-arrested-for-killing-man-by-putting-adhesive-in-his-mouth-nose/story-Zdz8pw7TJuEC0GQzsLFbVP.html
17-12-2020||Pune||State government approves merger of 23 areas in Pune civic body||Days after the urban development department sought an impact report from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) regarding the inclusion of 23 areas – originally villages surrounding Pune – into Pune city limits, the state government has finally given its nod for the merger. Once these areas, which are newly emerged hotspots for real estate given the cheap land prices, are part of Pune Municipal Corporation limits, the city’s boundary will increase substantially from 331 square km to 485 square km. Minister for urban development Eknath Shinde on Tuesday signed an order, paving the way for the merger. Nationalist Congress Party’s city unit president and MLA Chetan Tupe while confirming the development said, that with the order in place, the merger of these areas into Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits will soon begin.“Minister Eknath Shinde has signed the proposal for merging 23 villages in the PMC. Deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has been aggressive about merging these villages into the PMC limits. As the minister has given the nod, the Urban Development Department will make a public resolution for it by completing the administrative process soon,” said Tupe, who also heads the NCP city unit. These 34 areas were scheduled to merge in the city in 2014 though political controversy stopped their inclusion. In 2017, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government in the state finally facilitated merger of only 11 villages in the PMC limit and promised to merge, the other 23 villages in a phase-wise manner. The move of the merger assumes significance for the NCP and Congress given that these two parties have political control over these areas, which will help them during the 2022 civic polls. As the municipal elections are slated in early 2022, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has expedited merger of these villages in PMC before the elections. A senior official from PMC said merging these areas into PMC is good. “It would help start proper development of these villages. Though they are part of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), they did not have enough machinery to carry out the development process,” said the official requesting anonymity. This officer said that while taking the decision on the merger, the state government must give funds to the PMC to erect basis infrastructure like road, waterlines, drainage and electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-government-approves-merger-of-23-areas-in-pune-civic-body/story-CJj6EzX2l08ypmdOirLeZM.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||HC decision on Metro car shed work ‘unfortunate’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the Bombay High Court’s decision to stay construction of the Metro car shed in Kanjurmarg here is “unfortunate”, and that the project is a matter of development of Mumbai and Maharashtra.Talking to reporters here, Raut launched a veiled attack on the BJP, accusing the opposition of creating hurdles in the development of Maharashtra as the party is not in power in the state, and said there was a “conspiracy” to not allow the MVA government to work in the interest of people.He, however, said Maharashtra or its people cannot be “troubled” for long.“No politician is going to construct his/her bungalow or farm house at the Kanjurmarg land. This is a matter of development of Mumbai, Maharashtra and eventually of the country. It is unfortunate if such a decision has come in this case,” the Rajya Sabha member said.The Bombay High Court on Wednesday stayed the order passed by Mumbai suburban district collector allotting 102 acres of salt pan land in Kanjurmarg area here for the construction of an integrated metro car shed.A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also restrained the authorities from carrying out any construction work at the said land.The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the state for constructing the car shed depot which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony, a green belt in suburban Goregaon.The previous BJP-led government in the state had decided to construct the car shed for the Mumbai Metro line 3 at Aarey Colony, despite opposition from environmentalists and activists to the vast tree-cutting for the project.The present Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government -- comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress -- recently took a decision to shift the car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg.Raut said the previous Devendra Fadnavis government in the state was to construct a housing project for police and weaker sections on the Kanjurmarg site concerned.“That means the land belongs to the (state) government, isnt it?” he asked. “...but what has happened suddenly, it seems there is some conspiracy to see that the Maharashtra government is not allowed to carry out work in the interest of the people or development,” the Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson said.He said there are lakhs of other cases to which the judiciary should pay its attention.Referring to reports of a Sikh preacher committing suicide (in connection with farmers’ agitation), Raut said the Centre and judiciary should look into such matters.“People now have doubts in their minds whether such decisions (on car shed project) are coming because there is no BJP government in Maharashtra,” he alleged.After the HC’s decision, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday asked the state government to give up its “ego”.When asked about it, Raut quipped that the definition of “ego” needs to be checked now.Where is ego if the Aarey forest and animals there are saved by shifting the car shed project to Kanjurmarg? the Shiv Sena leader asked.“It (to save the forest and wildlife) is a national duty. It is the programme of the Centre to save tigers, jungle, birds and rivers. It is the programme of the Centre, of the Narendra Modi government,” he said.Despite the efforts to save the forest, the opposition in Maharashtra is “creating hurdles” in the work, which is not in the interest of Maharashtra and the people, he said.“The court should have understood this,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-decision-on-metro-car-shed-work-unfortunate-sanjay-raut/story-SNKgotZzjcRwRXZpjOtqoO.html
17-12-2020||Patna||Former MLA’s son murdered as Nitish battles onslaught over law and order||A former JD(U) MLA’s son, Prince Kumar, was shot dead in Bihar’s Saran district on Thursday. The incident took place near a post-mortem house falling under Bhagwan Bazar police station area. Police recovered the body soon after receiving information that the youth was lying in a pool of blood. The victim reportedly had head injuries that had bled profusely. A team of forensic experts, along with a dog squad, also reached the spot. Prince Kumar, son of former MLA late Ram Parvesh Rai, was allegedly shot from point blank range near post-mortem house, barely 300 metres from the Saran collectorate. Prince’s father was the JD(U) MLA from Chhapra in 2005 and the chairman of Saran district board. Police said Prince used to do trade in tyres in Chhapra town itself. His shop was located near the residence of the district board president. Police are currently investigating the reason behind the murder.DSP Muneshwar Kumar Singh said that police recovered a live bullet from the spot while two cell phones and Rs 1000 in cash were recovered from the possession of the deceased. Saran SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram, said the reason behind the incident could be old enmity, according to preliminary probe. A murder case has been registered against unknown men. The killing happened at a time when the opposition has been attacking Nitish Kumar dispensation on the law and order front. Opposition MLAs indicated that they were in no mood to spare the government over Prince Kumar’s killing, an incident that has sent shock-waves across the political spectrum. Also Read: JD (U) to analyse poll setback, future outside Bihar at national meet, WB elections top agend“The state government has to give a categorical answer on the law-and-order situation. It has to make clear who is patronising criminal elements,” Congress MLC Premchand Mishra told HT.RJD MLA Bhai Birendra said, “It is indeed a very serious matter. There is fear among the public and not a day passes off in Bihar without any major incident of crime. The situation is so poor that criminals do not fear the police and go scot-free after committing crime.”In Patna, a vegetable vendor identified as Kundan Kumar was gunned down in Bypass police station area when he was returning home. Police said that the incident took place at Mandai locality of the town, where the assailants intercepted Kumar and pumped three bullets into his body. He succumbed to his injury on the way to Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH).In another incident, a minor was killed at Charan village under Mali police station of Aurangabad. Police informed that the deceased was identified as the one-year-old son of Hariom Soni. SHO of the Mali police station Ramesh Kumar Singh said that a property dispute in the family was the reason behind the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/former-mla-s-son-murdered-as-nitish-battles-onslaught-over-law-and-order/story-GksJK53qP06hXUkCYBhAGI.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||PM’s ego stopping him from solving farmers’ issue despite deaths: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal joined followers of Baba Ram Singh at Nanaksar Gurdwara at Singhra village of Karnal district on Thursday to pay tributes to the religious leader who committed suicide at Singhu border in support of the farmers’ agitation. Baba Ram Singh, 65, shot himself in his car at Delhi’s Singhu border on Wednesday evening after accusing the Centre of insensitivity towards the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws for the past 22 days. Badal said, “Ram Singh ji was known for his lifelong contribution towards humanity. He had been visiting Delhi regularly and was in deep pain due to the insensitivity of the government towards the farmers. Nobody was listening to them so he took the extreme step.” Also read: ‘Protest a constitutional right but...’: Supreme Court hears plea seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi borders“I cannot understand why the ego of our Prime Minister is stopping him from solving this issue despite the supreme sacrifice of Baba Ram Singh and around 30 other farmers who lost their lives during this agitation,” the former deputy chief minister of Punjab said. He said that the farmers did not want the legislation but the Prime Minister and home minister were adamant and imposing it on them. The Shiromani Akali Dal, one of the oldest allies of the BJP, made a U-turn and snapped ties with the National Democratic Alliance in September with Harsimrat quitting as Union minister as protests picked up against the three farm laws that seek to liberalise the agriculture sector. The cremation of Baba Ram Singh will be held on Friday so that more followers can attend the last rites, gurdwara sources said. Heavy police deployment has been made in the village to deal with any untoward incident, Karnal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajiv Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-s-ego-stopping-him-from-solving-farmers-issue-despite-deaths-sukhbir/story-o7z9p8eTR5FCa2N5ip3QeJ.html
17-12-2020||Patna||JD (U) to analyse poll setback, future outside Bihar at national meet, WB elections top agenda||Top leaders of the ruling JD(U) in Bihar will hold deliberations at the party’s two-day national executive meeting to be chaired by JD(U)’s national president Nitish Kumar, beginning December 26 in Patna.The party is likely to deliberate on its performance in recently concluded Assembly polls and mull on the ways and means to revive the party not only in Bihar but in other states as well. The national executive is also likely to take a call on whether the party would contest assembly elections in West Bengal. “The two-day meeting will deliberate on the party’s performance in Bihar as to what went wrong besides chalk out plans to revitalise the party and its workers,” said K C Tyagi, principal national general secretary of the JD(U).“The party is serious about expanding itself in other states too, so a decision to contest elections outside Bihar can also be taken during the meeting,” Tyagi added. Party leaders said it will also analyse the causes of its poor performance in assembly polls in Bihar.As part of its plan to regroup the party workers, party’s national president Nitish Kumar had started frequenting the party office and begun interaction with party workers and office-bearers.Last meeting of the JD(U) national executive was held on October 30, 2019 in New Delhi when Nitish Kumar was re-elected party’s national president. “The meeting will be attended by all national and state office-bearers and it has been organised at newly-constructed Karpoori Thakur Sabhaghar at the party office in Patna,” said JD(U)’s spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan. The JD(U) national executive has 60 members and at present it has units in 28 states. Party leaders, who didn’t wish to be quoted on record, said the national executive meeting becomes all the more important as this is the first time since 2005 that the JD (U) is playing a second fiddle to the BJP in the NDA government in Bihar. “So far, it has been the senior partner in 2005, 2010 and in 2017 when JD(U) and the BJP joined hands again,” said a party functionary. Also Read: Nitish Kumar government approves free coronavirus vaccine for all in BiharThe JD (U), which contested on 115 seats in the recently concluded assembly polls, could win only 43 seats as against 74 seats won by the BJP, which contested on 110 seats. The JD (U) had won 71 seats in 2015 assembly polls. The NDA in Bihar comprises the JD(U), BJP, HAM-S and Mukesh Sahni-led VIP. The LJP, which is part of the NDA at the centre, opted out of the alliance in Bihar and contested the polls independently. Party’s general secretary Afaque Ahmad Khan said that the party will contest West Bengal assembly polls and the meeting is likely to decide on the number of seats it will contest. The JD(U) had contested 50 seats in West Bengal in 2011 and two seats in alliance with the Congress and left in 2016, but fared badly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/jd-u-to-analyse-poll-setback-future-outside-bihar-at-national-meet-wb-elections-top-agenda/story-Gsk32setiX4Thax8pnLEnO.html
17-12-2020||Ranchi||Elephant herd fill water in a dry well to save fellow jumbo in Ranchi||An adult elephant, part of a herd of 35 elephants, fell into a 20-foot deep well in Jiling Sereng village of Ranchi’s Tamar block, around 55-km from capital city, on Tuesday night, leading to a moving rescue operation launched by the fellow tuskers in the herd. The jumbo, which was spotted by villagers around 5am on Wednesday, was finally rescued by the forest officials with help of an excavator around 12.30 noon after a rescue mission by the herd of the elephant had failed. The Tamar forest range officer Amarnath Bhagat said a herd of 35 elephants has been reported in Tamar forest range for the past three days. The herd was in Jiling Sereng forest Tuesday night looking for food in a paddy field. “While crossing a farm field in the village, one of the adult elephants fell into a 20-foot-deep well. The villagers said the well was almost dry. The herd tried to save their fellow jumbo by filling water into it but failed,” Bhagat said. He said, “As per the villagers, the elephants carried water by filling it into their trunks from a nearby pond and poured it into the well. The jumbos might have thought that their fellow may come out of the well if they filled it with water. Since the well was deep, they could only fill it partially. By the morning, they left for the forest, as villagers had started gathering.” Also Read: Jharkhand to ask Centre to revise MGNREGs minimum wageBhagat said as they were informed about the incident, a team of forest staff and excavator was rushed to the spot. The team started its rescue operation around 9.30am. “We used the excavator to dig a part of the well and make passage for elephant to come out. The passage was successfully created by 12.30am and the elephant was safely released to the forest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/elephant-herd-fill-water-in-a-dry-well-to-save-their-fellow-jumbo-in-ranchi/story-mJPgN3m8RkIs9di7JKDy3I.html
17-12-2020||Jaipur||Portion of under-construction shop falls directly on man’s head in Rajasthan||A pillar from an under-construction shop fell directly on a man’s head in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur on Wednesday. News agency ANI has shared the video of the incident which shows two people walking on a street when suddenly a large rectangular cement pillar falls on top of a man’s head. #WATCH | An under-construction pillar in a market in Rajasthan's Bharatpur, collapses on a pedestrian passing by from below (16.12.2020) pic.twitter.com/N4knEBRU65The video which is more than half a minute is presumably taken from a CCTV camera installed in the area. In the video, two men can be seen walking on a road together when they were both caught by surprise when a cement pillar from a shop fell on top of one of the pedestrians. While one pedestrian managed to escape quickly, the second person suffered serious injuries.The police while speaking to ANI said, “There was some construction work going on in a shop. The column fell from the third floor. One person sustained serious injuries & has been sent to the hospital for treatment. We are trying to speak with the owner of the shop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/portion-of-under-construction-shop-falls-directly-on-man-s-head-in-rajasthan/story-3Wgiw9gTjxxMSMwlpifjeL.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Cold spell continues in Delhi, minimum temperature at 5.3°C||Delhi woke up to a chilly morning on Thursday with the minimum temperature dipping to 5.3 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Mausam app.The Capital had recorded a “cold day”, the third in a row on Wednesday, with maximum or day temperature of just 18.6 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees below normal.On December 14, Palam recorded “cold day” conditions with a maximum of 17 degrees C, 6 degrees below normal. And on Tuesday, both Safdarjung and Palam stations saw a “cold day”, recording a maximum temperature of 18.5 degrees Celsius, 5 degrees below normal, and 16.7 degrees Celsius, 7 degrees below normal, respectively.IMD scientists said Delhi has been reeling under a cold spell as it has recorded more than two “cold days” in a row now.There was no cold wave on Wednesday in Delhi as the minimum temperature was 5.8 degrees Celsius, which is 2.8 degrees below normal, but does not meet the cold wave criteria.“Cold day” to “severe cold day” conditions are likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, and parts of Delhi, north Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours, IMD said in its Wednesday bulletin. “Cold day”conditions are likely in isolated pockets over these regions during subsequent 24 hours also, it added.“Cold wave to severe cold wave” conditions are likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during next three days and while “cold wave” conditions are also likely over Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh during next 2 days.IMD has warned that cold wave to severe cold conditions could have a number of serious impacts on health that shouldn’t be ignored. There is an increased likelihood of various illnesses like flu, stuffy nose or nosebleed, and shivering, which is the first sign of body losing heat. Prolonged exposure to extreme cold and can cause frostbite, which leads to the skin turns pale, hard and numb and eventually black blisters appear on exposed body parts such as fingers, toes, nose and or earlobes. Severe frostbite needs immediate medical attention and treatment.The impact-based warning issued by IMD for “cold wave” recommends that people wear insulated shoes, moisturise skin, increase vitamin C intake, limit outdoor activities, maintain ventilation while using heaters, avoid drinking alcohol as it reduces body heat etc.Some of those exposed to dense fog could also suffer health impacts. Dense fog contains particulate matter and other pollutants which can get lodged in the lungs, leading to episodes of wheezing, coughing and shortness of breath. Those with asthma and bronchitis are particularly vulnerable.According to IMD a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is considered based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees, and maximum temperature of 4.5 degree Celsius or 6.4 degree C below normal.A “cold wave” occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. “Cold wave” is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains. Witnessing a “cold day” and “cold wave” together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.“Many places in northwest India are experiencing cold wave and severe cold day together. We are expecting the cold spell to continue over Delhi and minimum temperature to hover around 4 to 5 degrees Celsius till December 19, following which a western disturbance is expected; it will cause clouding and relieve extremely cold conditions. Places which are recording cold to severe cold day conditions are experiencing an incursion of chilly air and uplifted fog, which is not allowing the day to warm up adequately,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“There was heavy and widespread snowfall in the Western Himalayas from December 11 to 13 and then dense fog started being recorded in many places -- which has led to cold day conditions. This is also the time when temperature drops gradually as mid latitude winds pick up. Due to extremely chilly winds, we have issued an impact-based warning which tells people what to do during cold wave and cold day conditions,” added RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Dense fog is likely over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh during morning hours of Thursday and over Punjab and north Rajasthan during morning hours Thursday and Friday. Very dense fog is also very likely over Punjab and north Rajasthan during morning hours of Thursday.Meanwhile, under the influence of an easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain/thundershowers very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area during the next four days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during December 16 to 19 and over Kerala and Mahe during December 17 and 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cold-spell-continues-in-delhi-minimum-temperature-at-5-3-c/story-yi2ihnE0N0SrofyWRFBbJO.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC grants protection to interfaith couple from UP||The Delhi high court on Wednesday granted protection to an interfaith couple from Uttar Pradesh, who fled to the national Capital fearing persecution, days after the new UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020, commonly known as the ‘love jihad’ law, was passed.The couple has alleged that they were forced to leave their parental houses due to reports of harassment on interfaith couples. Justice Anu Malhotra, while granting protection, also directed the Delhi government to provide them a safe house in accordance with an earlier order of the Supreme Court.According to the plea, the 21-year-old Hindu woman met the 25-year-old Muslim man at a coaching centre in Shahjahanpur. They fell in love and wanted to get married under the Special Marriage Act, as they did not intend to convert. However, the parents and relatives of the woman opposed their alliance. The plea, filed through advocates Soutik Banerjee and Aakarsh Kamra, alleged that the woman’s parents and relatives tortured her physically and mentally. Fearing harassment, the couple reached Delhi on December 11 and contacted an NGO. Appearing for them, advocate Vrinda Grover said the couple sought protection from the Delhi government’s Social Welfare Department. However, they were turned away, which “jeopardises the right to life, liberty and privacy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-grants-protection-to-interfaith-couple-from-up/story-cGE2zrpgfQxLjtFYBgEokJ.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: On walking past Old Delhi’s iconic Gali Jagat Cinema Wali||The grilles are shuttered, but the lobby can be seen through them: the ticket window, the board displaying the show timings and the ticket rates—32 rupees for Box.Some things become history, are forgotten and yet a little something remains. Like the Jagat Cinema in Old Delhi.Originally named Nishat, it used to be referred to as “Macchliwallon ka Talkies” because of its proximity to the fish market. Though it stopped screening films in 2004, the cinema building remains.The place lies mostly ignored, when it should be a draw for connoisseurs of single screens, especially those who like the grandeur of the old sprawling cinema houses, when these places were not just another outlet in a shopping mall but substantial buildings in their own right. This cold morning, the clear sunshine is streaming over the Jagat, its pink walls textured with the patina of several winters and summers. The large hollow frame on the building’s front may be the place where giant film posters would be displayed. The building is sandwiched by various small eateries. The grilled lobby has stray cats wandering like purposeless ghosts.Jagat screened some iconic Hindi movies, including Mughal-e-Azam in the 1960s. Another was Meena Kumar’s Pakeeza that ran for six months. A poetically inclined resident of the nearby Matia Mahal neighbourhood would come to see Pakeeza every day, travelling on a tonga with the women of the family. The entire party would wait for the song, Chalte Chalte, and then leave the theatre.Jagat must have had many more stories, but the one of the Pakeeza aficionados has stayed more than the others —it was told by author Ziya Us Salam in his book on Delhi’s cinemas.While the theatre has been long closed, its presence reins heavy in the area, so much so that it gives its name to the neighbourhood. Letter boxes in the houses and shops on an adjacent street, for instance, are marked with ‘Gali Jagat Cinema Wali’. This alley has another sight, too—that of a slotted window built on the side wall of the cinema building. It must be the box office for the cheap front-row stall. Standing by this window, you almost feel the presence of the clerk behind. Lost time suddenly feels within grasp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-on-walking-past-old-delhi-s-iconic-gali-jagat-cinema-wali/story-ujaKy5B6RwFowqrpYjsKaI.html
17-12-2020||Lucknow||UP Waqf Board eyes Republic Day to lay Foundation of Ayodhya mosque||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) may lay the foundation of a mosque on the five-acre land allotted to it at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya on the Republic Day. The board will hold a press conference on December 19 to share its plan pertaining to the mosque.The land was allotted to the board in line with the Supreme Court judgment in the Ayodhya title dispute case. “No day could be better than January 26, the day on which our constitution came into existence. If all goes as per plan, we may lay the foundation of the mosque and other establishments, on Republic Day,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-waqf-board-eyes-republic-day-to-lay-foundation-of-ayodhya-mosque/story-uniBuoTyf5TJJdcCiFRcDN.html
17-12-2020||City||Army veterans in Amritsar come out in support of protesting farmers, set to join stir on Delhi border||As many as 300 army veterans in Amritsar have extended their support to the farmers protesting on the Delhi borders for the last 21 days, with many of them set to join the agitation against the agriculture laws from Thursday. The ex-servicemen contributed Rs 4 lakh to send milk powder and other items to the Singhu border, which has emerged as an epicentre of the agitation. At least 55 of them, including three former colonels and eight junior commissioned officers (JCOs), have decided to join the protest on the Delhi border. A truckload of powdered milk and sanitary items will be dispatched from the city’s Dussehra ground on Thursday. The veterans said they would continue supporting the farmers, financially and otherwise, till their demands are met. They said they have been establishing contact with more veterans across Punjab to support to the farmers in the days to come. Col Gurmukh Singh (retired) said, “We started contacting the ex-servicemen who are in touch with us. We managed to contact around 300 ex-servicemen, including JCOs, naiks and havildars. All of them have contributed very generously. Earlier, we thought of sending 2,000 blankets to the farmers in view of the biting cold. But when we talked to farmer leaders, they sought milk powder and sanitary items.” He said, “Some people are trying to sabotage the farmers’ protest by calling them anti-nationals and pro-Khalistani. This is purely farmers’ agitation. Are the farmers of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, who have also been protesting at the Delhi borders also Khalistani sympathisers?” Col Sarabrinder Singh Sandhu (retired) said, “We are with the farmers who are the backbone of the country. We will continue extending our support to the farmers till the last day of the protest. The Centre should immediately scrap the three laws.” Colonels Sukhjinder Singh Dhillon, Kuldeep Singh Dhillon, Gajjan Singh Bajwa, Iqbal Singh Sandhu, and Major PS Hundal (all retired) are also leading the effort to support the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-veterans-in-amritsar-come-out-in-support-of-protesting-farmers-set-to-join-agitation-on-delhi-border/story-gC2xaSNAgxnvzhAbLwnNUJ.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Depositing part compensation can’t be pre-condition for admitting plea in cheque bounce cases, rules HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that depositing a part of compensation cannot be made a pre-condition for entertaining a convict’s appeal for hearing in a cheque bounce case. The HC bench of Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill set aside the order of a Ludhiana court that had ordered that the appeal would be admitted provided 20 percent of the compensation amount was deposited. The appeal in the district sessions court was filed by one Sudarshan Kumar after his conviction under the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, by a judicial magistrate. The HC bench observed that even as the Negotiable Instruments Act could override provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), there is no such specific provision in it that could be interpreted saying that availing of right to appeal by a person convicted of an offence in cheque bounce case is subject to certain conditions. “The right to appeal against conviction is an invaluable statutory right vested upon a convict under the CrPC, which cannot be allowed to be defeated by imposing any condition. While giving a wider connotation to Article 21 of Constitution, it can even be said that depriving a convict of his right to appeal by imposing any condition for availing his statutory right to challenge conviction in a higher court would amount to depriving his liberty,” Justice Gill observed. The Section 148 of the Negotiable Instruments Act only vests an appellate court with the power to direct the appellant to deposit an amount not less than 20 percent of the compensation amount but under no circumstances the same can be interpreted to be a pre-condition for availing the right of appeal, the bench added. “Imposition of any condition at the time of suspending of sentence may be a different matter and the trial court may in its wisdom impose such a condition, failing which the order suspending sentence may be vacated,” the bench said, adding that a convict’s bail during the pendency of appeal may be cancelled upon failure of the appellant to comply with the direction of deposit of such amount. The court also clarified that under the Negotiable Instruments Act the compensation amount sought to be deposited by the court is required to be deposited within 60 days which may further be extended by another 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cheque-bounce-cases-depositing-part-compensation-can-t-be-pre-condition-for-entertaining-an-appeal-hc/story-edSeBu5LKB6zenfXNJYfOL.html
17-12-2020||City||Despite pandemic, runaway couples knock court doors for protection from kin in Ludhiana||Decked up in a flashy bridal attire and accessories, Sunita Rani, along with her husband Ram Prasad, awaits her turn at the district and sessions court where her petition seeking protection from their families is to come up for hearing. “We got married in a temple last week as my parents were against this match. They have threatened us of dire consequences. That’s why we need police protection,” says Sunita, 22. Her husband is also of the same age and the duo hails from Bihar. While marriage halls and event planners may be reeling under heavy losses due to drop in solemnisation of marriages in the wake of the pandemic, the courts are still a safe haven for runaway couples. Sunita and Ram Prasad are among 550 couples in Ludhiana who have knocked the doors of the court so far this year, apprehending threat to their lives from their kin for choosing their life partners. This number is significant at a time when the hearing of cases is highly restrictive. The numbers of runaway couples approaching court rose substantially post lockdown when courts resumed hearing of urgent cases. A court official said that due to huge influx of migrant population in Ludhiana, the number of runway couples is high here. As per court statistics, around 4,500 runway couples who eloped and married and were facing threats from families have been provided protection in the last five years. “Elopement cases are more in the migrant population as youngsters get married here with the partner of his/her choice, while their families are pressurising them to get married in their native village to the girl or boy of their choice and community,” said a court official. Advocate Rakesh Gandhi, who moved an application for protection to a runway couple last month, said in most cases, the threat is from the girl’s side, with the groom moving the petition. “Most couples are in their early twenties. The court first verifies if the couple has reached the legal age to get married. Pandemic or not, the number of runaway couples has always remained an all-time high in Ludhiana,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-pandemic-runaway-couples-knock-court-doors-for-protection-from-kin-in-ludhiana/story-0Uw8e0zPVKu520Duiekh6L.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Science Congress from December 17||The 14th edition of the Chandigarh Science Congress (CHASCON-2020) will be held via virtual platform by Panjab University from Thursday.The event will conclude on Saturday and is being organised in association with Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) institutes. The theme will be “Science and Technology Innovations: Ushering in the era of Make in India”. As many as 750 participants have registered.Fifteen reputed speakers will be speaking during the conference and panel discussions will also be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-science-congress-from-today/story-k25CYeviOyfxpaecGrgjBJ.html
17-12-2020||City||Ludhiana village sarpanch, aides booked for assaulting rival||The Focal Point police on Wednesday booked a Shiromani Akali Dal sarpanch and his accomplices four days after they had allegedly assaulted a Gobindgarh village resident.An FIR was lodged against sarpanch Jagtar Singh, Jasveer Singh of Friends Colony, Chandigarh Road, and their six accomplices, who are yet to be identified. Complainant Krishan Lal Sharma, 48, who is the president of All India Sher-e-Punjab National Party, had contested the sarpanch elections against the accused, but had lost. Sharma stated that he was on his way to meet a friend when his car was intercepted. The accused had dragged him out of the car and thrashed him with sticks and iron rods. The assailants also allegedly vandalised the vehicle.The victim alleged that ahead of the polls, the accused had threatened him with bodily harm unless he backed out from contesting elections. In another incident, the sarpanch’s workers had been harassing a family in Sharma’s locality, and after he had helped them lodge a complaint with the commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, the sarpanch again threatened him with dire consequences.ASI Jasveer Singh, who is investigating the case, said that initially, Krishan Lal Sharma was medically unfit to record his statement therefore they recorded his statement on Tuesday. A case, under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), of the Indian Penal Code, was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-village-sarpanch-aides-booked-for-assaulting-rival/story-kB5jxh9ymrFh13I3rm4M8L.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police aims to integrate network of 3 lakh CCTV cameras to control crime in city||Come 2021, the city that never sleeps could also be in the list of cities considered to be among the safest as the Mumbai Police plans to have eyes on every street possible. The Mumbai Police’s plan envisages to integrate a system of nearly 3 lakh closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to its existing network. The city police force which currently has 5,300 CCTVs in its network is scheduled to add 7,000 more soon. In addition, Mumbai Police wants to integrate its existing CCTV network with private and commercial stakeholders across the city to ensure the streets of Mumbai are safe, said senior police officers. As part of the plan, Mumbai Police started a project in November wherein they requested all major commercial establishments including shop owners, offices, hotels, community halls, religious places, and even residential societies to install CCTV cameras within a period of two months and warned to take legal action against those who refuse to abide by it. The deadline to install CCTVs end on January 7. “The plan is to have around 3 lakh digital eyes which would cover almost the entire city. We have planned this to ensure that crime rate goes down drastically,” said joint commissioner of police (law and order), Vishwas Nangre Patil. Commenting on the compatibility of the cameras that establishments will install and the CCTV network of the police force, Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu (operation) said, “Initially we thought of requesting establishments owners to install high-resolution cameras so that they would be compatible with the police’s monitoring system, but we dropped the plan as it could prove to be financially not viable for many.” Patil said the presence of existing CCTVs has proved to be an effective deterrent to prevent crime, and that it was a step forward to prevent crime in the city. “While all the private CCTVs will not be directly integrated to the police surveillance and monitoring system, which uses comparatively advanced technology and cameras, these additional private cameras will compliment the network that is already in place. It will not only act as a deterrent to criminals psychologically, but it will also help police officers identify criminals and will aid in post-incident investigations including collection of evidence,” he added. When asked about the punitive action against those who refuse to install a CCTV, Patil said, “If an establishment is located in a crime hot spot or accident-prone zone or is in a densely populated area, and the owner refuses to install a CCTV, we will first request him and make him understand the need for it. If the person still does not adhere to it, then action will be taken against them under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. We did not want to forcefully impose this on everyone as we feel it will be unfair and hence have given them a period of two months which ends on January 7,” said Patil. The officer further said that it is important for people to realise that these cameras are going to benefit them, and hence public participation is essential. The existing CCTV network has a command and control centre at the police headquarters, and the CCTV feed can be viewed from the Mumbai traffic police control room. The regional additional and deputy commissioners too can keep a watch on the CCTV feed. Local police stations also have access to the feed of cameras installed in their jurisdiction.“The Mumbai Police gathered information on the blind spots from various police stations. Now new cameras will be installed on arterial roads, slums to monitor suspicious activities. Some cameras will also be installed at key spots on the coastline to beef up surveillance,” a senior police officer said.Home minister Anil Deshmukh had, in February 2020, informed that the government will amend the current rules and make installation of CCTV cameras mandatory in every new building coming up in the state. The government will also connect the feed of such CCTV cameras with police’s existing network. BOXNikhil Banker, secretary, Marine Drive Residents Association Group (MDRAG), said, “There are several government CCTV cameras which are not working, and despite several complaints nothing has been done. First, they should bring the existing system in order before asking citizens or commercial establishments to install CCTV cameras. They don’t want to improve themselves and just want to enforce everything on citizens.”They should increase the number of CCTV cameras. Main by-lanes should be covered by government cameras. “Why should resident associations or people of the area bear the expenses? Citizens already pay taxes, and making them bear this additional expense would not be fair,” Banker said.He added that if citizens are voluntarily coming forward and helping the police, then that’s not a problem, but it should not be imposed forcefully. “Instead of asking citizens and traders to install CCTVs why not ask MPs and MLAs to shell out funds and get the cameras installed,” said Banker adding, there should be some kind of exchange of dialogue or discussion between all the stakeholders before the police introduces such plans.“I appreciate the noble thought, but is should not be a compulsion. It should not be enforced without taking people into the confidence,” Banker said.Viren Shah, president of Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association which has nearly 3 lakh shopkeepers as its members, said, “We understand the importance of having CCTVs and also encourage our shop owners to install them. But shops and establishments owners should not be pressurised to install CCTVs. We, along with the police, can put efforts together to ensure that maximum areas are covered. If any places are left, then help of elected public representatives can be taken or NGOs can be roped in to install CCTVs or help can be sought from private sponsors or civic authority. Many of our establishments already linked their CCTVs with local police stations and are helping them. But if any individual shop owner or establishment does not install camera then he/she cannot be punished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-aims-to-integrate-network-of-3-lakh-cctv-cameras-to-control-crime-in-city/story-UyJHPgOysbN71rwzwMkjNI.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Murder accused’s wife assaults witness, booked||The wife of a murder accused was booked for threatening and pelting stones at a witness in the case and his elderly uncle on Wednesday. The accused, Zahiada Begum of Golden Bagh of Jagraon, fled the spot after injuring the two men. Her husband, Mohammad Abdul, is facing trial for the murder of a 17-year-old farm hand Sanjay Kumar.The complainant, Jagtar Singh of Dashmesh Nagar, Jagraon said, “My uncle, Amar Singh, 78, and I were returning from the fields on our tractor trolley on Tuesday when Zahiada accosted us near City Enclave and started pelting stones at us. When I tried to escape by reversing the vehicle, but she climbed onto the tractor-trolley and continued to assault us. She fled when we raised the alarm.” Jagtar said Zahiada’s husband had strangulated Kumar to death. A murder case was lodged against Abdul on May 2. Zahida asked him not to record a statement against her husband in court.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Parvinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR was registered under Sections 341(wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the woman at the Jagraon City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/murder-accused-s-wife-assaults-witness-booked/story-oQ6WOJJBkaj3YINcDWy4jJ.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||HC stay on Mumbai Metro car shed will hit 4 Metro lines||The Bombay high court’s (HC) interim order on Wednesday to stay the transfer of the 102-acre plot at Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the Metro car shed will prove to be a roadblock not only for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz), but also Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) works. While more than 60% of Metro-3 civil works have been completed, the MMRDA has completed around 20% civil construction works on Metro-6, officials said. The authority was planning to build a common car shed for these two corridors and also integrate the under-construction Metro-4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavli) and proposed line 14 (Kanjurmarg-Badlapur), effectively making it Mumbai’s ‘transit hub’. A senior official from MMRDA, requesting anonymity, said, “While the state was considering a plot in Pahadi-Goregaon too for Metro-6 depot, there are legal issues there. The Kanjurmarg plot was considered the most feasible to integrate all lines.” Metro-3 has already seen a cost escalation of ₹11,000 crore and is now pegged at ₹32,000 crore, while Metro-6 is pegged at a cost of ₹6,716 crore. While the MMRDA is also looking at Mogharpada to build a depot for line 4, it is facing entitlement issues there too. According to a report from the Manoj Saunik committee, appointed by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to look at alternative plots for Metro-3 depot, the per-day delay in executing Metro-3 costs around ₹5.87 crore. A delay in operation by 2.5 years would work out to ₹5,356 crore, while a delay of four years would mean another ₹8,570 crore. Also, the Metro authorities have stated that construction of the car depot would require a minimum of two years. One phase of Metro-3 was to be originally operational by December 2021. The official also said the increasing delay in allotting land for Metro-3 car shed will majorly impact the schedule of the project, which is at a crucial stage. On Wednesday, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “Hon’ble HC has granted a stay to Kanjurmarg work. We await the detailed written order to decide the future course of action.” He further said, “This land is crucial for Metro Line 6, 4 and 14, apart from 3, as it will save almost ₹5500 crores of Govt and be a nodal point for 1 crore citizens (sic).” RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, however, did not comment on the impact of the order at a press conference in Wadala on Wednesday evening. He said, “We are waiting for the detailed order.” The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was scathing in its remarks on the state government’s decision. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the MVA government’s decision to shift the car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg was only to satisfy their ego. “Be it the HC, Supreme Court or the green tribunal - all had given a go-ahead for the plan and the state had already spent ₹100 crore at Aarey. The BJP government had also considered the Kanjurmarg plot, but we knew that it was in dispute. The HC’s decision is an embarrassment for the state government.” He also took a jibe at Aaditya Thackeray’s tweet, saying young leaders must read reports before tweeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-stay-on-mumbai-metro-car-shed-will-hit-4-metro-lines/story-APj2uW7SYpmyOrSBNiayhI.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Easing traffic at Samrala Chowk: NHAI looking into Ludhiana traffic police’s suggestions||After the traffic police suggested some modifications for National Highway 44 to make it easier to control traffic at Samrala Chowk, a team of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) visited the sites on Wednesday and assessed the situation.To streamline movement of traffic, police have already removed encroachments on Tajpur Road and Tibba Road cuts along the national highway. According to traffic police, some workshop owners used to repair vehicles on roadsides, which resulted in bottlenecks.Some shopkeepers had also encroached on the roadsides, which the traffic police have removed.Traffic police have also suggested a ramp for vehicles that are going towards Delhi Road. Rahut Kumar, a NHAI official, said they will discuss the issue with higher authorities about the correction.Sanjay Talwar, Congress MLA from Ludhiana East, wrote to the deputy commissioner about the suggestions on Wednesday. The MLA said that the traffic going towards Delhi Road from Jalandhar Road crosses Samrala Chowk, and the elevated road from Tajpur Road reaches Sherpur Chowk, and in between there is no way to reach the elevated road. A ramp near Moti Nagar will divert the traffic, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/easing-traffic-at-samrala-chowk-nhai-looking-into-ludhiana-traffic-police-s-suggestions/story-mQEXsy2s96dwOef7hhiY2H.html
17-12-2020||City||At bone-chilling 9.6°C, Ludhiana breaches 47-yr record||The city’s mercury is plunging deeper with each passing day, with the minimum temperature plummeting to single digits on Wednesday. As per Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), the maximum temperature in the city was 9.6°C, 10 notches below the normal temperature. Registering a dip of 1.4°C, the minimum temperature settled at 5°C. As per Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, it was the lowest recorded temperature for December 16 (Wednesday) since the observatory was set up in 1970. The historical low, surpassed the dip in mercury to 10.8°C on December 16, 1973, said Dr Sidhu, adding that the fog had contributed to the dense fog. PAU meteorological expert Dr KK Gill said the cold wave was intensifying in the plains due to the lower pressure and the temperature may plummet further in the coming days.She said that in the coming days the maximum temperature will remain around 16 to 17°C, while the minimum temperature will hover between 4 to 6°C.Fog enveloped the district on Wednesday, reducing the visibility to a few metres. As per Sahnewal Airport director SK Saran, the visibility tunneled down to a few meters in the morning but it improved as the day progressed. By 3.30pm the visibility was 1,500 meters, said Saran. For the last two days, the temperature in the district had plummetted below Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-bone-chilling-9-6-c-city-breaches-47-year-record/story-EQVd3Eg5k5iCay0yfIIQwO.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: CR to start AC local services between CSMT and Kalyan stations||Passengers will be able to travel by air-conditioned (AC) local train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway stations from Thursday. Central Railway (CR) will be operating 10 AC local trains on the slow corridor of its mainline. Presently, local train services are operational only for people working in essential services and specially-abled and cancer patients. Women commuters and lawyers were also allowed to commute during a stipulated time.The first AC local train service will depart from Kurla at 5.42am and will reach CSMT at 6.12am. Five AC train services will be operated during peak hours including three in the morning and two in the evening. The last AC local train service will be operated from CSMT towards Kurla railway station at 11.25pm. AC trains will operate between Kurla-CSMT, CSMT-Dombivli, and CSMT-Kalyan railway station. “The trains will be operated between Monday and Saturday. The trains are being operated by replacement on the current operating trains,” said a senior CR official. The fares of AC local train are 1.3 times higher than the fare of normal local trains. One-way ticket journey between CSMT to Dadar will cost ₹65. CSMT to Kurla will cost ₹125, CSMT to Thane will cost ₹180 and CSMT to Kalyan will cost ₹210. Passengers can also be get monthly AC train passes.Passenger associations have welcomed the move to operate AC local train services on CR mainline but have asked the railways to consider introducing AC trains as new services and not replacement of regular local trains. “After local trains resume for all, the replacement of train services will be a huge problem for regular passengers. AC locals should be introduced as additional train services,” said Subhash Gupta, president of Rail Yatri Parishad. CR operated its first AC local train on the trans-harbour route between Thane-Vashi and Thane-Panvel railway stations on January 30 this year. Sixteen AC train services are operated.City’s first local train service was introduced on Western Railway on December 25, 2017 between Churchgate and Virar railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cr-to-start-ac-local-services-between-csmt-and-kalyan-stations/story-oG2tuNNmEJSlYlwboKKDBN.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||AAP gives ₹2 lakh aid to deceased Ludhiana farmer’s family||Paying tribute to farmer Gajjan Singh, 55, who died in Haryana during the Delhi Chalo march against the three farm laws in the last week of November, Aam Aadmi Party gave financial aid of ₹2 lakh to his family on Wednesday. AAP MLA and state kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan along with other leaders visited Gajjan Singh’s village Khatran in Samrala. Terming him a martyr of the movement, AAP leaders slammed the Union government for destroying the farming sector by introducing the three farm laws. “Prime minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government is harassing farmers due to its stubbornness, which is forcing millions of farmers across the country to sleep on roads amid cold weather. The farmers of Punjab, who have fed the whole country, are being mistreated,” said Sandhwan. He said calling peacefully protesting farmers extremists and anti-national had “exhibited the mental bankruptcy of the BJP”. He said PM Modi should address this issue by holding talks with farmers sitting on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-gives-2-lakh-aid-to-deceased-ludhiana-farmer-s-family/story-uciIAdZLVbyFi8v6zazsQK.html
17-12-2020||City||Retired banker duped of Rs 30,000 in Ludhiana, two held||Fraudsters posing as former colleagues duped a retired banker of ₹30,000, police said on Wednesday.The accused have been identified as Anwar Sadiq of Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, and his accomplice Babu VN of Chennai.As per the police, one of the accused contacted the complainant, Avinash Chandar of New Rajguru Nagar, who had retired as senior manager from the Bank of India, on WhatsApp and had asked him for ₹2 lakh for his sister-in-law’s hrat surgery. After transferring ₹30,000 to the fraudster’s account, the retired banker found that his former colleague had not asked for his help at alland immediately sounded the police.Police said Chandar had said that one of the accused had introduced himself as Madan Lal and said that he had worked with him in Amritsar.The accused told him that he was facing a financial crisis and needed the money urgently. The accused had then shared his bank account number and promised to return the money to Avinash.Additional commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.The ADCP also appealed to the people to cross-check the details before transferring money to anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-banker-duped-of-rs-30-000-in-ludhiana-two-held/story-EQ0hURTawCyrnH655F0IVP.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro car shed: Activists say political circus will affect environment, citizens||Following the Bombay high court’s (HC) stay on the transfer of land at Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the construction of a Metro car shed, environment activists in the city said political slugfest over the matter was delaying the Metro project further. On Wednesday the Bombay HC after hearing a petition by the Central government passed an interim order staying the transfer of 102-acre land for the proposed car shed. “The stay will delay the work on not just the Metro-3 connecting Colaba, Bandra and SEEPZ, but also on Metro-6 connecting Lokhandwala to Kanjurmarg,” said Stalin D, director of Vanashakti, a non-government organisation who petitioned to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), HC and the Supreme Court to move the Metro car shed out of Aarey Milk Colony.Architect and activist Nitin Killawala said, “The intervention by the Central government and the high court is unfortunate. This 102-acre land was always the spot for a car shed for Metro line 6, so why has the question of ownership arisen only now?” In October, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government announced the relocation of the controversial Metro-3 car shed out of Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjurmarg where the car shed for Metro-6 line was situated. The car shed was to be used for Metro lines 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) and 14 (Kanjurmarg-Badlapur). “Combining the metro yards and making a common car shed for two or three lines leads to optimisation of space. With this stay, work on all lines will suffer,” Killawala added. Last year, the then government led by Devendra Fadnavis, faced severe criticism and protests from environmentalists over its move to construct the car shed at Aarey Milk Colony. The Shiv Sena had taken the matter up and promised to reverse the decision in its election manifesto. “The matter is not restricted to Aarey anymore, but has turned into a political slugfest between the state and the Central government where environment is the casualty,” Stalin added. “This is a needless intervention over ownership of the land when there are orders dating to 2018 stating that the land belongs to the state government. The delay in the project will affect the citizens,” said Zoru Bhathena, activist and one of the petitioners before SC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-car-shed-activists-say-political-circus-will-affect-environment-citizens/story-wUXNDXtOjamXkfCHJyNkwN.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Medics in Ludhiana worried about public health as farmers’ protest enters Day 21||With mercury witnessing a record decline, the Ludhiana based doctors visiting Singhu and Tikri borders expressed concern over harsh climatic conditions that could trigger health issues among the protesting farmers.The cold weather could prove detrimental for elderly protestors and there could be a rise in cases of strokes and heart attacks, say the doctors.The delegation of doctors, who held medical check-up camps at the protest site recently, expressed their concern over the impending public health problems which will come to light when the protest ends.The doctors said that open defecation could lead to fungal infections. Besides, many farmers have not taken a bath for days due to the absence of provisions, which could lead to skin allergies including scabies.While expressing concern, Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, senior vice-president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ludhiana, who organised a medical check-up camp on December 9, said, “The protest may appear impressive but life at the site is not easy. Imagine sitting in the middle of the road with a few quilts and makeshift tents for over 20 days.”“ The elderly are a vulnerable group. Our job is to save lives, so I would urge the government to concede to the demands of protesting farmers as many of them have lost their lives at the protest site already,” he added.Two Ludhiana farmers lose life at protest siteGajjan Singh, 60, of Khatra village and Bhag Singh, 65, of Baddowal village, died at the protest site due to heart attack recently.Dr Charanpreet Singh, a gastroenterologist, who along with a group of doctors carried out check-ups at Singhu border on December 13, said that there are many such farmers and their relatives who had forgotten to carry their hypertension and diabetes medicines. Some people have exhausted their medical stock. Many vulnerable groups are suffering from underlying health issues and need care.”Dr Arun Mitra, ENT specialist, and senior vice-president, Indian Doctors for Peace and Development (IDPD), who held a camp on December 10, said, “Such weather could trigger cough and cold. Besides, fog causes breathing problems among the elderly.”“It is sad to see that the government is not bothered about the plight of the farmers, who have been sitting on the road in this bone-chilling weather for over 20 days. Nearly 20 farmers have died so far at the protest site. The government should show humanity and scrap the three laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medics-worried-about-public-health-as-farmers-protest-enters-day-21/story-icVosfOm10HUyWvQIyRxQK.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||CHB clerk gets 4 years in jail in 2014 graft case||A special CBI court has awarded four-year rigorous imprisonment to a former clerk-cum-junior technician of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for demanding ₹20,000 bribe from a resident.He was held guilty on December 14 and the quantum of the sentence was pronounced on Wednesday. The court has also imposed a fine of ₹30,000 on him.In March 2014, complainant Sukhbir Singh had approached the CBI, alleging that a CHB clerk, Surjit Singh, had demanded bribe for returning excess amount paid by him for transfer of ownership of a flat in Sector 61.CBI said Sukhbir had bought a flat from one Inderjeet Gulati and erroneously paid over ₹1 lakh extra in the favour of CHB to obtain the possession of the flat.Following this, Sukhbir moved an application to seek refund of the excess amount. The application was pending with Surjit, who demanded a bribe to clear his file and the deal was settled at ₹20,000.In March 2014, CBI arrested Surjit while accepting ₹10,000 bribe as the first instalment and booked him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chb-clerk-gets-4-years-in-jail-in-2014-graft-case/story-k4Br0zK8S1zF39ISpUPEML.html
17-12-2020||City||Elderly man hit by bike in Ludhiana, 3 booked for murder bid||The police here have booked three men in an attempt to murder case after they hit a 74-year-old man with their motorcycle and assaulted him with wooden logs.The accused have been identified as Surinder Singh, alias Sunny, and Nirmal Singh — residents of Galib Kalan village. Their accomplice is yet to be identified.In his police compliant, the senior citizen, Jaswant Singh of the same village, stated that he was walking home from the bus stand and when he reached near a government school, the accused turned up there. They struck Jaswant with their motorcycle, following which he fell on the road. Then the accused assaulted him with wooden logs. When Jaswant raised an alarm for help, people gathered at the spot, but the accused fled from there. ASI Chhindarpal Singh said an FIR has been lodged under sections 307, 323, 279, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-man-hit-by-bike-in-ludhiana-3-booked-for-murder-bid/story-e3fY282qPS5OqLxnhLOKxO.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC initiates drive to put a leash on stray dog menace||On receiving regular complaints the growing menace of stray dogs in public parks, the municipal corporation (MC) initiated a drive to free the public from the menace. Apart from sterilizing the stray dogs, the MC will also take steps to prevent their entry into the parks.The drive, undertaken on the directions of mayor Balkar Sandhu after he received complaints from the public, was initiated from Rose Garden on Tuesday and will be carried forward to other major parks, including Rakh Bagh, Mini Rose Garden, Leisure Valley, Sarabha Nagar, etc. in the first phase. The MC team caught four dogs from Rose garden on the first day of the drive and took them to the animal birth control centre for sterilization.The officials said that stray dogs create a nuisance for people who go to the park, especially the ones who go for jogging/running, as stray dogs attack them when they run.Suraj Nayyar, a resident of Maya Nagar, said, “I, along with my three friends, go for a morning walk at the Rose Garden. Stray dogs make it tough for the residents to run or jog. People cannot leave their children to play in the open as they fear that the dogs might attack them. The MC should shift the stray dogs from the public parks, and an extensive drive should be held for the same.”Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Dugri area, Phase 2, said, “Rather than only focusing on major parks, the MC should take up the drive in all parks as stray dog menace has been troubling residents all over. Not only children but at times adults also refrain from entering the parks as a large number of dogs roam there.”Dr Harbans Dhalla, senior veterinary officer, MC, said, “The drive has been initiated. and the MC team will cover all major public parks in the first phase. As per the norms, the MC cannot displace the dogs. They will be left at the same places from where they have been lifted, but this will decrease the number of dogs eventually. Efforts are also being made to stop the entry of dogs in the parks.” MC appeals to residents to stop feeding stray dogs in parksDr Dhalla said, “The residents should also understand their responsibility and should not feed stray dogs in public parks, as it will add to the problem and the visitors have to bear the brunt. The stray dogs do not leave the place where they are fed, and this can take a toll on the public. We are not stopping residents from feeding the dogs but if they want to feed the stray dogs, they should do it in their localities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-initiates-drive-to-put-a-leash-on-stray-dog-menace/story-KagJdc6KGrxlKyd19uOofI.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Couple booked for ₹8.8 lakh immigration fraud||A couple was booked for duping a resident of Panchkula’s Sector 4 of ₹8.8 lakh on the pretext of helping him in availing the permanent residency (PR) of Canada. Police have registered case against Rajesh Kumar and his wife Sonia. In his complaint, Rajan Sangari told the police that in June 2019, he had got in touch with Sector-37 residents Rajesh and Sonia through a friend. Rajesh had demanded ₹20 lakh to send Rajan to Canada and on June 19, he paid ₹7 lakh through a cheque and then paid another amount of ₹1.8 lakh. But after receiving the money, the accused stopped responding to his calls. When Rajan demanded his money back, they started making excuses. Rajan then lodged a complaint in October 2019 with the police and after investigation, the case has now been registered under sections 420 and 120B of the IPC at Chandigarh’s Sector-39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/couple-booked-for-8-8-lakh-immigration-fraud/story-wWxZQQLBfBG8Zbtv8bfsMI.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Monorail commissions rake rebuilt using local spare parts||Two years after taking over the operations of Mumbai Monorail, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Wednesday commissioned a rake, rebuilt by sourcing close to 213 spare parts from local vendors in Mumbai, Pune and Chennai.MMRDA rebuilt the train at a cost of ₹8 crore and also sought the help of professors from the Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) and Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) for testing and commissioning the train. Officials said that sourcing the spare parts was a major challenge as the trains were originally manufactured and assembled in Malaysia, and MMRDA did not have any technical know-how of the spare parts. Most of the spare part vendors were also based in Germany, Korea and Canada. MMRDA is looking at operationalising one more train by the next week to improve the frequency from 30-35 mins currently to around 18 minutes. This means the Mumbai Monorail will operate with a total of seven trains from next week. “Though we had 10 trains from the contractor, two were completely destroyed by the ex-contractors and one train was burnt in an accident. But we successfully refurbished two trains with a cost saving of about 74% when compared to foreign vendors,” said RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA. The authority has also invited bids to procure 10 additional rakes and is looking at getting more response from Indian companies. “Apart from sourcing indigenous spare parts vendors, we also had an in-house team for fitment and assembly of the parts,” said DLN Murthy, chief operating officer, Mumbai Monorail. The 19km corridor from Chembur to Sant Gadge Maharaj Chowk was fully operationalised from March 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-monorail-commissions-rake-rebuilt-using-local-spare-parts/story-aL9zeW6aFbgsdR7GgZ25mI.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Centre requests Maharashtra to conduct techno-economic feasibility study before integrating Metro-3 and Metro-6 lines||Amid shifting the Metro car shed to Kanjurmarg getting stuck in a legal tangle, the Centre requested the Maharashtra government to conduct a techno-economic feasibility study before taking a decision on integrating Metro-3 and Metro-6 lines.The letter was written by Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, on December 1. He is also the chairman of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRCL), a joint venture company with equal participation of both the state and Central government. MMRCL is also the nodal agency responsible for implementing Metro-3 project.In his letter to chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, Mishra also expressed his concern saying that the integration move may create huge operational difficulties and additional expenditure.Ranjit Singh Deol, the managing director of MMRCL, is yet to respond on this.“You will further appreciate that Metro projects are designed for 100 to 150 years and it is the concern of my ministry that the way integration of line-3 and line-6 is being planned may create huge operational difficulties for both the Metro lines within five to seven years after commencement of operation. This is not desirable for such cost intensive project like Metro. It may be detrimental to the public interest,” stated the letter, a copy of which is with HT.“In view of large and long term implications, it is recommended and requested that the Government of Maharashtra (GoM) should conduct a techno-economic feasibility study of proposed shifting of depot before going for preparing a detailed project report as has presently been decided by GoM,” it added further.“We have received the letter very recently. A detailed discussion on Centre’s request is yet to be held,” said a senior official from the state revenue department.The state government in October decided to scrap the Metro car shed at Aarey Milk Colony and shift it to Kanjurmarg. It has also decided to integrate Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) line.Mishra, in his letter, has cautioned that the integration will bring severe implication on train operation and capacity utilisation of both the lines due to mixing of operation of line-3 and line-6. Trains on line-3 which will be dispatched from Kanjurmarg depot have to cross over both the operational lines of line-6 to reach the network of line-3 leading to operational bottlenecks on both the lines.In Washington DC (United States) a similar arrangement was done which is presently affecting the line capacity of both the lines. There are a number of example on Indian Railways eg. MEMU car shed at Jajha where dispatching and receiving of MEMU rakes is a big congestion problem due to wrong planning leading to under-utilisation of maintenance facilities,” quoted the letter.The move is likely to delay the project and may lead to cost and time overrun. Already executed contracts would have to be deferred which may have huge financial implications on account of escalation. The consent of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which is providing bilateral financial assistance to this project, would be necessary so as to ensure that there is no problem in terms of funding, else the progress will be impacted adversely.Another official said the state government will decide its next course of action only after receiving the written order of the Bombay high court on Kanjurmarg plot. “We have yet to receive the order of the high court. Once received, it will be discussed thoroughly with legal experts and further decision will be taken,” said the official.Congress questions BJP govt’s moveThe Congress on Wednesday questioned the BJP government’s decision on constructing car shed in Kanjurmarg. Sachin Sawant, state Congress’ general secretary, said the then government under Devendra Fadnavis had allotted the Kanjurmarg plot for Metro-6. “If Metro-3 car shed cannot be built in that area, then how can Metro-6 car shed be built there? Fadnavis must answer this question,” Sawant said. He also said that the land in question belongs to the state government since 1906 and the salt department could never prove its ownership. “In the past one year, it has become clear that the BJP is deliberately trying to hamper development works in the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-requests-maharashtra-to-conduct-techno-economic-feasibility-study-before-integrating-metro-3-and-metro-6-lines/story-MSB2rXECuqu61zs37lVxPP.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leader’s son-in-law carjacked in Ludhiana||Offering lift to strangers cost a Raikot resident dear as the miscreants pushed him out of his car and drove away with it in the wee hours of Wednesday. He had to walk nearly 2km to reach the police station for lodging an FIR.The victim has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, 40, of Tajpur Road, Raikot. He is the son-in-law of Raikot Mahila Congress president Balwinder Kaur.Gurmeet told the police that he had come to Ludhiana for the service of his car. However, due to the night curfew, he decided to stay in the city. He parked his car outside a taxi stand near the bus stand. At around 2am, two men posing as farm labourers knocked on his windowpane and said they were in urgent need to reach Ahmadgarh and pleaded Gurmeet to take them.Gurmeet agreed and the men sat in the car. As they had moved only a few meters, three more men standing on the road asked for lift. The first two accused then told Gurmeet that they were also farm labourers and insisted him to allow them to sit in the car.The victim added that when they reached near Jagrera Road near Pohir, two of the accused asked him to stop for a while saying they were feeling nauseated.“I stopped the car on the roadside and two accused came out to vomit. However, the other three miscreants overpowered me and pushed me out of the car. After this, all five fled with my car, which had my mobile phone and wallet too,” said Gurmeet.He added, “I reached Ahmedgarh police station after walking for 2km, but the cops there asked me to go to Dehlon police station for lodging the FIR, as the crime spot lied in the latter’s jurisdiction. The cops also denied me a cellphone to call my family, and blanket, so I waited till the morning. I went to a gurdwara and borrowed a phone from a devotee and informed my family.”When he finally got to Dehlon police station and lodged an FIR, the police scanned the CCTVs and traced the car, which had crossed Raikot around 3am. If the Ahmadgarh police would have taken timely action, the accused could have been caught.ASI Baljeet Singh said a case has been registered against the unidentified accused under sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leader-s-son-in-law-carjacked-in-ludhiana/story-cvudZO9ebpCXt0HKm6gTyL.html
17-12-2020||City||National Clean Air Programme: Ludhiana MC to restart mechanical sweeping||With the deteriorating air quality in the industrial hub becoming a cause for concern for authorities and residents alike, a slew of government departments have joined hands with the civic body under the National Clean Air Programme. Under the programme, the municipal corporation (MC), Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), forest department and industries department have been brought under one roof. Since the Union government has sanctioned Rs 26 crore for the city under the national clean air programme (NCAP), cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu conducted a meeting with officials of different departments at the MC’s Zone D office on Wednesday and directed them to collectively prepare detailed project reports (DPRs) regarding measures taken to reduce pollution. Mayor Balkar Singh Sidhu, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and senior officials from other departments were in attendance. The officials said that with Ludhiana, being an industrial hub with over 90,000 industrial units and thousands of vehicles plying on city roads, is one of the nine non-attainment cities (areas with air quality worse than national ambient air quality standards) in Punjab. The city’s air quality index has surpassed 300 and ventured into the ‘very poor category’ on numerous occasions, particularly, when stubble burning was at an all-time high or during Diwali. Doctors say the poor air quality has led to breathing discomfort among people with asthma, heart and lung diseases. It has been decided that the MC will restart mechanical sweeping of roads to reduce the quantity of particulate matter and dust in the air. Officials said the civic body will commence trials of mechanical sweeping this week. Funds allocated under the NCAP will be used to purchase the machine. The project was put on hold in 2018 after objections were raised on the working of the company and payment of bills. Similarly, many other points were discussed, including installation of intelligent traffic lights, timely repair of potholes and stubble burning.Apart from the four monitoring stations being installed by PPCB, the MC has also proposed to install 15 more environmental monitoring stations in the city. Currently, only one monitoring station is operational in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). Eight screens will also be installed by PPCB at different points to display the pollution levels in the city. PPCB superintending engineer Sandeep Bahl said a source apportionment and emission inventory study was done in the past and as per the study, road dust contributes to 28% of the air pollution, bio-mass burning 18%, vehicular pollution 16% and industrial pollution 35% to the total air pollution. As per the 15th finance commission, funds have been allocated to urban local bodies for improvement of air quality and under this programme, Rs 52 crore has been allocated to Ludhiana city, of which Rs 26 crore will be sanctioned and released to the MC, said Bahl. Ashu said all the departments have been directed to work on this project collectively and residents have been urged to support the administration. “We aim to reduce the air pollution in the city and a road map is being made for the same. All the departments will submit their reports in a week or two, following which we will start working on ground level and regular review meetings will be held to increase efficiency,” said Ashu. With the civic body working to establish micro forests alongside Buddha Nullah to increase green cover in the city, the forest department officials have also been directed to establish micro forests within the city. Ashu said that till now the focus of the forest department was on areas outside the MC limits but now authorities have been directed to chalk out a plan to increase green cover in the city. With thousands of diesel auto rickshaws plying on city roads causing air pollution, it has been decided to prepare a new report to phase out the diesel auto rickshaws and introduce e-rickshaws in the city. Ashu said different departments including the Regional Transport Authority and traffic police have been directed to prepare the report in two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-clean-air-programme-ludhiana-mc-to-restart-mechanical-sweeping/story-UAzsMggPAUgwLaas27ZcFN.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Activist withdraws plea against diversion of forests land, work at Bandra-Versova Sea Link may resume||Activist Zoru Bhathena on Wednesday withdrew his application opposing diversion of about 30,000 square meters of mangrove forest for the construction of Bandra-Versova Sea Link, thus paving the way for the project proponent, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to begin work on the important transportation project.Bhathena’s counsel advocate Ronita Bhattacharya agreed to withdraw his application after the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni opined that it had become infructuous given January 25 order of the ministry of environment and forests and climate change (MoEF&CC), correcting the area from which mangroves were permitted to be cut - from earlier 150 square meters to 1,500 square meters.Bhathena had moved HC opposing the petition filed by MSRDC, seeking HC’s permission for felling 1,585 mangrove trees for the construction of Bandra-Versova Sea Link.He had complained that there were discrepancies in different permissions granted for the project, making it difficult to gauge the exact mangrove area likely to be affected by the project and it showed the arbitrariness and lack of proper application of mind in deciding the proposal by MoEF&CC.Discarding his objections, on February 8, 2019, HC had granted MSRDC permission to cut 1,585 mangrove trees on the ground that the project was of vital importance for the city and the permissions were subject to a condition to plant 13,332 mangrove trees at Charkop, to compensate the environmental loss.Bhathena had then carried the matter to the Apex court which has remanded the matter back to HC for fresh consideration.Acting on his plea, HC had on September 20, 2019, directed MoEF&CC to explain the discrepancies in two permissions granted for the sea link - while the Coastal Regulation Zone clearance stated that there will be permanent loss of mangroves on 150 square meters and temporary loss on 50 square meters, the permission granted under provisions of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, talked of diverting 2.997 hectares - about 30,000 square meters of mangrove forest for the project, and permitted cutting of 1,585 mangroves.In this backdrop, HC had on September 20, 2019, restrained MSRDC from cutting any mangroves, except from the 200 square meters area required for construction of the 10 pillars of the sea link.On Wednesday, HC felt that the please had become infructuous, given the January 2020 MoEF&CC order. Bhattacharya then urged the court to allow her to file a fresh plea to challenge the MoEF&CC order within two weeks or so.She urged HC to continue September 20, 2019, in the meantime, expressing apprehension that MSRDC would divert forest area of 30,000 square meters taking advantage of the CR-Z clearance.HC granted her liberty to file a fresh plea but refused to continue the interim order.Bandra-Versova Sea Link forms part of the larger Coastal Road project of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and is being proposed to ease traffic congestion on SV Road and Western Express Highway. It is also expected to cut the travel time from south Mumbai to the airport.Bandra Versova Sea Link will take the Coastal Road forward from Bandra-end of the Worli Bandra Sea Link and will have three connectors at Carter Road in Bandra, Juhu Koliwada and Versova, which will enable residents of these localities to use the entire sea link conveniently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-activist-withdraws-plea-against-diversion-of-forests-land-work-at-bandra-versova-sea-link-may-resume/story-8sjkbO2wffnQQZheKxvo3I.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Two girls from Pune run ‘sugar class’ in Bhiwandi for migrant workers’ children||Eleven-year-old Divija Darekar’s visit to her sugarcane farm at Bhokari village in Padgha, Bhiwandi turned her into a teacher of 20 children of migrant workers who are deprived of primary education as they keep migrating with their parents for livelihood. Never in her dream had Divija thought that she would take up teaching and get attached to her students so well. She now plans to carry forward this initiative in future too. Divija, a resident of Pune, came to the sugarcane farm with her parents as her school was not running due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A student of Class 5, she used to interact with the migrant children at the 14-acre sprawling farm. These children used to wander in the farm with their parents all day.As soon as she learned that these children were deprived of basic education, she started teaching them. Later, she took help from her 14-year-old friend Sejal Pawar, a student of Class 9. Sejal too started to take classes with her and together, they named the teaching sessions as sakhar shala or sugar class.The young duo used to teach the group of children aged between three to 13 for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. The teaching and learning process comprise of basic learning such as alphabets, numbers and crafts and paintings. The duo also instructed the children to do stone painting, drawing, colouring, mud modelling and physical exercises. They also explained the importance of cleanliness and hygiene, health care and education to the children.“I used to play with them initially, and during my interaction with them I learned that they are deprived of basic education. I decided to teach them. When I began with it, I realised I would need help from one more person to plan the sessions. I called up my friend Sejal from Pune who joined me. Then we planned each day and taught the children,” said Divija, who aspires to be an IAS officer in future.In one of the classes, the duo asked each student to introduce themselves in front of others and mention their dream career. “Some students said they want be police personnel while some said they want to be doctor. This means they do have dreams but they lack direction. We are trying to be the direction for them,” added Divija.“The learning process was not only beneficial for them but also for us as we could revise all our previous lessons. When Divija asked me to join, I was so excited and joined her right away,” said Sejal.Chetan Pawar, 16, brother of Savita Pawar, a three-year-old student, said, “I am in Class 10 and used to go to school in Malegaon. I always wanted my sister also to get education as she was deprived of it due to migration. Sakhar shala motivated her a lot and she now tells me that she want to go to school. I will try my best to help her out.” As the young duo’s sakhar Shala gained popularity on social media, it also gained attention of Vikas Shankar Kharage, principal secretary to the chief minister, and sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, who appreciated the initiative.“The principal secretary then contacted the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Bhiwandi and arranged a health check-up camp for the migrant workers and their children and also arranged for an educational session where they were taught about cons of child marriage, importance of health care and primary education,” said Ashwini Darekar, 40, mother of Divija and a social activist from Pune.Although the teaching sessions are not being conducted now, the migrant children make sure they learn on a daily basis and send videos and photos to Divija and Sejal.“We want to teach more such children in future and we will take this up for all kinds of migrant children who are deprived of education,” added Divija.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-girls-from-pune-run-sugar-class-in-bhiwandi-for-migrant-workers-children/story-c2ZXL65CQptRCdKYjTbPiI.html
17-12-2020||City||Like-minded MLAs from BJP should pick a side: Selja||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja on Wednesday said that amid the ongoing farmers’ stir, ‘like-minded’ lawmakers from the BJP should pick a side. She said their party was in touch with MLAs, both Independents as well as from the JJP. Selja was addressing a press conference in Ambala City after inaugurating the election office of party’s mayoral candidate Meena Aggarwal. “Independents and JJP MLAs should think about supporting the Congress as they are the ones who won on the anti-BJP narrative and now, they are in the government. I also want the like-minded lawmakers from the BJP to decide where to stand and whom to support,” she said while responding to a question on destabilisation in the government amid the farmers’ agitation. Selja said it was unfortunate that farmers had to leave their farms and sit on roads to press for their demands. On ‘unhappiness’ among local party workers over ticket allocation, the Congress’ Haryana chief said they should not leave and stick with the party’s ideology. “Even I was denied ticket once, but it is a normal process,” she said. Selja also mentioned the development projects carried out by the Congress government while in power in Ambala. “But in the regime of the BJP government, Ambala’s development work has been stalled,” she added. Meanwhile, returning officer-cum-SDM Sachin Gupta said total six nominations were filed on the last day for the Ambala’s mayor seat. BJP’s Vandana Sharma, Jan Chetna Party’s Shakti Rani Sharma, BSP’s Jolly and three Independents — Neena Sharma, Shubhangi Malik and Veena Dhall — have filed their papers at the ADC office, Gupta said in a statement. He further said that 107 candidates from different parties and wards also filed their nominations to the designated AROs. On Thursday, scrutiny of the nomination papers will be done and Friday will be the last day to withdraw nominations. Selja also visited Panchkula and addressed the workers at the party’s poll office in Sector 14.Taking a dig at the BJP, she said, “You can’t deceive people for long. The dual face of the BJP has been exposed now and people are waiting to teach them a lesson. Panchkula MC polls would reflect the common man’s mood against the BJP for its anti-people policies.” Selja said that Panchkula’s mayoral candidate Upinder had implemented numerous development projects in her MC limits and would return with record margin win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/like-minded-mlas-from-bjp-should-pick-a-side-selja/story-ShqZD9NuKJjTARX9saNw0O.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Great-grandmother donates kidney to save 4-year-old great-granddaughter||A 73-year-old great-grandmother saved the life to her four-year-old great-granddaughter by donating one of her kidneys. Considering the age gap of almost 70 years between the donor and recipient, doctors said this is one of the rarest live organ transplants conducted. The child– Aizah Tanvir Qureshi had a history of facial swelling with poor appetite, nausea and vomiting. She had severely deranged renal function along with metabolic acidosis. Finally, in June, she was diagnosed with an end-stage renal disease – focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) – in which scar tissue develops on the parts of the kidneys that filter waste from the blood (glomeruli). FSGS can be caused by a variety of conditions. The only option left was kidney transplantation. But when the Qureshis registered with the state health department, the waiting list for cadaveric donation was 850. So, the family started hunting for a suitable donor. “I wanted to donate my kidney, but due to my diabetes I wasn’t qualified. My husband and his family members couldn’t donate as their blood groups were different. Luckily, my grandmother, who doesn’t have any comorbidities, has the same blood group (O-positive) as that of my daughter. She happily agreed to donate her kidney,” said Nazeen Tanvir Qureshi, 34, Aizah’s mother, a Byculla resident.The great-grandmother – Rabiya Banu Mohd Haroon Ansari – underwent the pre-surgery diagnosis and was deemed qualified for the transplantation which took place on November 25 at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. “We didn’t have any other option, so we had to take her great-grandmother’s kidney. It has been over three weeks, and both of them are doing well,” said Dr Sharad Sheth, consultant and head of nephrology at the hospital. Currently, Aizah has been kept on immunosuppressants to prevent rejection of the transplanted organ. Dr Sheth is planning to publish the case study in a medical journal, considering it is one of the rarest organ transplantations. “This case is rare because of the almost 70 years’ age difference between the donor and recipient. I have witnessed cases where grandmothers have donated organs to their grandchildren. But this is the first time I have seen a great-grandmother save a four-year-old great-granddaughter,” he said.According to doctors, the age difference of 70 years is quite rare in organ transplantation, considering most people above 65-years have comorbidities, which makes them unqualified as donors. “Great-grandmothers donating organs to their great-grandchildren happens only in 0.20% cases. Though it is not new, it is a rare incident. Had it been a liver, doctors wouldn’t have been able to adjust the adult-sized liver into a four-year-old child,” said Dr Vijay Surase, senior consultant interventional cardiologist at Jupiter Hospital, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-great-grandmother-donates-kidney-to-save-4-year-old-great-granddaughter/story-YazOu9nSanJbHzdZTuDxhM.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police allowed to record Jamia student Iqbal Tanha’s voice samples||A Delhi court on Wednesday allowed police to record the voice samples of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, who has been charged under the stringent UAPA in the Delhi riot cases, after the investigating officer (IO) moved an application for the same.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat directed the investigating officer to coordinate with the Central Bureau of Investigation’s Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) at Lodhi Colony (New Delhi), to schedule the obtainment of voice samples and inform the court so production warrants could be issued.The police had moved the court seeking its permission to take voice samples of Tanha so that certain alleged incriminating data/audio files, retrieved by CERT­-In technology from his mobile phone, could be matched with it.While allowing the police’s plea, the court said the aspect of taking voice samples of an accused was an aspect of the investigation and it did not make the accused a witness against himself.“Accused Asif Iqbal Tanha is already arrested in the case and is in judicial custody. His regular bail has already been dismissed by this court. Further investigation is in progress.“The aspect of taking voice samples of an accused is an aspect of investigation. As such, it does not make the accused witness against himself. Accordingly, in the interest of investigation, the application, moved by the Investigating Officer of the present case seeking permission to take voice sample of the accused Asif Iqbal Tanha, is allowed,” it said in its order passed on December 15, and passed certain directions to protect the rights of the accused.The judge also directed the police to intimate Tanha’s counsel about the specified date and time of his production at CFSL.It added that the accused’s counsel may remain present at the time of obtaining voice samples with the permission of the Director of CFSL or the IO and have legal interview with Tanha for 15 minutes only.During the hearing, special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said data retrieved from the accused’s mobile phone by the CERT-­In technology was examined and allegedly some incriminating audio files have been found, for which the voice sample was required to identify and match it with the data.Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for Tanha, denied all the contents of the application and claimed the arrest of the accused in the case was wholly “illegal” and without any evidence. Shankaran added that Tanha has diligently cooperated with the investigation from the beginning and before to his arrest, and undertakes to do so subject to the exercise of his fundamental right against self-incrimination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-allowed-to-record-jamia-student-iqbal-tanha-s-voice-samples/story-gAAq9BlK9SlFzxgtDTvwOP.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Exempt IITs from caste reservations in faculty recruitment: Panel to Centre||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) should be exempted from caste reservations for faculty appointments as they are institutes of national importance, proposes an expert panel appointed to recommend measures to better implement reservations at IITs. In a report submitted to Rakesh Ranjan, additional secretary, department of higher education, Ministry of Education (MoE), on July 17, the committee proposed that the institutes be included in the list of ‘Institutes of Excellence’ which are exempted from caste-based reservations according to the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act (CEI Act) of 2019. The committee report, a copy of which has been accessed by HT, was recently released following a right to information (RTI) plea filed by an activist in Uttar Pradesh. The eight-member committee was formed by the MoE in April to suggest measures for effective implementation of reservation rules in admission and faculty selection at IITs. V Ramgopal Rao, director IIT-Delhi and chairperson of the committee, said the report was final and refused to comment further. “It has been submitted to the ministry,” he said. While the report does not remark on implementation of reservations in admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate courses, it proposes that since IITs were established under the Act of Parliament as institutions of national importance, they should be exempted from reservation rules in faculty recruitment. “IITs ought to be listed under the Schedule to the CEI Act, 2019, for exemption from reservations,” the report stated. The list currently constitutes eight institutions including the Homi Bhabha National Institute and its five constituent institutes – Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Space Physics Laboratory and Indian Institute of Remote Sensing. According to the Government of India (GoI) norms, 10% of all positions are reserved for candidates belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS), 27% from other backward class (OBC) category, 15% for scheduled cast (SC) category, 7.5% for scheduled tribe (ST) category and 5% for candidates with physical disabilities. The committee found that admissions to all academic undergraduate and postgraduate programmes were in line with the reservation guidelines of the government. The premier technology institutes were also following the norms of reservations in all non-faculty recruitments, the committee noted. “To compete with other top institutions in the world in terms of excellence, output, research, and teaching, a system emphasising targeted goals over a period of time, rather than specific quotas, to address diversity issues through outreach campaigns, targeted recruitment, etc, is recommended,” the report added.The report and its recommendations have been condemned by several student bodies across the country such as the Students Federation of India and All India OBC Students Association. “Ironically, the committee formed to study the violation of reservation norms in IITs has requested the government to add IITs to the class of reservation-exempted institutions in the country. The recommendation was especially on exempting IITs from fulfilling reservation norms in teaching faculty recruitment. The committee has also blatantly lied about IITs following reservation norms in all academic levels [UG and PG],” read a statement by the Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle, demanding that the MoE reject the demand for IITs to be included in the list of reservation-exempted institutions.BOXWhat the panel recommendsThe panel makes two kinds of recommendations for faculty recruitment: - Exempt IITs from caste reservations as they are institutes of national importance OR - Reservations be applied for all categories including EWS to posts of assistant professor grade I and II filled as a whole during the year. Reservation should be applied to the institute as a whole rather than on individual departments.2. The panel proposes a two-year preparatory programme for students willing to take admissions in the PhD programmes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exempt-iits-from-caste-reservations-in-faculty-recruitment-panel-to-centre/story-eZnTvhtL56IhVzZ1A5SniI.html
17-12-2020||City||Speeding bus mows down hosiery worker, nephew in Ludhiana||A 35-year-old hosiery worker and his nephew were mowed down by a speeding private bus near Partap Chowk on Wednesday evening. The victims, identified as Agnidev Yadav and Hari Prasad, 25, who worked as a plumber, were going to Giaspura on their scooter when the incident took place. Eyewitnesses told the police that after the bus hit the scooter, the victims fell down on the road; but instead of stopping, the driver sped up the vehicle, crushing them in the process. While Yadav died on the spot, Prasad, who was riding pillion, succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital. The bus driver fled the spot soon after the mishap, leaving the vehicle behind. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balbir Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the unidentified driver. A hunt is on for his arrest, the ASI added.A YOUNG FAMILY’S DREAMS SHATTERHoping to provide quality education to his children, Hari Prasad had brought his family of five from Darbhanga of Bihar and planned to settle down in Ludhiana. They had bought a new house in the city and moved into it just about two months ago. “We were very happy about the new house and were still buying furniture for it. My husband wanted to educate our three children in this city. But now, there is no one to take care of us here. So we will return to Bihar,” said his grief-stricken wife, Padma. Agnidev Yadav is survived by his wife and two sons. The family lives in Darbhanga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-speeding-bus-mows-down-hosiery-worker-his-nephew-to-death/story-yBaFh6XFsbXa0vt6BwcARL.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Form sub-committee to verify status of Uran wetlands in National Atlas: Bombay HC-panel to Raigad collector||The Bombay high court (HC)-appointed Konkan wetland grievance redressal and state mangrove monitoring committee on Tuesday directed the formation of a sub-committee to verify the status of all wetlands in Uran identified under the National Wetland Inventory Atlas (NWIA), Maharashtra 2011. The move comes days after the Raigad district administration informed the HC panel that there were no wetland sites in Uran taluka.The letter, which HT has reviewed, was issued by member secretary of the panel Neenu Somraj, highlighting that Konkan divisional commissioner Annasaheb Misal had directed the Raigad collector to set up the sub-committee comprising the collector, a representative each from the police, environment and forest departments, City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco), and HC-panel member Stalin D.“The committee should submit its report within 15 days,” the letter read, directing the collector to expedite the appointment at the earliest.Somraj told HT that during last week’s HC panel meeting, a list of wetlands including locations at Karal, Khopte, Bori BK, Dronagiri, Bokadvira, Juipunde, Sheva, Sawarkhar, Bhendkhal, and Kaladhonada as well as Panje and Belpada were submitted before the panel. “We are very serious about the protection of the existing wetland in Uran. All these sites marked under the NWIA have to be protected irrespective of the new wetland rules (2017), and whether the features of such sites fall within the definition of those rules. Numerous complaints have been received pertaining to all these sites identified under the Atlas. Thus, we intend to ensure they remain protected. Based on the subcommittee’s findings, further directions will be issued,” said Somraj.Non-government panel member Stalin, director, NGO Vanashakti, said that though the exercise was welcome, many of the NWIA-identified wetlands have already been reclaimed. “We hope that by the time the committee visits these sites, there will be some semblance of wetland features there. The Raigad collector has failed to take any action over two years. Apart from booking unidentified persons, no effort was ever made to restore a single wetland. All directions by the HC panel were consistently ignored by Cidco and the collector,” he said.Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhary refused to comment on the matter.Meanwhile, environmentalists on Wednesday highlighted that planning agency Cidco’s records show the existence of wetlands in Uran and that they are threatened by development projects, contrary to the collector’s submissions. Bombay Natural History Society’s (BHNS) Baseline Survey of Birds (January-March 2015) report at the proposed Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA), posted on Cidco’s website, highlights the potential damage to wetlands and bird strike threats to aircraft. “These records are irrevocable as the cover page carries Cidco’s logo and the report is still available on their website. The report assumes significance in view of assertions by the collector and also strengthens our stand that Panje must immediately be declared as a bird sanctuary,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation. The BNHS report shows that several potential habitats will be destroyed in the near future due to rapid development and land use pattern changes in Navi Mumbai and the adjoining areas in Raigad district, especially due to projects such as the proposed Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link, NMIA, and the terminal project of Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust.MIGRATORY BIRDS MAKE THEIR WAY TO URAN WETLANDSOver the past week, large flocks of flamingos, waders and other migratory birds have made their way to various wetlands in Uran, including Panje. The birds were spotted by environmentalists, highlighting that the Panje area is not dry anymore, after bunds and sluice gate blockages were removed to allow high-tide water. “This once again is evidence that these areas have rich biodiversity and need to be protected,” said environmentalist Nandkumar Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/form-sub-committee-to-verify-status-of-uran-wetlands-in-national-atlas-hc-panel-to-raigad-collector/story-Qq5e7VsXsTeezpsb6YvwmI.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Speed up construction of slum rehabilitation flats: Delhi CM Kejriwal to DUSIB||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to expedite the process of construction and allocation of flats under the government’s Jahaan Jhuggi Wahin Makaan policy that concerns in-situ slum rehabilitation in the Capital.“The chief minister has instructed the officials to expeditiously allot the flats that have been constructed for the EWS and slum dwellers. He also instructed the officials to ensure the allotment of the flats within 5km of where their slums were located, for which the land should be allotted as soon as possible. He also said that all obstacles in allotment of land required for the construction of these flats should be removed. The 89,400 flats will be constructed in three phases in a total of 237 acres, with a deadline of 2022-2025,” the government said in a statement.The Delhi government is preparing a detailed rehabilitation and construction plan in this regard, the statement said.“The 89,400 houses will be constructed in three phases. In the first phase, 41,400 houses will be constructed by the year 2022. In the second phase, 18,000 houses will be constructed. In the third phase, 30,000 Economically Weaker Section (EWS) houses will be constructed across Delhi. The houses will be multi-storeyed, and five separate tenders will be called each in a lot of 8,000 houses. The time frame for the construction of houses in the first phase is 24 months, with a construction cost of Rs 3,312 crore for 41,400 flats – or around Rs 8 lakh per flat,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/speed-up-construction-of-slum-rehabilitation-flats-delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-dusib/story-uT0viGBqyvECuaPMtGChiI.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹5,000 prize to balloon seller for catching snatcher||A balloon seller hailing from Rajasthan was rewarded with a cash prize of ₹5,000 for catching a snatcher in Sector 22, Chandigarh. Jamna Lal, 30, was honoured by Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal at the former’s office on Wednesday. As per the police, Jamna, who sells balloons in Sector 22-B, was sitting with his wife and six-year-old son on a footpath on Tuesday when a snatcher came and took away the mobile phone his son was playing games on. Jamna chased the snatcher and managed to catch him near the Sector-16/17/22/23 chowk. He later handed over the snatcher identified as Sunny, 19, of Sector 28, to the police. An FIR under Section 379-A of the IPC was registered against Sunny, who already has a similar case registered against him at the Sector-19 police station. The police said that Sunny was a drug addict and committed snatching to fund his addiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-000-prize-to-balloon-seller-for-catching-snatcher/story-CTxw85D9SHRBrCQuEfWvLN.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Chaos again as HSRP website remains down for most part of the day, government says website was hacked||Panicked by the recent crackdown on owners of vehicles not having high-security registration plates (HSRPs) or the fuel-based colour coded stickers, scores of people on Wednesday tried to apply for HSRPs only to find that the Delhi government’s website was down. The state transport department later clarified that their dedicated website https://www.bookmyhsrp.com was hacked.“We received several complaints from people today[Wednesday] about the website being down. When we asked the company which operates the website, it informed the department that their website was hacked at 10.50am and the problem was not resolved until late afternoon,” said a senior transport official. A spokesperson of HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited said the company has registered a complaint with the cybercrime cell of the Delhi police. Meanwhile, vehicle owners who tried applying for the HSRPs or the colour coded stickers on Wednesday said they were unable to book an appointment. “I reached till the point of selecting the date of collection of the number plate. But, after that, it said there was some server error and the process did now get through despite me attempting 4-5 times,” said Arvind, who goes by his first name. Another vehicle owner said the web page hanged when she tried to make the payment. “It is illegal to fine us when even after trying so many times we cannot apply for an HSRP,” she said.On Wednesday, the transport department said it prosecuted 320 owners who did not have HSRPs on their vehicles. On Tuesday, when the crackdown was launched, 239 fines were issued for the same violations. (||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-chaos-again-as-hsrp-website-remains-down-for-most-part-of-the-day-government-says-website-was-hacked/story-A8shbjbNJhGSw8ND4sCrMM.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board launches rainwater harvesting campaign ‘30 days, 200 structures’||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Wednesday launched a rainwater harvesting campaign under the banner “30 days, 200 structures”.The aim of the campaign is to encourage people to build rainwater harvesting systems in their buildings, especially hospitals, education institutes, shopping malls, large residential apartments, commercial spaces, etc., said the DJB in a statement, highlighting that 42 zonal officers have been entrusted with leading the initiative in their respective areas in terms of persuading individuals and institutions.“Every resident of Delhi is supposed to have 24x7 access to water. Rainwater harvesting is one such foundation. I am hopeful that the DJB’s latest campaign will be a success,” said Chadha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-launches-rainwater-harvesting-campaign-30-days-200-structures/story-ss7I630VGm8pHLOdnRXazI.html
17-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC polls: Congress’ mayoral candidate Upinder Ahluwalia files papers||Congress’ mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia on Wednesday filed her nomination papers for the upcoming Panchkula municipal corporation elections.Ahluwalia, who was also city’s first mayor and served from 2013 to 2018, was accompanied by former Haryana deputy CM Chander Mohan when she went to file papers.“Around 1.9 lakh voters of 20 wards under the Panchkula MC cannot be fooled by a false propaganda. People are well aware of who makes fake claims and who actually performs for betterment of the community,” she said. Besides Chander Mohan, former MLA Ram Kishen Gujjer, Haryana Mahila Congress president Sudha Bhardwaj, Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudary, AICC member Partap Chaudhary, Congress candidates for MC polls and senior leaders were also present. 9 candidates file nomination for mayoral post, 84 for councillorOn the last day of nomination filing, 84 people filed nominations for the post of councillors and nine for the mayor. While Upinder Kaur of the Congress filed papers for the mayor’s post, her husband Dhaval Partap Singh filed nomination as covering candidate. BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal had filed papers on Tuesday.Sudarshan Bansal, Pushpinder Singh, Anil, Krishan Aggarwal, and Shyam Negi also gave their names for the mayoral post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-polls-congress-mayoral-candidate-upinder-ahluwalia-files-papers/story-mXIlD3R95jduYzQjjkxLjP.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body panel amends proposal to appoint consultant for Malad sewage treatment plant||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Wednesday appointed a project consultant for the proposed sewage treatment (STP) plant at Malad. Amending the administration’s proposal to appoint the lowest bidder Tata Consulting Engineers as the project consultant for the proposed STP, the committee directed the BMC to award the contract to the second-lowest bidder NJS Engineers India Pvt Ltd, with directives to negotiate with this firm to match the price quoted by the lowest bidder. The cost of the project is ₹61 crore. This is part of BMC’s plan to upgrade its STPs at Worli, Bandra, Versova, Malad, Bhandup and Ghatkopar, and construct a new STP at Dharavi. Treated water from these upgraded facilities will be used for non-potable purposes such as gardening, for car garages, fire-fighting, among others. While the six STPs presently treat water at the primary level, they will be upgraded to treat water at the tertiary level, making it fit for reuse. The amendment was proposed by the leader of the house Vishakha Raut. Raut said, “According to rules, BMC does not give one contractual firm more than three contracts. Tata Consultancy already has six existing BMC contracts. This delays the timeline of all projects and burdens the firm. We moved an amendment to award the contract to the second-lowest bidder, but the administration will have to negotiate with them to match the price quoted by the lowest bidder.” Rais Shaikh, leader of the Samajwadi Party in BMC said, “Now the administration can either accept this, negotiate with the bidder to lower the cost and match the lowest bid, or refer the proposal to the state government.” The consultants will help BMC in the project from the start to finish, will oversee the day to day’s work, and ensure the project is completed while resolving technical issues that may arise during the project completion. BMC is spending approximately ₹350 crores for appointing consultants for all seven STPs in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-panel-amends-proposal-to-appoint-consultant-for-malad-sewage-treatment-plant/story-iTLfz9T3vAgw58pBGcuoZN.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: A restored Rahim’s Tomb opens to public today after six years||Six years after its restoration work began, Rahim’s Tomb in south-east Delhi’s Nizamuddin will be reopened to the public from Thursday. Union minister for Tourism and Culture Prahlad Singh Patel will be presiding over the completion ceremony on the 464th birth anniversary of Abdur Rahim Khan-i-Khanan – a poet and one of the navaratnas ( nine gems) of Mughal emperor Akbar’s court.Built in 1598 by Rahim for his wife Mah Banu, historians say the building was the first Mughal monument built for a woman and the architectural innovation developed there “informed the designs of Taj Mahal”. Following his death in 1627, Rahim’s body was also placed there.The mausoleum is constructed in the vicinity of the shrine of the 13th century Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya as it was believed to be auspicious to be buried near the grave of a saint. It was also built on the riverside terrace and not in the centre of the garden, unlike the other Mughal structures.Experts said the monument was “used as a quarry” from 18th century to early 20th century -- stones from the beautiful tomb were plundered to construct monuments elsewhere in the capital city-- leaving the structure in a dilapidated condition and at risk of a collapse. In the 1920s, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) provided masonry support to overhanging sandstone blocks on the façade, saving the structure from collapsing on itself.A major part of the renovation work – carried out by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC) and funded by the InterGlobe Foundation in association with the ASI since 2014 – involved strengthening the foundation and repairing the deep and wide cracks in the crypt and other areas.The “emergency conservation work” -- one of the largest in recent times – also included around 60 independent peer reviews, architectural documentation involving 3D laser scanning, and extensive research. Wide-ranging consultations with various stakeholders eventually lead to a restored heritage structure and a renovated dome which looks half-finished to many.Ratish Nanda, chief executive officer (CEO) of AKTC, said, “We held deliberation at various levels about the dome. While some were in favour of us completing the dome, others wanted us to leave it as is. Following the discussions, we decided to use some white marble to stabilise the base of the dome and to let it remain as a symbolic addition to represent the original marble cladding. Some of the areas around the dome have been left empty as we had no evidence of what those spots looked like when it was first constructed.”Nanda also said their experience with conservation efforts at Humayun’s Tomb helped them to carry out this complex restoration work. Stone medallions of numerous designs, incised plaster patterns, including the swastika and floral motifs on the walls, were also restored. “Cleaning these designs, covered in soot, dust, modern plaster, and cement, was more difficult than restoring certain areas,” Nanda said.Rohini Bhatia, chairperson, InterGlobe Foundation, said, “In addition to physical restoration, we are also establishing the relevance of sites and creating awareness among communities towards the need to preserve culture and heritage.” The cultural revival efforts of Rahim’s Tomb include the compilation of Rahim’s literary works and archival research on his life and works by eminent scholars, culminating in an English publication titled ”Celebrating Rahim”, she said.Historian Rana Safvi said, “The structure was in a bad shape even when Sir Sayyid Ahmad Khan was writing the first edition of his book Asar us Sanadid (The Remnants of Ancient Heroes) in 1847. In that, he describes the disrepair that the tomb of the Mughal noble had fallen into and compares it to the grandeur and magnificence of the Khan-e-Khanan’s life. I am glad that this noted scholar’s tomb has once again been restored to some semblance of its former glory,” said the author who translated the book into English.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-a-restored-rahim-s-tomb-opens-to-public-today-after-six-years/story-GfYnTJ4MYnZ0w029NCn3XK.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai cross 11,000; Maharashtra toll rises to 48,434||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 4,304 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths, taking the state’s tally of infections to 1,880,893 and toll to 48,434. The number of active cases in the state stood at 61,454. Of the 95 deaths, 57 were from the past 48 hours, 17 from last week and 21 were from the period before last week. Mumbai, meanwhile, crossed the 11,000 fatalities mark, as the city reported 12 deaths on Wednesday, pushing up its toll to 11,003. The city’s tally of cases stood at 284,404 with an addition of 795 new infections. Mumbai’s active caseload dropped below 10,000 to 6,958 after data reconciliation, according to the state health department. Maharashtra has witnessed a dip in Covid-19 cases and fatalities this month against November. In the first 15 days of December, the state had reported 62,911 cases and 1,188 deaths, a 8.06% and 42.41% drop respectively from 68,836 cases and 2,063 deaths in the corresponding period last month.Also read: Maharashtra records fewer than 5,000 cases for 11 days nowThe case fatality rate (CFR), too, has fallen, with the first fortnight of November recording it at 3%, while it is 1.88% from December 1 to 15. The active cases in the state have dipped by 42.26% between November 1 and December 15. On November 1, the active caseload of Maharashtra was 123,585, which has come down to 71,356 on December 15.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the Covid-19 situation in the state is improving. “If we look at the recovery rate, it is at 94%, the doubling rate is over 350 days and the CFR is low. The growth rate is 0.2%. I think, if people remain disciplined, strictly wear masks and maintain social distancing then cases will not surge and will remain in control,” said Tope, speaking to TV news channels.The minister added that a “possible second peak” of Covid-19 will not be witnessed in the state if people remain disciplined. Tope said the state is ready to begin the immunisation drive as soon as a vaccine is available. “Two companies have claimed that their clinical trials are complete; they have sought clearance from the authorities concerned. We have kept ready all resources required for vaccination, including trained manpower, cold chain, methodology, booths. If vaccination is to start tomorrow, Maharashtra is fully prepared,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-deaths-in-mumbai-cross-11-000-maharashtra-toll-rises-to-48-434/story-ee5dCnretClPoqzDx6vVyL.html
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt’s decision to rename Faridabad’s Badshah Khan Hospital irks public||The Haryana government’s decision to rename the Badshah Khan Hospital in Faridabad after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee has received criticism from the public.The inauguration plaque at the hospital reads: “Badshah Khan Hospital, the hospital built by the people of Faridabad with their own hands was named after their beloved leader Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan”. It was inaugurated by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on June 5, 1951.The name change was notified by the Haryana’s director general health services notification on December 3, 2020, following orders from the chief minister.“Abdul Gaffar Khan was the beloved leader of all the people, who came from the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP). Many of our elders were part of the organisation Khudai Khidmatgar (servants of God) formed by him in the pre-Independence era. After resettling in Faridabad, they collectively worked in the construction of the civil hospital and named it Badshah Khan Hospital in the honour of Abdul Gaffar Khan,” says 79-year-old Mohan Singh Bhatia, the president of the Bhatia Sewak Samaj, an organisation of the people from NWFP.“Badshah Khan Hospital is our identity and we request the government not to change its name. We are not against the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The government can build a new hospital and name it after him,” he said, adding that they may resort to protestsFaridabad’s New Industrial Town (NIT) was the biggest settlement of the people that moved to India after Partition.“I was 15 when I came to Faridabad with my parents. He (Abdul Gaffar Khan) had a great association with the people who came from NWFP and even post Partition, he used to visit Faridabad to meet us. Our emotions are associated with Badshah Khan and it’s our identity. By removing the Badshah Khan name from the civil hospital, the state government is wiping out our history,” said 87-year-old Kewal Ram Bhaita.Abdul Gaffar Khan, who is also known as Badshah Khan, died at the age of 97 in 1988 in Afghanistan.When contacted, Faridabad chief medical officer DR Randeep Poonia, said: “Please speak to the Prime Minister’s office, which is in charge of the hospital regarding the change of name.”Dr Vinay Gupta, principal medical officer, in charge of the hospital, said, “We received the notification from Haryana director general health services regarding the change of name of the hospital on December 14. From yesterday (December 15), we are using the new name in all our communication and references, including the hospital’s name and on the patient’s card. In the next couple of days, we will get the new board (with the new name) installed at the hospital premises.”“We never imagined even in our wildest of the dreams that the government will change the name of Badshah Khan Hospital. They don’t know what Badshah Khan is for the people, who came from NWFP,” says 74-year-old Basant Khattak.“He is our Gandhi and we don’t know what the current regimen is up to. Will they change the name of Taj Mahal also?” said Khattak. His father, the late Kanhiya Lal, was among the 81 refugees from NWFP, who sat in protest in front of Nehru’s residence, demanding a place for their resettlement.“Now, after 73 years of partition, the government is displacing our identity,” added Khattak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-s-decision-to-rename-faridabad-s-badshah-khan-hospital-irks-public/story-C9Ind6obg45EmNAdMLddeL.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Govt sanctions sedition charges against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, others||The Delhi government on Wednesday gave its sanction to the police to charge 18 people accused in the Delhi riots case -- including former JNU students Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, former JNU student Umar Khalid, and local politicians Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan -- under sections of the Indian Penal Code that deal with sedition and criminal conspiracy.On November 22, when Delhi Police charged Khalid and other accused for their alleged role in the case, they informed the court that the sanction to prosecute the accused persons for sedition and other sections was still under consideration. A court takes cognisance of the charges and starts trial only after the state government gives a prosecution sanction. The police had sent a request for the prosecution sanction under sedition in mid- September. Last month, the government had given police prosecution sanction to charge the accused persons under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. But the sanction for sedition was still awaited. The accused have been arrested for their alleged role in conspiring to orchestrate the riots in northeast Delhi -- a charge that they have vehemently denied. The arrested have alleged that police framed them in the Delhi riots cases because they were prominent faces of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests.At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured when clashes turned violent leading to full-blown Hindu-Muslim riots across parts of northeast Delhi. According to the Delhi government’s sanction approval letter, the police’s charge sheet was vetted, and after perusal it appeared that “prima facie the accused persons had committed the acts of sedition and criminal conspiracy.” HT has seen a copy of the government’s sanction letter. The government has also written to police saying that the granting of the prosecution sanction has been approved by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.The sedition law under Section 124 is a British era law, mentioned in the Indian Penal code. The maximum punishment, if convicted under the section, is life imprisonment with fine. This is the second case in which Umar Khalid will be tried for sedition. He, along with former JNU students’ union president Kanhaiya Kumar, was booked under a sedition charge for allegedly shouting anti-India slogans in the 2016 JNU case. They have both denied the charges.A controversy had erupted during that case when the Delhi government said police filed a charge sheet in January 2019 without getting an approval from the state government to include the sedition charge. The court did not take up the case until the government finally granted sanction in February 2020. Former Uttar Pradesh police chief, Vikram Singh who served as the state’s director general between 2007 and 2009 said, “ The government must not delay in granting sanctions in cases such as this. The government has the best legal minds. If there is a lacunae in the case, the legal minds can fix it. Many times governments delay sanction because of vote bank politics. Delaying the sanction hurts the government and the victims at large. The trials get extended. Ultimately the government suffers losses when trails are delayed. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-govt-sanctions-sedition-charges-against-umar-khalid-sherjeel-imam-others/story-MNfGsVfaaxQyiXN3EkU9OJ.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: As mayors’ protest enters Day 10, civic officials fear delay in budget proceedings||The sit-in protest of Delhi’s three civic bodies’ mayors outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal continued for the 10th day on Wednesday. Though mayors and other functionaries of the municipal corporations sitting on dharna have started basic work from the protest site, municipal officials fear that budget proceedings and discussions might get delayed if the protest continues. According to civic officials, budget proposals cannot be approved until there are proper deliberations by councillors, leader of the House and standing committee chairpersons of the three corporations.Budget proposals for the financial year 2021-22 were presented in the north, east and south corporations earlier this month by additional commissioners of the civic bodies. These proposals are now to be discussed and approved by the elected representatives in the standing committees and House meetings.A senior official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that the budget proposals are to be discussed in the standing committee meeting of the civic body on December 21 and the House meeting is likely to be conducted on December 24 to deliberate on different issues. However, the chairperson is protesting in front of the CM’s house. “In such a case, either we have to postpone the meetings while we wait for this impasse to be over or the deputy chairperson of the standing committee will have to handle the meeting for budget discussion. As of now there is not much of a problem but the deliberations on the budget may get delayed if the protest continues for another week,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Officials in the North and East Delhi Municipal Corporation said that had there been no protest, the deliberations on the budget would have been scheduled for next week, but “the process might get affected” in the current scenario.They, however, said that as of now budget proposals are being tabled in zonal offices before different municipal committees that do not require mayors or other senior political functionaries to be present. “Budget proposals are approved after several deliberations at different levels. After being tabled by the commissioner, the budget is put before different municipal committees and then presented in the standing committee for deliberations and remarks of the chairman. It is then reviewed by the leader of the opposition and finally approved by the leader of the House. The process for all this starts soon after the budget presentation by the commissioner. If the protest continues further, we may require changes in the schedules of deliberations on budget,” a north corporation official said on the condition of anonymity.As many as 30 BJP councillors, including mayors, standing committee chairpersons and leaders of Houses of the three corporations have been protesting outside Kejriwal’s residence at Flagstaff Road since December 7 for the release of allegedly pending dues of Rs13,000 from the Delhi government.Political leaders in the three municipalities said that of the Rs13,000 crore, the north corporation is to get Rs6,355 crore, the SDMC Rs4,125 crore and the EDMC Rs2,985 from the state government.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, said, “We are committed that the work should not suffer so we have started working from the protest site. If required we might postpone the deliberations by one or two days and in the meantime, make some alternative arrangements so that the process is not affected further. We are sitting here for the cause of our employees as we are not able to pay their salaries. We hope that the Delhi government will listen to our demands and release funds soon.”Similarly, Nirmal Jain, mayor, EDMC, said that currently, the budget was being presented before different municipal committees and there was “no delay” expected in deliberations on the budget. “We will make some alternate arrangements and ask deputies of those sitting on dharna to conduct deliberations on the budget. We will not leave the protest site until our pending fund of Rs13,000 crore is released,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-as-mayors-protest-enters-day-10-civic-officials-fear-delay-in-budget-proceedings/story-oselwV5IYMPCX4eSJIyddO.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Release doctors’ salaries: Delhi HC to civic bodies||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to release the salaries of the doctors of the nine hospitals they run for the month of October.A bench comprising justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said that the salaries should be released within two weeks while hearing an application moved by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) seeking directions to the two civic bodies to clear the arrears of salaries of the doctors and health workers.In its impleadment application, IMA had sought that doctors of three hospitals—Swami Dayanand Hospital, Chandiwala Maternity Home and Shahdara Polyclinic—managed by EDMC also be included in the list of hospitals being considered for relief by the high court.The application was filed as part of a petition which the court had initiated on the non-payment of salaries to the doctors of the Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. The doctors had threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year.Subsequently, many more petitions related to non-payment of salaries by the three municipal corporations of Delhi—North, East and South—to their employees and pensioners were filed.The petitioners in those pleas include doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, safai karamcharis, teachers, Class-IV employees and retired staff such as teachers and engineers.On Wednesday, senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the IMA, told the court that the doctors have not been given salaries for the last two months.Appearing for the civic bodies, their counsels told the court that the funds have to be released by the Delhi government for salaries to be disbursed by the municipal corporations.Advocate Satyakam, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, however, opposed this submission. He said that the hospitals are managed by the corporations and the government has already released its share.Following this, the court observed that the salaries to the doctors should be released despite administrative differences between the civic bodies and the Delhi government.“The doctors should not be deprived of their salaries,” the court said.“In the meantime, NrDMC and EDMC shall release the arrears of salaries of doctors employed with the nine hospitals being run and managed by the said civic authorities... for the month of October, 2020 within two weeks,” the court bench said in its order.The matter will be now heard on January 15, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/release-doctors-salaries-delhi-hc-to-civic-bodies/story-eBbta6UeikE1xNEJA9YHWI.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade accusations over sanitation workers||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged that leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are forcing sanitation workers to participate in the ongoing protest by all three mayors outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence.The BJP dismissed the allegation and said sanitation workers are in distress because of the AAP-led Delhi government.For the past 10 days, mayors of the three BJP-ruled municipal bodies and party supporters have been camping outside the CM’s residence in north Delhi’s Flagstaff Road demanding funds of ₹13,000 crore which they claim the Delhi government owes the civic bodies. The Delhi government has dismissed the claim.The protest by mayors began after sanitation workers to stop work if not paid on time.“The BJP’s dirty politics is quite evident in videos which show BJP leaders blackmailing MCD unions to go on strike and turn Delhi into a “garbage capital”. They are also forcing sanitation workers to join the mayors’ protest outside the CM’s residence,” said AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.AAP leader Rakhi Birla said, “Most sanitation workers are Dalits and by not paying their wages for around three months now, the BJP has exposed its anti-Dalit face.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The allegations are baseless. It reflects the AAP’s frustration as despite strong provocation by AAP supporters, sanitation workers have not gone on strike even though they are facing hardships. Sanitation and other municipal workers know very well that the AAP government is not releasing funds it owes the municipal corporations. And that is why they are not getting salaries on time. AAP will have to face the consequences in the 2022 municipal polls.”BJP to hold day-long fast todayThe Delhi BJP also said around 40,000 party workers will sit on a day-long fast on Thursday against the Delhi government and demand the release of ₹13,000 crore in funds to the three municipal corporations.The BJP-led municipal corporations have accused the Delhi government of not releasing funds due to them, thereby leading to a situation where they are unable to even pay employee salaries. Demanding that the government release the pending amount of ₹13,000 crore at the earliest, the three mayors have been staging a sit-in protest outside Kejriwal’s residence for the past 10 days. BJP workers will also stage a protest outside the Delhi assembly on Thursday to oppose the special session called by the government to discuss the alleged ₹2,400 crore irregularities in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.Harish Khurana, spokesperson, Delhi BJP, said, “Around 40,000 party workers will sit on a fast on Thursday from 9am to 5.30pm in support of our mayors. The CM has no time to meet our mayors who have been sitting outside the CM’s residence for over 10 days. Instead of releasing the ₹13,000 crore to the corporations, the government has levelled baseless allegations about irregularities.”Gupta, who addressed the media along with BJP MPs Meenakshi Lekhi, Gautam Gambhir and Hans Raj Hans outside Kejriwal’s residence, said, “We are challenging the CM to order an inquiry into the alleged scam by any investigating agency. If the charges are not proved, then he must resign.”In a statement, the AAP said, “Why is BJP showing its double face to the public at large? The AAP wants a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe into the corruption in the MCDs, and we protested for the same. When we protested, we were beaten up by police and many party workers were arrested. We demand a thorough probe by the CBI to unearth the truth before the public.”Chail Bihari Goswami, chairman, standing committee in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, on Wednesday had sent a legal notice to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, Delhi Jal Board V-C Raghav Chadha, AAP MLAs Atishi and Sourabh Bharadwaj for “making false allegations” of ₹2,400 crore scam in the north corporation. The corporation in a statement also denied allegations of any misappropriation of funds.The AAP did not respond for comment on the legal notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aap-bjp-trade-accusations-over-sanitation-workers/story-6rvGzbDI5FcJlOPgRxd2lK.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Widows, mothers of farmers who died by suicide join stir at Delhi’s Tikri border||A 56-year-old woman whose farmer husband died by suicide five years ago; a 70-year-old who lost her daughter-in-law, the sole earner of the family, a decade ago; and a 60-year-old mother whose son consumed poison in 2010 were among the several people from farm families who joined the protest at Tikri border on Wednesday.Jasbeer Kaur, 56, a farmer from Kakarwal village of Sangrur district of Punjab, said her husband ended his life in 2015 after he failed to repay his farm debts. “Our lives had stopped the very day. We just could not ever overcome the loss. Things got more worse after that. We had to sell the two-acre land and my 16-year-old son is now working on someone else’s farmland. I still have to repay a loan of Rs4 lakh,” she said.Holding photographs of their loved ones, the women were seen raising slogans against the new farm laws at the Delhi-Haryana border in Tikri near a separate stage set up by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan).Hardeep Kaur, 70, a farmer from Ugrahan, said her daughter-in-law died by suicide a decade ago after she was trapped in farm debts. “She was the only earning member of our family. Both my husband and my son are bedridden. We had Rs6 lakh debt at that time and the produce from our less than two-acre land was not enough to repay that. Her death was like a storm we feel every day. The debt is still there and we have no means of repaying it,” she said.The women said they had decided to join the stir at Delhi’s borders because the three new farm laws will “lead to more farmers ending their lives”. To be sure, the suicide cases are not linked to the new farm laws, which were approved by Parliament in September. However, farmers’ suicides, a long-standing issue in India, have been linked to farmers’ indebtedness, poor crop prices and price volatility. A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) study in 2019 warned that farmers were taking on more agricultural loans than is required to meet cultivation costs based on prevailing prices.As many as 10,281 agriculturists (5,957 cultivators and 4,324 farm labourers) died by suicide in 2019, accounting for 7.5% of total suicides in the country, according to official data.Sarjeet Kaur (60), said her 28-year-old son died by suicide in 2010 as he could not repay the debt of ₹10 lakh. “He was our only son. We are still under huge debt despite selling our three-acre land. Both my husband and I work on our neighbour’s farmland. Now, these new farm laws will further reduce the income of farmers and will force more farmers to meet a fate like my son’s. We do not want anyone to go through what we have faced,” she said.The protesting women said that debt has increased over the years. Mahinder Kaur, 55, whose husband died by suicide in 2015, said, “He ended his life because he could not repay a loan of ₹5 lakh. Now, that loan has increased to ₹15 lakh. I can’t end my life and leave my children alone. We are also here to ask the government to either give us compensation or waive our debts. This debt-ridden life is a slow death.”Harpreet Kaur, president of BKU (Ugrahan) women’s wing, said, “We had requested these women to join the stir to make the government understand that farmers have been struggling for years due to anti-farmer policies. The new farm laws will make the situation worse for them and trigger more suicides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-widows-mothers-of-farmers-who-died-by-suicide-join-stir-at-tikri/story-iTZsmlr1pqWVVn722NZlVI.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 positivity rate remains below 2% for two days in a row, govt may not scale up testing||With over 79,000 tests conducted and 1,547 new cases reported on Wednesday, Delhi saw a positivity rate of less than 2% for the second consecutive day, as per the daily health bulletin shared by the city government. Delhi also reported 32 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the city’s total toll to 10,147 as on Wednesday. The positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – has remained at 5% or less in Delhi for the past 15 days, a first since the government started releasing daily data in March, giving rise to hopes that the disease may finally be under control in the national capital. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control if a positivity rate is 5% or less and hat rate is maintained for at least two weeks. “The number of cases and positivity rate in Delhi have continued to decline even though the behaviour of the people – such as wearing masks properly in public and maintaining social distance – has remained somewhat ambivalent. So, the decline is probably due to a high percentage of the population being exposed to the infection. Now, it is unlikely that Delhi would see a large spurt in cases. It might happen if a lot of susceptible people return to the city or if the virus mutates significantly,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The low positivity rate, however, could mean that Delhi might not scale up testing further, as implied by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday during a press briefing. “The World Health Organization says tests should be scaled up till the positivity rate of less than 8% is achieved. A positivity rate of 5% is considered to be optimum, which means that sufficient number of tests is being done. Delhi has had a positivity rate of less than 3% for five days in a row and less than 5% for 15 days in a row. Right now, the positivity rate is about 2%. Let us wait and watch as to how long the 2% positivity rate can be maintained,” said Jain, when asked about scaling up testing. After a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in mid-November, when Delhi was going through the third and the worst surge in cases, the government had decided to scale up the number of daily tests to between 100,000 and 120,000. On Tuesday, Delhi had reported the highest number of tests in a day – 85,105. Of these, almost half were conducted using the more accurate RT PCR method. The daily number of tests has gone up from an average of 52,617 tests, in the first week of November, to 72,793 over the past seven days, as per the data shared by the Delhi government. The proportion of RT PCR tests daily has also gone up from 27.6% in the first week of November to 48.25% during the past seven days. As for hospitalisations, the minister said around 50% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds were available in Delhi. However, in some of the big private hospitals, the occupancy of ICU beds still remained at 80%. As per the government’s own Delhi Corona app, on average only 34.8% of the ICU beds – with or without ventilators – were occupied across hospitals as on Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-positivity-rate-remains-below-2-for-two-days-in-a-row-govt-may-not-scale-up-testing/story-OHQsA9ve8k9aYnLiN2TnwK.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: DJB, electricity dept employees on front-line workers’ list for vaccination||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the state government would consider employees of the electricity department and the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) as front-line workers and they would be second in line, after health care workers, to receive the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine when it becomes available. As per the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), an estimated 10 million health care workers, 20 million front-line workers, including the police and army personnel, and 270 million people, either over the age of 50 years or with comorbidities, will be the three priority groups to receive the vaccine. “Yesterday (Tuesday), the Delhi government has ordered that the employees of the DJB and the electricity department will be on the list of front-line workers and will be administered the vaccine on priority when it becomes available. They were working 24 hours a day even when there was a lockdown. Police, civil defence volunteers and safai karmacharis are already on the priority list,” said Jain in an interaction with the press on Wednesday. Delhi has already collected information on health care workers through the hospitals and clinics they work in. The category of health care workers includes doctors, AYUSH practitioners, dentists, nurses, paramedical staff, non-medical staff in health care facilities, as well as security personnel in such facilities. The districts already have in place data on the aged and those with comorbidities in containment areas, which was collected during the door-to-door survey. This will be updated for the vaccination drive. The government has also started training health care workers on vaccine administration. The cold storage facilities and fixed points such as dispensaries and mohalla clinics where the vaccine will be administered are already in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-djb-electricity-dept-employees-on-front-line-workers-list-for-vaccination/story-OlHcUO4gRnYBQVg6wFCETM.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||North MCD tells HC it will demolish temple to clear way for Chandni Chowk revamp||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday told the Delhi high court it plans to demolish on December 20 a temple that falls along the path of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, after attempts to bring down the structure were postponed twice previously.In an affidavit filed through its standing counsel, the North civic body said caution is being exercised, in consultation with the police and other authorities before the demolition begins. The reply comes after several contentions were raised on the delay in removal of the temple.The court was hearing an application seeking the compliance of the court’s earlier order to demolish the temple which is under the right of way of Chandni Chowk main road, which is part of the redevelopment plan.On Wednesday, the civic body told a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, that in compliance with the orders of the court, the demolition programme for the removal of the temple had earlier been scheduled for November 1.“However, keeping in view the upcoming festival of Deepawali etc. it was decided to postpone the said action,” the North MCD said, adding that the next date for the removal was fixed for November 22. But on the said date, a huge crowd had gathered at the demolition site and the civic body that work could not be executed on the day due to administrative reasons. The civic body told the court that another encroachment removal program has been fixed for December 20.The court, while taking note of the submissions, posted the matter for further hearing on January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-mcd-tells-hc-it-will-demolish-temple-to-clear-way-for-chandni-chowk-revamp/story-40cOJ9YMYLTJENrSapA59I.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Blockade at Chilla border: Traffic from Noida diverted||Farmer groups on Wednesday blocked the carriageway from Noida to Delhi via the Chilla border, even as the Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it may form a committee to resolve the deadlock over the three new contentious farm laws. The Delhi-Noida carriageway, however, remained in operation with only about 150 farmers reaching the site instead of the nearly 2,000 that were expected, according to farm union leaders. The Noida-Delhi traffic was diverted through the Delhi-Noida Direct Flyway.In a press conference on Tuesday evening, farmer leaders had announced that they will “completely block” the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border.“We were expecting nearly 2,000 farmers to reach there for the complete blockade of the Chilla border. However, only a few could reach and block one carriageway. We will reach on Thursday morning in full strength and block both the roads,” said Rishipal Ambawata, head of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Ambawata group.Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of BKU (Bhanu), said: “We will continue the blockade till the government accepts all our demands. We are not against another round of talks, but the government should also give us an optimistic response. We are planning to block DND next.”The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla – entered the 21st day on Wednesday. Farm union leaders also said they had formed an IT cell to counter the Centre’s “propaganda” about the agitation.Commenting on the SC’s indications earlier in the day, Bharatiya Kisan Union leaders after their core committee meeting in the evening decided “to remain silent on the matter” until they receive any notice from the apex court over constituting the panel. They had welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision earlier in the day, with some suggestions of their own on how the body would be constituted.Manjeet Rai, national president of BKU (Doaba), said, “In the meeting, the members of our core committee decided that we will not comment anything on the Supreme Court’s suggestion of forming a panel of farmers and representatives of the government for talks on the farm laws till a formal notice is received. The matter is listed in the Supreme Court on Thursday. Further decision will be taken accordingly.”The farm leaders had earlier demanded that the panel should mainly consist of the representatives of the farmers who have been protesting against the farm bills at Delhi borders and other places across the country. They also said that they will not accept the “participation of any pro-government farmer leaders” in the panel.“We will not accept any such leaders in the panel. The committee should be time-bound. We request the government of Punjab and Haryana to play a positive role and stand in solidarity with the agitating protesters. The farmers are dying at the protest venue because of the chilling cold,” Satnam Singh Sahni, BKU Doaba’s general secretary, said in the afternoon when asked to comment on the Supreme Court’s decision.However, the farmer leaders changed their stand after the core committee meeting and decided to maintain silence of the issue till the Wednesday’s hearing in the court.Darshan Pal, president of Krantikari Kisan Union, said that the members of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a platform leading the protests, will meet on Thursday morning and decide the next course of action. “We will discuss the suggestions given by the apex court on Thursday. We will take any decision after discussing with all the farmers’ unions,” he said.On Wednesday, the farmer leaders said that they have formed an IT Cell to counter the central government’s “propaganda” that they have been spreading against the protesting farmers through various means.“Our 50 member IT wing would respond to all such propaganda of the government and revert instantly in the same manner. This cell will also work to disseminate real-time information about our decisions and progress in the agitation to nearly 1.2 billion people across the globe who are associated with us,” said Rai.At the Ghazipur and Tikri borders, the protest remained peaceful on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/blockade-at-chilla-border-traffic-from-noida-diverted/story-EwvqjCtxPeXrNUTGrIsp1H.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government seeks ₹3,700 crore for flood-hit farmers||The Maharashtra government has sought a financial aid of ₹3,700 crore from the Centre for relief to farmers hit by floods in September and October. A six-member central team will assess the losses in flood-hit areas of Vidarbha, Marathwada and Pune over six days, beginning Sunday. The Centre is expected to release the financial compensation based on the report of its committee. “We have sought financial assistance of ₹3,700 crore against the losses of crops due to the floods in September and October. Following this, a team from the Central government will come for a six-day tour of the state, during which they will visit flood-affected areas of Vidarbha, central Maharashtra (Marathwada) and western Maharashtra,” said Abhay Yawalkar, director, disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department. The retreating monsoon caused damage to harvest-ready crops over seven lakh hectares in more than 10 districts in central and western Maharashtra in October. Standing crops such as soya bean, cotton, gram, sugarcane, pomegranate etc. were flattened due to heavy rain in districts of Solapur, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Aurangabad. Solapur in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad in central Maharashtra were the worst-hit. Similarly, in September, around 88,864 hectares of agriculture land in 34 talukas of Nagpur, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli was hit due to the floods in Vidarbha, officials said. This would be the second visit of the Central team to Vidarbha as it had already visited the region post the floods in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-seeks-3-700-crore-for-flood-hit-farmers/story-u6hQoxBBAKdcqwKiDRqJUP.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Gopal Rai visits Singhu border to take stock of facilities, says AAP firmly behind farmers||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Delhi convener and environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday visited the protesting farmers at Singhu Border and took stock of the facilities provided by the Delhi government there. After his visit, Rai told reporters that the Kejriwal government stood firmly in support of the farmers’ protest in the Supreme Court on Wednesday when the matter was being heard by the bench of the Chief Justice of India.The party, later in a statement, said the AAP government told the Supreme Court that the protests will end immediately if the Central government agrees to the farmers’ demands.“The farmers are protesting even in extreme weather not out of choice but out of compulsion. Their demands are absolutely legitimate and the Central government must listen and accept these demands. But the Central government does not seem interested in looking into the demands of farmers,” Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra told the apex court. Rai said the Delhi government is running kitchens for providing food to protesting farmers. “We have also installed mobile toilets and facilities for drinking water. The BJP-ruled Centre is saying that massive losses are taking place due to the farmer’s protest owing to the closure of the borders. But the farmers wanted to hold the protest at Ramlila Maidan for which the BJP government did not grant them permission,” he said. The AAP leader said Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh came to Delhi, met Union home minister Amit Shah and returned but did not meet farmers. “And now he is falsely accusing the AAP of faking support. Let me remind him that it was Kejriwal who visited Singhu border. It was Kejriwal who was put under house arrest when he wanted to visit the border again on the day the Bharat Bandh,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gopal-rai-visits-singhu-border-to-take-stock-of-facilities-says-aap-firmly-behind-farmers/story-0eKw4fGj8FHMDrWscFFxhM.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||BJP starts campaign in support of farm laws, meets farmers in north-west Delhi||As the protest by farmers at Delhi borders intensifies, the Delhi BJP has stepped up its campaign in support of the three new farm laws passed by Parliament and held meetings with farmers to “explain” the laws tot them.On Thursday, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, BJP MLA and leader of the opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, and Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary met farmers in Narela and Khanjhawla in north-west Delhi.BJP leaders said they are explaining the laws to farmers and trying to make them understand how these new legislations will do away with the middleman. The BJP also hit out at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for supporting the ongoing protest and said farmers in Delhi don’t even get basic benefits and the Kejriwal government has done nothing in this regard.Gupta said, “The farmers in Delhi do not have irrigation facilities; there is no department to solve the problems of the farmers. The Modi government is dedicated to work in the interests of farmers and is fighting against the injustice being done to farmers of Delhi. We will get them their rights.”Bidhuri said, “During the assembly elections, Kejriwal has made tall promises for the welfare of farmers. But the government has done nothing despite being in power for six years. We will tell farmers in Delhi about the failure of the AAP-led Delhi government and the benefits farmers will get with the new farm laws.”AAP did not comment on the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-starts-campaign-in-support-of-farm-laws-meets-farmers-in-north-west-delhi/story-W34P7clfFWwDYRTCIkGYbJ.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Retired Army veterans join farmers’ protest, celebrate Vijay Diwas at protest venue||With their medals pinned on, nearly 40 Indian Army veterans, including some who had fought and won the 1971 war against Pakistan, on Wednesday gathered at the Singhu border and celebrated Vijay Diwas (Victory Day) along with thousands of farmers who have been protesting there against three farm laws for the past 21 days.The veterans, who are members of Indian Veterans’ Organisation (IVO), said they had come from five states to the protest venue to “support and fight the farmers’ agitation” as defence personnel.“On this day (December 16) in 1971, the Indian Army defeated Pakistan in war, which resulted in East Pakistan’s liberation and the creation of Bangladesh. The protesting farmers need something similar from us to win their battle against the government and get freedom from the three black farm laws. We have come here to extend our support,” said Captain Ashin Khan (retd), general secretary of the IVO, adding that he was part of the Kargil War, and operations Pawan and Parakram.These veterans from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, said that their presence in solidarity with the farmers should be considered as the real tribute to the defence personnel who died fighting the 1971 war. More than 1,500 members of the IVO have visited the Singhu and Tikri borders since the agitation started 21 days ago, said Captain Bikkar Singh (retd), adding that had fought the 1971 war with Pakistan.Captain Joginder Singh Sengar (retd), national president of the organisation, said that he was pained by the “misinformation” being circulated through various mediums that the farmers’ protest is being “funded by terrorist organisations” and that “anti-national elements” have taken over the protests.“I came with my team to the Singhu border to identify such elements. But forget about terrorists, we have not even found any political leaders here. All those who are protesting are farmers and there is no international funding as such. If any anti-national element is identified, we will catch them and treat him the way the Indian Army treats a terrorist,” said Sengar.The retired Army officers said that the farmers and defence personnel are two sides of the same coin and by supporting the farmers they will be able to uphold former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri’s slogan, “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-retired-army-veterans-join-farmers-protest-celebrate-vijay-diwas-at-protest-venue/story-61iJLOCOPO58w2qlj0LaeP.html
17-12-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Bombay HC reserves order on Navlakha’s bail plea||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday concluded hearing arguments in the appeal filed by Gautam Navlakha, activist and accused in the Bhima Koregaon case against the rejection of his default bail plea by the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on July 12, 2020. Navlakha had sought default bail as the investigating agency had failed to file a charge sheet within the stipulated period and he was in custody for 94 days. The agency, however, claimed that the period of 34 days of Navlakha’s house arrest between August 29 and October 1, 2018, was termed illegal by the Delhi high court, hence it could not be included as part of the period of his detention. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the appeal, was informed by senior counsel Kapil Sibal that the house arrest had restricted all movement and contacts of Navlakha, hence his plea for default bail under section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was valid. The court was further informed that though the Delhi HC had termed the detention illegal, Navlakha’s remand was to be considered from the date on which he was put under house arrest. It also submitted that after rectifying the technical lapses, which resulted in the Delhi HC terming the arrest illegal, Maharashtra Police had arrested Navlakha again, hence it was part of the same process. However, additional solicitor-general SV Raju for the NIA opposed the claims stating that after the Delhi HC had deemed the period of detention from August 29 to October 1 as illegal, Navlakha was a free man in that period, hence it could not be considered while calculating the period of arrest. He also referred to judgements to bolster his arguments. After hearing both sides, the court said that it had concluded hearing arguments in the appeal and directed both parties to submit their written submissions within a week and said that it would pass its orders in due course. Navlakha had been kept under house arrest between August 29 and October 1, 2018. Later, on March 9, 2020, based on an order of the Supreme Court in his bail application he had surrendered to Maharashtra Police and was kept at Taloja jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-bombay-hc-reserves-order-on-navlakha-s-bail-plea/story-qXfNr2Uq40b0lg4lC1iGWN.html
17-12-2020||Gurugram||Licence for realty project cancelled over pending due of Rs 22 crore||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has cancelled the licence of a residential plotted colony spread over 84 acres due to non-payment of external development charges (EDC) of around Rs 22 crore. The residential project, being developed by Vatika Ltd, is spread in sectors 81, 82, 82A, 83 and 84, and the licence was granted in 2014.The order, issued by the director, DTCP, on December 3, was received by Gurugram officials on Wednesday. It observed that the developer had failed to pay the EDC along with interest update, with Rs 2,294.67 lakh outstanding, as of October 10, 2020.The residential project is located in the revenue estate of Sihi, Shikhopur, Badha, Sikanderpur Badha, Kherki Daula and Harsaru villages. It is part of the Vatika India Next residential township.The order (a copy of which is with HT), issued by Makrand Pandurang, the director, DTCP, stated, “Since a reasonable time and opportunity already stands granted to the company for payment of outstanding EDC, therefore, it will not be appropriate to grant further time for payment of said dues. Hence the license number 66 is hereby cancelled under section 8 of the Act of 1975 as the coloniser has contravened the conditions of the license (sic).”A senior official of Vatika Ltd, when asked about the matter, said that they have already made payments to the department, which need to be adjusted. “This is a procedural issue and all the formalities will be completed and compliances submitted to the department at the earliest,” he said.Pandurang also directed the formation of a committee, comprising senior town planner, district town planner, executive engineer of HSVP and representative of the deputy commissioner, Gurugram. “This committee will decide on issues like development works, execution and maintenance of public health services, electricity supply, property registrations and related matters,” the order stated.A senior DTCP official, requesting anonymity, said that if the matter is not resolved, the colony would be taken over by the department and development works will be carried out by the director and the payment for the same would be taken from developer and plot owners. “Apart from non-payment of EDC, the developer has not got approved service plan estimates of the colony, NOC from the environment ministry and other formalities remain pending,” he said.The official further said that multiple notices in this regard were issued to the developer since November 2017, but the replies were not found satisfactory. At a hearing in August 2020, an authorised signatory of the developer had agreed that all formalities will be completed within the moratorium period but nothing happened in this matter. “It is because of this reason that it was decided to cancel the licence,” he said.Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram, said that non-payment of EDC was being seen as a serious issue by the department, as repeated relaxations have been given in the last two years. “The developers must comply with policies and directions in these matters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/licence-for-realty-project-cancelled-over-pending-due-of-rs-22-crore/story-Y908Vm80a0DYvVTx7IN0aL.html
17-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Chilla border closed again, traffic re-routed via DND||Farmers against the central government’s three new farm laws blocked the Noida to Delhi traffic on the Mayur Vihar-Noida link road at the Chilla border once again on Wednesday morning this time protesting the detention of their supporters across Uttar Pradesh. Noida Police routed the traffic via the DND flyway instead.The increased number of vehicles on this route had led to traffic congestion, said police.The Chilla border was first closed on December 1 in response to the nationwide protests called against the new laws. At the time, scores of farmers were proceeding to Delhi to mark their protest when Delhi Police stopped them. After negotiations between the police and protesters’ leaders, the road was re-opened on December 13.The farmers, however, continued their protest without blocking the road.However, at 11 am on Wednesday, the Bhanu faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) moved in.“A delegation of our (farmer) brothers from Amroha was stopped at the district’s border and were forced to turn back. The police is threatening our supporters with detention and house arrest to keep them from reaching us to lend their support. Our brothers are not being allowed to speak against laws that are unjust and unfair to us. We understand the problems being faced by public but we are also suffering under these new laws,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU (Bhanu). HT could not independently confirm the detention.Singh and his followers are on an indefinite hunger strike since Sunday. Police said doctors were monitoring their health and were stable.“We have a drill in place and the traffic was diverted to DND Flyway. We are monitoring the situation closely and sharing frequent updates with the public. The traffic movement is being managed without any major issues,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.More factions of the BKU are expected to lend their support to the Bhanu group on Thursday. A farmer with the Lokshakti faction, protesting at the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal, said that even their volunteers from Uttarakhand were detained and sent back when they entered Uttar Pradesh.“They are trying to keep us from raising our voices. But we will not let that happen. We have support from all farmers and we will keep on protesting peacefully for as long as it is needed,” said a Bhanu farmer.“We are on alert and prepared to handle the situation. For now traffic is coming from Delhi to Noida and we are working on resolving the situation soon,” said additional DCP, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-chilla-border-closed-again-traffic-re-routed-via-dnd/story-0vW8DV9dDm54fA6r77VqsN.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Long-term sexual relation based on promise of marriage can’t be involuntary, says Delhi HC||“A promise of marriage cannot be held as an inducement for engaging in sex over a protracted and indefinite period of time”, the Delhi high court said, while dismissing the appeal of a woman who had challenged the acquittal of man who she had accused of raping on the pretext of marriage.Justice Vibhu Bakhru said it is difficult to accept that continuing with an intimate relationship, which also involves engaging in sexual activity over a significant period of time, can be construed as involuntary.“Inducement to have a physical relationship by promising marriage and the victim falling prey to such an inducement may be understandable in the context of the moment. A promise of marriage cannot be held as an inducement for engaging in sex over a protracted and indefinite period of time,” the court said in its judgment passed on December 15.The single judge bench was hearing the appeal of a woman who had challenged the acquittal of a man who she claimed had raped her on the pretext of marriage and later deserted her.On August 15, 2015, the woman had filed a complaint at the police station in Malviya Nagar alleging rape following which an FIR was registered under IPC sections 376 (rape) and 415 (cheating) against the accused. In her complaint, the woman had alleged that she was working as a domestic help in Greater Kailash and she knew the accused since 2008.She claimed that he promised to marry her and made her elope with him. He later took her to his house and kept her with him as his bride, she said. During that period, she became pregnant but he allegedly forced her to terminate the pregnancy.Till 2013, they stayed together. Then the accused left for his village in Punjab and later she got to know that he had married a woman there.In 2014, she continued to be in touch with the accused over phone, and also stayed with him in a rented house in Faridabad for almost six months. Later, he got married to another woman following which she registered the complaint.The court said it is apparent that there is no dispute between the woman and the accused and the relationship between them was consensual. It also said the allegation that the accused had given her a promise of marriage is not sustainable.The judge said in certain cases, a promise to marry may induce a party to agree to establish sexual relations, even though such a party does not desire to consent to the same. In such cases, a false promise to marry with the intention to exploit the other party may vitiate consent and thus, constitute rape, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/promise-of-marriage-can-t-be-held-as-inducement-to-engage-in-long-term-sexual-relations-says-delhi-hc-dismisses-rape-case/story-0O0fzD4PA4rGeSnkt26swM.html
17-12-2020||Pune||NCP likely to appoint new city unit president||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is likely to appoint a new city unit president for Pune. The willing candidates have already started lobbying for it. Recently while campaigning for the graduate constituency, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar hinted at the new recruitments at Balgandharva melava.While addressing party workers at Balgandharva, Pawar said, “After the graduate constituency election and assembly session, the party will start new appointments in the city.”NCP city unit president Chetan Tupe, said, “The party had appointed me as the city unit president and I have completed two years of my tenure. I will follow the decision of the party.”Many candidates from the city unit of NCP are vying for the post.Former mayor Prashant Jagtap; former mayor Datta Dhankawade; former deputy mayor Deepak Mankar; NCP leader Pradip Deshmukh and Subhash Deshmukh are some of the front-runners.Party sources aware of the development, said, “The party is likely to take a decision regarding the city unit president’s post very soon. Ajit Pawar has already discussed the city unit’s post with some workers.”One of the NCP leaders added, “The party should appoint a grassroots worker. After Ravindra Malwadkar, no other grassroots party worker has been appointed to this post.”Considering the municipal elections, the city unit post is important. A few months ago, the Bharatiya Janata Party appointed a new city unit president. Hence, NCP and Cong are likely to follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-likely-to-appoint-new-city-unit-president/story-Qq8Qw9asRZHicQe3CIjlFO.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Parents meet minister Bachhu Kadu after schools in Pune stop online teaching||With at least 1,000 English-medium schools having stopped online classes in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, parents from the city met minister of state for education, Bacchu Kadu, on Wednesday, to seek a redressal of their grievances. During the meeting, held at Mantralaya, Kadu assured the members of the parent associations that in the next 15 days the said schools will undergo an audit and a report will be submitted to him. Kadu also assured the parents of an immediate audit of five schools from Pune, which, according to parents, have been denying education to students on the pretext of fees. “These five schools will be audited and probed. Those schools which have stopped online education will face punitive action. Even after that, if they do not continue online education for all students, criminal proceedings will be started against them,” said Kadu. Speaking on the behalf of the parent associations, Jayshree Deshpande, said, “Our demand for the audit reports of schools has been accepted. The reports have to be submitted in 15 days. Meanwhile, we want the online education of our children to continue.” Private schools from Pune and PCMC stopped all online education classes till December 17 to protest non-payment of fees by over 50 per cent of parents. The Federation of English Medium schools has alleged that around 58 per cent parents have not paid full fees. Rajendra Singh, State President of Federation of Schools Association in Maharashtra said, “Some schools have exhausted all funds and it is difficult for them to continue functioning. We hope the parents who are not able to pay the fees get in touch with the schools with relevant documents. In the last three days, we have been approached by many parents who are not able to pay the fees. And we have helped them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parents-meet-minister-bachhu-kadu-after-schools-in-pune-stop-online-teaching/story-6z8HIigCA0cqFLJ2TwvJfM.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Pune and Khadki cantonments win defence awards for Covid management||Pune: The ministry of defence has conferred on the Pune and Khadki cantonment boards with awards under the category of “Public Health – Challenge of Covid”. The award was bagged by two of three Cantonment boards located in Pune. The ministry has launched this category of awards this year, in light of the Covid pandemic, to recognise and acknowledge efforts being made by various Cantonment boards and hospitals to counter the virus. Every year, the Raksha Mantri award is given in six categories, including education, improvement in hospitals, record management, survey, sanitation, maintenance of differently abled schools. Now this new award category has been added. PCB’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital and Khadki’s Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital were conferred with the awards. The award was virtually presented via video conference on December 16, 2020. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, “It may be noted that Pune Cantonment Board has been one of the foremost local bodies to declare its Cantonment General Hospital as a designated Covid health care centre. The board has also equipped its hospital with 20 ICU beds. Pune Cantonment witnessed the highest recovery rate in the district. The number of deaths in Pune Cantonment Hospital has among the least as compared to the number of patients treated.” PCB was also conferred with the Raksha Mantri Award for Excellence in the fields of improvement of functioning of primary schools, improvement in functioning of secondary and higher secondary schools and improvement in functioning of the hospital in the year 2019. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital of Pune Cantonment Board has received the Raksha Mantri Award for a second consecutive year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-and-khadki-cantonment-win-defence-awards-for-covid-management/story-WXdaih7pBBquwVBvcKMEqO.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Pune jumbo hospital staff protest over salary dues||Pune: Around 100 staff working at the College Of Engineering Pune (COEP) jumbo facility staged a protest on Wednesday against the management of the hospital complaining about pending payments. The protestors alleged that they have not received their salaries for the past four months and have not received the promised accommodation too. One of the staff nurses who was appointed, requesting anonymity, said, “We were appointed for a six-month salary by the previous agency, Lifeline, but their contract got scrapped. Then the new agency hired us on the same condition of providing accommodation and on the same pay scale for the next three months. After they could not pay the bills for the hotel we had to vacate the hotel premises. Also, since September, we have not been paid out full salaries and only part payment was being paid monthly after multiple follow-ups every month. Despite our repeated attempts when the management did not respond, we had to take this extreme step.” Abhijeet Gite, 23, another staff nurse from Beed, said, “We have come from another town to earn a living, but we are not being paid our rightful salary. The management is not responding to our queries. They have given us a letter stating that all our dues would be cleared by this month-end. However, we are not sure whether they will pay all the pay cuts or if they would start paying as promised from this month. Tomorrow, we will meet the PMC commissioner to put forward our request.”PMC health chief Dr Ashish Bharti said, “We have made all the payments from our end. We have outsourced the facility to another agency and so the pending salary issue needs to be sorted out by the agency.” Attempts to reach Med Bros went unanswered. The facility was opened on an emergency basis on COEP ground in August and was built by PMRDA and part payment for the same was made by PMC. The facility had come under fire by the citizens after the initial higher deaths rate wherein 7-8 deaths due to Covid19 were reported in just 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/jumbo-hospital-staff-protest-over-salary-dues/story-4e8owluZjzslCBw5MfNQLP.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Speed limit on vehicles plying five-km stretch from Navale bridge to Katraj tunnel||The Pune traffic branch has imposed a speed limit on vehicles plying a five-km stretch from Navale bridge to the Katraj tunnel. The traffic branch has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to put up information boards which clearly state that the speed limit on this stretch is 60km/hour. DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “This belt has become accident prone and we are taking strong steps to curb speeding and rash driving. Two speed interceptor vehicles, including speed guns, will be deployed. Vehicles travelling at over 60km/hour will face action.” The highway area near Navale bridge has witnessed several accidents. Commuters travelling from the new Katraj tunnel and heading towards Sinhagad road drive into the service road from the bypass and at the same time, commuters on Sinhagad road come directly onto the bypass, resulting in a traffic jam. Several residential areas, including Narhe, Ambegaon Budruk, Dhayari and Vadgaon Budruk, are connected to this stretch. Suhas Chitnis, project director, NHAI, said, “We have taken steps aimed at commuter safety as recommended by the traffic police. The process of installation of signboards about speed limits will be erected soon. The process of cross-bar marking has also been completed and other warning signs have been erected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/speed-limit-on-vehicles-plying-five-km-stretch-from-navale-bridge-to-katraj-tunnel/story-I0XQ9qIXVFtkieUSRhXCJJ.html
17-12-2020||Pune||30 new oxygen refilling stations to come up in Pune division||Pune: Though there is a decline in fresh Covid cases in Pune district as compared to previous months, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Pune division has taken steps to tackle the possible second wave of the deadly virus as mentioned by the Central team. During September the oxygen supply ratio was 80:20, as 80 per cent of the oxygen cylinders were supplied to hospitals and 20 per cent to industrial units. Later, the ratio was reversed. Even as the district is seeing les Covid cases, FDA has given permission to set up 30 new gas filling stations in Pune division, including Pune, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. While gas cylinders will be brought from Gujarat, the preparations for oxygen transport tankers, their permits, cylinder refilling and storing centres have begun. “During the lockdown period when there was a spike in Covid cases, beds from private hospitals were acquired and new beds were added in government hospitals for treatment. All these beds were equipped with oxygen supply, but there was shortage of oxygen gas cylinders and refilling stations. The 80:20 ratio was implemented during the crucial period (80 for hospitals and 20 for industries) which is reversed now. Presently, the numbers of positive cases are less and so is the demand for cylinders. Yet, as per the instructions from the state government, preparations are done for the possible second wave in the month of February and March,” said SB Patil, joint commissioner (drugs), Pune division, FDA. “Accordingly, we are setting up oxygen gas refilling stations. We have given permissions to 30 new gas refilling centres in Pune division, including 16 in Pune district, 4 in Satara, 3 in Sangli, 3 in Solapur and 4 in Kolhapur districts. Currently, 328.72 metric tonnes of oxygen gas is produced in Pune division of which 122.52 metric tonnes is reserved for medical use. With drop in Covid cases and demand from industries, the reserved quota of gas is transferred to industries. We will be transporting oxygen gas cylinders through 31 gas tankers,” Patil said. Vijay Damodare, owner of Raigad Gas (India) Pvt Ltd in Rajgurunagar said, “The oxygen gas supply to hospitals is almost nil since the last one month because of few Covid cases. During August, September and October, the demand from hospitals was high. We are always ready to supply gas cylinders to hospitals as per their demand as saving lives is more important than industry usage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/30-new-gas-refilling-stations-to-come-up-in-pune-division/story-oaGcIzxz12pY9sTccnSrVP.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Student’s safety top priority, but schools need to restart to avoid academic loss: Vishal Solanki||Pune: Maharashtra state education commissioner Vishal Solanki speaks on issues facing the education system post the Covid outbreak, including resuming of classes, online and offline mode of teaching. How are the schools and junior colleges at rural parts faring after it resumed classes? Almost 15,000 schools have restarted which is around 60 per cent of total schools in the state which are imparting education to Class 9 to Class 12. Almost 8 lakh students have resumed offline classroom classes, which is around 15 per cent of student population covering Class 9 to Class 12. So, the progress is gradual, but we have to observe the local situation which is changing every day and the decision cannot be made at central or state levels. Hence, we have given the responsibility to local authorities like collectors, municipal commissioners and CEOs to take the call. I would like to assure parents that their wards’ mental and health well-being is our top most priority. At the same time, we have to ensure that their academic progress is not hampered, especially in rural areas where we see prolonged break from schools and academics result in rise in dropout figure. Till now almost 4 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff has been tested for Covid of which around 3,000 employees were tested positive. So, the exercise helped us to ensure a safe environment in schools and no case of infection of teacher or student has been reported yet. Your appeal to municipal corporations who have not yet allowed schools to reopen? Though many municipal corporations have already restarted schools, some like Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad are yet to do so. My opinion is to review the Covid situation, but at the same time take steps to ensure that children from weak socio-economic background do not end up being dropouts because of gap in classes. As they won’t be able to compete with children who take digital classes, we have to be sympathetic towards them. We need to walk the extra mile to see how we can tap into possibilities of reopening schools. As schools have been closed for eight months, we need to take some calculated risks to bring back these children to classrooms. Update on teacher recruitment process that will start soon. We had advertised for 12,000 odd posts of which almost more than 6,000 posts have already been filled through a portal called “Pavitra Portal” which was launched as per the directions of the high court. With reports of corruptions and irregularities, the court sought a transparent process for recruitment. It is a merit-based online system and recruitments were done in last two years (before Covid). Ban on further recruitment in government posts was imposed be because of Covid situation. As many teachers are due to retire, we may face shortage in our schools and have put up the matter before the government. The state government allowed us to go ahead with the remaining recruitment of 6,000 posts from Class 1 to Class 12 across all managements, government and private. So, the process is on and, hopefully, in the next three months we would be able to recruit teachers, subject to various high court petitions. Advice to parents who are reluctant to send their children to schools? Our school management committees and education officers are regularly interacting with parents. In rural areas, resuming classes was not difficult as there is not much density and children are studying on farm lands. Reopening in cities is a problem because of population. We are trying our best to motivate them in a positive manner, but we cannot force them. So, we are taking steps to provide a risk-free environment on school campuses. What will you appeal to students of the state? I would like to tell students to make the most of this opportunity of being at homes as it is a rare occasion to remain indoors for such a long period. So, take care of your mental, social and physical well-being and emotional stability. Try to develop hobbies, help parents so that you learn dignity of labour and learn new things. I wish them a Happy New Year and hopefully the next year brings us good health and prosperous way ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/student-s-safety-top-priority-but-schools-need-to-restart-to-avoid-academic-loss-vishal-solanki/story-I0V1oYbw6gTMbHUuaMB9vN.html
17-12-2020||Pune||Former MLA Harshavardhan Jadhav remanded in police custody till Dec 18||Former Kannad legislator Harshavardhan Jadhav has been remanded in police custody till December 18 in a case related to physical assault of a couple in a road rage case in Pune. Jadhav (43), who was a legislator till May 2019, was arrested by the Chatuhshrungi police after he and his associate assaulted an elderly man and his wife in Aundh on Monday. Jadhav is the estranged son-in-law of Union minister Raosaheb Danve.Jadhav was booked after the victims’ son Aman Chadda (28), a resident of Bopodi, lodged a complaint against Jadhav and his associate identified as Isha Jha stating that they assaulted his parents, Ajay and Mamata Chadda, at a spot in front of a bank on an approach road towards Bremen chowk.Jadhav suddenly opened the door of his car which hit the couple’s approaching vehicle. Because of the car door, his mother, who was riding pillion, sustained an injury on the leg and his father lost balance and almost fell, according to the complaint.When his father questioned Jadhav about his “rash behaviour”, an enraged Jadhav got out of his car and got into an argument with the couple. The female colleague along with the former MLA allegedly abused and assaulted the couple.After the incident, based on the official complaint, Jadhav and his co-passenger Jha, were booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 325 (grievous hurt), 323 (voluntary causing hurt) , 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 34 (common Intention ) of the Indian Penal Code.DCP (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “Jadhav has been given police custody till December 18. We tried to give Jha a notice to which she declined and she has not approached us since then. We had sent a team to look for her since an offence has been lodged against her as well.”Police inspector Anil Shewale said, “Jadhav is now in police custody and investigation is on. We are on the lookout for the second accused in the case who is yet to be arrested.”According to advocate Zahir Pathan, he has filed anticipatory bail application on behalf of Isha Jha, the co-accused in the attempt to murder case, filed against ex MLA Harshwardhan Jadhav.Jadhav in May had released a video declaring his resignation from active politics after being influenced by spiritual reading. He is married to Sanjana Jadhav, the daughter of central cabinet minister Raosaheb Danve. He was part of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) when he made the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/former-mla-harshavardhan-jadhav-remanded-in-police-custody-till-dec-18/story-4qOi0S46eSDfTZiYOOvvRO.html
