18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man posing as customer robs hosiery trader of ₹50,000 in Ludhiana||A masked man robbed a hosiery manufacturer of Rs 50,000 at knifepoint at his office-cum-shop on the busy Gaushala road on Thursday night. The victim, Vishal Gupta, 38, told the police that he was at his office around 9pm on Thursday when a man turned up there posing as a customer.The man claimed that he was there to pick up a bundle of blankets, which he had selected in the morning, and had already made the payment to his father.Gupta said he made a call to his father to cross-check, but did not get a response. After waiting for a few minutes for a call back, the accused asked to be let inside the godown to find the bundle himself. Gupta took the man to the godown, but they couldn’t find any bundle and returned to the office. Suddenly, the man placed a knife on his neck and demanded all his cash. Gupta tried to run upstairs to save himself, but the accused managed to restrain him and fled after snatching Rs 50,000 from his pocket and his wallet. Gupta said he wasn’t sure how much cash was in his wallet, but it also contained his debit and credit cards.Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO, Division Number 3 police station, said they had received a complaint and were scanning the CCTV footage for clues. The accused was captured in the footage, which showed his mask coming off while searching for the blankets. A case under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-posing-as-customer-robs-hosiery-trader-of-50-000-in-ludhiana/story-WUScJyHY3ylR78PBHC015I.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man found dead at Ludhiana police commissioner’s office||A 25-year-old man was found dead in a toilet of the Community Police Resource Centre (CPRC), located on the premises of the office of commissioner of police, on Friday afternoon.The deceased was identified as Satvir Singh of Nirankari Mohalla, Millar Ganj. He used to help his father at their workshop. His father, Ajit Singh, said Satvir left the house for Bharat Nagar Chowk on Thursday, but did not return. Therefore, they filed a missing person’s report at the Division Number 5 police station.Later, they were informed that he was found dead at CPRC. According to the deceased’s family members, he was depressed for the past few days. “The exact cause of death will be established after autopsy,” said sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-ludhiana-police-commissioner-s-office/story-SSaUbu7L8ZGHsAbsZJu8mM.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature in Ludhiana drops to 3.2°C||Residents woke up to a chilly Friday morning with the overnight temperature plunging to 3.2°C, which was three degrees below normal.Coupled with dense fog, the icy winds in the morning forced residents to stay indoors. As the day progressed, the weather cleared up to make way for the sun. Still, the maximum temperature at 17.2°C was four notches below normal.According to PAU’s meteorological department, this cold wave is expected to continue over the weekend, following which the day temperature was likely to increase.The India Meteorological Department declares a “cold day” when the minimum temperature falls below 10°C and maximum temperature is 4.5-6.4°C below normal. Poor visibility due to fog posed problems for commuters, especially those on Delhi- Jalandhar National Highway- 44.A car driver had a narrow escape after his vehicle rammed into a barricade placed to divert traffic in Khanna. The driver, Sanjiv Kumar, said reflective tapes or indicators were vital at such locations to avoid mishaps amid haze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minimum-temperature-in-ludhiana-drops-to-3-2-c/story-YT1i7gxK14burV4IdV5tyN.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Need to find ways to end Ladakh standoff: Ram Madhav||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ram Madhav on Friday said the continued standoff at the border will bleed India more than China and that there was a need to find a way to solve and end it.“My only point is our standing off with China at the border will bleed us more. China can probably afford standing at the border for 8 to 10 months, but every day we are bleeding economically. So, ideally we have to find a way to solve this standoff and end it,” Madhav said during a virtual panel discussion at the Military Literature Festival. He added that the one good thing that was happening today was that we were insisting on talking about the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which can help define it.He was responding to the comments of Lieutenant General Harcharanjit Singh Panag (retd), a former commanding officer of army’s Northern Command.“Even if we have to sit at LAC for next one year, it is a small price to pay for stalemating China.Otherwise China will achieve its aim, we will have to bear the cost. I assure you that China will be equally keen after some time to agree to the status quo,” he said. In his opening remarks, Madhav said China was a big challenge and spoke about the need to look beyond the immediate China threat to achieve long-term goals. “Whatever happens in the coming months in that sector (Ladakh) is not going to conclusively solve problem between the two countries. What is of utmost importance to us at one level is to respond to immediate challenges that we face today. But, at the same we should not lose sight of India’s long-term strategic objectives and in that stream of things, how to handle countries like China,” he said. Stating that militarily and at the government-level, the immediate challenge had been dealt with in an appropriate manner, Madhav said India had been able to limit the issue and had not drifted to join any camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/need-to-find-ways-to-end-ladakh-standoff-ram-madhav/story-29disxYi6LVs2QGFzzcMvI.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Authority begins removing unauthorised posters from city walls||In order to keep public spaces free from unauthorised billboards and clean city walls, the Noida authority on Friday began a drive to remove the same. Apart from this, the authority has also decided to act tough against those found putting up billboards illegally.“We have directed all circle officials to start a special drive to issue notices to those who indulge in putting up posters illegally at public spaces. If they do not remove the posters despite facing notices then we will impose heavy penalties to discourage them from defacing the walls,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager of the Noida authority.For administrative purposes, the city has been divided into ten work circles. Each circle is headed by a circle officer.“We have directed each circle officer to identify those who have defaced city walls and issue them notices. We will take legal action and also remove these posters at locations where we cannot identify the people behind these posters,” said Tyagi. The authority on Friday removed posters from one of the main roads – Master Plan-I road. “We cannot reach out to those who put posters up at public places. Therefore we have decided to deploy our staff to remove these posters and banners,” said Tyagi. The authority has started this drive as it wants to make the city neat and clean by the beginning of January, when the ministry of housing and urban affairs will send inspection teams for the Swachhta Survey 2021.Noida was ranked 25th in the country in the Swachhta survey in 2020, in 10 the lakh population category, and was ranked first in Uttar Pradesh. The authority hopes that the city will be able to score better in the cleanliness index this year. And to achieve that goal, it wants to leave no stone unturned. “Our target is that the city becomes clean on all fronts and we are taking effective measures for that,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-begins-removing-unauthorised-posters-from-city-walls/story-iEZnMH7tvZiOlWIa8x1JIL.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Contact tracing dips in December, Ghaziabad has overall 345 Covid-19 cases with zero contacts||The contact-tracing exercise which is done on daily basis to find out contacts of Covid-19 patients has dipped in the ongoing month of December and stands at an average of about 19.2 contacts per positive patient. The officials said that as per state government’s directions given in October, they have to trace at least 25 contacts per patient. The official figures of the district health department states that the district was tracing an average of about 22.2 contacts per positive case in October and it went further to an average of about 29 contacts per positive patient in the month of November. However, the figure has dipped to 19.2 in 15 days of December. Further, the list also includes 345 positive cases whose contacts are yet to be traced. These include 239 positive cases in the month of December while the rest are in different months from May to November. “The contact tracing has dipped a bit in the month of December and it could be due to fact that some of our supervising staff members have turned positive while some staff involved in contact tracing has also taken medical leaves. Regarding the 345 odd positive patients having no contacts, majority are in the month of December. The rest are yet to be traced,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named. The positive cases having zero contacts are one each in months of May and June, 23 in July, 28 in August, 22 in September, 15 in October and 16 in November besides 243 in 15 days of December. “We are working to complete the pending contact tracing and it is likely that we will be able to make up in another couple of days,” the officer added. From March to December 15, the district as per the official records of the health department has a tally of 25330 positive cases and their contact tracing has yielded 417298 contacts with an overall average of about 16.5 contacts per positive patient. Contact tracing is a vital task during the Covid-related activities and helps in finding out any suspected cases who have been in touch with a positive patient. The teams deployed in contact tracing finds such contacts and get them tested in order to check the spread of infection. The positive contacts are further isolated and taken to healthcare facility for treatment. “We will check up the issue with contact tracing and if it has dipped a bit we will review and get the issue resolved within couple of days,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Experts said that daily contact tracing is must under present circumstances as despite lot of awareness measures people still move about and can pass on infection to others. “We have instances where people after turning positive visited us despite our telling their attendants to ensure that they don’t move out of house. So, there is still laxity on part of people who move about and may infect others. So, even nowadays it is very easy to trace 25 contacts per positive case,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “If the health department has shortage of staff or resources, they must deploy additional. Daily contact tracing is as important as surveillance or testing and should be beefed up,” he, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/contact-tracing-dips-in-december-ghaziabad-has-overall-345-covid-19-cases-with-zero-contacts/story-WClcQHgEsUEkno5980l11M.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Revolver of Madhya Pradesh sub-inspector snatched in Noida’s Sector 18||Four suspects allegedly snatched the revolver of a sub-inspector of the Madhya Pradesh Police while the officer and his colleague were in Noida in connection with a case of financial fraud, on Friday. The two officers had visited a private bank in Sector 18 to enquire about a transaction related to a bank account when the incident took place, at 1:15 pm.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that sub-inspectors Rashid Khan and Pankaj Sahu had come to Noida from Jabalpur. “The two officers told Noida police that they were in plainclothes at the time of incident. They visited a private bank in Noida’s Sector 18 on Friday to enquire about the bank details of a suspect who has been accused in a cyber crime case. They left the bank and on the way, they had a heated argument with four persons, who had come there in a car,” the DCP said.Noida police said that sub-inspector Khan told them that he took out his licensed revolver in self-defence but the suspects allegedly snatched the gun and fled the spot.The DCP said that the matter, prime facie, appears to be suspicious.“The officers have not revealed what cyber crime case they were investigating. The second sub-inspector, Sahu, also had his licensed gun on him but he did not use it when the incident took place. The police also received information from other sources, besides the sub-inspectors. It appears the two officers had a dispute with some people who fled with the gun,” the DCP said.The Noida police said they are investigating the matter from all angles and scanning CCTV cameras from near the spot. Police said a case of robbery under Section 392 of Indian Penal Code will be lodged at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/revolver-of-madhya-pradesh-sub-inspector-snatched-in-noida-s-sector-18/story-GuBNyaR1lr5E8lZnri1beN.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Noida: More than 5,000 Covid-infected patients cured in home isolation so far||About 93% of the 5,402 Covid-19 patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar who were permitted to be treated at home had recovered till Friday. Of the active 699 patients, over half are under home isolation.Till Friday, the district had recorded 24,484 total cases and a recovery rate of 96.47%. Since July 25, the Uttar Pradesh government had allowed asymptomatic patients to recover at home instead of being shifted to a Covid care center. Doctors say being at home helped patients recover faster and more people would test for the virus.District additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Lalit Kumar said: “To be on the safer side, a patient is shifted to a Covid-dedicated hospital in case the pulse rate is very low or spikes a high fever. We also look out for oxygen saturation rate, which should not go below 95%, or symtoms such as cough, respiratory problems or other complications. So far, we had referred 220 home isolated patients to different Covid-19 hospitals, but all of them recovered too. None of the home isolated patients in the district has succumbed to the virus till date.”On the other hand, GB Nagar district CMO Dr Deepak Ohri, said that the rapid antigen kit testing in the recent past indicates that the rate of Covid-19 spread in the district has slowed down significantly.“From the 21,664 rapid antigen tests conducted from December 10 to December 18, only 63 samples tested positive. Even in the over 20,000 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR, considered the most accurate) samples collected during this span of time, only 294 samples returned positive,” he said.District magistrate Suhas LY said that keeping the number of active cases low was priority and they had done it through continuous ‘track, test and treat’ method.“Our health workers are doing a commendable job in testing and surveillance. Our case fatality rate (CFR) of 0.35%, too, is much better than the state’s CFR of 1.41%. The health workers have been asked to intensify surveillance and testing in those areas which have been identified as critical hotspots,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-more-than-5-000-covid-infected-patients-cured-in-home-isolation-so-far/story-ExN41KQyJJDq45NTnsjdSM.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Agency selected to build flyover at Parthala Chowk||The Noida authority has awarded the tender for the Parthala Chowk flyover to Manglam Buildcon Limited, a private agency. The flyover, which will be 697 metre-long, is scheduled to be completed by the end of December next year. “The authority has selected Manglam out of the three who applied for the flyover project, which will provide seamless connectivity to thousands of commuters. The chief executive officer has directed the agency to start work immediately on this project as it has a deadline of December-end, 2021,” said Rajeev Tyagi, the general manager of the Noida authority.The authority will spend Rs80.53 crore on this project. Parthala Chowk, one of the main intersections in the city, witnesses daily traffic congestion, particularly during peak hours in the mornings and evenings.According to a survey conducted by the authority’s traffic cell, about 18000 motorists during peak hours. The survey found that about 1.25 lakh commuters use the intersection daily, where the Master Plan-III road meets the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway.The authority had, in the June beginning this year, issued a tender to select an agency for this project.The flyover will be a six lane stretch, to be built on the Master Plan-III road, which connects Noida with Greater Noida West.“Commuters travelling from Delhi, Noida to Greater Noida West, Ghaziabad and Hapur side will enjoy a smooth ride once this flyover becomes operational by the end of 2021. It will benefit residents of sectors 51, 52, 61, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 and 119, among others,” said Tyagi.Officials said that with this flyver, vehicular movement to Greater Noida’s Kisan Chowk located in Sector 1 will become seamless. Commuters, who use the FNG Expressway, will also not have to face any traffic signal at Parthala, added officials.The authority has been planning to remove the need for traffic signals on city roads for the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-agency-selected-to-build-flyover-at-parthala-chowk/story-4B25Q1U10svYVLfyVoCadK.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Membership drive for sports complex begins||The Greater Noida Authority on Friday said that it will open membership drive for its sports complex in Sector Gamma II from January 1. The stadium boasts of an Olympic size swimming pool, badminton courts, a football ground, squash courts, billiards tables and a skating rink, among other facilities.Spread over 39 acres, it also has a cricket ground with a sitting capacity of 10,000 people.“It will be an online process available on the authority’s website till March 31, 2021,” said Shiv Pratap Shukla officer on special duty of the Greater Noida authority.The authority has decided to start membership drive after residents had in October this year threatened to begin a series of protests if the officials will continue delaying the process of making new members of this complex. The authority had in October assured protesters that it will soon start a membership drive. Subsequently they had changed their plans of protest. With Greater Noida set to be a hub for to multinational companies, it is extending the offer to foreigners too.An Uttar Pradesh government employee can get a lifetime membership for ₹50,000, while the staff of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna authorities can get it for ₹10,000. Private individuals will have to shell out ₹1 lakh for the same, but citizen over 60 years can get it for ₹8,000. Indian company can also apply for the membership for five nominated employees for ₹5 lakh and a company registered in another country will have to pay $12,000.Shorter duration membership schemes are also available. An Indian can get membership for 3 months for ₹10,000, ₹15,000 for six months, while a foreigner will have to pay ₹15,000 for 3 months. It has a 12-lane bowling area as per the international standards with the other supplementary facilities such as a changing room for players, toilets, and a tennis stadium with 2,200 spectator capacity. There are four tennis courts, two volley ball courts and two basketball courts among the dedicated facilities for other sports.The athletic arena has facilities for events like 400 m athletic tracks, javelin, shot put, triple jump, long jump, high jump and hammer throw. There is also a practice track of 200 m where athletes can hone their skills. The stadium has a jogging track of 2km with exercise stations at specific distances. Besides, there is ample greenery in the area, as large trees as well as shrubs have been planted at strategic points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-membership-drive-for-sports-complex-begins/story-cJz0ZrHIRsdMD3o7jWLG8L.html
18-12-2020||Noida||‘Let them hold Kisan Sammelans, they will finally come back to us,’ farmers on Smriti Irani’s Meerut event||Farmers protesting at Ghaziabad’s border with Delhi at UP Gate on Friday said they paid no heed to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Kisan Sammelan in Meerut. Since the start of protests last month, there had been at least six rounds of talks between the central government and the farmers’ leaders over the new agriculture reforms that has caused much apprehension, but failed.The Kisan Sammelan on Friday, attended by Union minister for textiles and Amethi MP Smriti Irani, was projected as the party’s attempt to assuage fears by speaking directly to the farmers on the ground.“Let them conduct more such events across the country but we will not be change our stance. We demand the complete roll back of these laws,” said Rakesh Tikait, a leader and spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Tikait faction. “In fact, we will urge our supporters to go in large numbers to these events and raise questions. It would be interesting to see if the Union minister replies. Our khaps (communities) have already decided that they will counter these events by holding ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyaan’ in western UP.”“Even the Union minister for agriculture has written to farmers on the so-called advantages of the new laws. But finally they will come back to us leaders of the protest. And, I would like to ask the government where is Covid-19 now? Is it finished? They were lecturing us about the possible spread of the virus at the protest sites. Is there no risk of Covid at these events?,” Tikait said.Thousands of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh led by the BKU (Tikait) and other farmers from Punjab and Uttarakhand have been protesting at the UP Gate since November 28 and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the National Highway-9. During a ‘Sarv Khap Sammelan’ at the UP-Gate on Thursday, representatives of 10 different Khaps spoke about a “middle path” to resolve the ongoing stalemate and had said that they were willing to move two steps backwards and the government should also follow the same step in order to resume talks and resolve the issue. The Khap representatives had reiterated the farmers’ demand for rollback of three new farm laws. At the event, Irani hit out at the opposition political parties and said that “those who exploited farmers for 70 years” were falsely presenting themselves as their well-wishers to gain political mileage.  She addressed farmers and party supporters from different districts of Meerut and Saharanpur divisions. Union minister of state Sanjeev Baliyan and UP minister Suresh Rana had accompanied her. Irani said the BJP government always kept farmers interest first and had provided sufficient budget in schemes for their welfare. ”Farmers had to sell their crop within district (earlier), but now they can go anywhere in the country to sell it. Farmers will have right to decide the price of their crop which will ensure their progress and growth,” she said. (With inputs from HTC, Meerut)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/let-them-hold-kisan-sammelans-they-will-finally-come-back-to-us-farmers-on-smriti-irani-s-meerut-event/story-yWQYgdAoyw0pZ3mvpfggxJ.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||Two arrested for kidnapping 8-year-old for ransom of ₹50 lakh||An eight-year-old boy, who was kidnapped from Ullawas in Sector 65 for a ransom of ₹50 lakh, was rescued from Palwal on Thursday night. The police have arrested two persons in connection with the case. They are, however, yet to nab two other suspects — an auto-rickshaw driver and his relative — till Friday evening. According to the police, the four suspects, who belong to Palwal and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, were relatives and had met in Palwal at a family wedding. They had allegedly planned the kidnap over drinks, said the police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects thought of kidnapping a minor from Delhi but later changed their plan. “They believed that people of Gurugram have more money and conducted reconnaissance of several areas in the city. They finally planned to take up a room on rent in Gurugram and targeted Ullawas village as the rent was low,” he said. Sangwan said the suspects started doing rounds of Sector 65 area and on December 6, zeroed in on a man, who was driving his Innova car in Ullawas. They followed him till his house. “They started digging details of the family and finally decided to kidnap the only son of the man, who is a businessman by profession. The boy used to play outside the house every day and was friendly by nature,” he said. The suspects planned the kidnapping and called a juvenile from Palwal whose age is yet to be identified. However, the police said he is nearly the age of the victim. All five started living in a rented room. Meanwhile, the juvenile befriended the victim and started playing with him. He used to often get him chocolates and chips and used to spend a lot of time with the victim, said the police. The juvenile allegedly told the victim and his family members that he lost his parents in an accident when he was only two years old, and, since then, he had been living with his uncle who is an auto-rickshaw driver. The uncle used to give them joyrides in the area and the victim become comfortable with them, said the police. On Wednesday, the victim was playing outside his house, when the juvenile allegedly asked him to come for a ride in the auto-rickshaw. The victim boarded the rickshaw, inside which there were already three people present. The auto was covered with side curtains and two more suspects boarded the auto while they were moving out of the village. Sangwan said the suspects along with victim drove towards Palwal from Badshahpur in the auto-rickshaw. The victim after a few minutes asked them to drop him home. When they refused, he raised an alarm, after which one of the suspects injected medicine in his arm that made him slip into unconsciousness It took almost two hours to reach the rented house in a colony which was situated at the outskirts, some 58 kilometres from Gurugram. “The boy woke up late evening but due to the effect of the medicine, went back to sleep. When he woke up on Thursday morning, he raised an alarm but to no avail. The suspects then told him that he had been kidnapped and they would release him only after his father paid them ₹50 lakh,” he said. The police said the suspects called the father on Wednesday evening and informed him about his missing son.They asked him to wait for their call on Friday. Meanwhile, the father of the victim complained to the police and shared the mobile number from which he had received the call. Before they could make another call, the police nabbed two of the suspects from Mathura and they led the police to the house where the child was kept. KK Rao, commissioner of police, on Wednesday evening formed a special investigation team, led by Sangwan, and three crime units were given the task to rescue the boy. “Teams were sent to UP and Palwal and the spot was identified by Friday afternoon. The kidnappers sensed the police presence and three of them fled from the spot before police could enter the house,” he said. The boy was rescued unhurt and was handed over to the family members on Friday night. During questioning, the suspects revealed that they targeted the Class 4 student as his father drove an Innova car and seemed to have a good business. They had also learned that he had recently received a big payment and it was kept at home, said the police. The arrested persons have been identified as Dharambeer and Vishnu of village Khayra in Mathura in UP. They were taken on one-day police remand on Friday. The police said one of the suspects is a distant relative of man arrested in April 2013 for allegedly kidnapping a four-year-old boy from Eldeco Mansions on Sohna Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-arrested-for-kidnapping-8-year-old-for-ransom-of-50-lakh/story-ne6LmUWhaYiJuKxfYBPGRL.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Officials inspect UP-Gate farmers’ protest site, roll out directions for fire and electrical safety measures||The Ghaziabad district administration and police on Friday inspected the UP Gate farmer protest sites to ensure the protesters were not at risk of a fire that could go out of control. The farmers, officially estimated to be around 2,500-3,000 at the site, have been holding ground during peak winter with the help of gas stoves, bonfires and ‘hukkah’ to keep themselves warm. The site also has about 15 langars (community ktichens) that run on firewood and LPG cylinders. “We directed the department of electrical safety and the fire department to ensure that no untoward incident takes place. Their officers have been directed to brief farmers about proper use of electrical fittings and other gadgets. The teams have also been asked to co-ordinate with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI),” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). Kumar was accompanied by district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey to inspect the site. Many of the protesters were also drawing power by illegally tapping into electrical panels of the street lights erected onthe Delhi Meerut Expressway to run heaters, washing machines etc and to charge their mobile phones. NHAI officials had earlier complained to the district magistrate over the issue.“We have asked the department of electrical safety and the fire department to arrange 20-25 charging points for the protesters,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city). The fire department said that they had briefed farmers about safety. “Two fire tenders have been deployed at the highway section, while two others have been deployed below the UP-Gate flyover (which are the protest sites). One is stationed on the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway. We also met people there and asked them to take all precautions,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. Rakesh Tikait, leader and spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Tikait faction, said, “We have been here for about 23 days now and have no option but to use power from wherever available. It is a necessity.” ‘Rift no more’Two farmer groups that, on Wednesday, set up another protest site after differences with the BKU (Tikait), returned to the main protest platform on the UP Gate flyover on Friday. BKU (Balraj Bhati) and Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan had then claimed that the BKU (Tikait) had “expelled” them from the protest but were united for the cause of the farmer. The two groups had preferred for a more accommodating stance during the talks with the central government, while the Tikait faction said it wanted the three new farms laws to be revoked.Balraj Bhati, the leader of his faction, on Friday said that they had dismantled their protest site after senior farmer leaders arrived and resolved the issue. Sardar VM Singh of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan said: “We have a common agenda (against the farm laws). I just want to stick to it. I have no issues with Rakesh (Tikait). I just said that if we are fighting the government, we cannot sit with the government.” Singh had said that he would have accepted the central government’s offer of written assurance on buying produce at the minimum support price (MSP). He believed that this would effectively dilute the effect of the farm laws. This allegedly earned the ire of the Tikait faction.Rakes Tikait said, “Sardar VM Singh is here with us and he is a big farmer leader and all of us are fighting for the cause of farmers. He also arrived at the common dais on Friday and there is absolutely no issue between us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-officials-inspect-up-gate-farmers-protest-site-roll-out-directions-for-fire-and-electrical-safety-measures/story-OUUqGNBHYcgB02Ehub44pJ.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to observe zero-waste day on December 25||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to observe a zero-waste day on December 25, during which the civic body will only collect wet waste from households across the city, said officials on Friday. Officials said that the MCG is likely to observe this day once every month in future.MCG officials said that they will collect only wet waste from locations where residents carry out waste segregation. In other areas, where residents are yet to adopt the practice, workers have been asked to inform residents about the basic types of waste segregation and given instructions not to collect any waste at all on December 25.As per MCG joint commissioner Dheeraj Kumar, who is also the civic body’s nodal officer for the Swachh Bharat Mission, the rationale behind observing a zero-waste day is to inculcate the habit of waste segregation in residents across the city.“The objective behind observing a zero-waste day is to make residents aware of the various types of waste segregation, its benefits, and adopting the practice into their daily lives. We want residents to realise that wet waste will help in generation of compost while certain dry waste products can also be recycled and reused. This way, the city will produce zero to limited waste,” said Kumar.He further said that the MCG has issued directions to workers of Ecogreen — the civic body’s concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste — to strictly lift only wet waste on the day and accordingly sensitise residents, at the time of collection, about the various methods of segregation and its importance. He also said that a seminar was also held with Ecogreen workers earlier this month where all these measures were explained to them in a step-by-step fashion.“The zero waste day will not be a type of enforcement but a gradual method to shift the pattern of waste segregation in the city. By holding zero waste days every once a month, we want to bring out a gradual change in the habit of residents rather than forcing them to do so. We believe that in the long-term, the former method will be more successful,” said Kumar.As per MCG officials, in many condominiums, societies, and townships across the city, waste segregation is a must for residents. Failure to segregate waste can lead to imposition of penalty by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). In such areas, there are composting plants set up within the residential areas.“It is a great strategy to reduce this city’s waste output. It will also empower RWAs to direct residents to segregate waste and create a mechanism for setting up various types of bins and encourage them to set up in-house compost units. The MCG should however, also look at the option of levying penalties on residents for not adopting waste segregation or not lift waste from their households for a period of time, or both,” said Puneet Goyal, president Tulip Violet RWA.Kumar further said that besides planning a zero-waste day every month, the MCG is also planning to hold zero plastic day in a similar manner.“We also want to simultaneously reduce the city’s dependency on plastic. Just last week, a cloth bag bank was opened to distribute cloth bags and replace the usage of polythene in the city. We will be aiming to hold this event in public spaces such as markets initially before extending it to households,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-observe-zero-waste-day-on-december-25/story-FRa49A5y2tuNarGvnzG8YN.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||To administer Covid shot, Gurugram will need 250 vaccination sites, 500 officers||The Gurugram health department on Friday said they would identify at least 250 sites by the month end to administer the Covid-19 vaccine as and when it becomes available. The district will also have 500 vaccination officers who will be deployed at the sites.Dr MP Singh, who was recently appointed as Gurugram’s district immunisation officer, said, “We have completed registering nearly 50,000 frontline workers in the public and private sector across the district. They will be vaccinated at designated session sites, which are yet to be identified. Each site will administer the vaccine to not more than 100, or not more than 200 individuals, depending on the size and feasibility of the location.”While the district’s 19 urban and primary healthcare centres are likely to be included in this list, additional sites have been sought from the education and labour departments.“Schools, colleges, community centres and offices and all such locations may be used in addition to our own clinics and dispensaries,” said Singh.The sites will be opened when the district fixes timelines and finalises the list of those who will receive the jab. About 40 doctors are being trained to administer the vaccine.Each site will have four vaccination officers in addition to the person trained to administer the shot.Two would be police officials who will check the healthworkers’ identification on entry, their registration papers and manage their data on the Co-Win app -- a digital platform which will be a repository of information for the management of Covid-19 vaccination in the coming months“A third officer, either a civil defence volunteer or a home guard, will be for crowd control while a fourth officer from the women and child development department will monitor the vaccine recipient to check for adverse effects,” Singh said. “We can proceed with site identification only once we know the staff availablility. We have already conveyed to the district administration our requirement.”At a meeting of the district vaccination task force on Friday, health department officials met with representatives from the police, education, labour and women and child development departments, who are slated to assist with the upcoming immunisation drive against Covid-19.Meanwhile, the district reported 152 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday (up from 108 on the previous day), along with 106 new recoveries and two new deaths. The district tested 4122 samples tested on Friday, of which 3.6 percent were positive for Covid-19. This marks the fourth consecutive day that Gurugram’s daily test-positivity rate has remained below the five percent mark. The district’s total Covid-19 tally stands at 55487 cases, of which 1718 cases are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-administer-covid-shot-gurugram-will-need-250-vaccination-sites-500-officers/story-BVvboH9IwD54niy1DSAgyH.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Noida residents apply for HSRP as Delhi police issue challan||Noida residents have started applying for High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) for their vehicles as the Delhi Police started issuing fines of ₹5,500 in ‘limited enforcement drive’ for the violation from Tuesday. The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has mandated that all vehicles sold in India before April 2019 need to have an HSRP. HSRPs are tamper-proof, as compared to the conventional number plates. These plates are issued only after the vehicle owner provides information such as engine number, chassis number, etc. This is a crucial step in preventing counterfeiting of high security registration plates.Gautam Budh Nagar has around 7.34 lakh vehicles registered, of which 6.84 lakh vehicles need the HSRP. Noida police have not launched enforcement for this violation in the district. A K Pandey, assistant regional transport officer (administration) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the process of getting an HSRP is completely online. “People can book their slot accordingly on www.bookmyhsrp.com and https://www.makemyhsrp.com. They need to fill the vehicles’ details, make the payment and get the time slot to visit their dealers’ office to get an HSRP,” he said. The district transport department has 4,50,159 two-wheelers, 2,11,853 four-wheelers (private), 2,210 two-wheelers (commercial), 14,392 cabs, 17,720 good carrier, 18,393 autos, 5,045 e-rickshaws, 3,206 buses, 1,332 school buses, 490 ambulances, 7,291 tractors and 2,730 other vehicles registered with it. Pandey said that around 50,000 of them registered after April 2019 have HSRP pre-installed. The transport department has not received updated data on the newly HSRP fitted vehicles. However, it is estimated that 40,000-50,000 vehicles have got new HSRP through different dealers in Gautam Budh Nagar. The fee is ₹300-400 for two-wheelers and ₹600-1,000 for four-wheelers, depending on the vehicle make.Manish Shrivastava, general manager (sales), Ace Honda in Sector 9, said that he gets orders for HSRP through and https://www.makemyhsrp.com. “The customer applies on the website and we get notification in two days. The https://www.makemyhsrp.com is an authorised agency for HSRP. They deliver the number plates to our agency. We then contact the customers who bring their vehicles to get the number plates,” he said, adding that the application process takes one week’s time. “We deliver only 10 HSRPs every day at present,” he said. Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77, said that he has a Hyundai i-10 car which needs HSRP. “I mostly drive in Noida. Since the Delhi police have started the enforcement drive, I have planned to get it as soon as possible,” he said.With the demand in HSRPs, some mechanics in Sector 16 market and along Captain Vijayant Thapar Marg in Sector 28 have started making counterfeit number plates. A mechanic, without disclosing his name, said that normally it takes two weeks to one month to get HSRP through an official channel. “However, we deliver it in three days’ time at a charge of ₹1,500,” he said. ARTO Pandey said that a forged HSRP is illegal and the department has not received such complaints so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-apply-for-hsrp-as-delhi-police-issue-challan/story-PGY7nR6omoEL2C7adAzoaN.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||Health minister Anil Vij’s condition improves||State health minister Anil Vij’s condition has shown improvement over the past 24 hours, doctors said on Friday. The minister had been admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram with complications from Covid-19. Vij was admitted to PGIMS Rohtak last Saturday, but was later shifted to the ICU at Medanta on Tuesday.As per a spokesperson for the private hospital, Vij had a “restful sleep” during the night on Friday, and showed improved appetite during the day. His oxygen requirement and respiratory rate had also reduced, while his blood investigation reports on Friday also shows improvement. Health department officials said this is a step in the direction of recovery. A team of doctors, including district chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav, examined the minister on Friday morning. “His blood pressure, kidney and liver functions are normal. According to doctors, his clinical condition is stable,” Medanta said in a press release issued later in the day. Vij will continue to be monitored in the ICU and will receive physiotherapy until further notice. Vij, aged 67, had been shifted to Medanta, about 80km from PGIMS Rohtak, with Covid-induced pneumonia on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-minister-anil-vij-s-condition-improves/story-Bj2NJ7ZnYwjShc3iiL7jXM.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||Congress holds protest in support of farmers||Leaders and party workers of the Haryana Congress led by state president Kumari Selja wore black badges as a mark of protest against the three farm laws passed by the Union government. “Farmers of the country have been forced to protest on the borders of national Capital in bitter cold for the last three weeks. But the government is not ready to listen to them under the pressure from the capitalists,” Selja said. The party had organised a meeting at its office in Kaman Sarai on Friday to pay tribute to the farmers who have lost their lives since the protests started in November. Selja said that despite farmers losing their lives, the ruling party leaders were making allegations against the farmers and forcing them to come on the roads to seek justice. She also accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) of spreading misconceptions about the farmers’ protest and accused the party of engaging in politics of division. “The BJP wants to turn farmers into labourers, which cannot be tolerated. The BJP had promised to implement the recommendations of Swaminathan Commission report. It promised to double the income of farmers, but not a single promise has been fulfilled”, Selja alleged. BJP, however, said that Congress leadership was misleading the farmers despite the fact that the same proposals were introduced by it in the past, both in Punjab and at the Centre. “The Congress government in Punjab passed a similar law in 2006, while in Haryana, they entered into agreements to create silos with private companies. The opposition, including the Congress, is trying to take political mileage from this protest by misleading farmers. The land ownership or MSP system will remain unchanged by these laws,” said BJP spokesperson Raman Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/congress-holds-protest-in-support-of-farmers/story-DU2HqsR217n1bBYlSB7IpI.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Trident T20 Cup cricket tournament: Ludhiana, Jalandhar emerge victorious on Day 1||Players from Ludhiana 11 and Jalandhar 11 emerged victorious on Day 1 of the Trident T20 cup cricket tournament which was played on the grounds of GRD Academy and Hara Cricket Club on Friday.Ludhiana defeated Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar, by three runs. The winning team won the toss and decided to field first. Their opponents scored 151/2 in the allotted 20 overs. In reply, Ludhiana scored 155/7 in 19.5 overs and claimed two points. Sunny Pandey was adjudged man of the match.In the second match, Jalandhar beat Malwa Heroes by 41 runs. The winning team batted first and scored 152 runs in 20 overs. Malwa Heroes was bowled out for 111 in 18.3 overs. Mandeep Singh was declared man of the match.Ludhiana police chief Rakesh Agrawal was the chief guest for the inauguration ceremony. He said that Ludhiana has the potential to have its own IPL Team and the T20 cup will prove to be a game changer.Rajjnder Gupta, president of Punjab Cricket Association and chairman of Trident Group, assured support to the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) in producing world-class cricketersBhupinder Singh, former International player and member of the organising committee, and Satish Kumar Mangal, former Ranji Trophy player and president, LDCA, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trident-t-20-cup-cricket-tournament-ludhiana-jalandhar-emerge-victorious-on-day-1/story-UFtbsmfDsA4f5lQuOrJOhK.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Mercury rises but city shivers as icy winds sweep region; respite from cold wave from Monday||Cold wave conditions persisted in the region on Friday even as mercury soared in Noida by over three degrees in the past 24 hours. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cold wave will continue on Saturday and may further extend to Sunday at some areas across the national Capital region (NCR), including Noida. The cold day conditions will, however, come to an end by Saturday due to the dispersal of fog, said analysts.“Day time temperatures rose slightly on Friday and the main reason behind this is that the fog, that had lifted about 300 to 400 metres above the surface, has dispersed. This has let sunlight through over several areas, thereby increasing day time temperatures, bringing cold day conditions to an end. The cold wave will, however, persist for another two days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. On Friday, Noida recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius against 4.5 degrees a day earlier. Meanwhile, the average minimum temperature recorded at Safdarjung observatory, considered average for the NCR, was 4.6 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida on Friday was recorded at 19.1 degrees Celsius against 14.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. For NCR, the average maximum was 19.8 degrees Celsius against 15.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. Meanwhile, wind speed varied across NCR, with icy cold north-westerly winds varying from 15 to 8 kmph at different areas, making the wind chill factor -- a factor that varies the actual temperature realisation based on the wind speed – higher at certain areas across the region. Cold wave is the condition when the minimum temperatures are 4.5 degrees Celsius below the season’s normal, while cold day is the condition when even the maximum temperature is below 4.5 degrees Celsius below the season’s average.According to the IMD, the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to be between 4.0 and 21.0 degrees Celsius for the region on Saturday.“There is a western disturbance likely around December 21, which will lead to variable wind directions with more westerly and south-westerly components. This will lead to slight rise in temperatures, and thus the cold wave may stop from December 21 onwards,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-mercury-rises-but-city-shivers-as-icy-winds-sweep-region-respite-from-cold-wave-from-monday/story-sSm8o0FXOo75HYhRY8SHrK.html
18-12-2020||City||Farmers asked to clean up protest sites at Bawal and Shahjahanpur||Haryana and Rajasthan Police on Friday have asked protesters at Bawal and Shahjahanpur to keep the sites clean.Police teams deployed at the sites had complained of odour and improper disposal of garbage.Farmers protesting in Bawal in Rewari and Shahjahanpur on Delhi-Jaipur highway at the Haryana-Rajasthan border had set up more than 30 tents on Wednesday at the sites. While many farmers sleep at the protest sites, others return to their respective village at night, police said.Police said leftover food, rotten vegetables and used disposable plates were piling up at the spot. Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police (Rewari), said that they informed the civil authorities to clean Bawal area and dustbins were placed on Friday. “The situation is under control and the protestors silently protesting on the service lanes have been asked to keep the area clean to ensure no one faces any inconvenience,” he said.Ram Murti Joshi, superintendent of police (Bhiwadi), said that the civil teams were cleaning the sites and the farmer leaders have been asked to take charge and maintain cleanliness. Tej Bahadur Yadav, a former constable of the Border Security Force (BSF), who was sacked from service and who lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s in Varanasi and now at the protest site, said that they have brought dustbins and have asked the kitchen members to ensure cleanliness. “A tractor-trolley driver has been asked to disposed of garbage at a site in Bhiwadi,” he said.Farmers at the Shahjahanpur border connecting Haryana and Rajasthan have been denied access by the to move ahead on the national highway.The police on Monday had set up barricades to stop the protestors from crossing the border and hence one side of the carriageway is blocked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-asked-to-clean-up-protest-sites-at-bawal-and-shahjahanpur/story-HSieKEVzwtAKL0zPvVqDHP.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP to cancel allotment of plots violating building norms in DLF Phase-3||To curb illegal constructions in DLF Phase-3, particularly in the plots meant for the EWS category, the department of town and country planning(DTCP) has decided to start a drive to disconnect water, power and sewage connections of such plots and eventually cancel their allotment. DTCP officials said that there have been rampant construction violations and those related to the transfer of ownership in EWS plots. To pursue this matter, the department has sought information the licensee of the colony — DLF. RS Bhath, district town planner(enforcement), Gurugram, said that it has been observed that rules and regulations of urban development and terms and conditions of licence are being blatantly violated. “Many owners are carrying out illegal construction after taking occupancy certificate(OC).Common violations include, 100 percent ground coverage, additional floors up to 6-7 storeys, combining two or more plots, and the misuse of premises for commercial establishments, such as offices, grocery shops, restaurants, etc,” said Bhath.In view of large-scale violations, Bhath said that it has been decided that power, water and sewage connections n such properties would be disconnected. This action would be taken jointly by the DTCP and other bodies, such as Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradikaran, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG), the electricity department, the police and DLF. To carry out a concerted drive, the DTCP has asked the developer to share a plot-wise detailed list, mentioning the original allotment status along with the details of the change in ownership for EWS category plots. It has also asked the company to share allotment letters and builder-buyer agreements with the allottees. “We have also asked that EWS plots in which buyers have constructed beyond permissible limits or have made illegal transfers should be identified and the list should be shared with us. We have also sought an action plan for disconnection and suspension of services to these plots. Once these violators are identified, the proposal to cancel the allotments of these property owners will be discussed in detail,” he said, adding that the department is working out legal modalities for the cancellation of allotment.DTCP officials said that the reason for this elaborate exercise is that massive illegal constructions on EWS plots poses a serious danger to the residents and to adjoining buildings. The notice issued by the department on Thursday further said that Gurugram being in seismic zone- 4, needs to be prepared for any natural calamity. Although efforts, such as issuance of notices, sealing drives and even demolition drives, have been executed, but the situation has become worse, it stated. “Demolition drives have been carried out but there is a need for more concerted action against such structures”, said Bhath. A DLF spokesperson, when asked about the matter, preferred not to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-to-cancel-allotment-of-plots-violating-building-norms-in-dlf-phase-3/story-5jo5VAgcg4wkDXrlBNsg4L.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Will fight 2022 UP assembly elections if demand not met, say farmers at Chilla border||Leaders of some of the farmers, who have been protesting at the borders Delhi shares with Noida and Ghaziabad against the three new farm laws, said Friday that if the government does not accept their demands, they will contest the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.“We have been on protest for two weeks now but the government is not taking note of our grievances. We have a lot of supporters in Uttar Pradesh. In the last four decades several governments came and went. I was also offered a ministerial position by some governments but being apolitical, I refused. We have already formed a political outfit – Kisan Kranti Dal. We will contest the UP assembly elections in 2022 if our demands are not addressed,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Bhanu president Thakur Bhanu Pratap.Thakur Yogesh Pratap, the BKU-Bhanu’s UP president, held a five-day hunger strike (Sunday-Thursday) against the farm laws at Chilla border.“I ended my hunger strike on Thursday after consultations with BKU members and office bearers. We found that some farmers died at the Singhu border while a Sikh leader, Baba Ram Singh, committed suicide. But the government did not take any notice of farmers’ plight. The government is callous and it does not matter to them if one fasts or dies,” he said.Farmers have been protesting at the Chilla border and the Dalit Prerna Sthal since December 1 against the three new farm laws. The protest has blocked the Noida-Delhi road at the Chilla border and vehicles bound for the national Capital have been diverted to the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway and Kalindi Kunj routes.Yogesh said that some farmers from Western UP were trying to reach Noida but they have been detained at different places, to weaken the farmers’ protest. The farmers have blocked the Noida-Delhi road at Chilla border in protest.Meanwhile, BKU Lokshakti members on Friday protested at the Dalit Prerna Sthal by performing mock suicide acts as a symbolic demonstration of the plight of farmers. Master Shyoraj Singh, BKU-Lok Shakti president, said that this is a difficult fight for the farmers. “The government has placed its entire machinery and ministers against the farmers. But they have nothing to convince the farmers. Let’s see who wins this battle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-will-fight-2022-up-assembly-elections-if-demand-not-met-say-farmers-at-chilla-border/story-gB6GX7nBz7O8I5ylOpTYQL.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||City gets respite from cold, temperatures to rise from Friday||Gurugram got a respite from the ongoing cold wave on Friday, with Gurugram recording a maximum daytime temperature of 18.4°C, up from the season’s low of 13.1°C the previous day. The minimum temperature was 4°C, the same as Thursday, with yet another episode of shallow to moderate fog in parts of the city during the early hours. As per the India Meteorological Department’s seven day forecast for the city, the minimum nighttime temperature is expected to rise to as much as 7 degrees Celsius by December 24, while the maximum daytime temperature is expected to touch as much as 22 degrees Celsius in the next week. Foggy and misty mornings are expected to continue, with partly cloudy skies during the daytime. Air quality in the city also improved slightly, with 224 (poor air) on the CPCB’s AQI bulletin (down from 246 on Thursday), which experts attributed to high speed winds which touched up to 15kmph in some parts of the city. “We would have seen an even further decline in pollution, but since the winds themselves are cold there has not been much vertical diffusion of pollutants on Friday,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality expert. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to start deteriorating marginally from 18.12.2020 but remain largely in lower end of Very Poor category.” Experts said this was due to a possible slowing down of wind speeds, which will once again lead to an accumulation of pollutants closer to the earth’s surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-gets-respite-from-cold-temperatures-to-rise-from-friday/story-vSgUZ5WD99yFQSZexIedXL.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||Ranks of protesting farmers swell as they continue agitation at Haryana border||Vishal Soni, a 30-year-old production engineer, took a leave from work on Thursday and travelled 10km to join the farmers’ agitation near the Shahjahanpur border at the Delhi-Jaipur National Highway. Soni said that while he had been sharing information and articles on social media to amplify the farmers’ protest, he felt the need to do more and join them on the ground. “I come from a rural background and stand in solidarity with the farmers. While I had been restricting myself to social media posts until now, I wanted to join the protests, even if it was for a day,” said Soni. He said that listening to farmers’ concerns at the protest site had strengthened his belief that they were leading a legitimate fight for their rights and were not misled, as was being claimed by the government. “Farmers are not being misled or tutored by anyone. I heard them and observed various facets of the protest here. They are honestly putting forward their demands,” said Soni. He is among many other individuals who have been visiting the site in support of farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Farmers from states such as Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Haryana have been protesting near the Shahjahanpur border at the Delhi-Jaipur highway since the past six days after the Rewari Police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi to join the farmers’ agitation. While farmer groups continue to assert that their goal is to proceed towards Delhi, they said that the dharna at Rewari had developed into a full-fledged protest site on the lines of the blockade at other borders surrounding the national Capital. Farmers across the country have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — passed by Parliament during the monsoon session. The farmers fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and lead to the removal of the minimum support price (MSP) they receive on important crops. Ram Singh, a farmer from Gharsana tehsil in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar district, said that farmers had carried ration for the initial days but subsequently, help had poured in from different quarters. “Early in the morning, someone got multiple sacks of oranges delivered for us. We don’t even know the name of the donor. The ration is not a problem. Someone or the other pitches in as and when there’s a need,” said Singh. He said that with the kind of support farmers had been getting, they could sustain the protest for years. “We are prepared to agitate for years, if required. We will not stop until the laws are rolled back,” he said. Harvinder Singh, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar, said that people had been supporting them by providing essential supplies and efforts were underway to reach out to organisations such as Khalsa Aid. “Students from Delhi University visited us in solidarity. They collected around a lakh rupee and purchased tarpaulin tents for farmers here. We were facing a shortage of milk so they brought in dry milk packets,” said Singh. He added that relatives of villagers back home had been sending various supplies for the farmer groups. “One of our brothers today came with a water tanker, beddings, and food. Another brought medical kits provided by Khalsa Aid. Langar is also prepared daily. Bit by bit, we are expanding our caravan of farmers here,” said Singh, who was earlier protesting at the Tikri border. He said that many groups of farmers from Rajasthan who were agitating at Tikri had decided to strengthen numbers at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. “More strength was needed here. The Central government also knows that this is an important stretch. If this stretch is blocked, the pressure will increase. So, we decided to mobilise our numbers here when the police prevented us from going to Delhi,” said Singh. On Friday, nearly 300 farmers from Dadri tehsil of Bhiwani on their way to join the agitation at Shahjahanpur were stopped by police. Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police (Rewari), said that the police wouldn’t allow the highway to be blocked and trolleys attempting to reach the site had been stopped at Dadri. “One side of the carriageway has remained blocked for the last eight days. We have deployed forces at all inter- and intra-district borders and no farmer groups will be allowed to reach the site,” said Jorwal. Sanjay Madhav, the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that around three hundred farmers who had earlier been camping at Tikri border had been stopped at Mahendargarh bypass near Charkhi Dadri. “These farmers are from Hanumangarh and Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. They were earlier at the Tikri border. They were stopped by the police near Charkhi Dadri. The government will not be able to stop us for long. More and more people are joining us daily,” said Madhav. Farmers have also been protesting at two other points in South Haryana. While a group of farmers have camped at Bawal, another group of farmers are putting up at Delhi-Agra highway near the KMP Chowk in Palwal.Ram Kishan Mehlawat, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana’s general secretary, said that farmers had been camping at Bawal Chowk since last week. “A regular continuous dharna is underway at Bawal Chowk. Our plan is to mobilise numbers and proceed towards Delhi,” said Mehlawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ranks-of-protesting-farmers-swell-as-they-continue-agitation-at-haryana-border/story-DkQgcZpWGTjbhtYRy59wGO.html
18-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to survey illegal mobile towers next month||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will begin a survey to identify illegal mobile towers next month, officials said on Friday. This follows the MCG request to telecommunication companies last month to provide a list of their mobile towers in the city. The exercise resulted in the discovery of 367 illegal towers. As per MCG officials, fewer than 200 mobile towers are legal.MCG officials, however, said they expected to find more illegal towers in the survey. In 2018, the civic body had identified more than 5,000 illegal mobile towers and subsequently given telecommunication companies two months time to regularise them.The survey they will also inspect the structural stability buildings hosting mobile towers. If there is damage, the company will be asked to move the tower.“Regularising of mobile towers is essential as it will ensure that they are conforming to the norms. It will also help us identify structures which may not be able to support the weight of these towers and are susceptible to collapse. We can subsequently initiate remedial action,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.The MCG has also reduced the annual licensing fees for mobile towers within the jurisdiction from ₹2.5 lakh to ₹15,000 in the hope of ensuring towers are regularised, help them generate revenue and provide good service to people.MCG officials also revealed that none of the mobile towers has a valid fire No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department. However, with the Haryana Fire Service Act stating that a NOC is only required for structures that have occupancy, the fire department has not initiated any action on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-survey-illegal-mobile-towers-next-month/story-vqmDoyH0IY5fnqWwgoIUVN.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Don’t arrest unsuspecting buyers of stolen phones, discharge those you arrested: Delhi Police officer’s order seeks to save innocents from legal hassle||A senior police officer has issued an order in two districts under his jurisdiction to ensure that people who unknowingly purchase stolen mobile phones are not arrested, and those arrested in the past are discharged.Pointing out that “implicating” such innocent buyers in a criminal case is “not appropriate”, the order issued by Suvashish Chaudhary, joint commissioner of police (southern range), reasoned that such action threatened to derail the future and careers of innocent buyers of stolen mobile phones. People who are found to be in possession of a stolen mobile phone are usually booked under Indian Penal Code 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), a non-bailable offence that carries a prison sentence of up to three years, a fine, or both.“It has been seen that lately persons who have been arrested under IPC Section 411 are merely innocent buyers, who have, without knowledge of the consequences, been duped into buying cheap secondhand mobile phones,” Chaudhary said in his order. “All the SHOs be directed not to arrest such persons under IPC 411, just to increase the figure of receivers arrested. Instead, they should concentrate on getting the real receivers of stolen property, who actually but them as a commercial interest,” the order issued on December 15 added. While many senior police officers HT spoke to denied arresting innocent buyers, others acknowledged that they had little choice. “The law says that anyone found in possession of stolen property is to be booked and arrested. It is difficult to ascertain quickly whether a buyer was actually innocent or was trying to mislead us,” said a senior police officer under whose jurisdiction a prominent used phone market is. “But if our initial probe makes it clear that the buyer really didn’t know the truth, we just implicate them instead of making an arrest. They then have to explain their situation to the court,” said the officer, who didn’t want to be identified. While a person arrested needs to seek bail, those implicated are let off from police station after giving them assurances.“If an offence doesn’t require us to arrest someone to seek a remand or make a recovery, or if the suspect is not a threat to the victims or the probe, and if the stipulated jail term is less than seven years, the officer on the ground can implicate them rather than arrest them. But they’ll have to make a court appearance,” explained a police officer.These buyers are usually caught when the police, during their investigation of a stolen or snatched phone, track them down. JCP Chaudhary said that a review of this situation in south and southeast districts in his jurisdiction suggested that innocent buyers were being booked and arrested. While he didn’t reveal any data, another police officer who didn’t want to be identified said that this figure ranged between 20% and 80% of the total number of buyers in different police stations. “Mobile phones are not like stolen cars in which buyers know they need documents. Many used phone buyers are very poor people who end up buying stolen phones at cheap rates and without bills. These are people who wouldn’t have purchased these phones if they knew they were stolen goods,” said Chaudhary. He said that apart from their careers being threatened by being booked and arrested, these buyers also ended up being stigmatised as they are considered as usual suspects when police look out for stolen phones,” said Chaudhary.And by making such arrests, the police were not getting to the root of the problem, he said. “The investigating officer will have to discern between the actual receiver of the stolen phones and the unsuspecting buyers,” said Chaudhary.It remained unclear whether the order would be replicated by officers of other districts. The joint CP of another range said that there was no need for this order. “The mandate is to arrest criminals only, not innocent people. So, we don’t need to issue an order,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. But Vikram Singh, former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, welcomed the written order as a “humane step” and said that issuing such an order in writing would ensure transparency and would allow a cushion for innocent buyers to explain their case. “Ignorance of the law is not an excuse and technically it is a crime to purchase a stolen phone, but this is a humane approach. The investigators need to apply their minds and put in the extra work to ensure they aren’t arresting innocent buyers,” said Vikram Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/don-t-arrest-unsuspecting-buyers-of-stolen-phones-discharge-those-you-arrested-delhi-police-officer-s-order-seeks-to-save-innocents-from-legal-hassle/story-wPv7bS5YvcCku8ozIJLWgL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Remove protesters from outside CM’s house, gathering violates DDMA order, says HC||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Delhi Police to ensure that the mayors of the three municipal corporation and other protesters, who have been staging a sit-in protest outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, are removed, while stating that the protest gives an incorrect signal that the prohibitory orders of the Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA), in view of Covid-19 spread, are not being followed.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, while hearing a plea by the Civil Lines Residents Association that the protest was causing an inconvenience as protesters were blocking the road, said the court expects the police to take action in accordance with law for the implementation of the DDMA order of September 30, prohibiting political and other gatherings.Mayors from Delhi’s municipal corporations and 22 BJP councillors have been protesting against the Delhi government since December 7 demanding release of ₹13,000 crore to municipal corporations by the Delhi government. Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “We are fighting for the rights of municipal workers. We have not yet received any communication from the police regarding our removal from the protest site.”“You have to shift them (protesters). The district magistrate has to pass an order. Otherwise, an incorrect signal will go,” Sachdeva said.“It is expected that the police will take appropriate steps in accordance with the orders issued by the DDMA and Section 144 (CrPC) which has been imposed in the Civil Lines area where the protesters are sitting on a dharna (sit-in),” the judge said.The directions come after advocate Gautam Narayan, appearing for the Delhi Police, told the court that they have earlier asked protesters to vacate the premises as Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of four or more people, has been imposed on Flagstaff Road where the chief minister’s residence is located. They also said they asked protesters to follow the DDMA directive which prohibits any protest in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police also apprised the Delhi high court that several requests have been made to protesters to vacate the premises but the protesters are defiant.Narayan also told the court that in an allied matter -- two AAP MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi have challenged the denial of permission by the police to hold a protest outside the residences of Union home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal -- he has made a submission that no protests, political activities or other gatherings are allowed in the city.To this, the court said if the DDMA order has directed that there can be no protests, then action should be taken. He said the district magistrate should issue an order asking the protesters to vacate the space.“An order has to be issued by the district magistrate. If they don’t agree, then action should be taken in accordance with law,” Sachdeva said. The court posted the matter for further hearing to December 21 after the Delhi Police counsel sought an adjournment for making efforts to remove the protesters.The AAP did not respond to calls and messages sent to them seeking a reaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/remove-protesters-from-outside-cm-s-house-gathering-violates-ddma-order-says-hc/story-Gw0UJg6D4S32dDlDqz9IOJ.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||‘Need for collective action against terrorism’||American political scientist Dr C Christine Fair on Friday said the world must work together to stop terrorism, while emphasising on the collective strategy against terrorism.She was speaking on “The Taliban are coming calling: Deep states in Pakistan and India” during the fourth Military Literature Festival. An expert on counter-terrorism and issues related to the Asian region, Dr Fair said some countries in the Asian region were helping a number of terrorist organisations, including the Taliban, at the expense of people around the world.In a conversation with KC Singh, India’s ambassador to Iran, Dr Fair said lack of better coordination between the Pakistani government and the military was one of the reasons for the rise of the Taliban. “No country could solely curb terrorism-related activities. Collective action is needed to control it,” she said.Referring to Asian countries affected by terrorism, she said India had emerged at the top in the list of developing countries due to its stand against terrorism.About the role of the media, she said the declining trend of investigative journalism at present was a matter of concern.With the formation of a new government in the US, Dr Fair said the future will decide the new American government’s strategy about dealing with Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/need-for-collective-action-against-terrorism/story-696HffjHJ767WWEoN3YBtL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmer leaders to meet today to chalk out course in wake of SC ruling||A day after the Supreme Court asked the government and the agitating farmer groups to “talk to each other” on the three contentious farm laws and find a solution, farmers across the four protest sites in Delhi on Friday endorsed the apex court’s suggestion and said they wanted the government to repeal the laws.Balwinder Singh, 48, a resident of Chahal village in Tarn Taran district, said, “People tried to malign our agitation but did not succeed. The Supreme Court upheld our right to protest and it only shows that we are right. We only hope that the government comes to its senses and understands the plight of farmers.”On Thursday, several farmer leaders said they would hold consultations with top Supreme Court lawyers on whether to “implead” as a party in the ongoing proceedings before the Supreme Court. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said, “The farmer union leaders have called a meeting on Saturday afternoon at 2pm. We will decide the further course of action in that meeting.”Many protesters also reacted adversely to the Union agriculture minister’s open letter to farmers. Dinesh Chaddha, a lawyer from Barwa village in Ropar district of Punjab, said, “The union minister’s letter is highly misleading. His assurances about the minimum support price (MSP) mean nothing if it is not included in the Act itself. As far as contract farming is concerned, everybody knows that corporates will have the upper hand in forming such agreements; so the government should intervene in such matters.” Protesters at the four borders points of Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, and Chilla continued to demand a repeal of the laws even as a steady stream of supporters joined the protesters already camped in these places. At Singhu border, protesters were joined by Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker and Punjabi Singer Babbu Maan. While food and medical camps saw the usual number of crowds on Friday, a tattoo artist’s stall, offering free tattoos, got a lot of attention from young farmers.To protect the farmers against the chill, the Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust started erecting a 110 feet by 40 feet enclosure on Friday, a few kilometres from the stage at Singhu border. “About 200 farmers can sleep there and since the tent will be closed from all sides, it will be better than sleeping in the open and catching the chill,” the work in-charge Jitendra Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmer-leaders-to-meet-today-to-chalk-out-course-in-wake-of-sc-ruling/story-OtlhOhb0lhRB1KsqRhBEqM.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to take action against illegal encroachments along Buddha Nullah||The municipal corporation (MC) has decided to take action against over 950 encroachments along the Buddha Nullah which include commercial, industrial and residential units.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the members of the sewerage board and irrigation department and officials of other departments concerned at the MC’s Zone-D office on Friday.The MC has already started establishing micro forests along the nullah and the work order has been issued to install iron fencing around it.The civic body officials have now been told to make a schedule for the entire process to clean the nullah including demolition drive, establishment of micro forests, laying sewer lines and construction of roads. They were also told to chalk out the plan for removal of the encroachments in a phased manner and were directed to involve the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) concerned in the process.The officials said that MC before installing the iron fencing, the authorities have decided to raze the encroachments. Also, if the micro forests are developed in the first phase, then they might get damaged during the demolition drive.The company which was involved in the demarcation process of the nullah submitted its final report in October which stated that there are over 950 encroachments along the nullah. Of these, around 60% are residential and 40% factories or commercial units. Four religious buildings have also been constructed by encroaching upon the nullah area. Sabharwal said, “The officials have been told to make a proper schedule which will also specify which project will be taken up at what time. Also, the civic body will initiate action against the encroachments soon. Some of them have already been demolished in Gopal Nagar area, but a drive will be started to remove all of them in the coming time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-take-action-against-illegal-encroachments-along-buddha-nullah/story-03wMmzc5XPCKeUxAJD2U8J.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Smart Connect Scheme: Govt school students in Ludhiana get smart phones||With chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh launching the second phase of the “Punjab Smart Connect Scheme” on Friday, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu distributed smart phones to students of government schools at Bachat Bhawan.  Officials said the district administration has received 11,660 phones under the scheme till now, of which 11,609 have been distributed. The phones are being given to students of Class 12. They added that a small group of students was invited for the event and the rest will receive the phones at their respective schools.  Thanking the Punjab government, Priyanka, a student of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU, said “Till now, I used to attend online classes through my parents’ phone, and my studies would get disrupted when they had to move out for work. Now, I will able to focus more on academics.”Ashu said that the smart phones will provide global connectivity and empower financially-weak students. He added that he wants students to be aware of the latest technology which they can use effectively for their education. Delay in receiving phonesAs per officials of the district education department , they were supposed to receive 16,676 phones by November, of which only 11,660 have been given by the government. Ashu said the rest will be delivered soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/smart-connect-scheme-govt-school-students-in-ludhiana-get-smart-phones/story-aA3IrYmNfn4BWyMpcCQJmL.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana roads remain treacherous despite ₹630cr spending||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has spent around ₹630 crore on streets and roads over the last five years but to no avail as harried motorists continue to navigate haphazard construction and pothole-riddled roads. The roads are all the more treacherous after rainfall with those on two-wheelers risking life and limb. From the main roads to residential areas and the markets of the city, the sad state persists despite the civic body sparing no expense. An average ₹126 crore (including municipal funds and Punjab Infrastructure Development Board grants) has been spent on upgrading the roadways each year since 2015. A record ₹219 crore was spent on developing road infrastructure in 2016-17 during the SAD-BJP regime. Dugri, Haibowal, Model Town extension, Field Ganj, Giaspura, Civil City, Tajpur Road, Tibba Road, Janta Nagar, and Shimlapuri are the worst affected areas.Travelling on Ferozepur Road, Malhar Road and Pakhowal Road also guarantees a bumpy ride thanks to ongoing development projects. The worn down and broken roads continue to blight the industrial and financial hub of the state, which is visited by a slew of customers, businessmen and industrialists on a daily basis, bringing into question the state’s largest local body’s ability to keep a check on quality and internal corruption. At present, the MC is working to avail ₹100 crore loan for taking up development projects in the city.An MC official , who did not wish to be named, said, “There has been no check on the quality of development work. The alleged nexus between councillors, senior officials and contractors allows shoddy work to pass muster.”‘MC steeped in corruption’“In fact, contractors allegedly pay a fixed commission to officials and office-bearers to avert action. In the last week of October, a group of municipal corporation engineers also approached cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu and demanded that the MC stop the inquiry into already completed the development projects,” the official said, adding that no proper drainage system and the absence of a storm water sewer contributed to accelerated wear and tear.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said,”I cannot comment on development works conducted before I was posted in the city. However, now we conduct regular sampling and monitoring. Payments to contractors have been stopped after samples failed quality test. Some contractors have been asked to reconstruct roads in the past and errant contractors will be blacklisted, if they fail to work efficiently.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said,”Contractors and officials have been given clear instructions to not compromise with the quality of work and efficiency has also improved of late. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has also been conducting surprise inspections to check quality of work. While contractors are being forced to reconstruct the inferior quality roads, a number of inquiries have also been marked in road constructions projects taken up in the past. ”Parcelling out blame, the MC commissioner said, “Residents are also responsible for the short life of roads as cars are washed along roads and the accumulated water damages the material.”Gurjot Singh, a resident of Salem Tabri area, said,”The civic body has been wasting taxpayers money on constructing roads just to woo the public before elections, but no one keeps a check on the quality. The main roads still get the attention of the civic body officials, but no one cares for internal roads and streets.” Samples fail quality testIn July, seven samples collected from Amantran Colony, Guru Vihar, Chander Nagar, Bal Singh Nagar Road, Ashok Nagar, Daba Road and a road near GNE College (towards Dugri) failed the test. Samples collected from a stretch near RK Road, Circular Road near Daresi Ground and Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had also been found specious.Seven out of eight road samples of RMC roads collected from Balbir enclave in the Haibowal area also failed the quality test. Following the complaint filed by a RTI activist, the vigilance bureau had also sought an action taken report from the MC in the case wherein the samples have failed the quality test. Despite ringing demand to blacklist errant contractors no such action has been taken.Irregular recordsThe MC has also failed to maintain records of development projects taken up in the past and officials have no record of which road was constructed in what year, resulting in wastage of public money as development projects are proposed in the same area frequently.Jaskirat Singh of the NGO Naroa Punjab Manch said it is necessary to keep the records as in absence of the same MC will not be able to check whether the service life of a road has expired or not.During the MC’s general house meet held on November 10, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillor Swarandeep Chahal raised an objection stating that the MC officials had installed new interlocking tiles on existing tiles even when the existing tiles were in good shape.To exacerbate matters, over 600 measurement books (MB) issued to staffers in the past have not been returned and many of them are missing from the record.The MC officials must mention details of construction projects in the MB books on a daily basis in order to make payments to contractors. After a complaint was submitted by an RTI activist regarding the same, Sabharwal marked an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-roads-remain-treacherous-despite-630cr-spending/story-osiJ3EAYKocTMYb84OyVwI.html
18-12-2020||City||Two more arrested in Ludhiana shoe store burglary case||Three days after the arrest of an 18-year-old employee working at a Field Gunj footwear store for allegedly stealing ₹1.5 lakh from the shop, police on Friday arrested two of his accomplices.The arrested accused have been identified as Shiv Kumar of Mohalla Muradpura and Pardeep Kumar of Mohalla Azad Nagar. The police have recovered ₹84,000 from their possession besides a mobile phone, which Pardeep had bought with the stolen money.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (City 1) Deepak Pareek said Jaspal Singh of Dugri had lodged an FIR at the Division Number 2 police station on December 15. “Jaspal had accused his employee Ajay Kumar of theft,” he added. In his complaint, Jaspal had mentioned that he had locked the main gate of his shop on Monday night before leaving for home. “The accused had kept the back door unlocked from where they gained access to the shop and stole the cash,” he added. The police had arrested Ajay Kumar and recovered ₹44,000 from him. During his interrogation, Ajay told the police that he had given ₹37,000 each to Shiv and Pardeep, while keeping the remaining amount with him. The ADCP said ₹9,000 was recovered from Pardeep. “He had spent ₹28,000 on a mobile phone. Shiv had ₹31,000 after spending ₹6,000 on shopping,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-arrested-in-ludhiana-shoe-store-burglary-case/story-okoip6vZ0QoC0Vh8CQz2II.html
18-12-2020||City||Ludhiana MC penalises residents for throwing trash in Buddha Nullah||After the Ludhiana MC decided to depute 50 swachhta monitors around Buddha Nullah to bar residents from dumping solid waste in the drain, health branch on Friday organised an awareness rally and installed posters urging residents not to pollute the nullah.Employees were deputed at the site on a trial basis to guard the nullah. During the drive, MC officials also issued challans to around a dozen factory owners and residents. Nodal officer, health branch, Ashwani Sahota, said, “Employees were deputed at the entire 14km stretch along the nullah within the city on a trial basis on Friday and an awareness rally was also organised to stop residents from dumping waste in the drain. The MC will first issue challans up to ₹1,000, but if violators remain adamant, the penalty can be increased to ₹25,000 and an FIR will also be registered against them.”Sahota said the monitors will continue to guard the drain for two more days. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal is expected to formally kick off the drive against the violators from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-penalises-residents-for-throwing-trash-in-buddha-nullah/story-cgBWtOZ1YACGeL968RD9HM.html
18-12-2020||City||Ludhiana police step up vigil outside ATMs after Dec-14 robbery bid||After the robbery bid at Punjab and Sind Bank ATM on Ferozepur Road opposite the Verka milk plant, Ludhiana police have increased vigil during night hours. Patrolling teams have been asked to check all ATMs repeatedly.The teams have been also directed to look into the attendance of security guards deployed at the ATMs during patrolling. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has already ordered all banks to appoint at least one security guard who should be present at all ATMs located within the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police commissionerate from 8pm to 6am. Agrawal has made it clear that no ATM would be allowed to operate without a security guard. The patrolling parties have been also asked to click pictures of the ATMs they visit and send it to their seniors. Division Number 8 station house officer (SHO) Inspector Jarnail Singh said that all patrolling parties and PCR squads were asked to check every ATM and question people found roaming randomly on roads. The Punjab and Sind Bank’s ATM, where few miscreants attempted a robbery in the wee hours of December 14, is closed for repairs. A team of police personnel is keeping tight vigil in Feroze Gandhi market, where ATMs of six banks are installed. Due to the night curfew, movement of people is restricted. The police teams, it has been learnt, are checking ATMs on highways every 20 to 30 minutes. Satnam Singh, a security guard at Feroze Gandhi market, said that the movement of police has increased around the ATMs. “Police personnel came to check if everything was fine. They enquire if the CCTVs are working or whether we have noticed some suspicious movements,” he added. Bhupinder Singh, another guard, said the cops have asked them note down phone numbers of police officials and call on those numbers in case of any suspicious activity.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that they have increased the vigil outside ATMs and other financial establishments. “The banks have been already asked to depute security guards at the ATMs as we will not allow ATMs to function without guards at night,” he added. He also said that the banks and financial establishments have been asked to take all security measures, including installation of alarm systems and night vision cameras. The police chief also said that they have been identifying the ATMs without security guards. “The survey would be completed in next two to three days,” he added. Previous attacks on ATMsOn December 2, three masked robbers took away ₹26.37 lakh after cutting open an HDFC Bank’s ATM in Lall Kalan village of Samrala. The ATM was unmanned as the bank had not deputed a security guard.On April 5, a security guard managed to foil a robbery bid at the ATM of State Bank of India in Kesar GunjOn January 4, unidentified men tried to break the locks of a Punjab and Sind Bank ATM kiosk in Chowkiman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-step-up-vigil-outside-atms-after-dec-14-robbery-bid/story-il6cOGdRRddmMssnbC3ymK.html
18-12-2020||City||Transporter marries employee without divorcing wife, booked for rape||A transporter is facing charges of rape, cheating and bigamy on the complaint of his second wife.The accused, a resident of Partap Colony, Mundian Kalan owns a transport company in Transport Nagar.The complainant, who is 26 years old and pregnant, told the police that she used to work for the transporter and his father had approached her with his matrimonial alliance, stating that his son was divorced and seeking to marry again.Therefore, with the consent of her parents, she married the accused on April 28, 2019 and they started living in Sahnewal. The woman added that four months into their marriage, her husband stopped coming home and answering her phone calls. On digging deeper, she found out that his divorce case was still sub-judice. When she managed to speak to him again, he told her that he now wanted to live with his first wife.Sub-inspector Gagandeep Singh, who is investigating the matter, said a case under Sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) and 495 (same offence with concealment of former marriage from person with whom subsequent marriage is contracted) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the accused. “The woman had filed a complaint on April 8 and the FIR was lodged following investigation. We will arrest the accused soon,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transporter-marries-employee-without-divorcing-wife-booked-for-rape/story-6CUCN1tIfJumoHbW3YCSqN.html
18-12-2020||City||Karnal: Four held in Gagsina village firing||Police have arrested four people for their alleged involvement in the Gagsina village firing in which three persons were killed and five others sustained bullet injuries.The accused have been identified as Vishal Kumar, Yudhvir Singh, Rahul and Vikas alias Vicky of Gagsina village of Karnal. Police said the accused have been arrested under Sections 149 (unlawful assembly), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Arms Act. They will be produced in the court on Saturday, Karnal DSP Rajesh Phogat said. He added that the incident took place on Wednesday morning following a clash between two groups over possession of a disputed land. The deceased were identified as Dilbhag, 55, Balraj alias Meenu, 45, and Parveen, 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-in-gagsina-village-firing/story-3qcbeGtXSq0rSyQ42jB1NL.html
18-12-2020||City||Senior BJP leader Birender Singh extends support to farmers||Former Union minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Birender Singh extended his support to the agitating farmers, and sat on a day-long protest near the statue of peasant leader Chhotu Ram in Sampla, Rohtak, on Friday.Birender, whose son Brijendra Singh is a sitting BJP MP, said, “I have joined this agitation because I am a farmer first and a politician later. As I belong to Chhotu Ram’s family, my first duty is to stand with the farmers. I was asked by the members of Sir Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch to raise the farmers’ voice as they feel that the three new laws are harmful to them.”“The government and farmers should continue dialogue and find an amicable solution to this issue. I am ready to join the farmers protesting at the Delhi border and sit on a hunger strike with them if they allow me. No one is provoking the farmers; they are agitating of their own will,” he added.On being asked about his MP son’s stand on the laws, the former minister said, “Brijendra will clarify his stand but I am standing with the farmers.”When asked if he was switching sides, the former Uchana MLA said there is no truth to such “speculations”. Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader Jogi Ram Sihag, who had recently turned down the post of Haryana housing board chairman as a mark of protest against the farm laws, also joined him in Sampla. Earlier on Thursday, residents of Palwan village of Uchana constituency had announced to boycott BJP-JJP leaders, including Birender Singh, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and others “supporting the government” on the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-bjp-leader-birender-singh-extends-support-to-farmers/story-dBWDQmqVsHeOYMPgJf9YgP.html
18-12-2020||City||Baba Ram Singh’s mortal remains consigned to flames||The mortal remains of Sant Baba Ram Singh, who ended his life at the Singhu border in support of the agitating farmers, were consigned to flames in Singhra village of Karnal district on Friday. Thousands of followers, including politicians, religious gurus and farmer leaders from Punjab, Haryana and other states came to pay their last respects to the 65-year-old sant. Preachers read out his suicide note and some pages from his personal diary during the last rites. They claimed that Baba Ram Singh had been writing about the farmers ever since he first joined them at the Delhi border on December 9. In the suicide note that he left behind before allegedly shooting himself, Baba Ram Singh had written that he was pained to see the insensitivity of the government towards the plight of the farmers.Sacrifice of Baba Ram Singh, farmers won’t go in vain: Dhindsa Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) leader and former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Friday said the sacrifice of Baba Ram Singh and other farmers would not be allowed to go in vain.Dhindsa, who attended the cremation of Sikh preacher Baba Ram Singh at his native village in Karnal, said that farmers were asking for their rights and the government should listen to their voice and repeal all three laws. “Baba Ram Singh had dedicated his life to the service of people and sacrificed his life looking at the farmers’ suffering,” he said in a statement. He appealed to the Centre to resolve the issues of the farmers without any delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baba-ram-singh-s-mortal-remains-consigned-to-flames/story-bW1JG888sa8M9U0w5RRF2K.html
18-12-2020||Lucknow||UP’s anti-conversion law premised on overturned court verdict, hears HC||The Allahabad high court on Friday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to file a counter-affidavit to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the constitutional validity of the new ordinance against forced and dishonest religious conversions that some right-wingers term as ‘Love Jihad’.The bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Piyush Agrawal passed the order in the PIL filed by Saurabh Kumar, a lawyer. The bench refused to grant any interim relief in the form of a stay order on the ordinance and directed the state government to file a counter-affidavit by January 4, 2021.The petitioner’s primary contention is that the ordinance impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. According to the petitioner, the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, is morally and constitutionally invalid.The petitioner requested the court to declare the ordinance ultra vires or beyond the legal remit of the Constitution. Besides, he requested the court to direct the authorities not to take any action under the ordinance during the pendency of the petition. According to the petition, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on October 31, 2020, made a statement that his government would bring a law against Love Jihad, a term used by right wingers to allege a conspiracy to convert Hindu women.During his public statement, the chief minister referred to a single-bench judgment of the Allahabad high court in the case of Priyanshi alias Shamreen and another versus the state of UP, in which the court had observed that religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was invalid. The petitioner pointed out that a few days later, a division bench of the high court overruled the single bench verdict, which had disapproved of religious conversions for the sake of marriage in the Salamat Ansari and others vs state of UP and others. Also Read: Hathras woman was gang-raped, killed, says CBI, names four in chargesheetThe division bench, in this case, held that “the right to live with a person of his/her choice, irrespective of religion professed by them, is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty.” The bench had observed this while holding the single-bench judgment as not good in law. In the light of the division bench ruling, the petitioner has submitted that the impugned ordinance assumes a contrary position to the ruling of the high court in the Salamat Ansari case. Also Read: Couple ties knot, hours after bride injures back in an accident in UP’s PrayagrajThe petitioner submitted that the provisions of the ordinance give the state policing powers over a citizen’s choice of life partner or religion and thus militated against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution (right to life and personal liberty).The impugned ordinance also requires every religious conversion to be scrutinised and certified by the state.Taking exception to this, the petitioner has submitted that the very concept of forcing an individual to explain and justify a decision, which is closely personal to him/her, before an officer of the state is contrary to the Constitution of India, which ensures such rights.The court has fixed January 7 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-anti-conversion-law-premised-on-overturned-court-verdict-hears-hc/story-BRXI4LstQNODzjc5tZ6rFL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks police to shift protesters outside CM Kejriwal’s home, says it sends a wrong message||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Delhi police to shift protesters outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house. Mayors of municipal corporations have been protesting outside the chief minister’s house demanding release of funds and clearance of dues. The Delhi High Court also asked the Delhi Police to take firm steps to ensure that the directions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) are implemented. The Delhi Police also informed the court that they have earlier asked protesters to vacate the premises as Section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits the gathering of four or more people, has been imposed in Flagstaff Road where the chief minister’s residence is located. They also said they asked protesters to follow the DDMA directive which prohibits any protest in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Police also apprised the Delhi HC that several requests have been made to protesters to vacate the premises but the protesters remained defiant. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said that the District Magistrate should issue an order asking protesters to vacate the premises. He said, “You have to shift them (protestors) . The District Magistrate has to pass an order. Otherwise an incorrect signal will go.”The court has also listed the matter for hearing on December 21. The Delhi High Court was hearing a plea by the Civil Lines Residents Association against the protests outside Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on grounds that it was causing inconvenience to residents as protester were blocking the road. The Delhi High Court earlier had said that any venue cannot become a protest site as there are designated areas for protesting, like the Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar. The court had said, “There is no problem if you come, protest and then go away. But this is going on for 11 days. Once you set a precedent, anyone will come and squat there. If this is permitted for all times to come, then you know what is the state of certain areas, like Ramlila ground and Jantar Mantar, where squatting and protests are permitted? We cannot have that kind of situation in a residential colony.”The Delhi high court expressed concern when they heard reports that the mayors will run their offices from the protest site. South corporation mayor, Anamika Mithilesh Singh told HT on Tuesday that additional commissioners and heads of the departments were called to the protest site to discuss pending municipal work. She said, “We had called the additional commissioners and heads of the departments to discuss pending work. We have given them instructions that the municipal work shouldn’t suffer due to our protest. Now onwards, the files will be brought here for clearance.”Mayors from Delhi’s municipal corporations and 22 BJP councillors have been protesting against the Delhi government since December 7 demanding release of Rs 13,000 crore to municipal corporations from the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-police-to-shift-protesters-outside-cm-kejriwal-s-home-says-it-sends-a-wrong-message/story-cTcSvzhC76aE9S238naETJ.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Kathak teacher arrested for molesting student at dance school in Delhi||A 53-year-old Kathak dance teacher has been arrested for allegedly molesting one of his students at a dance school in New Delhi area, Delhi Police said on Friday.Deepak Yadav, additional deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said the woman approached the police on Monday after alleged molestation on Sunday. The police is probing whether the suspect has harassed other students too and is speaking to them over the same. The additional DCP said that the woman (age and other details withheld) had been undergoing training at the school for the past several months.Initially, the woman said, she ignored the teacher’s advances, but when he allegedly molested her on Sunday, she filed a police complaint. “We arrested the suspect the same day,” Yadav said. HT has contacted the school for a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kathak-teacher-arrested-for-molesting-student-at-dance-school-in-delhi/story-RNH7w5UNUgYCwz8qX6mNWN.html
18-12-2020||Ranchi||NCW seeks report on ‘rape’ complaint against Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||The national commission for women (NCW) has sought a detailed action taken report (ACT) from Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) in an alleged rape complaint filed against Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in Mumbai in 2013. The case was reportedly withdrawn by the complainant within days of its filing. A press note from the commission issued on Thursday said, “It has come across a media report regarding a Mumbai-based model who alleged that she was not only raped by Hemant Soren and Suresh Nagre in 2013 but she and her family were also constantly threatened against speaking about the alleged incident in public.”NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has asked the DGP to send the report at the earliest, the statement said. The commission noted that a viral letter, reportedly written by the victim, contained details of incidents that had occurred in the last seven years.The issue was first highlighted by BJP’s Godda parliamentarian Nishi Kant Dubey in July this year.Taking to Twitter between July 27 and 29, Dubey had highlighted the aforesaid case and alleged that Soren had then misused his chief minister’s office to settle the case.Dubey alleged that such an allegation against the chief minister was a shame on democracy. “Mumbai police should reinvestigate the matter,” Dubey had tweeted on July 28.Reacting to Dubey’s comment, Soren filed the aforesaid defamation suit in a Ranchi court on August 4 against Dubey seeking compensation of Rs 100 crore.Also Read: Jharkhand woman raped, three arrested: PoliceSoren, in his plaint, claimed that he had not entered into any settlement or compromise with the lady who had allegedly filed the complaint against him.“In fact, the plaintiff (Soren) was not aware of the purported complaint till the defendant (Dubey) tweeted and posted about the same,” Soren said in his complaint.He stated that he had instructed his lawyer in Mumbai to carry out a search of the court records. Due to limited functioning of the court in prevailing pandemic situation and religious holidays, the lawyer has not been able to provide any information to him, the chief minister said.In a latest move, Soren has also filed an injunction petition seeking court’s order to gag Dubey and his agents from posting any kind of tweets against him.The court has fixed December 21 to hear the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ncw-seeks-report-on-rape-complaint-against-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren/story-KUpQIlE1LKzkK9vji7SVkM.html
18-12-2020||Kolkata||Centre provides ‘Z’ category security to Suvendu Adhikari||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has decided to provide ‘Z’ category security to rebel TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari in West Bengal.According to the order issued by MHA, “Security arrangement for Suvendu Adhikari has been examined in this Ministry in consultation with Central Security Agencies and it has been decided to provide him ‘Z’ category CRPF security cover with the bulletproof vehicle in West Bengal.”“Y ‘+’ category CRPF security cover in other states,” MHA added.Adhikari recently tendered his resignation to party chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. He also resigned from the West Bengal Legislative Assembly tendering his resignation to the Speaker. In his resignation letter, addressed to the party chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari thanked the TMC for the opportunities given to him.“I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as from all other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect. I am thankful for all the challenges and opportunities that have been given to me and I will always value my time spent as a member of the party,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/centre-provides-z-category-security-to-suvendu-adhikari/story-kKceFx7IS5FsJFoN2DU1GI.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||DDA starts work to revive 30 water bodies in its parks||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has started the work to rejuvenate 30 out of 50 water bodies in its parks. The land-owning agency has prepared a site-specific plan for these water bodies and work on close to 10 water bodies has already begun.There are 122 water bodies under DDA’s jurisdiction of which 50 are located under its horticulture department which is responsible for the maintenance of its district and regional parks and other green spaces.Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, principal commissioner (horticulture), DDA, said, “We have already prepared a detailed plan for the rejuvenation of 30 out of 50 water bodies under our horticulture department. We are trying to revive the water bodies by channelising stormwater from drains as per site conditions and also by using treated water.”Work is going on at Mehrauli Archaeological Park where the agency is reviving three water bodies spread over 6-7 acres using phytoremediation -- a bioremediation process.Also read | DDA to announce new housing scheme, offer 1,175 new flatsA senior DDA official said that the three water bodies are currently flooded with sewer water from the neighbouring residential areas. Using the phytoremediation process, contaminants, pollutants from the soil and water will be removed using various types of plants to remove, transfer, stabilise, and/or destroy contaminants in the soil and groundwater. “The work at the site started in July. It is a big project and will be completed by next year. Through this technology, we will naturally treat the sewer water in the water bodies,” said the official.DDA has completed the work at the Ashoka Park in New Friends Colony and at the water body at Sector 5 Dwarka.In some cases, Tiwari said, recharging the water body is not possible due to high subsoil infiltration rate. “So, we have decided to use it as a rainwater harvesting site by diverting storm water drains,” he said.At Smritivan in east Delhi’s Kondli, DDA officials said, the water body can’t be recharged due to the nature of soil. “We got the soil test done at the site. Due to the porous nature of the soil at the water body, it is difficult to recharge the water body. We have decided to use the site for rainwater harvesting. We will be creating infrastructure to divert stormwater drains in the neighbouring areas to this waterbody,” said the official.The 30 water bodies are located in Rohini, Pitampura, Dwarka, Hauz Khas, Mayur Vihar, Tughlaqabad, Dheerpur etc. To revive some of them, the DDA is planning to use treated water from Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs).Tiwari said that the DDA has prepared a site-specific plan for each water body, depending on its present condition, possibility of recharging it using water from nearby sources.“There are many water bodies which receive dirty water from nearby drains. We are trying to set up STPs to treat the water with a twin objective of irrigation to the park and ensuring good quality water in the waterbody. Effort is also being made to treat the water through phytoremediation methods wherever feasible,” said Tiwari.Environmentalist Diwan Singh, who has been working on reviving water bodies in the Capital, said, “It is good that they are now focusing on reviving the water bodies. But using treated water from STPs is not a good idea. The treated water is completely free of contaminants. If this is used, it will only contaminate the groundwater. Stormwater should be used for recharging the water bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-starts-work-to-revive-30-water-bodies-in-its-parks/story-9fnuFh5VkEdbOYscFtDV3L.html
18-12-2020||City||Criminal case can’t be quashed only on ground of compromise, rules Bombay high court||Observing that a criminal case cannot be quashed only on the ground of compromise between the parties, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court last week refused to drop criminal proceeding against a gynaecologist from Nagpur for causing death of a woman soon after she had delivered twins through caesarean section.The division bench of justice VM Deshpande and justice Anil Kilor said the high court has very wide powers under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but they can be exercised only when there is gross abuse of process of law.However, the bench said, the court will not allow a joint plea from the parties merely because they pray for dropping the criminal case on the ground that they have reached a compromise.“Such parties must demonstrate that continuance of the proceedings is sheer abuse of process of law and it would be wasteful of the public time and money,” the bench said while rejecting joint petition filed by the gynaecologist Dr. Sangeeta Daf and complainant, Mahesh Jumade, who lost his wife, Swati, due to the former’s alleged negligence.On September 26, 2013, Jumade had approached Sakkardara police alleging that he lost his wife due to Dr Daf’s gross negligence. He said his pregnant wife had registered for delivery with Mother Care Hospital, run by Dr. Daf.On September 21, 2013, he said, his wife had gone for a regular check up at the hospital, when she was informed that an urgent ceasarean section will have to be performed and accordingly, she was operated upon the next morning and delivered twin daughters. The family was informed that the mother and children were fine. However, the family realised the woman was bleeding profusely. She was taken to another hospital, where she died the same day. The police then sought an opinion from the medical board of the Government Medical College at Nagpur. An offence for causing death by negligence was registered after the board gave its report, concluding that the wife of the complainant died due to “lack of reasonable care and monitoring” at Mother Care Hospital.The court noted that the report, at least prima facie, made it clear that Dr. Daf had failed to take reasonable care and monitor the condition of the woman after delivery.In this backdrop, HC refused to accept the joint claim of the doctor and the complainant that Swati’s death was “part of destiny,” something beyond human control. “In this case, we will not allow ourselves to accede to the prayer made, especially when there is a report by three expert doctors who unequivocally recorded a finding that there was no reasonable care and monitoring at the hands of the applicant No.1 (Dr. Daf) and that she was negligent,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/criminal-case-can-t-be-quashed-only-on-ground-of-compromise-rules-bombay-high-court/story-3CmArfJJU52TjcXwtuDkCL.html
18-12-2020||Lucknow||On road to 2022 polls, Yogi gives appointment letters, crunches jobs data||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath appears focused on keeping a count of the jobs his government has been able to create officially as he steps up efforts to give a further push to development works ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Adityanath has also begun distributing appointment letters for various government posts to highlight creation of jobs in the state.As the opposition is bound to make ‘unemployment’ a big issue in the 2022 assembly elections in the state, as it did in Bihar, the UP government has organised programmes for distribution of appointment letters to government jobs. These programmes also include the chief minister’s interaction with the youth. He has chaired over distribution of about 60,000 to 70,000 appointment letters of assistant teachers and various other posts in the past few weeks and more such programmes are likely to be organised in the coming months.“Yes, this is very clear that the BJP and all other parties are now focusing on the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath obviously wants to draw focus on the welfare measures, the development works and the jobs being given by the state government. The chief minister is distributing appointment letters to ensure that the message about job creation is effectively conveyed,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of the department, political science, at Lucknow University.Major opposition parties, however, continue to target Yogi for what they call the state government’s ‘failure’ to create jobs.“This is for the first time that any chief minister is distributing appointment letters to the youth as if he is giving them personal jobs. Unemployment is rising and the youth are desperately looking for jobs. The state government has failed to give any jobs. Instead of giving jobs to the youth, the BJP will mislead the people with statistics about creation of jobs as the party has been doing so on other fronts,” said the leader of opposition in the UP assembly and senior Samajwadi Party leader, Ram Govind Chaudhary.Also Read: UP 2022 Assembly polls: AIMIM’s bid to expand starts turf war with Peace partyA government spokesman claimed that about 2,662,960 persons had got employment in the past eight months due to Adityanath’s efforts. 525,978 of these got jobs through the employment portal. He added that the One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme had proved to be a game changer for job creation.The spokesman credited Yogi Adityanath for effectively employing the government machinery to provide employment opportunities to migrant workers who returned from other states soon after a nationwide lockdown was clamped in the country in March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease.Also Read: Top UP BJP leaders drafted for ‘Mission Bengal’ with key responsibilities “An action plan was prepared. While implementing this action plan, 2,662,960 people were provided employment in 665,740 new units through the Atmanirbhar Bharat package in eight months. Apart from this, 525,978 people also got employment through the employment portal of the state government,” the spokesman said, adding that about four lakh government jobs were given by the Yogi government up to now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/on-road-to-2022-polls-yogi-gives-appointment-letters-crunches-jobs-data/story-yM5bEexluD58bpRNBWcHAI.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Blatant interference, says Kejriwal on transfer of 3 IPS officers from Bengal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Friday criticised the Central government’s decision to recall three IPS officers posted in West Bengal -- a move that has already led to a standoff between West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and the Centre -- a “blatant interference”.“I condemn the Centre’s blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to Centre just before elections, is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilise,” Kejriwal said in a tweet on Friday. I condemn the Centre’s blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to Centre just before elections, is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilize. https://t.co/sbxpZl0Nn2The order on the transfer of the IPS officers on Central deputation came after BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked in West Bengal during a recent visit. The Centre wants them shifted on account of alleged dereliction of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/blatant-interference-says-kejriwal-on-transfer-of-3-ips-officers-from-bengal/story-HgbRh38iv3O3d88FnkRCMP.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Jhatikara border open for two-wheelers, pedestrian||The Jhatikara border has been open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians while the Tikri and Dhansa Borders will be closed for any traffic movement, the Delhi Traffic Police (DTP) informed on Friday.“Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement,” the tweet reads.The DTP further informed that the Chilla Border one carriageway from Delhi to Noida is open for traffic however the other carriageway from Noida to Delhi is closed.Additionally, borders open to Haryana include Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, and Dundahera Borders.Farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-jhatikara-border-open-for-two-wheelers-pedestrian/story-aBQR9tRtOSivgDGBszq9ZO.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Chilla border open from Delhi-Noida side, Tikri and others remain closed||Delhi Traffic Police on Friday announced the Delhi-Noida carriageway on Chilla border will be open for traffic but the other side will remain closed in the view of the protests by farmers, who have been camping on the borders of the national capital for 23 days now.Other border connecting the national capital with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh such as Tikri and Dhansa remained closed. Jhatikara border will be open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians.“Tikri, Dhansa borders are closed for any traffic movement. Jhatikara borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” traffic police tweeted.A few of New Delhi’s borders with Haryana were also shut as the farmers’ agitation entered its 23rd day. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders,” traffic police tweeted, adding that traffic had been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters were advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44.Borders that were open between Delhi and Haryana were Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera. Only one side of the Jharoda border was open. Traffic Alert: Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.The traffic police further added that Ghazipur border was closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi.‘Gazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders,” the traffic police tweeted.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting near Delhi’s borders against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-chilla-border-open-from-delhi-noida-side-tikri-and-others-remain-closed/story-2POQx5CimNpzVTj3k6bLsN.html
18-12-2020||City||Three agri products from Varanasi likely to get GI tag soon||Three produces from Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, are likely to get a GI tag soon. A geographical indication, or GI, is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to that origin. Ramnagar brinjal, Adamchini rice and Banarasi Langda mango, all from Varanasi, will get GI (Geographical Indication) tag that will help give a boost to export of these agri products. “Application to get GI tag for these three agri produces has already been filed by three farmers with the support of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. Human Welfare Association, a non government organisation, facilitated the application filing,” said GI expert Padma Shri Dr Rajnikant. While Ramnagar brinjal is famous across the region for its taste, Adamchini rice is famous for its essence and aroma. Banarasi Langda aam is a famous variety of mango. Next in line for a GI tag is Banarasi paan leaves and the process has already been started. Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) chairman Dr M Angamutham on Wednesday visited the fields of Ramnagar brinjal, locally known as Ramnagar’s Bhanta, and spoke to the farmers as part of APEDA’s plan to export these brinjals to foreign countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-agri-products-from-varanasi-likely-to-get-gi-tag-soon/story-9t45YN9fTTwgdjNN8DwJ3I.html
18-12-2020||Lucknow||UP 2022 Assembly polls: AIMIM’s bid to expand starts turf war with Peace party||Buoyed by its success in Bihar assembly elections, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party has launched a campaign to strengthen its support base and organization in Uttar Pradesh after joining hands with the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) for the 2022 assembly election in the state. However, the AIMIM move has triggered a slugfest with the Peace Party, led by Dr Mohammad Ayub. AIMIM state unit president Shaukat Ali is leading the campaign and has organised workers’ meetings in Bahraich, Sitapur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shravasti, Siddharth Nagar and Basti districts. Speaking about AIMIM’s plans, Ali said, it has decided to contest the Zila Panchayat election to be held next year followed by the 2022 Assembly election. Along with membership drive, the party is strengthening its organisation at the grass roots level, he said. “We are working to establish an organisational structure from state level to booth level,” he said. AIMIM has decided to field candidates on 25% seats, particularly those in Muslim dominated areas, in 2022 Assembly election. It has called upon all ‘secular’ parties to join hands to stop the BJP from retaining power in the state polls. The party had fielded candidates on 38 seats in the 2017 Assembly election, however, it failed to open its account and polled just 0.24% votes. The AIMIM effort to expand in east and central UP has irked the Peace Party, which has influence among the weavers community in the east UP. A large number of Peace Party workers have joined the AIMIM.On Wednesday, Peace Party state unit president Abdul Mannan joined AIMIM in the presence of party chief Asaduddin Owaisi.In a series of tweets on Thursday, Mohammad Ayub attacked AIMIM and accused it of luring Peace Party cadre and alleged that it was hand-in-glove with the BJP.Also Read: Supreme Court rejects UP plea against Kafeel Khan’s release after detention under NSAAyub also called upon Muslims and his supporters not to be ‘taken for a ride’ by AIMIM. He alleged that AIMIM leaders have filed a fake case against him and the BJP government lodged him in jail. “The AIMIM is using the Muslim community for the sake of power and is not bothered about their welfare,” he said. In the 2012 Assembly election, the Peace Party had contested 208 seats and bagged four seats by polling 2.35% votes. However, in the 2017 assembly election, all the 68 candidates fielded by the lost and its vote percentage dropped to 0.26%. AIMIM leaders hit back at Ayub’s allegations and alleged that the Peace Party had not worked for the welfare of Muslims. “If Ayub is concerned about the upliftment of Muslims then he should join the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha launched by SBSP and AIMIM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-2022-assembly-polls-aimim-s-bid-to-expand-starts-turf-war-with-peace-party/story-I5MSh16MuirhHoHB3p7uRL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: This one for the ‘Sharabi Kababi’||Attired in a Kanjeevaram silk sari, Madhur Jaffrey looks squarely at the potential buyer, her arms resting daintily on a chopping board. This was her first book’s cover, the year was 1973.An Invitation to Indian Cooking is Delhi’s most iconic cookbook. With 200 recipes, it introduced Delhi cuisine to the West. The New York Times called it “the best Indian cookbook available in English”.Every great city has books devoted to it but only a few help spread its fame across the world. No understanding of the Capital can be complete without leafing through this book, even if food writing isn’t your thing. Sadly, it’s rarely sighted in the city’s bookstores.“It’s a classic,” confirms author Pushpesh Pant, who has an encyclopaedic knowledge of Delhi cuisine. “Madhur belongs to an old Kayastha family in Civil Lines. Her love for food and Delhi, her elegance, her evocative writing, and her reputation as an actor in Merchant-Ivory films worked efficiently to introduce our city’s cuisine to the West.”An alumnus of Delhi University’s Miranda House, Ms Jaffrey left her hometown long ago for the UK, then to the US where she lives in New York, aged 87, enjoying renown as a food writer and actor.Published by Alfred A Knopf, Invitation was edited by the legendary Judith Jones, who worked on the books of culinary greats Julia Child, James Beard, M.F.K. Fisher, Marcella Hazan, Claudia Roden and Edna Lewis. In her book, Ms Jaffrey told readers that she would give them a “chance to understand and cook the food of one specific area — the region in and around Delhi”. She traces the origins of Delhi’s cuisine to the royal kitchens of the Red Fort, where the Persian meat and rice favoured by the Mughals was combined with Indian spices and vegetable dishes.Smattered with charming vignettes, the cookbook can be enjoyed for reading pleasure alone. The glossary consists of phrases as cute as “Dey Dal May Pani (put water in the lentils)”, “Quon Bhai Chai Hojai (Well now brother, how about tea?)” and “Sharabi Kababi (one who likes to eat and drink)”.Delhi’s cuisine, however, have grown vastly varied over the years, making the book more of a museum to what the city once was. “An ideal city cookbook should tell you not about the nihari of Karim’s,” warns Mr Pant, “but about the litti chokha of Gurugram’s Sector 23 Market, the chop of Mayapuri, and the Moradabad Biryani of Vasant Kunj. The perfect cookbook must be super-local.”True, and Ms Jafrrey’s cookbook made our city’s khana super-global.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-this-one-for-the-sharabi-kababi/story-sfYtyrOJHQiJwDCbesncAP.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC decision on Kanjurmarg plot unfortunate; courts intervene in anything these days: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||A day after the Bombay high court (HC) stayed the transfer of land and Mumbai Metro car depot work at Kanjurmarg, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut termed the decision “unfortunate” and said that the courts enter into any issues nowadays. Without naming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Sena chief spokesperson said that the Opposition had politicised the matter and the court should not enter it.“The Opposition has politicised this issue, and the court should not enter into these issues. The [Kanjurmarg] land belongs to Maharashtra; where did these saltpan workers come from? The courts intervene in anything these days. The upper court grants bail to a murder accused man, bypassing the lower court. The government is termed ‘illegal’ when it takes action against unauthorised constructions. We have never seen such a judicial system,” Raut said while addressing media persons in Mumbai.The Sena leader added that the Mumbai Metro-3 project is for the good of the people, and pointed out that politicians are not going to build bungalows and farmhouses on the Kanjurmarg plot. “No politician is going to construct their bungalow or farmhouse on the Kanjurmarg land. This is a matter of development of Mumbai, Maharashtra and eventually of the country. It is unfortunate that such a decision has come in this case,” the Rajya Sabha member said.The BJP-led Central government and the Sena-led state government are locked in a tussle over the relocation of the Metro-3 car depot to Kanjurmarg. The previous state government led by the BJP had planned it at Aarey Milk Colony in Goregaon, which was opposed by environmentalists. On taking charge as chief minister (CM), Uddhav Thackeray last year stayed work on the depot at Aarey and appointed a panel to suggest possible alternative sites for the depot.“People now have doubts in their minds whether such decisions [on the car shed project] are coming because there is no BJP government in Maharashtra,” Raut alleged.He claimed that the former Devendra Fadnavis-led government wanted to construct homes for police and weaker sections on the Kanjurmarg plot. “That means the land belongs to the [state] government, doesn’t it?” he asked. “It seems there is some conspiracy to see that the Maharashtra government is not allowed to carry out work in the interest of the people or development,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-decision-on-kanjurmarg-plot-unfortunate-courts-intervene-in-anything-these-days-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/story-YqltRGhOe7ODEvznAUfhHO.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Only 22 passengers for Mumbai’s CSMT-Kalyan AC local on first day of operations||The air-conditioned (AC) local train service between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway station on the Central Railway (CR) garnered extremely low passenger response on its first day of operations on Thursday.The train has a sitting capacity of 1,028 passengers and has a total capacity of 5,964 passengers, however, by 8pm on Thursday, only 22 passengers had travelled by the AC local.Of the 22, two passengers were monthly AC local train season railway pass holders.CR introduced 10 AC local train services between CSMT and Kalyan railway station on the slow railway line corridor. The train services will be operated from Monday to Saturday.Passengers who travelled on the first day of operations stated that increasing frequency of AC local trains, operating a higher number of AC locals during peak hours and allowing them to ply on the fast railway lines would be helpful.“This is the first time I am travelling by the AC local train and I’m excited. I will definitely upgrade my first-class railway pass to an AC train pass. However, the train frequency should be increased. Once that is done, more passengers will prefer AC local train services,” said Manisha Deshpande, who commuted from CSMT to Kalyan.Sudip Kumar, who travels daily between CSMT and Kanjurmarg railway station, stated that trains should be introduced during peak hours and their frequency needs to be increased. “It is a comfortable journey and it will definitely benefit the mainline commuters. The train has only 10 services a day which can be a problem. More services should be introduced during peak hours,” he said.Few passengers also stated that operations of trains on the fast railway line will help in saving time. “I have been travelling for 20 years on CR and I’m very happy that finally, the AC train has arrived. We were waiting for the train to begin operations on the mainline. Railways should consider operating the AC train on the fast line as well,” said Laxman Gauge, who used the AC train to travel from CSMT to Kalyan.Presently, local train services are operational only for people working in essential services, specially-abled and cancer patients. Women commuters and lawyers are also allowed to commute during a stipulated period.The fare of the AC local train is 1.3 times higher than that of normal local trains. A one-way ticket to travel from CSMT to Dadar costs ₹65; CSMT to Kurla costs ₹125; CSMT to Thane costs ₹180 and the fare to Kalyan costs ₹210.CR operated its first AC local train on the trans-harbour route between Thane-Vashi and Panvel railway stations on January 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-22-passengers-for-mumbai-s-csmt-kalyan-ac-local-on-first-day-of-operations/story-4kebFN5ZbZ3nEeAn5AYTFN.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Scrap circular on appointing Class 4 staff on contract: Teachers’ associations in Maharashtra||Teachers’ associations across Maharashtra have urged the state education department to take back its recent decision to allow appointments to Class-4 posts only on a contractual basis in government and aided schools across the state. On Wednesday, Shikshak Parishad, an association of teachers and non-teaching staff protested outside the office of the deputy director, demanding a roll-back of the circular issued on December 11. “The circular is paving the way for privatisation in recruitments across schools in the state. Several vacant posts in schools will now be filled only on contract with a very low salary, and it is impossible for peons, cleaning staff, etc, to work on such low wages. We want the government to take back the circular,” said Shivnath Darade, secretary of Shikshak Parishad. Officials from the education department did not respond to calls and messages. The circular issued by the education department on December 11 stated that once the current staffers on Class-4 posts retire, new appointments should be made by the school on a contractual basis. Employees under Class 4 include peons, cleaning staff, security guards, laboratory attendants, etc. While appointments to these posts were conducted by the government till now, henceforth schools will have to complete them at their level and the appointed staff will only be a contractual employee of the school instead of being the permanent staff of the government like it was earlier. The government will give a fixed allowance to schools for every vacant post, depending on the school’s location and the cost structure drawn out by the government. For cities like Mumbai and Pune, the allowance will be ₹10,000 per month for each post, and in schools across other corporations, it will be ₹7,500 per month. For schools in rural areas, a monthly allowance of ₹5,000 has been set. On December 14, Shikshak Bharati, another teachers group, protested across the state against the decision. “The decision is against the rules for appointment of staff in schools in the state, and thus needs to be scrapped,” read a statement issued by the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scrap-circular-on-appointing-class-4-staff-on-contract-teachers-associations-in-maharashtra/story-6J0p1u8L5qWb1wAGKFz4JN.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Kanjurmarg land transfer bordered on fraud on power: Bombay HC on Mumbai Metro car shed issue||The Bombay high court (HC) has termed the manner in which the collector of the Mumbai suburban district transferred 102 acres of saltpan land at Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the Metro car shed an act that “bordered on committing fraud on power”. The bench on Wednesday stayed the collector’s order and restrained the MMRDA from carrying out any further work at the site. “The collector’s action of passing the October 1, 2020 order, in the manner he did, does border on committing a ‘fraud on power’,” the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni said in its reasoned order, which became available on Thursday. In the order, the HC stated that the decision-making process leading to the October 1 order did not pass the test of judicial scrutiny. “We are conscious of the element of public interest involved in setting up of the Metro car shed on the subject land; at the same time, we cannot remain oblivious if a person is divested of its/his right in property without the authority of law,” said the bench. The bench said the collector’s order had dispossessed parties interested in the saltpan land “not by procedure known to law, but by an executive fiat”. The judges noted that the collector had treated the land as state property and transferred its possession to the MMRDA by referring to certain notifications and resolutions, without giving any opportunity either to the Central government or to Maheshkumar Garodia, who claims to be the salt department’s licensee. The HC found the action completely contrary to record, especially the communications and orders of various state officials clearly admitting the Central government’s ownership over the saltpan. In this regard, the bench has referred to an adjudicatory order passed by an officer on special duty of the state government on September 30, 1996, declaring the saltpan land belonged to the central salt department, and letters written by the metropolitan commissioner and additional chief secretary of the urban development department, as recently as on March 28, 2019 and December 4, 2019 respectively, to the ministry of commerce and industry requesting them to allot the saltpan land for the Metro car shed. “In a society where ‘Rule of Law’ has primacy, the minimum that we expect of a responsible office as the collector is to adopt a fair, reasonable and impartial approach,” the bench said. “That is unfortunately lacking in the present case.” The judges said the state could not have utilised the subject land for any public purpose conceived by it, especially when an application filed by the state government, seeking the court’s permission for utilising the saltpan land for Metro car shed was pending adjudication. In the order, the bench also criticised the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “It seems that there has been a change in policy with a change in the ruling dispensation in the state,” said the bench, without referring to the fact that the MVA government shifted the Metro car depot from Aarey Colony, a site selected by the earlier Devendra Fadnavis government, to Kanjurmarg. “While changes can be effected keeping in mind what the larger public interest warrants, extraneous considerations ought not to outweigh all other considerations of propriety, legality and fairness in administrative actions,” said HC. “We are waiting for a written order of the high court. It will be improper to comment on oral observations. We will take a further decision, accordingly,” said chief secretary Sanjay Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kanjurmarg-land-transfer-bordered-on-fraud-on-power-bombay-hc-on-mumbai-metro-car-shed-issue/story-wmZXJLhfufr5GR69Oz2YRO.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||After Bombay HC stay on transfer of Kanjurmarg land, MVA government may consider Metro shed at bullet train plot in BKC||A day after the Bombay High Court (HC) ordered an interim stay on the transfer of a 102-acre land in Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for an integrated Metro car shed, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is looking at other options, including using the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), where a terminus for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train has been proposed. The on-going tussle between the Central and state government could take an uglier turn if the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government goes ahead with the BKC plot. Officials said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked the officials concerned to relook at all records related to the project. “The chief minister has asked for all records again. He is likely to announce the next step himself,” said an official. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar confirmed they were considering BKC as one of the options for Metro car shed. “The Kanjurmarg plot, where the car shed is being planned, is entangled in a legal process, which will take time. Hence, it has been proposed to examine the technical feasibility of the BKC plot. Based on the findings of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL), the state government will take the further decision,” Kumar said. While the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had handed over a plot in BKC to the National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC), which is implementing the bullet train project, the MVA government has been non-committal on the project since it came to power. Earlier, Thackeray had also questioned if the bullet train is of any benefit to Maharashtra. The government has not made it clear if it is the plot earmarked for the bullet train’s Mumbai terminus. The option was also considered earlier, but dropped by the then government considering the commercial value of the area. BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Thursday said, “Just because it is the bullet train project, the government should not meddle with it. It is time to bring all stakeholders together and complete the project on time.” Wednesday’s order resulted in a political slugfest between the ruling parties and the BJP, with the latter stating that the state took the decision of transferring the car shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg only to satisfy its ego. The state has claimed that the salt department has not been able to prove its ownership of the plot. A senior official from the state government said, “A 2018 order by the then BJP revenue minister clearly states that saltpan lands belong to the state government. The transfer order by the suburban collector also quotes this order.” Suburban collector Milind Borikar on Thursday, however, said he was still waiting for the detailed court order to comment on the next step. State transport minister Anil Parab said, “The state will consult the legal department and look at the detailed order before deciding the course of action.” Meanwhile, many citizens and transport experts have expressed their dissatisfaction over the delay in the project, especially Metro-3, which was to be made operational by December 2021. Paresh Rawal, a transport expert, said, “Even if the land [at Kanjurmarg] was available and litigation-free, still it doesn’t make any sense to shift the Metro terminal to any location other than what was planned and executed.” In what could worsen the ongoing state-Centre tussle, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is looking at using a plot at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), where a terminus for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train has been proposed, for the Metro car shed. The move comes a day after the Bombay High Court (HC) ordered an interim stay on the transfer of a 102-acre land in Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the shed.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar confirmed they were considering the BKC plot for bullet train as one of the options for Metro car shed. “The Kanjurmarg plot, where the car shed is being planned, is entangled in a legal process, which will take time. Hence, it has been proposed to examine the technical feasibility of the BKC plot. Based on the findings of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL), the state government will take a decision,” Kumar said. Officials said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked the officials concerned to relook at all records related to the project. “The chief minister has asked for all records again. He is likely to announce the next step himself,” said an official. While the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had handed over a plot in BKC to the National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC), which is implementing the bullet train project, the MVA government has been non-committal on the project since it came to power. Earlier, Thackeray had also questioned if the bullet train is of any benefit to Maharashtra. The government has not made it clear if it is the plot earmarked for the bullet train’s Mumbai terminus. The option was also considered earlier, but dropped by the then government considering the commercial value of the area. BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Thursday said, “Just because it is the bullet train project, the government should not meddle with it. It is time to bring all stakeholders together and complete the project on time.” Wednesday’s order resulted in a political slugfest between the ruling parties and the BJP, with the latter stating the state took the decision of transferring the car shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg to satisfy its ego. The state has claimed the salt department has not been able to prove its ownership of the plot. A senior official from the state said, “A 2018 order by the then BJP revenue minister clearly states that saltpan lands belong to the state government. The transfer order by the suburban collector also quotes this order.” Suburban collector Milind Borikar on Thursday, however, said he was still waiting for the detailed court order to comment on the next step. State transport minister Anil Parab said, “The state will consult the legal department and look at the detailed order before deciding the course of action.” Meanwhile, citizens and transport experts have expressed dissatisfaction over the delay, especially for Metro-3, which was to be made operational by December 2021. Paresh Rawal, a transport expert, said, “Even if the land [at Kanjurmarg] was available and litigation-free, still it doesn’t make any sense to shift the Metro terminal to any location other than what was planned and executed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-bombay-hc-stay-on-transfer-of-kanjurmarg-land-mva-government-may-consider-metro-shed-at-bullet-train-plot-in-bkc/story-OhPjB26WZFaqK4XyR6wo5N.html
18-12-2020||City||GoAir faces action for ferrying passengers instead of cargo||In a serious violation of norms, GoAir’s Port Blair-bound flight from Chennai flew without the requisite permissions on Tuesday and Wednesday. The budget carrier’s flight was scheduled as a cargo flight. However, it booked passengers and operated both the flights as commercial ones.Sources from the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the flight had reached Port Blair but was denied permission to land on both the days, after which the flight had to return mid-air. HT has access to documents which reveal that the budget carrier is permitted to operate only cargo flights on Tuesday and Wednesday between Chennai and Port Blair airports until March 24, 2021. “The flight schedule implies that the airline in this case had to operate as cargo flights for December 15 and 16. However, on both these dates, the flight was sold as a passenger flight and hence it was denied permission to land at Port Blair,” said a source from Chennai airport.Arun Kumar, director general of Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), said the regulatory agency is investigating the matter. A GoAir spokesperson confirmed the development, but did not reveal the details. “GoAir flight G81305 from Chennai to Port Blair made an air turn back/diversion due to operational reasons and landed in Chennai with 160 passengers on board. GoAir has taken utmost care and rendered all the requisite assistance to the passengers. The airline sincerely regrets the inconvenience caused to the passengers,” said the spokesperson.Upset with the diversions, passengers took to complaint about the situation. “@goairlinesindia http://GoAir.in flight #G8 1305 from Chennai to Port Blair couldn’t get permission to land at Port Blair due to any reasons. Passengers are stuck at Chennai Airport Runway. Please help (sic),” read a tweet by Chirag Tamakuwala, a flier who had to land back in Chennai owing to the violation.Another passenger, Viral Patel, a businessman from Gujarat, tweeted on Wednesday, “@goairlinesindia WHAT you did to us yesterday IS PATHETIC while going from Chennai to Port Blair. You fool us you cheaters @MoCA_GoI @jagograhakjago my PNR from GoAir is I9D4UW. They board consumer flight and told a&n auth. that it’s CARGO FLIGHT.WE ALL STUCK AT CHENNAI AIRPORT. We want to file complaint about this and want them to punish them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goair-faces-action-for-ferrying-passengers-instead-of-cargo/story-G6ROqN6aQuVgYsn3qahjxO.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police’s shame: Cop suspended for gambling, another caught ‘driving drunk’||Even as a traffic police head constable was suspended on Thursday after being arrested for gambling earlier this week, another Chandigarh cop’s video of allegedly driving under the influence of liquor surfaced online. Head constable Rajesh Kumar was among the 11 people, who were arrested for gambling near a gurdwara in Sector 31 on Monday.He is posted in the south-east traffic division of the Chandigarh Traffic Police and is the nephew of a retired DSP. “The head constable has been placed under suspension after a written communication was received from the police station concerned regarding his arrest,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, traffic), Chandigarh. Kumar and the other accused were arrested after a police team under assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South) Shruti Arora conducted a raid in the jungle area near the gurdwara, following a tip-off.Others arrested were Anil Kumar, Raman and Shiv Budh Raj of Sector 23D, Rakesh Kumar of Sector 25, Simran Singh of Sector 35C, Pawan Kumar of Sector 47-D, Rajinder Kumar of Dhanas, Sumit of Ram Darbar, Gulam of Badal Colony, Zirakpur, and Shankar of Sector 19, Panchkula. Cash totalling Rs 4.16 lakh was recovered from them. Thereafter, a case under the Gambling Act was registered at the Sector-31 police station. ‘Drunk’ ASI posted with PCR In the video clips, whose authenticity HT could not independently verify, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh, who is posted with the Police Control Room (PCR) of Chandigarh Police, is seen asking for forgiveness from the crowd surrounding him, after they catch him driving on the wrong side of the road. Allegations in the clips include him having hit some vehicles while riding his Honda Activa on the wrong side near the grain market in Sector 26 and not wearing a face mask. Besides, the ASI is seen admitting to driving in an inebriated condition.Though no written complaint was lodged in this regard, the ASI’s scooter was impounded after the police were informed.“The incident is from December 12. Davinder was challaned for not wearing a mask and his vehicle was impounded. His medical examination was conducted and the report has been forwarded to senior officials,” said a police official, without divulging details of the report.“We are looking into the incident and action will be taken after verification,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-s-shame-cop-suspended-for-gambling-another-caught-driving-drunk/story-En8OT624aOfnKtA2AhsTjK.html
18-12-2020||City||Foreign national held with cocaine in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested a Nigerian national for allegedly possessing cocaine. The agency suspects that the accused, who is a professor, supplies drugs to celebrities and high-profile clients.Acting on a specific tip-off, NCB officers seized 10.2 grams of cocaine and one blot of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) from the accused, Nwagwu Princewill Chika. Seven small packets of the drug were concealed as two separate large consignments by the accused. He was also carrying another packet containing LSD, said an NCB officer.The agency is also scanning his phone call records to find out information about his associates.He has been booked under relevant sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foreign-national-held-with-cocaine-in-mumbai/story-ScfSY1tDjIpvyokGQIDXFL.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues SOP for sportspersons||Maharashtra government has decided to allow sportspersons to start daily practices and issued a Covid-19 standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed while doing the same.It has divided sports into four categories — no contact game, minimal or medium contact game, full contact game, and water sports. For no contact games such as cycling, archery, shooting etc, the government has asked to follow routine SOP, for minimal contact games such as football, hockey, cricket etc, teams have been allowed to assemble only for practice while following SOP. For full contact games such as wrestling, karate, boxing etc, the government has allowed trainers to come close to the players for practice, stated a letter issued by the state school education and sports department dated December 16.In addition, for team sports, it has allowed only 10-15 players to assemble for practice at one point of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-sop-for-sports-practice/story-IyHmRfpzN0Q7epS59zcIzK.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai NCB slaps notice to Karan Johar asking him to explain 2019 party’s video||The Mumbai office of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has sent a notice to director-producer Karan Johar in connection with a video of a 2019 party organised by him which had gone viral.A senior NCB officer confirmed the development and said that on Wednesday the notice was served to Johar and he has to respond to it by Friday. He need not have to physically come to NCB office and can send his say through someone.NCB in September had received a complaint from Siromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa demanding a probe into the matter, claiming celebrities used drugs at the said party. The central office then forwarded the complaint to its Mumbai zonal unit for further action.“To check the veracity of the video, the notice has been sent to Johar. We have not summoned anyone,” the NCB officer said. HT tried contacting Johar, but he was unavailable for a comment. Text messages sent to his manager went unanswered till the time of going to print.SAD national spokesperson Sirsa had filed a complaint with the NCB chief Rakesh Asthana in the alleged drug party organised at Johar’s house which was attended by several top Bollywood actors. Sirsa on September 25 had also tweeted that the NCB could soon send summons to Johar in the drug-related case. However, NCB never summoned Johar.NCB is already investigating the Bollywood-drug nexus case, after a drug angle surfaced in the investigation linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-slaps-notice-to-karan-johar-asking-him-to-explain-2019-party-s-video/story-axyiDLm0zE2q2Lh6uJymdP.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Avoid tweets on matters that are being heard by court: Bombay HC to Thane resident booked for commenting against CM||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Thane resident Sunaina Holey, booked for making objectionable tweets and comments against chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and his minister son Aaditya, to refrain from using Twitter over matters that are being heard in the court against her. HC also directed Mumbai, Palghar and Tulinj police to not take any coercive action or file a charge sheet against Holey. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik was hearing Holey’s petition seeking the quashing of the first information report (FIR) against her over her comments on the gathering of people outside Bandra station during the lockdown. Her lawyer Dr Abhinav Chandrachud referred to two judgments of the Supreme Court. One was pertaining to a comment made by a person following the assassination of former prime minister Indira Gandhi and the other in which a Kashmir resident had tried to allegedly instigate citizens of Andhra Pradesh against the Indian Army. Dr Chandrachud submitted that in both cases the Apex court had observed that the comments did not result in any actual disorder and disruption. In light of these submissions, Dr Chandrachud said that Holey’s comments also should be dealt in a similar manner and concluded his arguments.Special counsel for the state Manoj Mohite submitted that he would require an hour to argue against the submissions made by Dr Chandrachud and would do so on December 21. The court allowed the request.Thereafter, Dr Chandrachud requested the bench to direct the police to not take any coercive steps against Holey. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik, on the instructions from the three investigating officers from each of the police stations, assured the court that no action would be taken nor would they file a charge sheet against Holey. The officers, however, requested the court to direct Holey to refrain from making any more inflammatory tweets till the petitions were decided. Dr Chandrachud opposed the request and said that it would amount to curtailing his client’s right to freedom of speech. However, he said that he would ask Holey to refrain from making tweets about the court as it was unacceptable.After hearing both sides and perusing the tweets posted by Holey since the court started hearing her petitions, the bench asked Dr Chandrachud to advice his client to refrain from posting comments on the three petitions and also directed the police from taking any coercive action against Holey in the cases till January 12, 2021. The matter is posted for hearing on December 21 at 4.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/avoid-tweets-on-matters-that-are-being-heard-by-court-bombay-hc-to-thane-resident-booked-for-commenting-against-cm/story-eCbyRLFEOhR3VKj72w5blM.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hosting Syed Mushtaq Ali T20: BCCI gives Chandigarh a miss||Chandigarh, Mohali and Mullanpur won’t be hosting the upcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy domestic matches that begin from January 10. Instead, Indore, Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai, Vadodara and Kolkata will be hosting various domestic teams for the tournament.A few days ago, the secretary of Board for Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) Jay Shah and BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal had visited Chandigarh and Mullanpur grounds hinting that the Punjab Cricket Association and the UT Cricket Association could jointly host the T20 tournament in January.It has been learnt that due to winter conditions, the northern venues have been exempted from hosting any BCCI matches. Chandigarh, Punjab and Uttarakhand had shown interest in hosting the T20 tournament matches, offering a secure bio-bubble environment. However, due to extreme cold weather and foggy conditions in the month of January, northern state units have been ruled out.The 38 teams have been divided into five elite groups, A, B, C, D and E. The eight new state teams like Chandigarh, Bihar and outfits from the Northeast will be a part of the plate group. Punjab will travel to Bangalore for their matches.UTCA constitutes committeeUTCA president Sanjay Tandon constituted a three-member cricket advisory committee (CAC) which will be responsible for the appointment of support staff as well as equally vital in the selection of players for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament.Selectors will be directly reporting to the committee which includes former Ranji cricketers Rakesh Jolly, Sharanjit Singh and Daniel Banerjee. Last season, former Indian fast bowler VRV Singh was appointed as head coach of Chandigarh senior men’s team that played Ranji Trophy, Vijay Hazare Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. It remains to be seen whether he will be retained for this upcoming curtailed season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hosting-syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-bcci-gives-chandigarh-a-miss/story-UGSYTGA35ibjXkg8fRcg9L.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Santacruz-Chembur Link Road extension delayed by 2 years, to cost ₹109 crore more||The under-construction extension to the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road (SCLR) between Kurla and Vakola has been delayed by two years with an increase in cost of ₹109 crore. The extension from Kapadia Nagar on CST Road near Kurla till the Western Express Highway (WEH) near Vakola was expected to be completed by 2020. The work is now expected to be completed by March 2022.According to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which approved the increase in cost in October, the escalation is owing to additional works being undertaken by the contractor, which include relocation of service lines, construction of a retaining wall, widening of the bridge over Mithi river and increasing the length of a span that would be affected owing to the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project.The works were originally awarded to J Kumar Infraprojects Ltd at ₹449 crore in 2016, with an aim to complete the project in 36 months. Owing to increasing bottlenecks at Kurla, the extension was proposed to enable quicker east-west connectivity via SCLR. According to MMRDA, around 55% of the civil construction has been completed as of October 2020. “MMRDA will receive funds to the tune of ₹87 crore from the Mumbai municipal corporation and the National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL), to complete the works affected by the proposed bullet train and works along the Mithi river,” read the minutes of the meeting at which the proposal was passed.NHSRCL is implementing the high-speed bullet corridor between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Additionally, MMRDA had approved cost variation of more than ₹100 crore for two packages along the Metro-7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) corridor. Apart from this, it had also awarded the incomplete Mandale depot works (for Metro-2B) at 14% above the estimated cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumabi-s-santacruz-chembur-link-road-extension-delayed-by-2-years-to-cost-109-crore-more/story-k2mOOQ9BSmUaJCZghsTIKI.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports fewer than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for 13 consecutive days||Maharashtra recorded fewer than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for a 13th consecutive day on Thursday as the state’s tally of infections rose by 3,880 to 1,884,773. The state also reported 65 fatalities, taking its toll to 48,499. Of the 65 deaths, 45 were from the past 48 hours, 10 from last week and 10 from the period of before last week. The state’s active caseload stands at 60,905, which is 3.23% of the total infections.Data of the past two months, released by the state health department, revealed that there is improvement in the average daily cases in the state. For the first 17 days of this month, the average daily cases that Maharashtra has recorded are 4,313. During the corresponding period in November, the state had reported 4,377 cases, while in October the figure stood at 11,942.“We are hoping for further improvement in the coming days, but because of the winter season we are concerned of a surge in January. We will have to be careful so that daily cases do not rise,” said a senior health official.Health officials are wary that the downward trend of cases may change and the state could witness a second wave in January. Authorities have been urging people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to avoid a surge in cases. Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is planning to initially administer Covid-19 vaccine to around three crore people. “Our micro planning is complete and we are ready to start Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state. We are waiting for the Centre’s approval to authorise administration of the vaccine to people,” Tope said.HT was the first to report on December 13 that the state is planning to administer Covid-19 vaccine to around 3.25 crore people.Tope said health workers, frontline workers (police and fire brigade personnel, conservancy staff, etc) and citizens above the age of 50 and those having co-morbidities will be given the Covid shots first. “Each person will have to register on a designated website to get the shot. They will be sent a text message with the date and vaccination booth details. The vaccinator will administer the shot and the person concerned will be kept under observation for at least half an hour to see if there are any complications,” said Tope. “We will be demanding that the Centre make the vaccination free for all citizens. If they [Centre] decide to charge people, we [state government] may consider making it free.”The state government on Thursday also announced to provide reimbursement against expenses for Covid-19 treatment to all government employees, officials and their family members. The decision will be implemented with retrospective effect from September 2, when the state decided to increase the number of employees in the offices, the health minister said.Currently, government employees get reimbursement against expenses for accidents and 27 serious illnesses, which will now also include Covid-19, said Tope.Mumbai, meanwhile, on Thursday reported 586 Covid-19 cases, highest in the state, taking the city’s case count to 284,990. Of these, 7,024 are active cases. The city also reported 10 deaths, pushing up its toll to 11,013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-fewer-than-5-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-13-consecutive-days/story-SnzOOeyNZ2BD8z9xMniIdN.html
18-12-2020||City||Local SAD leaders upset over constitution of ‘biased’ screening committee for Mohali MC elections||Strong resentment prevailed over most of the former councillors of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over the appointment of five members of the screening committee for the selection of candidates for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) in Mohali likely scheduled in February next year. The elections will be held for 50 wards.The former councillors said they didn’t accept the committee and were ready to contest the elections independently.Recently, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal appointed a five-member committee including former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, political adviser to SAD president Charanjeet Singh Brar, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, former mayor Kulwant Singh, president of SAD (urban), Mohali, Kawaljit Singh Ruby.Badal has also appointed Chandumajra and Brar as observers of Mohali district for the civic body elections.Parvinder Singh Sohana, president of Youth Akali Dal, Mohali, said, “We will not accept Charanjeet Singh Brar as a member of the committee.”Former senior vice-president of SAD (Mohali), Gurmeet Singh Ahluwalia, said, “We don’t accept this committee at all. We will only contest elections under the leadership of former mayor Kulwant Singh or we are ready to contest elections independently.”Another former SAD councillor, RP Sharma, said, “It is a totally biased committee and we don’t accept it. Most of the councillors of SAD are not happy with the members and are ready to contest independently.”When contacted, president of SAD (urban), Mohali, Kawaljit Singh Ruby, and committee member said, “The committee has been appointed by the party high command and we have to follow the instructions. We will hold a meeting with all the councillors and if there is any grievance, will sort it out. Our main aim is to win the elections.”A four-cornered battle will be fought between the AAP, Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), Congress and the BJP. The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the Mohali MC elections and will support Aam Aadmi Party candidates and independents.In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors including 10 from the Azad group, 14 from Congress and two independent councillors elected Kulwant Singh as the mayor, but later in August 2017, he joined SAD.Among the voters, around 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category: five seats have been reserved for SC candidates. There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are reserved for women and 20 for men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/local-sad-leaders-upset-over-constitution-of-biased-screening-committee-for-mohali-mc-elections/story-MeY0HG9extvRAf65bEJLqJ.html
18-12-2020||City||33-year-old murdered, body chopped, dumped along railway tracks at Matheran||A 33-year-old man from Worli was allegedly killed by his 55-year-old friend from Neral on Wednesday after the two got into an argument about the accused’s wife. After killing him, the accused chopped up his body and dumped the pieces along the railway tracks at Matheran in three plastic bags. Neral police have arrested the husband and wife under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. According to the police, the victim, Sushil Kumar Sarnaik, a senior relationship manager at a private sector bank, was friends with the accused Charles Nadar and his 27-year-old wife, both residents of Neral. “On Wednesday, Sarnaik visited the Nadars at their home, and they drank alcohol. While drinking, Sarnaik said something objectionable about Nadar’s wife which led to a heated argument between the two. Nadar then attacked Sarnaik with a knife and stabbed him multiple times, killing him,” said KN Sangle, sub-inspector of Neral police station.“Nadar then chopped up his body, put the pieces in three plastic bags and dumped them along the railway tracks behind their house. Some people spotted the bags and informed us,” Sangle said.During the investigation, police discovered CCTV footage showing that Nadar had purchased the bags on Wednesday from a local shop. “We then interrogated Nadar and his wife, and they narrated the entire incident. We arrested both of them on Thursday,” the officer said. The couple was produced before the court and were remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-year-old-murdered-body-chopped-dumped-along-railway-tracks-at-matheran/story-wilKXlCa3YcmxZaNMvX2eN.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Central Vista green approval: Consolidated plan submitted||Criticised by the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) for what it termed a piecemeal approach to seeking approvals, the Central Public Works Department has submitted a single proposal for all the buildings under the Central Vista project that will require environmental clearance, although there is no mention of the Prime Minister’s office, which was there in the previous proposal. In the new proposal, total built-up area has been reduced from 18,37,057 sq.m to 17,21, 500 sq.m, and the cost of the redevelopment project has increased by Rs 1656 crore, from Rs11,794 to Rs 13,450 crore.CPWD’s earlier application to amend the terms of reference (TOR) for the project to add several new components of construction was rejected by EAC because CPWD was seeking clearances in a piecemeal manner.EAC observed in the minutes of its meeting published on November 25 that CPWD should refrain from the piecemeal approach for the proposed development and redevelopment of the projects under Central Vista. The TOR is essentially the scope of the project. The grant of TOR is the initial clearance needed for any development project.But independent experts have pointed out that the new proposal which was discussed by EAC on Wednesday for grant of TOR continues to be piecemeal and lacks transparency.Union affairs minister Hardeep Puri, in charge of CPWD, did not respond for comment.Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, said: “The application has once again just been pieced together in a shallow and casual manner. There is no explanation on why some parts like the Prime Minister’s Office have been removed, whether there will be a separate application and why the costs of the project have gone up.”CPWD officials didn’t comment on why the PM’s office complex is not mentioned in the revised proposal. “The matter came to us today and it was discussed but the decision will be finalised and released in the minutes,” said T Haque, chairman of the EAC The new Parliament building, which has already been granted environmental clearance (this is being challenged in the Supreme Court), the New India garden, the underground transit, the PM’s office were all part of the central vista redevelopment project.Experts say that none of this is reflected in the revised proposal submitted by the CPWD. Anuj Srivastava, spokesperson of LokPATH, (People for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civil society members, said: “Why are they in a rush? Instead of deliberating and discussing this plan in detail, the government is hurriedly getting approval. Our main objection is to their piecemeal approach. There is no transparency in the way the project is being executed.”Urban planners, environmental researchers and activists said CPWD had already tweaked its Central Vista proposal several times.In November, CPWD submitted a conceptual plan for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings and central conference centre along with the Prime Minister’s office and residence, a Special Protection Group building and the Vice-President’s enclave. The amendment application was made only a day after the environment ministry granted the TOR based on CPWD’s initial proposal to redevelop only the common central secretariat and central conference centre.In its latest proposal, CPWD said the total built-up area will be 17,21,500 sq m and area to be demolished 4,58,820 sq m and that the project is coming up over a total plot area admeasuring 5,48,776 sq m.Experts said the demolition itself will have a massive impact on air quality and public health. “Even from this partial disclosure and information available through media reports it is evident that the project will involve massive demolition and digging activity including that for the underground transit and basements. The application does not even consider it necessary to disclose whether alternatives have been examined, which is a mandatory requirement. Does this mean that there is no other way around uprooting hundreds of trees, diverting already scarce water resources for construction and curtailment of public space to accommodate central government office infrastructure? At present there are no studies to show if this has even been considered,” said Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/central-vista-green-approval-consolidated-plan-submitted/story-atIQuupWAHJhhm8dUbe3FI.html
18-12-2020||City||Maharashtra may bring its own farm legislation; officials to study laws of 3 states||The state is considering to enact its own legislation to “safeguard the interest” of the farmers “concerned” over the laws brought by the Centre. The group of ministers formed to deliberate the clauses of the Centre’s laws have asked state officials to study the legislations enacted by Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh recently and submit a framework of its own law.Headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the 10-member cabinet sub-committee was constituted to look into concerns and questions raised by various farmer groups against the three farm legislations that have witnessed protests after many political parties and farmers’ organisations have opposed their implementation. Farmers have claimed that they are concerned that the central laws would deprive them of the minimum support price (MSP).To negate the impact of the Centre’s laws, the three Congress states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have recently passed their own laws. “Following the three laws brought by the Centre, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have passed their own laws. The committee today directed the officials to study their laws, identify their pros and cons, see what is there in the existing laws of Maharashtra and submit their detailed report to us,” said food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is also a member of the cabinet sub-committee.He said the state can bring a separate law but a decision can be taken only after getting a report from the officials.State agriculture department, marketing department and food and civil supplies department will study the laws of other states, officials said.Another member of the sub-committee, state public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, in his letter to Pawar said the process to bring amended laws on the lines of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh must start. “Punjab has restricted the limit for storing agriculture produce to ensure a curb on illegal hoarding. It has ensured MSP for agriculture produce and also allowed farmers to approach civil court against cheating. Rajasthan has made a provision of seven-year imprisonment along with a fine of ₹5 lakh against cheating, while Chhattisgarh has made several changes in its agricultural produce market committee (APMC) to facilitate electronic trading platform for transparent auction and online payments for the farmers,” stated the letter.Officials, in the meeting, suggested that the Centre has proposed several amendments in the laws and thus, the state should wait for the results of the negotiations to ascertain its next step. “The Centre has proposed three major changes and assured to provide powers to the states for making legislations: levying market fee for transactions outside market yard; ascertaining eligibility criteria of the buyer, as earlier anyone having a pan card was allowed to buy the produce; and allowing farmers to approach civil court against disputes. Thus, we suggested that let there be a vital decision on this first, so that we can get a clear idea on which way our legislation has to head. In case if we initiate the legislation which is not conducive to the Union laws, then there is a possibility that the Presidential assent will not be given,” said a senior official. “We have also brought to their notice that Punjab and Rajasthan laws talk only about wheat and paddy, while the Chhattisgarh laws talk only about paddy. In the case of Maharashtra, the scenario is totally different. We have major crops which are not food crops which are linked with international markets, such as cotton and soya bean. Also, a large number of our farmers are involved in growing vegetables and perishable fruits, which are not covered under MSP. Hence, our requirement and ecosystem is different from other states,” said another official. Anoop Kumar, principal secretary, state marketing department, said, “We are going to take up the exercise and will also study the consequences of the ongoing negotiations between the Centre and farmers organisations so that we can submit our recommendations to the empowered group of ministers.”All the three ruling parties in Maharashtra — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — have supported the farmers’ demand to repeal the laws. It has also stayed its notification (issued on August 10) for the implementation of the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-may-bring-its-own-farm-legislation-officials-to-study-laws-of-3-states/story-oB0obWaouTmWHJ6yAro8rN.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||52.4% fewer Covid deaths in Mumbai in a month: BMC data||The city registered a 52.4% drop in Covid-19 deaths in a month, from 888 between October 19 and November 17 to 423 between November 18 and December 16, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This was despite Mumbai seeing only a marginal drop (0.1%) in cases, 154,900 to 144,852, in the same period, HT’s data showed.Doctors have attributed the fall in deaths to the growing awareness among people, leading to early diagnosis and treatment. “Earlier, due to lack of awareness, symptomatic patients would often take flu-related medicines over the counter, which delayed their treatment, dimming their chances of survival. Most of the major hospitals would get severely ill Covid-19 patients. Now, since the past two months, the situation has improved,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “People are consulting doctors earlier, which has helped to provide them treatment on time, without delays,” he added.As known, those above 60 years are considered as the most vulnerable due to their underlying comorbid health issues. Data showed that the deaths in this group have decreased by almost 51% in the same period. Between October 19 and November 17, 651 people in the group succumbed to the infection. However, the number plunged to 317 between November 18 and December 16. Doctors believe that due to the restrictions on movement of senior citizens outside, the overall infection rate among them has decreased. “We have seen that elderly people are more responsible than younger in maintaining all precautionary measures. They regularly wear masks and avoid going out, especially those who have comorbidities,” said Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist who is part of the state’s Covid-19 task force. In the city, till December 16, 11,003 of the 284,404 patients who were diagnosed with Covid-19 have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/52-4-fewer-covid-deaths-in-mumbai-in-a-month-bmc-data/story-UBFEqejV7B8KKg9tqvBPNJ.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 in focus as Chandigarh Science Congress begins||The 14th edition of the Chandigarh Science Congress (CHASCON-2020) virtually commenced on Thursday at Panjab University with a session on Covid-19 and vaccine development.CHASCON-2020 is being organised by PU in association with the Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC). Around 400 students joined the conference virtually.Director of the National Institute of Immunology (NII), professor Amulya K Panda, talked about the challenges in the development of a vaccine and illustrated the major hurdles in its development.Professor R Vardarajan of the molecular biophysics unit, IISC, Bangalore, said the vaccines didn’t elicit a memory response, which could be a hurdle in providing immunity.Professor MRN Murthy of the AstraZeneca chair, Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology (IBAB), Bangalore, gave a talk on the structural biology of coronaviruses and how SARS-Cov-2 was evolving at a drastic fast rate and the transmission rate was relatively faster than other viruses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-in-focus-as-chandigarh-science-congress-begins/story-sWOjeQkhLTWm6Zok9XDsZL.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai lowest since May 31, when BMC began maintaining data||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai is lowest since May 31, when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started collating data of active infections. The city’s active caseload has dropped to 7,024 with the number of new infections witnessing a dip in the past few weeks. Active cases are the total number of patients who are currently receiving treatment in hospitals and Covid care centres or are home quarantined. The civic body began maintaining record of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai when the tally was 19,745 on May 31. The active cases count peaked to 34,136 on September 18, the highest so far in the city since the outbreak of coronavirus in March. Mumbai, till October, had the most active infections in the state. However, the situation has improved for the city, while Pune (16,865) and Thane (10,897) continue to have high active Covid-19 caseload.Health experts said the drop in active cases is also because of a better recovery rate in Mumbai. “The city’s recovery rate is 93%, which is better in comparison with several other cities in India. Also, mobility has increased and the transmission of virus has gone down. This is a good sign for the city, but this has to be maintained till the end of December,” said Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert.Civic officials said despite the drop in fresh infections and active cases, they will not compromise on Covid preparations and citizens will have to follow all protocols. “Till December 20, we will keep the same level of preparedness – maintain the same level of oxygen supply, bed capacity, medicines and medical staff. We have a festive season coming and people will step out of their homes. The city needs to be prepared for any type of surge in cases in the future. Discussions on night curfew will be held by December 20 and a final decision will be taken on it,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-lowest-since-may-31-when-bmc-began-maintaining-data/story-spZFt6eyJ59AJjE5uZqpdO.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College mulls over establishing centre for data science||In a first, the Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is mulling to establish a centre of excellence in data science at the institution.The proposal for the centre was discussed at the meeting of PEC’s board of governors (BoG) on Thursday; it has already been approved by the PEC senate.A member of the board on the condition of anonymity said, “The proposal has been principally accepted by the board but a detailed proposal will be prepared again before a final call is taken.”According to the proposal, the centre will be a central facility in the institute for state-of-the-art teaching, consultancy and research in the area of data science. Data science is one of the thrust areas identified by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) under the scheme for transformational and advanced research in sciences (STARS) for promoting translational, India-centric research in sciences. The central facility proposed here will work in synchronisation with the MHRD’s key objectives as defined in STARS.Rationale behind data centreIt has been outlined that PEC is located at the epicentre of various government and industrial establishments and the availability of data in these establishments was in abundance. This data can be utilised by the faculty, research scholars and students of PEC to provide solutions of region-specific problems, if the relevant facilities are available on campus.Several faculty members of the computer science engineering department have shown interest in working at the centre.BoG approves closure of MTech industrial design courseThe members of the BoG on Thursday also approved the closure of the MTech in industrial design course. The PEC senate in September had recommended the same for the 2020-21 academic session.Former vice-chancellor of Panjab University, professor Arun Kumar Grover, who is also a member of the BoG, said, “If it gets introduced in PEC, it would be better for the institution because the students would get better training. This is something which is needed by all the branches of engineering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-mulls-over-establishing-centre-for-data-science/story-iP9F3sItpojtHNGM5YBXhI.html
18-12-2020||Noida||15 years after incident, Noida court directs bank to pay ₹35,000 to customer||A Noida district court has directed the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) to pay ₹35,000 along with 6% annual interest to a customer for cashing a cheque that he had not issued. Greater Noida Virendra Kumar had a savings bank account account with the bank’s sector 31 Nithari branch. In 2005, he found that someone had withdrawn ₹35,000 through cheque.He informed the branch claiming that he had not issued the cheque and that his signature was forged and accused the bank of negligence in verifying signatures.In 2006, his complaint with the consumer forum was rejected. He had then appealed to the state commission in 2012 that was also dismissed, following which he sought redressal from the national consumer commission in 2015. That year, however, his advocate moved to file a civil case with the court to recover the amount and withdrew the complaint from the commission.“Civil Judge (Junior Division) Vandana Aggarwal decided the case ex-parte (when a party to a case, in this case, the bank, failed to appear before a court) and directed the bank to pay ₹35,000 along with 6 percent annual simple interest. The order was delivered last week,” Sanjiv Verma, president, District Courts Bar Association said on Thursday.Indian Overseas Bank Sector 31 branch Manager Awakas Sinha said, “We have not yet received court order copy. On getting order copy we will take action as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/15-years-after-incident-noida-court-directs-bank-to-pay-35-000-to-customer/story-Vz1pIXbtMLzEM51ys6W1rI.html
18-12-2020||Noida||State bird, technology, connectivity behind Noida International Airport logo||The Uttar Pradesh government and the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) on Thursday finalised a logo for the airport that has the imprint of the state bird, the Sarus Crane, in it, amalgamated with the image of a passenger plane. “We have tried to send a message across with the logo of the Noida International Airport by including impressions of a crane, technology and connected world in it. Dhanauri village near the airport site is a rich habitat of the Sarus Crane, the state bird, so we decided to include impressions of the same,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of NIAL.“We included technology as Yamuna Expressway is fast becoming a favourite hub of technology-driven businesses, while a connected world signifies that the airport and industries along the expressway will host diverse communities, cultures and a cosmopolitan society,” he added. Officials at the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) and NIAL said they have taken multiple measures to protect the almost 50 acre-wetland spread across Dhanauri, Thasrana and Amirpur Bangar villages, off the 165 km expressway. The marshland will be developed into a bird sanctuary and a wetland as it is home to the Sarus Crane, said officials. The wetland is home to 198 species of birds and falls under the Sector 16 urban area planned by the authority, which controls the expressway.“We have roped in the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to work on a conservation plan for this wetland located. We included it to send out a message that we need to work on a sustainable development model so that the ecology stays protected while letting developmental projects create opportunities for growth,” said Singh.In its observations, the Union environment ministry had raised concerns about damage to ecology, including to natural ponds, canals and trees, apart from disturbance to wildlife — the airport is coming up near wetlands that are home to the state bird, the Sarus Crane, as well as blackbucks, among others. To protect the ecology, the ministry has said that it wants Yeida and the NIAL to take preventive measures.“It is our commitment to protect the ecology and wildlife. Keeping the Crane in the logo reminds us of this commitment towards the environment,” said Singh, who is also the CEO of the Yamuna Expressway Authority. The receivables Yeida got in 2018-19 were Rs1,213 crore from selling land. In the subsequent financial year, 2019-2020, the receivables increased to at least Rs5,000 crore, due to the authority having managed to sell more land due to the airport project coming up, boosting investors’ sentiment.“Investment is growing in this region ever since the airport work picked up pace. It is happening because we believe in using the latest in technology and connecting people from the world over via business, which is why we kept these two in the logo,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-bird-technology-connectivity-behind-noida-international-airport-logo/story-PasqA3yx3hQ9dNPrrTHA2J.html
18-12-2020||Noida||GB Nagar district administration identifies 13 cold chain points, 73 centres for Covid-19 vaccination||With districts asked to prepare a plan to rollout the Covid-19 vaccine when it becomes available, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has begun the process of preparing a list of its health care workers who are likely to get the shot first.While no vaccine has yet been given the green signal to be administered for the general public, the central and state governments are putting into place infrastructure and protocols --such as who gets the shots, storage and transport facilities -- in place to administer them.District magistrate (DM) Suhas LY said they had 13 cold storage points where vaccines can be stored, besides the main vaccine depot at office of chief medical officer (CMO). The administration has identified 73 centres where the vaccination will take place.“We have started maintenance work for cold storage space. We are checking ice-lined refrigerators (which can lower temperatures down to 2 to 8 degrees Celsius) working conditions in primary health centres and logistics required to transport vaccines,” he said. “The process of creating a database has already started. Apart from doctors and paramedics in different government hospitals, we are also reaching out to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and private hospitals to prepare a list of their staff. These health workers will be the first in line to receive the immunization against coronavirus,” he said. GB Nagar district CMO Dr Deepak Ohri, said, “We have already prepared a list of 21,543 doctors and other medical staff, who will be inoculated. It will be followed by vaccination of employees of the authorities, armed forces and police personnel in the second place. In the third and last phase, people above the age of 50 years will get the shot.” On the storage aspect, he said, “ILRs are used to store vaccines for polio, measles, rubella and other diseases at primary health centres across the district. However, Covid-19 vaccines may require even lower temperatures. We are trying to find a way for that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-district-administration-identifies-13-cold-chain-points-73-centres-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-Zj2GaQQ2CPpbTcAlfrimAN.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Two arrested for robbing commuters on pretext of offering lifts in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The Dadri police on Thursday arrested two suspects for allegedly robbing commuters in Greater Noida on the pretext of offering them lifts. The suspects were identified as Arjun Nat, 25, and Rajendra Nat, 28, residents of Hapur. They live in a rented accommodation in Meerut and used to drive across the National Capital Region. Police have seized the car, a countrymade gun and a live cartridge. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO, Dadri police station, said the police had received some complaints of suspects robbing commuters on the pretext of offering them lifts. “On Thursday, the police received information about the suspects being on the move at Baba Ka Dhaba in Dadri. A team reached the spot and signalled their Maruti Eeco car to stop for checking. The police found a countrymade gun and ₹10,500 in their possession,” he said. Officers said that on December 15, 2020 the two suspects had allegedly stolen a commuter’s bag containing ₹20,000, after offering him a lift for Aligarh. The complainant, Dinesh Kumar, a banker, had said that he was standing at the Dadri bus stand, waiting for a bus to Aligarh when he was offered a lift. “I had ₹20,000, a debit card and my ID cards, etc. in my bag. A Maruti Eeco came to where I was standing. There were two persons inside, including the driver. They asked me where I wanted to go and offered me a lift,” he said.However, on the way the two told him to hand over his bag. The suspects took all the valuables, soon after which they told him that they would not go to Aligarh with only one passenger and dumped him on the way.The victim filed a complaint against the two suspects at the Dadri police station on December 16. His debit card and ID proofs were also recovered allegedly from the suspects’ possession. Chauhan said that the suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-arrested-for-robbing-commuters-on-pretext-of-offering-lifts-in-greater-noida/story-oBsmQokTQSiQxwsHG9aycL.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud case: SIT arrests former COO of BARC||The city crime branch on Thursday arrested Romil Ramgarhia, the former chief operating officer (COO) of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for his alleged involvement in the television rating points (TRP) fraud.This is the fourteenth arrest made by the special investigation team (SIT) which is probing the case registered based on a complaint filed by BARC through Hansa Research Group.According to Mumbai Police, TRP ratings, which decide which channel gets the biggest share of advertisements, were being manipulated by three channels. Some families at whose houses barometers were installed for collecting data of viewership were being bribed to watch a particular channel to boost its TRP.Crime branch’s probe revealed that some cable operators had used dual landing channel number (LCN) technology, which facilitated the viewing of the same channel on two different channel numbers at one time. Mumbai Police commissioner Parambir Singh in a press conference had claimed that two regional channels and Republic TV are suspected of being involved in this manipulation.While seeking custody of Ramgarhia, the crime branch SIT levelled serious allegations on him in their remand application submitted before the court.SIT said that Ramgarhia, who was COO of BARC from July 2014 to July 2020, used to have all the secret information about the viewership of the channels and he allegedly misused the same to illegally boost TRPs of Republic Bharat and Republic TV of ARG Outlier Media Private Limited.While working as COO, the accused had access to information related to trades of TV viewership, news viewership, channel performance and changes in TV channel revenues. He allegedly used all this information to help Republic TV network to boost its channels’ TRP, the SIT stated.Ramgarhia was also in contact with the director of ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, and chief executive director of Republic TV channels Vikas Khanchandani through WhatsApp. Besides WhatsApp, he also used some emails, and the SIT wants to interrogate him in connection with these emails. His laptop is yet to be scrutinised.In the remand application, SIT stated that it suspects that in exchange for helping Republic TV network boost its channels’ TRP, Ramgarhia made huge profits, and hence, they wish to question him and want to scrutinise his bank accounts.SIT also wished to look into the reason why Ramgarhia left the BARC job in July 2020, and if it has any connection with the alleged TRP manipulations. The court has remanded Ramgarhia in police custody for two days.The spokesperson for Republic TV did not respond to HT’s calls and messages.The SIT recently also arrested Republic TV chief executive officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani. He later secured bail in the matter.According to the police, Republic TV employees had contacted cable operators to use LCN and promotional LCN technology to fudge TRPs. Khanchandani was aware of it as he was a part of the channel’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions on LCN took place, police said.Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh was arrested earlier. Singh had allegedly paid ₹15 lakh monthly for seven months, to a vendor to boost viewership of his channel, claimed crime branch in their remand copy filed before the court. Police also claimed that hawala channels were used for these transactions.Singh’s name cropped up in the investigation while officials were probing the role of Abhishek Kolawade alias Ajit alias Amit alias Mhadik, who worked as a vendor for many channels, and was arrested on October 31.Mumbai Police has previously informed the court that Kolawade’s sustained interrogation revealed that to amplify TRP of Republic TV, he had received monthly payments of ₹15lakh from Singh between January and July.The remand copy further stated that Kolawade gave some part of this money to Ramji Varma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra to further pay to the families whose houses were selected for installing barometers, with instructions to watch Republic TV channels.Numerous unlawful financial transactions surfaced during the investigations, which prompted the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to launch a parallel probe to investigate possible money laundering in the TRP manipulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-case-sit-arrests-former-coo-of-barc/story-QCdMS2GX3REeVYBZ6rpKIM.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: 50-year-old lawyer shot dead while walking over to tehsil||Greater Noida: A lawyer was shot dead while he was going to meet his client, in Greater Noida’s Sector 36 Thursday morning. The victim, Fateh Mohammad Khan, 50, received three bullets – one in the head and two in the chest. Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer of Sector Beta 2 police station, said the incident took place around 10am. He said that on Thursday, Khan had called a client to meet him at Dadri Tehsil. “The client reached the tehsil in his car and was waiting there. The distance from the tehsil to Khan’s house is merely 70 metre. Khan got ready, opened the main door of his house and started walking towards the tehsil. At the same time, an armed man started following him. At a deserted location on the service lane, the man opened fire at Khan,” Upadhyaya said. Police said locals and family members rushed him to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, while the suspect managed to escape. A team from the Sector Beta 2 police station and a forensic team reached the spot and launched an investigation. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that primary probe showed Khan had property dispute with some people which could be the reason for murder. “The investigation shows he had property disputes with multiple people. He had also facilitated ownership of some disputed property to some people, besides which he had differences with his brother over property. There are no CCTV cameras at the crime spot and the suspects’ movement has not been captured. We are scanning other CCTV cameras and investigating the matter from all angles,” Upadhyaya said. Based on the complaint filed by the victim’s son, the police have registered a case of murder against an unknown person under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The body has been sent for an autopsy and medical report is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-50-year-old-lawyer-shot-dead-while-walking-over-to-tehsil/story-BzSR0CdhdHAaVnHGesOvpK.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Khaps to spread word on new farm laws in western UP villages||Ghaziabad: Apart from lending support to farmers’ demands, the representatives of various khap panchayats who arrived at UP Gate on Thursday said that they will take up a “jan jagran abhiyan” (public awareness drive) to spread word about issues related to the three new farm laws, over which thousands of farmers have been protesting for about 22 days.The khaps traditionally have a stronghold in villages and have a say in resolution of many disputes before they reach the police or the administration. The representatives of about ten different khaps on Thursday held a Sarv Khap Mahapanchayat at UP Gate which is one of the major protest sites in the ongoing farmers’ agitation related to the new farm laws. “We will conduct a jan andolan abhiyan in villages of western UP and will also make farmers aware about the issues with the three farm laws,” said Dharambir Singh, representative of Deswal Khap. Sudhir Chaudhary, who at UP Gate on Thursday represented the Talan Khap, echoed similar sentiments while referring to the recent call of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to hold “Kisan Sammelans” for creating awareness in villages about the benefits of the three farm laws. “If they conduct panchayats about the three farm laws, we will also hold panchayats and tell people about the repercussions of the farm laws,” he said. Rajbir Singh, state vice president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the ongoing farmers’ agitation will benefit them as the khaps hold a lot of influence in villages. “It is a long tradition that villagers pay attention and abide by the decision of khaps leaders. Thursday’s ‘sarv khap panchayat’ was also held to give a message that farmers will not budge by any divisive narratives floating around and will stand together. Besides, the khaps will spread awareness among villagers about the problems with the new farm laws. I am a member of the Khutail khap which has influence over 384 villages in Agra, Mathura and Bharatpur,” he said. The khaps are purely social entities and their directions have no legal sanctity. However, some khaps in the country are known for rolling out bizarre diktats. There have been instances of Khaps allegedly banning women from wearing jeans and using mobile phones and the internet. In earlier instances, some khaps had allegedly banned love-marriages and marriages in the same “gotra” and vowed to punish those who married without their family’s consent. “It could be someone’s personal decision and khaps don’t give such directions. But yes, they try to preserve cultural identity. Khaps have a history of about 1,200 years and provide strength to the society. They were formed by villagers who fought the invaders. Many khap villagers from western UP also laid down their lives during the freedom struggle,” said Rakesh Tikait, leader and national spokesperson of the BKU. Chaudhay said that the society includes a person and also families. “If someone wants to get rid of us, they will show fear of khaps. So, a lot of rumours were spread about khaps,” he added. Virendra Singh, another Khap member, said that even though times are changing, the younger generation “still has respect for our decisions. The khaps try to preserve traditions and culture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/khaps-to-spread-word-on-new-farm-laws-in-western-up-villages/story-6RuS4gwmgmZJhXrtGSCS2M.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Western UP khaps want government to take ‘two steps back’ to search for middle ground||Ghaziabad: Members of the ‘Sarv Khap Panchayat’ on Thursday said that they are not averse to resuming talks with the government over the farmers’ demands, and said that a “beech ka rasta” (midway) has to be reached so that protests end and the farmers go back home. The representatives and heads of about ten khaps, referred as “chaudharis” in common parlance, arrived at UP Gate from Muzaffarnagar on a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). BKU leaders said that members of various khaps of Baliyans, Ahlawats, Deswals, Malik, Gathwala, Batisa, Rathi, Chugama, Panwar, and Rana were present at UP Gate on Thursday. Naresh Tikait, the head of the Baliyan khap and also the president of BKU, said that the heads of various khaps were “appalled” by the stance of the government against issues raised by the government. He arrived with other khap leaders at UP Gate Thursday afternoon and asked the government to mellow down stance.“The government is not paying heed to farmers’ demands. We are ready to take two steps back and the government should also move two steps back so that some middle ground can be reached. We will abide by the directions of the Supreme Court. It seems that the government is not concerned if farmers die during agitation. They die in more numbers in villages. We want a final decision to be taken respectfully so that farmers can go back home,” He said, adding that matters have now got prolonged and it has become an issue of “maan samman” (respect) of farmers. So far, there have been at least six rounds of talks between farmers and government representatives, but to no avail. Farmers are sticking to their demand of complete rollback of the three new farm laws while the government has given indications for making amendments. “We are ready for talks as discussions resolve issues. The core committee of farmers can take a decision on the matter as they have all rights. The khap tries to resolve tangled issues. We are in the mood to call off our protest but how do we end it? The government should mellow their stance and take back the new laws so that farmers go back home. If the government doesn’t bow down, we have our arrangements made till January 26,” he added. Subhash Baliyan, secretary of Sarv Khaps, said that farmers don’t want a situation of “tang aaye to jung aaye” (if there is impatience, there is war). “We don’t want this situation to happen. The government called us for talks and now it is time they be called here on roads for resumption of talks as farmers are still on roads,” he said. Thousands of farmers have occupied the UP Gate flyover area of the National Highway 9 since November 28. Later they blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the highway on December 3 and have been holding protests at the site ever since.This was the second mahapanchayat held at UP Gate, with the first one called by the BKU on December 3. After members of the khaps arrived at UP Gate, BKU leader and spokesperson Rakesh Tikait announced that the khaps have decided that the government should roll back three farm laws and that amendments would not be acceptable. “The khaps have decided that they will go by the decision of the farmers’ core committee and there should be no amendments but rollback of the three new farm laws. We are ready for talks and are not disrupting any supply chain, besides protesting peacefully. Representatives from about eight-10 khaps could not come as they were stopped by the police in western UP,” he said. Khaps have been traditional social entities in which a group of villages of people of the same group appoint a leader. “Members of khaps who arrived on Thursday have major influence in villages of Saharanpur, Shamli, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar and their decision will be binding,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/western-up-khaps-want-government-to-take-two-steps-back-to-search-for-middle-ground/story-hh7IBI4o5JWxWPJixT4ySK.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Farmers on way to join campers at Chilla detained by Noida police, allege brutality||Noida Police on Thursday briefly detained 22 farmers who were on their way to join protesters at the Chilla border with Delhi for allegedly disrupting public order.On Wednesday, farmers had blocked the Noida to Delhi section of the link road between the two cities alleging that their supporters were being detained in other districts as they made their to protest with them against the new farm laws. At the time, Noida Police had said they were not detaining farmers. Police on Thursday stopped nearly 120 volunteers from the Ambavat faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) near the sector 14A cut around 2 pm. “We only wanted to lend support to our brothers. We are already protesting at the Singhu border but we wanted to also be a part of the protest at the Noida border. But the police here was brutal. They assaulted us and took our brothers into custody. They didn’t let us join our brothers at Chilla. If they think that this will scare us then they are mistaken. We will continue to protest until the government rolls back unjust laws,” said Rak Kumar, tehsil president, BKU Ambawat.Denying any assault, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1) Rajesh S said: “We were only monitoring the law and order situation. We would not have acted if it was only a peaceful gathering. But the volunteers crossed the median and tried to block the traffic coming from Delhi too. They scared the commuters, and it was only after they tried to create trouble that the group was removed and 22 of them detained.”The detainees were brought to the Surajpur police lines where they were kept for nearly two hours before being released. The group also handed over their memorandum of demands to the central government via the policeBKU (Bhanu) had been camping at the Chilla border for nearly three weeks. On December 1, they had blocked one lane of the Chilla border and later proceeded to block the other too. After negotiations, the protesters relented and allowed traffic from both sides on December 13.Traffic from Noida to Delhi via Chilla continued to be diverted through DND Flyway, affecting commuters during peak hours. Police personnel are awaiting Supreme Court orders on the issue of road blockage by farmers before removing them from the spot.“They can try to intimidate us. But we will not move from here until our demands are met. No amount of threats will deter us from our goals,” Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU Bhanu.Singh was on a hunger strike since Sunday which he broke on Thursday on the urging of other farmer leaders.“Our brothers are dying in the protest. They are ending their lives, leaving behind detailed suicide notes. But the government remains completely unaffected to our plight. We need to be in best form possible to deal with them,” said Singh on ending his hunger strike.The group camped at Chilla paid homage to their dead brothers and to the farmer that took his own life at Singhu border on Wednesday by observing a two minute silence vigil at noon.Farmers have been staying at the border for nearly three weeks now. Slogans of “jai jawan, jai kisan” are heard sporadically while they continue to wave the cold wave. A group from another faction is stationed at the Dalit Prerna Sthal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-on-way-to-join-campers-at-chilla-detained-by-noida-police-allege-brutality/story-d317NHWCZOyLpqftpZqR4M.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Authority starts bonfire at night shelter among other places||With a cold wave in the city, the Noida Authority said they have started lighting bonfires at the city’s only night shelter and 60 other locations for the homeless. Noida on Thursday suffered its coldest day of the season on Thursday with the minimum temperature recorded at 4.5°C at the automatic weather station, sector 62. The city has been suffering cold wave and cold day condition since past three days. Officials at the night shelter at Noida stadium, which can shelter 37 peopls, said they had around 16 occupants, all male, for now. “Mere blankets won’t do now. So, about two quintals of timber was procured from the market and a bonfire was lit,” said Rahul Sharma, senior manager, Noida Authority. He said the district horticulture department would later provide them with wood.“We have been lighting bonfires at around 60 places across all 10 work circles for the last two days. The places may vary as per requirement and the number of bonfires could also be increased as per requirements,” said Rajeev Tyagi, General Manager, Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/authority-starts-bonfire-at-night-shelter-among-other-places/story-ccRxUvePyuwgi6b5HnEs6I.html
18-12-2020||Noida||City shivers as cold wave continues, Noida suffers coldest day||Noida and neighbouring cities suffered the coldest day of the season yet on Thursday. Noida recorded 4.5°C on Thursday as against around 7°C a day earlier and 8°C on Tuesday. The maximum temperature was 18°C on Thursday against 18.9°C a day earlier. The national capital region (NCR), for which measurements from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) Safadarjung observatory, recorded a minimum of 4.6°C and the maximum was 15.2°C. The region has been experiencing a cold wave and cold day at the same time since past three days. According to the IMD, these conditions are likely to persist till Saturday but the high wind chill factor, which is the perceived drop in temperature due to cold winds, is likely to persist. “The main reason for the cold wave is the cold winds from the northern states that has had heavy snowfall. On Monday, the wind speed was around 20 kmph. Stronger the winds, higher is the wind chill factor, which directly impacts the minimum temperature and thereby the cold wave,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. “Due to the strong winds, the fog is about 300 to 400 metres above the surface, blocking the sunlight for most of the day.”Cold waves are when the minimum temperatures is 4.5°C below the season’s normal, while the cold day is the condition when even the maximum temperature is 4.5°C below the season’s average. According to the IMD, the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 4°C and 18°C for the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/city-shivers-as-cold-wave-continues-noida-suffers-coldest-day/story-BFt0bj10EHFKsEidvB7ZxK.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Justify plea to ban Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter account: Bombay HC to man||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed a man to justify how his petition, seeking a ban on actor Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter account could be treated as a writ petition and not a public interest litigation (PIL), as his claims of injury were not personal but involved the entire Muslim community. In light of the claims by the petitioner, the state submitted that the petition was misconceived and should be dismissed. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the criminal writ petition filed by advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, was informed that he had submitted that as the actor has been misusing her social media account to malign and abuse a community and create disharmony between Hindus and Muslims, Twitter India, which was also a respondent to the petition, should be directed to ban her account. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik, however, claimed that the petition was vague and did not raise any grievance about any personal injury to the petitioner. He opposed the petition and called for its dismissal. The bench then sought to know from Deshmukh as to why the petition should be allowed when the cause espoused on it was more of public interest and hence, the writ jurisdiction of the court could but be invoked. Deshmukh, however, clarified that though there was no personal injury caused to him by the said objectionable tweets of the actor, as the same were targeted at a particular community which he belonged to, he had filed the petition. The court then directed Deshmukh to explore and study the issue: whether it should be pursued as a writ petition or a PIL, and inform the court about it by December 21. The petition has referred to the Twitter account of Ranaut’s sister, which was suspended by Twitter for the alleged objectionable tweets made by her earlier this year, and sought a similar action against the actor’s account as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/justify-plea-to-ban-kangana-ranaut-s-twitter-account-bombay-hc-to-man/story-q2IpTDuQMDwNbgwIj2fwIL.html
18-12-2020||Noida||Name, logo and design of Jewar airport finalised||The Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday gave his approval to the name, design and logo of the airport proposed at Jewar along 165km Yamuna Expressway, which will be the second major airport in Delhi-NCR and has been conceptualised to take the load off Delhi’s almost saturated Indira Gandhi International Airport. The name - Noida International Airport - was finalised during a meeting with the Swiss company- Zurich AG officials in Lucknow.Senior executives and directors of Zurich AG subsidiary - Yamuna International Airport Private Limited - met chief minister Yogi Adityanath during the meeting in which Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Noida International airport Limited, Christoph Schnellmann, CEO of Yamuna International Airport Private Limited , Kiran Jain, COO of Yamuna International Airport Private Limited and other officials were present .“The Uttar Pradesh government has given its necessary approval for the design of the layout of passenger terminal proposed by the Zurich, name and logo. Now, Yamuna International Airport Private Limited will start work accordingly,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), a nodal agency formed by the UP government to monitor the development of this project.The UP government has given its green signal to the name - ‘Noida International airport’ to be used officially. Initially the Swiss Company Zurich had started using the name- Delhi Noida International airport as it helps associate with the national capital, said officials. But the UP government and NIAL had objections to this name because they wanted a name that represented Uttar Pradesh at the international level, said officials of UP government.“Noida is a window city of UP state and well known in international markets. By naming it after Noida, we will help in branding UP as a hub of businesses, opportunities and as a growing market for investors. Noida reminds people of UP therefore the state government has approved this name,” said Singh. The UP government has handed over 1334 hectares of land for the work to be started at the site. In total the UP government plans to acquire 5000 hectares of land to develop this airport to its full capacity, said officials. The Zurich AG subsidiary has hired architects, who have finalised the layout design of passenger terminal. Now during their meeting with CM, they discussed design and other issues. The CM gave his green signal paving way for the work to be started at the site.However the state government is yet to finalise a date for inauguration of the project next year, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/name-logo-and-design-of-jewar-airport-finalised/story-tXvSHmrfKmjy1tF5DT7FWM.html
18-12-2020||City||Congress conducts ‘opinion poll’ using technology to select Mumbai chief||Congress is seeking feedback of its Mumbai unit workers to select the new city chief. The party utilised technology to hold an interactive voice response call with its functionaries, as the top brass is looking to handpick a new chief by the month-end. The idea of an opinion poll was to get a sense of what the workers want on the ground, said party functionaries. The leaders, including 227 block presidents and around 270 Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) members, first received a message from HK Patil, the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Maharashtra, followed by a call to name one leader they want as Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) chief. According to a Congress functionary, the process to select the chief has been completed. “Messages and calls went to about 500 people, including block presidents and PCC members. They were asked for one name for MRCC chief on the call,” said the functionary. Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said the party would take the inputs given on the calls into consideration while selecting the new city chief. “It [interactive phone call] is not the only input being sought. Patil will also take other inputs as well,” Venugopal told HT. Patil, who met senior Congress leaders in Delhi on Thursday, is expected to submit the final report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Former minister Arif Naseem Khan, Bhai Jagtap, along with functionaries Suresh Shetty and Charanjit Singh Sapra are among the frontrunners to bag the post. Party insiders said that the names of Varsha Gaikwad and Priya Dutt are also doing the rounds to strike a balance in the faction-ridden Congress unit.With elections to the civic body a mere 14 months away, the city unit of the party has not had a full-time president for more than a year. The post of MRCC chief is being held by Eknath Gaikwad, a two-time Lok Sabha member and Varsha’s father. He was made the acting president of the city unit in September 2019 after the party leadership accepted the resignation of Milind Deora in July. Deora had replaced Sanjay Nirupam days ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in April 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-conducts-opinion-poll-using-technology-to-select-mumbai-chief/story-gt2Vje7G1lf88O1AhChuiL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmer unions to consult four top lawyers on joining Supreme Court proceedings||The agitating farmer unions at Delhi’s borders on Thursday said that they will consult lawyers on the ongoing proceedings of the Supreme Court —related to their protests against the three farm laws — before taking any decision on whether to “implead” as a party in the matter or not. Addressing a press conference on Singhu border on Thursday evening, farmers leader and coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, KV Biju, said, “All farmer unions had a meeting today and we have decided that we will consult four Supreme Court lawyers — Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves — on the ongoing proceedings in the Supreme Court… We will neither comment on the matter nor announce any decision without consulting these lawyers. We will consult them before taking any decision on whether to implead in the matter or not.”The Supreme Court had stepped in on Wednesday to try and end the impasse between the farmers’ unions and the Centre over the contentious new laws to open up trade in agriculture, observing that the protests will soon become a national issue and that recent events suggest government negotiations with the unions were “bound to fail again.” A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde on Thursday asked the Attorney General of India if the government can commit that the farm laws will not be implemented while the court is hearing the petitions filed against the ongoing protest.The farmer leaders said that they have not received any notice from the Apex court so far. “We have only got to know what is happening in the Supreme Court through the media. We have not received any notice or communication as of now. We will take a legal decision only after consulting these four lawyers,” said another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, as the agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered into its 22nd day on Thursday. Meanwhile, senior advocate and the president of the Supreme Court bar association Dushyant Dave said that he had offered free legal advice to the farmers on all issues. “If they have decided to take my help, it is a privilege and honour for me. After all, for this country ‘Jai Jawaan, Jai Kisan’ means the most. It’s my duty as a lawyer of the Supreme Court to help them as much as I can… I will be happy to appear for them in the Supreme Court if they ask me.”Senior advocate HS Phoolka also confirmed that the farmer leaders had consulted him and the other three lawyers on the matter. Advocate Prashant Bhushan said that he will be offering legal advice to the farmer associations if they approach him. Advocate Colin Gonsalves said, “The discussion with farmers is in the very initial stage. We might be able to comment on it after a couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmer-unions-to-consult-four-top-lawyers-on-joining-supreme-court-proceedings/story-u4ovQkuv5jku26iILGGhxJ.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Why did Kejriwal notify one of three farm laws if he opposed them, asks BJP in assembly||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators, during the special one-day Assembly session on Thursday, criticised the Kejriwal government for not implementing various farmer welfare schemes of the Central government even as the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) maintained that the Centre should withdraw the three new farm laws.Leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri asked chief minister Arvind Kejriwal why his government had notified one of the three new laws on November 23 if he was so opposed to the new legislations. He said the new agricultural reform laws will ensure the use of new techniques, and will increase farmer incomes as well as employment opportunities.“The entire country has fully supported the three historic agricultural laws. This is the reason that after the introduction of these laws, BJP won the election in Bihar Assembly and all the eight seats of Gujarat, six out of seven seats of Uttar Pradesh, two seats of Karnataka, 19 seats of Madhya Pradesh and five seats of Manipur in the assembly by-elections all over the country. Not only that, the party also won the district council and panchayat elections in Rajasthan and broke the myth that only the ruling party of the state wins such elections,” Bidhuri told the House. The BJP leader asked Kejriwal why had not implemented the Swaminathan Commission report in Delhi despite making the announcement that he will do so. The commission had submitted five reports, between 2004 and 2006, making recommendations for farmer welfare.Also Read: Kejriwal is ‘new chameleon’, says Meenakshi Lekhi after CM tore copies of farm bills“I also want to know why the Centre’s Kisan Credit Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Crop Insurance Scheme, Soil Health Scheme, Soil Card Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana have not been implemented in Delhi. Similarly, why was organic farming not promoted and institutional loans given to farmers?” Bidhuri said. “They (BJP leaders) have no explanation to give about how the new farm laws will actually benefit farmers and, hence, are talking about matters that are not even remotely relevant to the issue. They are just trying to divert people’s attention from the farm laws,” said AAP leader Jasmine Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-did-kejriwal-notify-one-of-three-farm-laws-if-he-opposed-them-asks-bjp-in-assembly/story-QbdBmap0z7fBnPP7aia57K.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||AAP MLAs move high court for permission to protest outside homes of Amit Shah and L-G||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi on Thursday moved to the Delhi high court, challenging the denial of permission by the Delhi Police to hold a sit-in protest outside the homes of Union home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal.The two AAP legislators said they wanted to hold a four-people protest at each of the two sites against the alleged misappropriation of funds done by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation, amounting to over Rs2,500 crore. The plea also sought necessary arrangements to be made for the protest outside Shah’s house, along the lines of what has been permitted outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, where the three mayors of Delhi have been sitting on a protest for the past 10 days, demanding that the Delhi government release funds to the BJP-led municipal bodies.Appearing for the Delhi Police, advocate Gautam Narayan told the court that sit-ins can only be allowed in designated places and, hence, petitioners cannot be allowed to hold the protest outside the home minister’s or the L-G’s houses.During the hearing, Chawla suggested to the police that the AAP leaders be allowed to hold the protest, subject to whatever restrictions the agency wants to impose on them, as only four persons would be staging the sit-in at each of the two sites.“They will give an undertaking to abide by the restrictions,” the court said while asking the Delhi Police counsel to seek instructions. However, the counsel later told the court that they cannot allow protests in residential areas and cited an earlier Supreme Court.The MLAs, through their counsel Manvinder Vashist (for Chadha) and Satvik Verma ( for Atishi), said on the one hand, the police have allowed the request of BJP councillors to protest and stage a sit-in before the residence of the CM, which is still ongoing, but on the other hand, the police have denied the petitioners the permission to protest outside Shah’s and L-G’s residences.The petition said on December 12, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), New Delhi, “illegally” rejected their request for holding peaceful protest in an “arbitrary manner” apparently fuelled by a political conspiracy, thereby infringing on their constitutional rights.The plea also said the right to protest constituted a fundamental pillar of democracy and embodies the exercise of a number of indivisible, interdependent and interconnected human rights, in particular the rights to freedom of expression, freedom of peaceful assembly and of association, the right to take part in the conduct of public affairs, and the right to freedom of thought. The matter will now be heard on Friday.Chadha later told HT, “The matter is subjudice and I will speak through my lawyer in the court but all that I am seeking is equality and parity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-mlas-move-high-court-for-permission-to-protest-outside-homes-of-amit-shah-and-l-g/story-kJLziZof5MY9DFv6XslAGI.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Mayors launch indefinite hunger strike in front of Delhi CM’s residence||Mayors of Delhi’s three municipal corporations — along with 22 other councillors — have gone on an indefinite hunger strike from Thursday outside the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence Flag Staff Road residence to demand the release of Rs 13,000 crore to municipal corporations from the Delhi government. The mayors of the three municipalities have been camping outside the chief minister’s residence since December 7. On Thursday, North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Anamika Mithilesh, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) mayor Nirmal Jain along with standing committee chairpersons of the three civic bodies and 19 other councillors startedd their fast unto death.Apart from this, the Delhi unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said that nearly 40,000 party workers had observed a one-day fast in support of the mayors and to demand that Rs 13,000 crore be released to the municipal corporations. The BJP workers observed fasts in 250 mandals (zones) under six parliamentary constituencies on Thursday.Jai Prakash, mayor of north corporation, said that was the 11th day of the sit-in protest, but the CM has shown no interest in clearing the dues amounting to Rs 13,000 crore.“We have decided to sit on an indefinite hunger strike outside the CM’s house to demand the due municipal funds. For the last 11 days, we have been sitting on a dharna outside the CM’s residence, but neither has he tried to meet us nor is he ready to listen to us,” Prakash said.SDMC mayor Mithilesh said, “We will brave the cold and all other obstacles and keep sitting on our hunger strike. We will not go anywhere until the state government releases funds to the municipal corporation.”According to municipal functionaries, of the Rs 13,000 crore (approx) dues, the north corporation is to get Rs 6,355 crore, for SDMC is to get Rs 4,125 crore and the EDMC is to receive Rs 2,985 crore from the state government.Adesh Gupta, Delhi BJP chief, on Thursday morning also reached in front of the CM’s house where municipal leaders are sitting on their hunger strike and said that their fight was a fight for the rights of corporation workers.“The mayors and leaders of the three municipal corporations are fighting for the rights of doctors, nurses, health workers, sanitation workers, teachers and every Delhiite, but it seems CM (Arvind) Kejriwal has no concern for the common people,” Gupta said.The BJP leader also alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government was spending funds of municipalities on publicity but not giving it to civic bodies.Hitting back at the BJP, the AAP later said in a statement, “Even the mayors of BJP-ruled MCDs know that their protest is only an excuse by their high-command to harass CM Arvind Kejriwal and distract from the issue of nationwide farmers protests. The mayors are well aware that Delhi government has given all the funds due and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the MCDs are facing financial ruin. Since they have decided to only protest rather then govern, it is best that they resign and let AAP run the MCDs. We will run the MCDs efficiently and within the same budget.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-launch-indefinite-hunger-strike-in-front-of-cm-s-residence/story-L4AQ6LI7YBUh00rmS37LJI.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||BJP leaders protest outside Delhi Assembly, demand release of ₹13,000 crore||Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Adesh Gupta, along with party workers and supporters protested outside the Delhi Assembly on Thursday against the “wrong and misleading” policies of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and demanded the release of ₹13,000 crore in allegedly pending funds for the three municipalities. BJP MPs Ramesh Bidhuri, Pravesh Verma along with senior leaders also participated in the protest. They also opposed the special Assembly session called by the government to discuss the alleged “misappropriation of funds” in the civic bodies. Addressing the protesters, Gupta denied any misappropriation of funds in the civic bodies and said that the AAP had been making “baseless allegations” against the municipalities.“Our struggle is that of justice against injustice, truth against lies and against irresponsible CM (Arvind) Kejriwal who is ignoring the demands of corporation leaders sitting on a dharna outside his residence for the past 11 days. The CM neither took any steps to control Delhi’s increasing pollution nor to save Delhiites from the corona pandemic. Under the leadership of (Narendra) Modi government, home minister Amit Shah had to intervene twice to save the people of Delhi,” Gupta said.BJP workers had assembled at Chandgi Ram Akhara on Thursday morning and marched towards the Delhi Assembly. They were stopped by the police near the Assembly. The AAP had earlier this week alleged that there was “misappropriation” of funds worth ₹2,400 crore in the north and south civic bodies. The allegation was denied by the civic bodies on Wednesday.Addressing the crowd, MP Pravesh Sahib Singh Verma said that the AAP was politicising the issue and making false allegations. “AAP leaders have not done any work on the ground so they do not understand the pain of the public. Instead of clearing dues of the municipal corporations, they are politicising the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-leaders-protest-outside-delhi-assembly-demand-release-of-13-000-crore/story-6QBXCbxOQgS74AM7eIGxYN.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||New farm laws meant to secure poll funding: Delhi CM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday attacked the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday, saying the three laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture had been designed not with the interests of farmers in mind, but to ensure electoral funding for the ruling party. At a special session of the Delhi assembly, Kejriwal tore up copies of the three farm laws in protest against the legislation. The assembly passed a resolution tabled by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot demanding that the Central government repeal the laws immediately.Farmers, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have massed at border entry points to Delhi since November 26 in a protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say they promote corporate interests, and not theirs.“What was the hurry to get the farm bills passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It happened for the first time that three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha, even when several members were opposing the move… In the last 6-7 years, the BJP has made elections so expensive. So, much of the money is spent on elections (by political parties). These laws have not been passed for the farmers. These laws have been made to ensure election funding for the BJP,” Kejriwal told the House.After the chief minister’s speech, MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to the well of the House shouting “jai jawan jai kisan” after which the speaker adjourned the House until 11 am on Friday. A few AAP legislators even burnt copies of the farm laws outside the House. Urging the Central government to withdraw the farm laws, the chief minister said the farmers have been protesting for 20 days now and one farmer has died everyday in the agitation.“How many sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get their voices heard? Today, the Delhi assembly rejects all the three farm laws and appeals to the Central government to take back the legislation. I request the Centre not to be worse than the British,” he said.“Big businessmen will buy produce at throwaway prices from farmers and sell it at high rates in retail {outlets} across the country, which will lead to inflation. It is being said that the farmers are being misguided. Farmers are not being misguided. It is the BJP leaders and supporters who are being misguided,” he said.Kejriwal said that today each protesting farmer had become a Bhagat Singh. He reminded members of the House of a similar movement  Pagdi Sambhal Jatta that took place in Punjab in 1907 against three laws --Bari Doab Act (related to canals), Punjab Land Colonisation Act, and Punjab Land Alienation Act -- of the British era. “At that time also, the British government had suggested some amendments in the laws and they reiterated that they will make some changes in the laws in several rounds of discussions that were held. But the farmers were adamant about revoking and repealing the three laws. In the end, and after nine months, the Britishers had to repeal the three laws…I am in pain while I tear these three farm laws, as I did not intend to do this. But today, when a farmer of the country is sleeping on the road in 2°C temperature, I cannot betray the jawans and kisaans of my country. I am first the citizen of this country, and then the chief minister,” he said.BJP’s New Delhi MP and spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi criticised Kejriwal for his “doublespeak” on the farmers’ issue. “Arvind Kejriwal puts chameleons to shame when it comes to changing colours within seconds. After notifying one of the farm laws in Delhi, he tore the copies of the Acts in Delhi Assembly today. He is the expert of U-turns and a champion of politics of bluff,” she said. Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted, “Yet another hypocrisy of @ArvindKejriwal! He tore off copies of the same farm reform bills today in Delhi Assembly which he had notified in November in the Delhi Gazette.”To this, a government spokesperson said all the three farm laws were brought in and implemented by the Central government and that the state governments had no role to play in it.“The Delhi government not notifying it would not have made any difference in the city. The day the President signed the black farm laws, these laws became effective across the entire country from that day itself. It is no longer in the hands of the state,” the official said. (ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-farm-laws-meant-to-secure-poll-funding-delhi-cm/story-yeQ6sg5NZnQiTMuIQSmY7I.html
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Wife sole nominee despite leaving man, upholds Bombay HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday upheld the right of a woman to be the sole nominee for the service benefits of her husband, a retired watchman from the maintenance command of the Indian Air Force, despite the fact that she had left behind her husband and three children and eloped with a 19-year-old man. “The allegations of adultery have no relevance in the present case, as the same do not in any manner affect the merits of the claim of Asha (name changed),” said the bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice NB Suryavanshi, while rejecting an appeal jointly filed by the husband and his second wife. Both of them had moved HC, challenging the 2018 order of a family court at Nagpur, declaring that Asha, being his legally wedded wife, was entitled to be the sole nominee of the watchman for claiming service benefits after him. Declaring that the act of the maintenance command to replace Asha’s nomination from the watchman’s service record by the name of his second wife was illegal, the family court had also directed the maintenance command to add Asha’s name in his record again. The family court had passed the order on the proceedings initiated by Asha in December 2010, after she got to know that her name was removed from the service record of her husband. The watchman had married Asha in July 1979 at Nagpur as per Hindu rites and customs. He said in February 1989, Asha eloped with a 19-year-old man with who continues to live with her even today. Thus, Asha had failed to perform her duties as a wife and mother and has led an adulterous life, claimed the retired watchman. He said being a watchman, he was required to do night duty, leaving his small children at home, and hence he married for a second time in February 1995, and replaced Asha’s nomination with that of his second wife’s. It was argued on his behalf that the change of nomination being a service matter, the family court had no jurisdiction to decide on it or to direct his employer to delete the name of his second wife and re-enter Asha’s name in the record. However, HC refused to accept the contention saying that the declaration in respect of the nomination was been granted by the family court as per clause (d) of the explanation to section 7 (1) of the Family Courts Act, 1984, which confers jurisdiction on the lower court to entertain a suit or proceeding for an order or injunction “in circumstances arising out of a marital relationship.” “Since the nomination and subsequent deletion of the name of Asha was a circumstance arising out of her marital relationship, the family court had jurisdiction to entertain the prayers and grant her relief,” said HC, upholding the family court’s order on the nomination, noting that though Asha lived in adultery, admittedly no competent court had dissolved her marriage with the watchman, and thus she continued to be his legally wedded wife. The bench also confirmed the direction to restore Asha’s nomination, as the judges noted that under the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960, the legally wedded wife ceases to be part of the employee’s family only when the employee proves that she has been judicially separated from him or has ceased to be his wife under the customary law of the community. HC found the allegations that Asha was leading adulterous life and had failed to perform duties of a mother and wife and her desertion had compelled the watchman to perform second marriage “unacceptable” and said the allegations did not further the case of the watchman in any manner, in absence of declaration and dissolution of his first marriage by decree of a competent court. The court also said the watchman’s second marriage cannot be said to be legal and therefore the second wife could not have been nominee of the watchman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wife-sole-nominee-despite-leaving-man-upholds-bombay-hc/story-Ove3hOycNq1XNGlJpIowVN.html
18-12-2020||Kolkata||Bengal may follow Bihar-model to hold assembly polls amid pandemic||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has expressed concern over the present law and order situation in some districts of West Bengal even as it hinted that the state assembly polls would be held following the Bihar model.Assembly elections in Bihar were held in November when the Covid-19 pandemic was still raging. “Deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain held a meeting with senior IAS and IPS officers of the state, including the district magistrates and superintendents of police of some districts to take stock. The Chief Electoral Officer of Bihar HR Srinivasa also addressed the meeting and shared the state’s experience on how elections were held during the pandemic,” said a senior poll panel official.The ECI team, led by Jain, is likely to visit north Bengal on Friday to interact with district officials. Officials said that the team has expressed concern over the law and order situation and has asked the state administration to ensure free and fair elections.“The team was concerned about the law and order situation in some districts. The police have been asked to strictly tackle any untoward incidents and ensure that free and fair elections could be held,” said a poll panel official who attended the meeting. Also read: India wants further talks with China for ‘mutually acceptable solution’ to LAC standoff“It is only after the team returns to Delhi and submit their report that we are expecting the full bench of the ECI sometime in January,” said a senior poll panel official.Earlier this week, a BJP delegation from West Bengal met chief election commissioner Sunil Arora in New Delhi, requesting early deployment of Central police forces and enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) to avoid widespread political violence during the campaign period. The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress, however, has rubbished the fears, saying that the BJP is afraid of the TMC’s influence among voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-may-follow-bihar-model-to-hold-polls-during-pandemic/story-0BX9w0444sYph45gIUDuLK.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Record 90k tests, Covid-19 positivity rate below 2% for the third day in Delhi||With 90,354 tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) conducted on Wednesday, Delhi scaled up testing further, inching close to its goal of 100,000 tests a day. Of the tests conducted, 49,102 (54.3%) were done using the RT-PCR method — the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.The city recorded 1,363 new cases of the viral infection as per Thursday’s health bulletin. In comparison, Delhi had seen 8,593 new cases in a day on average during the November surge in Covid-19 cases. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe high number of tests and fewer cases being reported has led to the city’s positivity rate — proportion of samples that test positive — dropping to less than 2% for the third day in a row. This has happened for the first time since the government started reporting the number of tests and cases consistently. The positivity rate has been below 5% for 15 days now, which experts believe is a sign of the spread of Covid-19 being in control. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Wednesday that according to the World Health Organization the number of tests should be scaled up till a positivity rate of less than 8% is achieved. “A positivity rate of 5% is considered to be optimum, which means sufficient number of tests is being performed. Delhi has had a positivity rate of less than 3% for five days in a row and less than 5% for 15 days in a row. Right now, the positivity rate is about 2% in Delhi. Let us wait and watch how long the 2% positivity rate is maintained,” he said. Should the government still continue to increase the number of tests? Yes, say experts. “We should continue testing as many people as we can and we should continue to increase the number of tests as much as we can. When the positivity rate is about 2% to 3% even with a high number of tests, there is confidence that transmission is not taking place very fast. With fewer tests, the positivity rate can be low either because the transmission is low or the tests are not able to capture the positive cases. As the number of tests is increased, the possibility that we are missing cases is reduced,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Delhi also reported 35 deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the city’s toll to 10,182. With fewer cases, the cumulative case fatality ratio — proportion of deaths among those who test positive — is 1.66%. In comparison, the national CFR stands at 1.45%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-record-90k-tests-positivity-rate-below-2-for-the-third-day/story-aSybWpxtEOJYBWDiCjlpFM.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: DMRC likely to flag off its first driverless train on Christmas Day||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is likely to run driverless trains from December-end, a senior official in the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) said, and the first driverless train is likely to be operated on the Magenta Line, between Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden (Noida).A senior ministry official, aware of the development, said efforts are being made to start the new system on December 25, when DMRC will complete 18 years of operations in the national capital, and get Prime Minister Narendra Modi to flag off the first driverless train.To allow driverless train operations (DTO), the ministry official said, an amendment in the Metro Railways General Rules, 2015, will be made.The move to introduce driverless trains comes as a step towards switching to the unattended train operations (UTO) mode, using the hi-tech signalling technology called the communication based train control (CBTC).According to DMRC officials, the driverless train technology is already in use in trains running on Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) and Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West), but a driver is present on each train for the time being-- the train is manually started by the driver and thereon its runs on the CBTC signalling system. A senior DMRC official, on the condition of anonymity, said driverless technology was introduced on the Magenta Line and the Pink Line in 2017, but until now, the Metro was conducting rigorous trials to ensure that trains could safely switch over to driverless operations.Officials explained that the driverless train technology has set standards for automation called grades of automation (GoA). In GoA 1, trains are run by one driver and, in GoA 2 and GoA 3, the role of the driver is reduced to operating doors and for taking over in case of emergencies -- the starting and halting of trains is automated. Finally, in the GoA 4, trains are set on a completely unattended train operations mode.“The progression to remove human intervention entirely is done in a phased manner. After isolated trials at first, we have of late been conducting trials during the non-peak hours. The idea is to gain complete public confidence in the system,” the DMRC official said.The official said the present Metro rules do not have the provision of operating driverless trains and to inaugurate this new system, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs will have to modify the existing rules. The DMRC had initially set a tentative deadline for operations, under GoA 3, for May this year, but these plans were delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-dmrc-likely-to-flag-off-its-first-driverless-train-on-christmas-day/story-qgJDHCPl4OOngXkWnUAeZL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Have functioning CCTV cameras, else risk losing licence, excise dept tells hotels and pubs||The Delhi government’s excise department has issued an order directing hotels, clubs and restaurants to ensure that CCTV cameras installed on their premises are functional at all times. A failure to comply with the direction may lead to strict action, including cancellation of excise licence, said a senior government official.The order was issued after the excise department took note of instances flagged by excise teams which found non-functional CCTV cameras at establishments during routine inspections. Excise officials said such defunct cameras were hindering their inspection drives.“Instances have come to the notice of the department that CCTV cameras installed at hotels, clubs and restaurants are found to be non-functional during the inspection,” said the December 7 order which HT has seen.It further said, “In many cases, the hotel and restaurant staff cite non-working cameras to avoid providing footage demanded by inspecting teams to check violations.”The CCTV cameras help to check violations such as serving of alcohol to underage people, serving liquor beyond the permitted hours, consumption of liquor outside the premises, and law and order situations, among other irregularities, for which footage from both inside and outside the premises of restaurants, hotels and clubs are necessary, the official saidDelhi has around 850 restaurants, hotels and clubs that have the licences to serve liquor.The order stated that all hotels, clubs and restaurants are directed to ensure that CCTV cameras are installed at appropriate locations within and outside the licensed premises and record all activities without any break. “Non-compliance of the said order will be viewed seriously and if the CCTV cameras installed at the hotels, clubs and restaurants are found non-functional by the inspecting team of the (excise) department without any justified reason, the same will be treated as wilful (default) and stern action, including cancellation of licences, may be taken against the defaulter,” the order further said.Restaurant owners said they always cooperate with the authorities but in each case, the management of the enterprise should at least be given a fair hearing.Riyaaz Amlani, trustee of the national restaurants association of India, said, “CCTV cameras are also a matter that concerns the safety and security of people. We encourage restaurants, clubs and hotels to ensure that they have CCTV cameras installed and to ensure that these are functional. We welcome the rule, but we urge that it should not be applied in a draconian fashion. In each case, if cameras are found non-functional, the enterprise should be given a fair hearing before any action is taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-have-functioning-cctv-cameras-else-risk-losing-licence-excise-dept-tells-hotels-and-pubs/story-EF1HXnKxfHspAFWog8d1tK.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Unwilling to share food, man stabs another in Delhi, booked||The Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a 59-year-old man near Old Delhi railway station; he was on the run after stabbing another man.The two men had fought over sharing salad while having dinner together last week in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri, police said, adding that the man who survived the attack was stabbed multiple times until his intestines popped out.The man who has been arrested was identified as Riyasat Ali, a homeless man, currently residing at the Old Delhi railway station. Police have also recovered a knife from him that he had used to stab the victim, identified as Pawan Singh, a resident of Fatehpur Beri area.The incident took place on December 8. Police said both Ali and Singh work as labourers at wedding parties and after one such party on December 8 in Faridabad, when they had returned to their godown in Fatehpur Beri they were having dinner with other labourers.“While dining, Singh asked Ali to pass him the onion salad but Ali refused to share it. Singh got up to take the salad on his own but Ali allegedly did not let him. A fight started between them, and Ali picked up a kitchen knife and stabbed Singh multiple times. He even cut his stomach open causing his intestines to bulge out,” said a senior police officer, who wished not to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said Singh was immediately rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre in critical condition. Ali fled the spot before the other labourers could catch him. The matter was reported to the police and a case of attempt to murder was registered.“Through blurred CCTV camera footage, we had a rough idea about Ali’s build and looks. We learned that Ali is a homeless man. Multiple teams were formed to conduct raids in areas where vagabonds and labourers gather for food or work. After almost ten days of tedious verification of more than 500 labourers and vagabonds, our teams managed zero in on Ali who was spotted on a footpath near Old Delhi Railway station. He was arrested and booked for the crime,” Thakur said.The DCP said Ali confessed to having stabbed Singh following the fight over not sharing of salad. “The knife he had used was also recovered from him. Singh’s condition is said to be stable,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unwilling-to-share-food-man-stabs-another-booked/story-7WZVvRtZzikzy7B9VdbxbP.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Earthquake of magnitude 4.2 jolts Rajasthan’s Alwar, tremors felt in Delhi-NCR||An earthquake of magnitude 4.2 on the Richter Scale hit Rajasthan’s Alwar on Thursday night, the tremors of which were felt in Delhi-NCR, the National Center for Seismology said. The epicentre of the quake was Alwar in Rajasthan, according to the NCS.The earthquake of magnitude 4.2 occurred at 11.46 pm at a depth of five kilometres, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/earthquake-tremors-felt-in-parts-of-delhi/story-oRsqGPL1PtucNKn5nmwiKL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers start cleaning up agitation site at Singhu border after residents complain||After over a fortnight of garbage piling up at the protest site at the Singhu border, farmers started cleaning the roads after residents complained about the mounting litter heaps.Since Tuesday, they have been collecting truckloads of garbage from the protest venue, while urging protesters to ensure that local residents do not remember them “for the wrong reasons”.Those carrying out the sanitation drive said they started it after complaints from several residents about the mess that was being left on the roads and adjacent neighbourhoods.“When we began the cleaning exercise on Tuesday; we brought 500 garbage bags and distributing them to farmers but they were not enough. “On Thursday, we have brought another 1,000 garbage bags,” said Jugraj Singh Jaggi, who belongs to Mundh village in Jalandhar, and heads a group of about 25 people under the banner of Fikr-e-Hond, an organisation that works for farmer welfare in Punjab. These men -- kitted out in blue half jackets and carrying broomsticks, dustpans and extra-large dustbin covers -- begin the cleaning exercise daily at 10am and continue till 5pm.“We realised that we were only organising langars (community kitchens) and doing nothing about the waste. We had made a lot of mess,” said Jaggi’s friend, Snehdeep Kamboj. Rajesh, a municipality sanitation worker from Sonepat, said he was among 20 workers deployed by the government soon after the protests began. “Now only 13 of us are working here. The work is a lot and we are too few hands to clean up everything,” said Rajesh. The drains here have been heavily clogged with decaying food, disposable plates, plastic glasses and all sorts of garbage. The empty plots have been used extensively for defecation and the streets are littered with waste. Sanitation work by civic agencies on the Delhi side is limited to areas not occupied by farmers. Jaggi’s group said they have been collecting at least four truckloads of garbage every day since Tuesday. “We take the garbage to a dump yard, 10km away. Cleaning the place will take a lot of effort and time, but we intend to sanitise the place and leave it better than when we arrived here,” said Kamboj. Jitender Singh, who belongs to Patiala town and calls himself a sewadar, said he was among another group of 15 farmers cleaning the streets from morning to evening. “The electronic media was reporting about the sanitation mess. No one should face problems because of us. So, we are apologising to the public and cleaning up,” said Jitender.He said he and his men have been loading the waste into trolleys and dumping them on empty plots away from the site. “Those empty plots already are filled with waste,” said Jitender whose group is associated with a gurdwara in Ludhiana. Then, there are individual farmers who have joined hands and divided the protest site into zones to ensure no area is left dirty. “We have formed groups of 10 each and assigned a few hundred metres of road to each group to keep clean,” said Palwinder Singh, a farmer from Badwa village in Ropar district, while carrying a large number of brooms that had been donated by a Delhi resident. Some groups are limiting themselves to distributing garbage covers. Dileep Singh of Khalsa Aid, a charitable organisation that is into “dry langar” and provides services such as free foot massages, sanitary napkins and undergarments, among others, said they have been disturbing garbage bins for quite some time now.Local residents, however, were unimpressed by all this and said the sanitation efforts were yet to make a difference to the area. “The farmers may have been cleaning the area where they are camping. But will they clean the adjacent empty plots which have been turned into open toilets for the past 20 days? The neighbourhood around here is stinking,” said Sanjay Sahni, a local trader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-start-cleaning-up-agitation-site-at-singhu-border-after-residents-complain/story-kZvdcNnRARXjF4r40Hc4PO.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Riots case: During bail hearing, lawyers allude to epics Mahabharata, Ramayana to draw parallels||The Delhi Police on Thursday compared the Hindu epic Mahabharata to the north-east Delhi riots while stating that just like the epic, the riots were also a story of conspiracy, in which the ”Dhritarashtra (the blind king who had conspired to start the epic war)”, is yet to be identified.The submissions were made by special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad while opposing the bail plea of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student and Pinra Tod member Natasha Narwal. During the hearing, both the police and the counsel for the accused referred to the two epics of Mahabharata and Ramayana, to argue their cases, while drawing comparisons between the mythological characters and the alleged actors of the riots.Referring to the accused’s contention that the charge sheet was the second biggest document after the Mahabharata, Prasad told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that the WhatsApp group -- Delhi Protest Support Group (DPSG) -- was like the mythological character of Sanjaya, who had narrated the war and the other happenings to the blind king Dhritarashtra.Prasad alleged that DPSG controlled and monitored all protest sites and the intent was not a protest but a disruptive “chakka jam” or blockade, the end result of which was violence.“The accused’s counsel argued that the Mahabharata was 22,000 pages and the charge sheet was 17,000 pages. I would like to point out that Mahabharata was the story of a conspiracy and this case is also that of a conspiracy. In Mahabharata, Sanjaya was the one who was able to see everything, “ Prasad said.“The Sanjaya of this conspiracy was DPSG. Sanjaya was narrating everything to Dhritarashtra. The Dhritarasthra here is yet to be identified. We have seen that their (accused’s) intent was not protest, but a disruptive chakka jam and clear indications that the end result was violence,” the public prosecutor said.Detailing Narwal’s role, the SPP said she was brought on to the DPSG group after she was able to set up the protest site at Seelampur. She was part of the DPSG group which was controlling and monitoring all protest sites. She attended the alleged conspiratorial meeting of February 16 and February 17. The chats have clearly revealed that there was a proposal to incite violence.“She was privy to the principal conspirators. She was coordinating with the Jamia coordination committee. Detailed elaborations are not required on the merits at this point. The prima facie case stands established,” the public prosecutor said.Advocate Adit Pujari, appearing for Narwal, also referred to the Mahabharata and claimed that over the past eight-odd hearings, a “Chakravyuh ( a wheel formation to trap an opponent)” has been prepared by the prosecution, but his client, like the mythological character of Abhimanyu in the Mahabharata, would try to break out of it.“Let’s be very clear that the reason this is being done is because the charge sheet does not really contain a prima facie case,” he said.“This is not going to be a Ramayana where we are going to wait 14 years to see if we can finally come out… It is happening here and now; we are arguing this now,” Pujari said.Pujari said 53 people had died in the riots, but the charge sheet revolved around the deaths of only three persons— head constable Ratan Lal, civilian Rahul Solanki and intelligence bureau officer Ankit Sharma.He further said selective reading of WhatsApp chats by the prosecution was “unfair”.The bail plea will be further heard on December 22.Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving 53 people dead and around 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/riots-case-during-bail-hearing-lawyers-allude-to-epics-mahabharata-ramyana-to-draw-parallels/story-kDWKWhFWPfjzy3erlAnGmL.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Wedding halls in Pune booked, but owners fail to make profits; couples prefer destination events||Its the last month of the year locked down by the Covid-19 pandemic, however, the virus has not been able to spoil the spirit of weddings in the city. With at least 35 muhurats or auspicious dates listed for weddings this month, couples and wedding planners are prepping up to cash in this opportunity.At least 80 weddings have been planned across wedding halls in the city, however, lawn owners are not happy as their business has not been lucrative with limited people. To stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, various guidelines have been put in place including limited number of invitees and wedding planners have to provide safety measures like masks, gloves, sanitisation, among other things.The wedding planners are leaving no stone unturned to make it memorable for families which includes following Covid-19 protocols, maintaining social distancing, safety and hygiene along with screening it live for those who couldn’t join the event. Shreet Ghatpande and Dhanashree Sant, who will be tying the knot on December 24, are excited, but also find it difficult to curtail the list of invitees. “The only issue we faced while planning our wedding was curtailing the guest list,” said Shreet Deshpande, who is an architect. “Many of the weddings are the ones which had been postponed due to the lockdown and instead of waiting for the vaccine, they simply want to go ahead and get married,” said Mandar Desai, owner of two wedding halls on Karve road. He has his halls booked until January 2021 and people are still coming forward to book it in advance for the next few months. “We are following all the protocols laid down by the government and are making sure that people follow it,” he added.Pratik Jaywant Ghaisas got married on December 10. “We were to get married in May, but the wedding was postponed due to the lockdown, then when the unlock happened, we all thought of going ahead and getting married. Initially, I thought of getting a registered marriage done, but then my parents felt that since the opportunity was provided by the government, we could get married according to Vedic rituals following all Covid-19 protocols. We always wanted a small wedding and unknowingly Covid-19 has been a blessing for us, so we had to curtail the invites,” said Pratik, a travel enthusiast and tour arranger. “It was also difficult to decide how to invite and whom to invite, so instead we did a Facebook live for those who couldn’t join us,” he added.Shreyas Banquets ring in with tunes of shehnai as a wedding continues with 50 invitees on Thursday. “The bookings have started picking up now that the unlock has started. However, people are keen to have the capacity of 50 people be increased as 50 is a very small number for Indian functions. We are very strict about following the protocols. We tell the hosts about maintaining the numbers and also tell them to ask all their guests to wear masks. We sanitise the common surfaces frequently and conduct thermal checks of all the guests while all servers and staff members also follow the guidelines and wear masks, gloves and shields all the time,” said Radhika Chitale, managing the banquets.An average wedding package with food costs Rs 30,000 for 50 people and Chitale says that it is not possible to reduce the amount as they incur same costs to upkeep the hall and electricity.Kishore Sarpotdar, of Poona Guest House is busy. He caters to not just six wedding halls, but also has additional orders for Mehendi, Sangeet and other days pre-and post wedding ceremonies. “April and May 2021 are going to be very busy with as many 80 muhurats are on the calendar. Even though, the pandemic is still around, we are busy. The business is only to helping us break even as there is no profit catering for 50 people.” Many of the couples are also looking at destination weddings near Pune, Dhepe Wada and Fort Jadhavgadh which has been booked for the entire month for weddings.Sayali Ponkshe, an environmentalist preferred a destination wedding and said, “Due to Covid-19, we decided to opt for a very closed knit wedding of 50 people and that is when Dhepe Wada became a very prominent option. It was nearby, was built in nature and since I was getting married in another caste, we thought it would be a great opportunity to relive my culture one last time in the fullest way possible,” said Sayali.“We are a luxury wedding destination and enquiries have been great and are coming in constantly where families are now preferring to book the entire property for themselves. All Covid-19 guidelines are in place and followed sincerely by both the staff and the guests as they don’t want their functions to suffer. Having huge lawns and banquets has been a boon for us,” said Biswajit Biswas, general manager, Fort Jadhavgadh.Nitin Dhepe, owner Dhepe Wada, said, “A lot of people have preferred Dhepe Wada this year and we are full on many days till March 2021. People want to enjoy their wedding here in the traditional format while following all Covid-19 precautions. Unfortunately many bookings which had been made by overseas guest got cancelled/ postponed due to Covid-19.”Speaking about finances, he added that even though it is the wedding season, the halls are not making enough to even tide over the months they had to keep their business shut. According to Radhika Chitale, they had kept the margins less and have tailored the packages to suit 50 people. “It is hardly 10% of the revenue that we earn. Last year, in November-December, we would ideally host 50 weddings catering to 1,000 to 2,000 people unlike now, which are around 30 weddings in November-December with only 50 guests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wedding-halls-booked-but-owners-fail-to-make-profits-couples-prefer-destination-events/story-aNAunOagUtYzgZUyzU5AEJ.html
18-12-2020||Pune||105-year-old Hinjewadi resident beats Covid||Coronavirus could not defeat the spirit of life in 105- year-old Shantabai Hulavale. A resident of Hinjewadi, she was admitted to a city- based hospital for 10 days for Covid treatment. Sandip Hulavale, Hulavale’s grandson, said that the entire family tested positive for Covid-19. “Along with her, five others were admitted to the hospital. She is a tough one. She doesn’t have any comorbidities,” said Sandip. The 105-year-old said that in her younger days she used to walk to Aundh on foot daily. “She has seen many things. And her spirit for life has helped us through this tough time. She is full of life and hope even at this age,” said Sandip. Dr Kiran Muley from Golden Care Hospital, Wakad, where the patient was admitted, said that she was had shortness of breath and was coughing. “She had pneumonia and was tested Covid positive. We treated her with antivirals and oxygen support for around 10 to 12 days. And she showed signs of recovery,” said Dr Muley. He further added that it is rare to see elderly patients in this age bracket. “We get patients who are above the age of 60. But this was a very rare incident where we had a patient who was 105-years-old. She received timely treatment, but her will power to live helped her recover soon,” said Dr Muley. He added that the patient was advised to do simple exercises. “She was advised to walk in the ward and do deep breathing. She very judiciously followed all instructions given to her,” said Dr Muley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/105-year-old-hinjewadi-resident-beats-covid/story-MuWt0jYC0RIDbJksfFb2hI.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Despite pandemic, no slowdown seen in campus placements in Pune||The placement process at city colleges is going on smoothly and despite the pandemic situation students from several colleges have received job offer letters across various sectors, according to feedback shared by authorities from various institutes.At College of Engineering Pune (COEP) within two months, as many as 700 students have received offer letters from various firms while the package has also been marginally higher as compared to last year.Prof BB Ahuja, director, COEP, said, “Within a couple of months we will complete 100 per cent of placements. Till now around 700 of our students have been recruited in topmost companies during the past few months. The process is taking more time due to continuous interaction with students.”“Package-wise it is almost same as last year and in some cases, it has improved marginally. But overall response from the companies is good and we hope that all our students get placed this year,” he said.For the MBA students of batch 2018-2020 at Symbiosis Institute of Business Management- Pune, (SIBM Pune) there are 100 per cent placements.More than 90 corporates from across automobile, automotive, consulting, IT ( Information Technology), infrastructure, manufacturing, pharmaceutical, retail, and telecom among others were hosted for the final placement process by SIBM Pune. A total of 186 total offers were made to the batch of 2018-2020.A total of 87 pre-placement offers was bagged by the students (48 per cent of the 2018-2020 batch).The average package stood at Rs 20.14 lakh and the highest package offered was 34.26 lakh by Cisco Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. The median package for the 2018-2020 batch was 18.57 lakh.“The 2018-2020 batch got opportunities to participate in more than 40 corporate competitions. In such competitions, the prize is a job offer. The support extended by Symbiosis alumni helped us get impressive placement for the MBA batch of 2018-2020.” said Dr Ramakrishnan Raman, director, SIBM Pune and dean faculty of management –Symbiosis International (Deemed University).“I am lucky to bag the highest offer at campus placement. I am already on board and assigned an exciting project to work on,” said Arshdeep Kaur, who is one among the three students who bagged the highest package from CISCO.As many as 1,000 students have been recruited so far at the Sinhgad Institutes.According to college authorities, Cognizant has offered 352 placements with a differential package of 4 lakh to 7 lakh annually, while Accenture has offered placement to 302 students with packages ranging from of Rs 4.5 lakh to Rs 6.5 lakh per annum.The institute in a written response said, “In TCS, the number of students shortlisted after the online test is more than 600 and we are hopeful to have more 300 placements.”“The highest package received so far by a student is Rs. 10.75 lakh per annum and the average package as on date is Rs. 4.5 lakhs per annum,” said Sinhgad Institutes, Prof Jaiprakash N Pitambare, dean, training and placement (Engineering), Sinhgad Institutes.“During these tough times the efforts taken by the central placement cell and professors have yielded results,” said Pitambare.At Trinity College Of Engineering and Research, Pune, a student Neha Manamuni has been offered a package of 10 lakh per annum at Byjus’.“At least 300 candidates from the current academic year are placed with various national and multinational companies like IBM, Infosys, Wipro, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Persistent, Zensar and several others. In this academic year, candidates have got a package of 12 lakh from Jaro Education and Byju’s,” said Prof Anil Agrawal, director, training and placement, Trinity College Of Engineering and Research, Pune.“The average package for candidates is 2.75 lakh and more than 100 candidates got a package of 3 lakh and more than 20 candidates are placed with 5 lakh and above package,” he said.Employee deployment level on rise in large, medium companies: MCCIA survey“According to the eight monthly survey on economic recovery by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) large and medium companies have recovered their employee deployment levels to 83 to 89 per cent of pre-Covid levels. While the small and informal sector is lagging, medium and large companies are ‘recovering’ fast and preparing for ‘growth’ phase and hence the recruitments are higher on campuses,” said Prashant Girbane, director-general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA). “We are keenly awaiting for the small and informal sector to catch up with medium and large companies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amid-pandemic-no-slowdown-in-jobs-on-campuses/story-8Sii7aqg8TBpsj0kwK7XNM.html
18-12-2020||City||36 helipads to come up in Ladakh by April next year||To provide an impetus to the tourism sector besides ensuring 24x7 connectivity to remote areas, the strategic Ladakh region will get 36 new helipads by April next year.Apart from this, the new helipads will add more teeth to the armed forces in the region where India has been engaged in a protracted stand-off with China.Ladakh Lt governor R K Mathur reviewed the progress of work on the new helipads which are under construction in 36 remote locations in the union territory, an official spokesperson revealed.The helipads in Leh district are being constructed at Demchok, Hanle, Kharnak, Korzok, Chumur, Tangtse, Chuchul, Shayok, Skympata, Dipling, Neryaks, Kanji, Markha, Panamik,Waris, Largyab, Agyam, Diskit and Sumor, he added.Similarly, the helipads in Kargil district are being constructed at Kurbathang, Batalik, Sapi, Barsoo, Cheycheysna, Shephard Nala (Parkachik), Rangdum, Tangole, Padum, Longnak, Zangla, Tongri, Dras, Minamarag, Chiktan HQ, Namkila and Hinaskote.The government spokesperson said that this is the biggest helipad project to have ever been undertaken in Ladakh.These helipads would not only connect the 36 remote locations of Ladakh to the district headquarters but also help in bringing them on the tourism map during winters, the spokesperson added.A senior government official said that more such helipads will come up across the region and they can be used by the Indian armed forces during the times of contingencies.In a major boost to the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) combat capabilities, eight US-made Apache AH-64E attack helicopters were inducted into the IAF on September 3 at the Pathankot airbase.The AH-64E Apache is one of the world’s most advanced multi-role combat helicopters and is flown by the US Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/36-helipads-to-come-up-in-ladakh-by-april-next-year/story-8ak70cw6o4xhG6zJ9uvLFJ.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Five in police custody for sexual assault, kidnap of two minor girls||PUNE: Five men were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police and remanded to custody by a local court on Thursday for kidnapping a minor girl who was sexually assaulted by one of them while another person among the five molested the girl’s cousin sister in Nigdi on Tuesday night.The five were identified as Karan Bhairavnath Sable (21), Ashish Anand Sarode (20), Biwas Sajay Sutar (20), Tejas Raju Waghmare (19), and Kartik alias Dinkya Rajkumar Chavan (21) all residents of Chinchwad.“The girls had gone for a dinner function at one of their relatives’ houses and knew the boys as acquaintances. At night, on their way back home, the girls were approached by these men and while talking the two men - Sable and Sarode - led the girls to a secluded spot. While one girl was sexually assaulted, the other was taken to an abandoned building and molested,” said assistant police inspector Vijaykumar Dhumal of Nigdi police station. The girls - one Class 10 student and another Class 10 dropout - who were in shock and frightened, told the police that the men got scared of public reaction and decided to kidnap the girls.“So, they called three others and took the girls to Chinchwad railway station where they were held inside the car until 4:30-5am on Wednesday. When it was fairly empty, they dropped the girls in the locality of their house,” Dhumal.The men are labourers - working as rag-pickers, waiters and car cleaners - according to the police. The owner of the car is yet to be ascertained. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376 (sexual assault), 354(b) (molestation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 7, 8, 11, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO) was registered at Nigdi police station against the five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-in-police-custody-for-sexual-assault-kidnap-of-two-minor-girls/story-9LjH0jXMwBIIoSYV3vJZeM.html
18-12-2020||Pune||12-year-old questioned for bid to provoke minor girl in Pune to death by suicide||PUNE: A 12-year-old boy was called for questioning by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for trying to provoke a minor girl to die by suicide. “We had registered a case of stalking and interrogated a 12-year-old boy. He is from Pune, but cannot give more details as it is a sensitive matter,” said senior inspector Shivaji Gaware of Bhosari MIDC police station. The case came to light after an unidentified person was booked for calling the girl through video calling application and sending illicit emails to her father and the principal of the school over multiple weeks. The case was registered on December 12. The girl’s 43-year-old mother lodged a complaint. While it initially seemed like the girl had received death threats, it later turned out that the boy was trying to get her to die by suicide. The boy will be produced in the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). A case under Sections 354 (d) (stalking) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 67 and 67(a) of Information Technology Act, 2000 was registered at Bhosari MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/12-year-old-questioned-for-bid-to-provoke-minor-girl-to-death-by-suicide/story-f0teOezPisKTlgb5UkCqMM.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Pune traffic constable suspended after video of alleged bribery goes viral||PUNE: A Pimpri-Chinchwad traffic police constable was suspended, pending an internal inquiry, after a video of her surfaced on social media showing a suspected traffic rule violator putting money directly in her back pocket. The video was identified to have been shot from a shop or a house in Sai Chowk area of Pimpri. The video was making rounds on social media as it showed a suspected payment of bribe in a manner that would avoid direct contact or detection by the official’s colleagues who were standing nearby.“She is a constable and has been suspended. It has been identified as an incident from Pimpri. An internal inquiry will be initiated against her to identify what happened at the spot,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. “She was deployed at a chowk around 15-20 feet from the place where the video was shot. We are awaiting orders from superiors to take necessary action,” said senior inspector Ravindra Kunte of Pimpri Division.The two women in the now-viral video are seen without helmet. However, it is not clear what violation they are being caught for. The constable is seen asking one of the two women on the bike to come close and after an inaudible conversation that followed between the two, the alleged traffic rule violator puts something in the back pocket of the female official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-traffic-constable-suspended-after-video-of-alleged-bribery-goes-viral/story-UysC9lUYkZobZSEabhggcJ.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Navale bridge stretch turning into a death trap||The Navale bridge area has been witnessing a rise in road accidents. According to a Pune traffic police data, 92 accidents have taken place at the location in the past two years. On the stretch between new Katraj tunnel and Prayeja City on the highway, the figure of fatal accidents is 26. Nine accidents have occurred between Katraj chowk and Navale bridge stretch on the highway during the same period, with 4 turning to be fatal. The latest mishap happened on Wednesday, when a speeding truck dashed several vehicles coming from Katraj chowk towards Navale bridge. On November 29, three persons lost their lives after a heavy vehicle hit them on the highway near Narhe exit on the service road. According to the Pune traffic police data, of the 92 accidents on the stretch, 26 were fatal, 27 serious and 38 were minor. Residents risk their lives to cross the busy road. Santosh Mande, a resident said, “I daily travel from the new Katraj tunnel service road stretch to go to my office and have seen several accidents. My family members are anxious till I reach home after work every evening. I was once hit by a car entering the service road from the highway, but it was a minor accident.” Nilesh Girme, a political leader who has been following up the issue with Pune traffic police and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said, “We have staged many protests and written to Pune traffic police and NHAI to carry out necessary safety arrangements on the stretch between Katraj-Navale bridge and highway coming from new Katraj tunnel till Vadgaon.” Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Pune police said, “After the last accident that claimed three lives, we have put up ‘go slow’ and ‘accident-prone area’ road sign boards on the stretch. The work of installing rumblers is also underway. We have observed that heavy vehicles, which move on the third lane, lose control on the slope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/navale-bridge-stretch-turning-into-a-death-trap/story-CVukBUnSatf26aYq1IkFgO.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Pune to get Maharashtra’s first sports university at Balewadi stadium||Maharashtra’s first sports university will come at Balewadi in Pune and will officially begin functioning by academic year 2021-2022. State sports minister Sunil Kedar, who made the announcement, said that the university, the first one of its kind will be the centre of sports excellence in the country that will pick and train sportspersons of international calibre. The state government had given an in-principle approval to the draft bill for setting up of the international sports university in the city and also got its approval during the winter session of the legislature on December 14-15. The bill was approved in both the state legislative assembly and the council. Kedar said, “The state government has decided to upgrade the existing sports complex into a university and a special budgetary allocation of Rs 400 crore has been made for the purpose. The government had already announced during the budget that an international class university will be set up in Maharashtra. A total of 213 posts have been sanctioned for the new university where world class sportspersons will be trained.” The Maharashtra sports directorate stated that a committee, headed by Mumbai University former vice-chancellor Vijay Khole, was set up and based on its recommendations, the state government decided to set up the international sports university in the city. The Balewadi-based Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex has hosted the Commonwealth Youth Games in 2008 and will be upgraded to sports university which will bring trainers and researchers in various sports fields under one roof for the cause of sports development in the state. The sanctioned budget will be spent in a phased manner for the infrastructural upgradation of the current set up at the Balewadi sports complex. The university sports faculty and its various researches would cover sports-related subjects like sports science, medicine, technology, coaching and training, sports management and sports media and communication. The inmates will be given training facilities on par with international standards. The state government has initially planned to hire prominent sportspersons for permanent posts, including vice-chancellor and registrar. There are also plans to hire some international experts on contractual basis for the benefit of the course mates. Initially, 213 posts will be filled up as per the regular pay scale of which 166 posts will be filled up through straight recruitment, while 47 posts will be on fixed payment. Among those recruited for the sports university, includes vice-chancellor, registrar, and other experts on contractual basis. Omprakash Bakoria, sports Commissioner of Maharashtra, said, “The government has sanctioned Rs 400 for the international sports university which will be developed in phased manner. Infrastructural development will be our top priority and different courses will be started. Recruitment for various sports department will be done as part of the university development programme.” The university was originally proposed at Aurangabad, but government moved it to Pune citing infrastructure. City’s pride Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex was originally constructed within 53 acres at Balewadi, Pune, in 1995 to host the National Games. In 2006, the sports complex was refurbished to host the Youth Commonwealth Games in 2008. Chhatrapati Sports Complex currently has multiple facilities for games, including football, athletics, aquatic centre, badminton, basketball, boxing area, table tennis hall, tennis court, weightlifting hall, wrestling hall, velodrome, fitness centre and games village The Sports Science Centre includes Central dope collection centre, department of bio-mechanics, department of nutrition and ergogenic aids, department of physiotherapy, department of Psychology, department of sports rehabilitation and human performance and evolution laboratory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-to-get-maharashtra-s-first-sports-university-at-balewadi-stadium/story-4O7dqkTNTRMXb61LZsnBBL.html
18-12-2020||Pune||Maharashtra ready to start Covid-19 vaccination from January if Centre gives approval||The coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine will be administered to people in Maharashtra only on the basis of strict invitation where the recipient will receive a message or phone call post which he will have to ascertain his identity, said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday. Tope said that at least 3 crore people, including healthcare workers, police and co-morbid patients will be administered Covid-19 vaccine from January, if the Centre gives the approval by the end of this month. “The government has made micro-level arrangements for vaccination. We plan to implement vaccination programme similar to the election process where a person will have to ascertain his identity and only then, he/she will be given the vaccine. We plan to either call or send a message to that person on the same day that he/she is likely to be vaccinated. This is to avoid any confusion and discrepancies,” said Tope while speaking to reporters. According to the minister, three crore people have been identified for vaccination in the first phase. “If the Centre approves the vaccine this month, we can start the drive from January,” said Tope. On the question of pricing, Tope asserted that the central government must give the Covid-19 vaccine to the people free of cost. However, if the Centre is not in a position to do so, then the state would think about distributing the vaccine for free. Meanwhile in Pune, the civic body identified about 1.34 lakh people in the city who have various comorbidities and who will now be prioritised for the Covid-19 vaccination under the phase three vaccine roll out programme by the central government. These comorbid patients have been identified during the state survey of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ of the 33.4 lakh people who were inspected. The civic body is now focusing on storing close to eight-10 lakh vaccine doses which could be stored in its ice laced refrigerators. As per information from PMC’s health department, the survey was conducted between October 14 and October 24, about 9.91 lakh households were inspected in which 33.40 people were checked. Of those inspected, the survey found 1,34,465 people were found to have reported various comorbidities including diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Those with comorbidities have been preferred to get the vaccination as the fatality rate among this group is the highest. PMC department health chief, Dr Ashish Bharti, said, “Although we do not have a walk-in cold storage facility, we have around 55 ice-laced refrigerators and 35 deep freezers which can totally store about three-five lakh doses. Also the state’s storage facility is located in Pune itself which will be helpful for us. Most of the vaccines need a storage temperature similar to other Universal Immunization Programme vaccines which is 2⁰ to 8⁰ C.” As per the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) which has been constituted with representatives from across the country, the vaccination roll out would initially take place in three phases. The NEGVAC has prioritised health care workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW) and persons with different age-groups for Covid-19 vaccination. HCWs include healthcare providers and workers in healthcare settings, FLWs includes personnel from state and central police department, armed forces, home guard and civil defense organisations including disaster management volunteers and municipal workers (excluding HCWs) and the prioritised age group would be people above age of 50 years and persons below 50 years with associated comorbidities. The above 50 years of age group is further sub-categorised into those above 60 years of age and those aged between 50 and 60 years of age. Modalities for data collection of those below 50 year of age with age considered as on January 1, 2021, and those associated with any comorbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-ready-to-start-covid-19-vaccination-from-january-if-centre-gives-approval/story-aZ8BrSaC7x24J12Wfng4lN.html
18-12-2020||Pune||50 per cent of women in Pune district are anaemic: NHS||The National Health Survey (NHS), sections of which have been released this week, has found that 50 per cent of women in Pune district are anaemic. Also, 58 per cent of children between the ages of six months and 59 months are found to be anaemic in the district, as per the survey. Across Maharashtra, 21 per cent of men are also found to have an iron deficiency, causing anaemia. The scenario is equally bad in urban areas where anaemia affects over 50 per cent the women in the state. Dr Nina Mansukhani, a city-based gynaecologist, said that anaemia can be caused by deficiency of iron and B12. “In case of pregnant women, anaemia can lead to underweight newborns. Moreover, in India the maternal mortality rate is also high. And one of the major reasons for that is anaemia among pregnant women. During labour, women lose a lot of blood which leads to complications and even death. All of this can be simply stopped by getting a full check-up done before pregnancy. If there are any deficiencies it can be addressed,” said Dr Mansukhani. She highlighted that often, in rural areas, women do not eat properly, which leads to an iron and B12 deficiency. “In urban areas, women do not consume nutritional food and do not have a healthy balanced diet. This causes a B12 deficiency which leads to anaemia. Proper healthy diet and exercise is a must for women who want to conceive,” said Dr Mansukhani. Dr Mahendra Dadke, general physician with Jupiter Hospital in Pune, said that because of iron deficiency, the red blood cells (RBC) reduce in size and because of B12 deficiency, RBCs tend to increase in size. “Because of anaemia, organs can be affected in different ways. Hence, a healthy balanced diet is important. During the pandemic, we have realised the importance of strong immunity and a healthy lifestyle. It is imperative to maintain a good lifestyle to keep all sorts of infections, including Covid at bay,” said Dr Dadke. He added that general symptoms of anaemia are fatigue, exertion, inability to concentrate, swelling of the feet, giddiness and irritability. “This not only affects your personal life but reduces your productivity in work as well. In case you have low iron and low haemoglobin, you may suffer from breathlessness when you are Covid positive,” added Dr Dadke. Green leafy vegetables can help increase iron levels. “Along with that, you may include dates and jaggery. If your diet is vegetarian, then focusing on your B12 levels is important,” said Dr Dadke. Iron-deficiency anaemia: A wake-up call Latest National Health Survey (NHS) finds 50 per cent of women in Pune district are anaemicPune district (2019-2020) (in %) --NHS-4 (2015-2016) (in %) * Children age 6-59 months who are anaemic -- 58.7--53.4 *Non-pregnant women age 15-49 years who are anaemic--53.2--50.4 *All women age 15-49 years who are anaemic-- 51.9--50.0 * All women age 15-19 years who are anaemic--58.6--48.4 *In Maharashtra state -- NHS -5 (2019-2020) (in%) Urban--Rural-- Total-- NHS -4 (2015-2016) (in %) *Children age 6-59 months who are anaemic--66.3--70.7--68.9--53.8 *Non-pregnant women age 15-49 years who are anaemic-- 52.3--56.4--54.5--47.9 *Pregnant women age 15-49 years who are anaemic--44.2 -- 46.5 -- 45.7 -- 49.3 *All women aged 15-49 years who are anaemic -- 52.0-- 56.1 -- 54.2 -- 48.0 * All women aged 15-19 years who are anaemic --56.4 -- 57.7 -- 57.2 -- 49.7 *Men aged 15-49 years who are anaemic -- 17.4--25.4--21.9--17.7 * Men aged 15-19 years who are anaemic -- 19.0--34.2--27.9--27.5 Source: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/50-per-cent-of-women-in-pune-district-are-anaemic-nhs/story-wkgV8IM3Rb0JQWNkmztHTJ.html
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmir ki kani: How a small village revived a dying craft||Many art forms die and are forgotten, but in Kanihama, which is being given the special status of ‘handloom village,’ the spectacularly beautiful ‘kani’ shawls, now GI (geographical indication) tagged, have been restored to life through the untiring efforts of a man named Ghulam Mohammad Kanihama.Once you enter the picturesque village with 400 households on the Srinagar Gulmarg highway you come across a group of artisans who have been busy for months weaving delicate pashmina yarn with hundreds of spools (or kani) that come together to form delightful patterns of flowers, leaves and birds on the finest of shawls. A GI tag is indicative of the specific geographical origin of a quality product. More than 50 years ago, the quest to revive the kani shawl began from the Wani House here with 10 villagers getting special training in weaving. “Our family has followed the tradition of weaving this style of shawl for generations. It is in our bloodline. Official estimates put the number of shawls produced in the village from 500 to 700 a year. The weaving is a meticulous process that takes about six months to two years to complete,” says Sajjad Wani, who has around 15 looms in the village. Starting with a small loom Ghulam Mohammad Kanihama, Wani’s father, was a member of the Jammu and Kashmir legislative assembly from Beerwah in Budgam district. “Almost all the weavers had stopped making these shawls in the 18th century after heavy taxes were imposed on this trade. Somehow it survived in our family. Being a weaver himself, my father set up a small loom in the house and hired an artisan to train young men from the village,” says Wani.Luckily, Kanihama had preserved some old designs from his forefathers and a few graphics of the weaving process which helped with the training, says Wani.“So great was his love for the kani shawl that my father sold a portion of his land to pay the weavers.Till his death in 2001, my father used to sit with weavers at the looms and discuss new designs,” says Wani, showing antique shawl designs preserved in his family for generations.Calling love for the art form “a gift from our forefathers, which we are passing to future generations,” Wani says, “In our family every person knows how these shawls are made, their designs and the yarns to be used. My young daughters who are studying are also well versed with this craft.” The villagers are proud of the fact that the tradition has not just been revived in their village, but that it has been adapted in other parts of Kashmir as well, especially in the neighbouring villages of Batapora, Mazhama and Roshanabad. “Two of our weavers were selected for national awards for producing the finest shawls on spools. Here you will find original products in the price range of Rs 50,000 to Rs 3 lakh and nobody can challenge the quality of the shawls,” says Farooq Ahmad, a weaver from Batapora.The products have become a major source of income for villagers, says field officer, handloom development department, Syed Qadri. “Weavers, makers of spool and looms or dyers today have an income because of the shawls. The government initiative to declare Kaniwami as a handloom village has also given a boost to shawl making.” Things are changing for the better. “Besides giving money for setting up of new looms, the government under the scheme will be establishing a trade facilitation centre here for the weavers to display and sell their products with live demonstrations of shawl making, especially for tourists,” says Qadri.GI tagged villageDirector handicrafts Kashmir, Massratul Islam, says a handloom village status is for promoting art and craft, heritage and culture. “Once a gate is created marking Kanihama as a handloom village, tourists and art lovers will stop here to find out how the shawl is woven. Kashmir is the only place in the world where these shawls are made, woven through spools where the design is embedded in the weaving process. It has great potential in the international market.” Officials say that under a Centrally funded scheme Rs 5 crore will be given to the village where houses will be painted a uniform colour and weavers provided solar lights and work stations.A modern cafeteria will also be set up here.The villagers also feel the government should do more to help. “ I have taught my son this craft in spite of the fact that he is completing his postgraduate studies while weaving. For the last 47 years I have survived on the money I made from the shawls, but the government should do more to make our lives better. Other villages should get the handloom tag too,” says Ghulam Mohammad Reshi, an expert weaver and member of the Gul-e-Anar Cooperative Society established here years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-ki-kani-how-a-small-village-revived-a-dying-art/story-O2TPtJ78iZCTn4hWRZSomL.html
18-12-2020||Pune||One held, three other family members booked in Pune for assaulting Delhi police officials||PUNE: A Delhi police official has lodged a complaint against four members of a family residing at Chikhali, for assault. The police later arrested one and booked three family members. The complaint was lodged by sub-inspector Narendrakumar Nandlal Sahrawat (39) of New Delhi working with the Delhi police. He was accompanied by a staff member identified as Sanjeev, according to the complaint. The two Delhi police officials were on a lookout for a man named Deepak Sable who allegedly has a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against him issued by a local court in Delhi. The NBW is issued in a case of cheating, forgery, and criminal conspiracy registered against him in 2019. The four accused were identified as Sandeep Ramdas Sable, Kamal Ramdas Sable, Sunita Sandeep Sable and Sarita Deepak Sable, all residents of Ramdasnagar in Chikhali area of Pune. “They did not allow the policemen to enter the house located in a colony. The policeman sustained injury on his fingers. The arrested man is his brother who owns a small workshop in Pune. The women have not yet been arrested,” said sub-inspector SP Deshmukh of Chikhali police station who is investigating the case. The complainant told the Pimpri-Chinchwad police that the family members shut the metal gate of their house when his right hand was near the hinge and punched him in the head before throwing chilli powder in both their eyes. A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chikhali police station against the four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-held-three-other-family-members-booked-in-pune-for-assaulting-delhi-police-officials/story-wSRQnuIO4RbjBAOF2a5lHL.html
18-12-2020||City||Mumbai: Man arrested for sexually assaulting dog||In a shocking case of animal abuse, a ten-year-old Cocker Spaniel was sexually assaulted in Balyani area of Titwala, on Wednesday. The accused inserted an iron rod into the vagina of a pet dog who tried to stop him from committing a robbery.The Titwala police immediately launched a search for the accused and arrested Balram Yadav alias Ballu, 33, under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The dog is still undergoing treatment at the hospital. According to police, the dog is a pet of Santosh Kharade, 40, the owner of the house which the man planned to rob. On Wednesday morning, Kharade found his dog to be missing. He later found her injured and bleeding at the back of his house. “Kharade immediately took her to a nearby animal hospital where doctors informed him about the injuries on her vagina. On checking the CCTV footage of his and houses nearby, he found a man trying to enter his house in the night. He saw that the dog was barking continuously and trying to stop the man from entering the house. The accused then assaulted the dog and fled from the spot after some neighbours spotted him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-dog/story-oQiYLwZCU8kJTSdcLd6yvN.html
