19-12-2020||Mumbai||Banker murdered for money, says Neral police||Four days after a banker’s chopped body was found along the railway tracks at Matheran, the Neral police took a ‘U’ turn on Saturday and said that he was murdered by the accused couple for his money.Police had earlier claimed that the banker was killed in a fit of rage after he made an objectionable statement about the accused wife.The victim, Sushilkumar Sarnaik, 31, a relationship manager with a private bank and a resident of Worli, went missing on December 12 after he left home telling his mother that he was going on an overnight trip with colleagues to Virar. Some of his body parts were found in two plastic bags along the railway tracks at Matheran on Wednesday and the police arrested the accused couple – Charles Nadar, 41, and Saloni Nadar, 31, on Thursday.Initially, the Nadars had told police that Sarnaik said something objectionable about Saloni while drinking alcohol and that led to a fight between them, following which Charles attacked Sarnaik with a knife.Anil Gherdikar, deputy superintendent of police, said, “The couple had actually told us a cooked-up story. Sarnaik and Saloni had worked in a BPO around a decade ago, but they were not in touch after that. A few weeks ago, they met online and started talking. On December 5, Sarnaik came to the Nadars’ place and left after two days.”“The Nadars then planned the murder to procure some money from Sarnaik and his bank, and invited him to their place again on December 12. That night, they offered him alcohol and also drugged him with some sedative. When Sarnaik was semi-conscious, the Nadars unlocked his phone using his fingerprint and changed the PIN of his debit card. That night, at around 1am, they allegedly killed him with a knife and also severed his head and one of his hands,” he said.Charles is an asthma patient and could not cut the whole body that night. On December 13, he threw the severed head and the hand and withdrew ₹80,000 from Sarnaik’s account in Badlapur. He then purchased a cutter machine for ₹2,000 and returned home.“That day, the Nadars cut the two legs and the other hand of the body, threw those and then went to stay in a resort. On December, 14, they returned with two plastic bags and cut and dumped the rest of the body in the next two days. They then went to a friends’ place at Mira Road,” he said.The police had spotted Charles in the CCTV footage while purchasing the plastic bag. But their rented flat was locked. “A local auto driver informed us that the Nadars keep going to a friend’s place at Mira Road. He had dropped them there a couple of times. Our officials then reached that place in his auto and nabbed the Nadars below the friend’s building,” Gherdikar said. “The Nadars purchased gold worth ₹26,000 using Sarnaik’s debit card. They were also planning to get a pre-approved loan (available only for bank employees) of around ₹4 lakh from Sarnaik’s bank using his phone. However, we nabbed them before they could execute it. We have recovered ₹28,000 in cash from them,” he added.Charles and Saloni got married in 2018 and they have a daughter. Charles’ father was a physician in South Africa and he studied there till Class 12. He ran a small BPO of his own in Virar till a few years ago.“Since he was an asthma patient, he wanted to spend some time in the good climate at Neral and that’s why they had rented a house here one-and-a-half years ago. We have not found any criminal record of them so far,” Gheridkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/banker-murdered-for-money-says-neral-police/story-ZFv8nonTbm5UnuUgKJOQiP.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||With business hit, hotels in Mumbai woo local patrons with staycation offers||Pravin Jain (name changed), a Parel resident and an information technology professional, went on holiday last month with his family — only instead of a vacation, it was a four-day staycation at a five-star hotel in south Mumbai. “We wanted to take a break as we were exhausted from being in the same environment for the past eight months. We desperately needed to get out, but travelling long distance was out of the question,” said Jain. When Jain discovered the five-star hotel that usually charged approximately Rs 15,000 per night was available for Rs 7,000 per night, he decided this would be their family holiday. With international and outstation guests slowing down to a trickle due to the pandemic and lockdown, hotels across Mumbai are wooing local residents with various offers, including slashed room tariffs, food festivals, and customised menus.Take, for example, Hotel Radisson in Andheri, which is giving a discount of 30% on all bookings. Discounted rates like these are making staycations popular among Mumbaiites, said experts. “Professionals can carry out their routine work in a plush, changed environment and the hotels are doing everything to facilitate this. In addition, women who are tired of working hard during the lockdown, especially due to the absence of domestic help, can get some relaxation from their routines. After their online classes, children can also indulge in various activities [in the hotel],” said Gulam Zia, executive director (hospitality) at the consultancy firm, Knight Frank.In Lower Parel, the five-star hotel St Regis Mumbai has been organising weekend events like regional Indian food festivals, games and champagne tasting sessions for their guests. “We have tweaked our menu and are seeing an increase in Indian vegetarian and oriental food due to the demand from our guests,” said Nicholas Dumbell, general manager, St Regis Hotels and Resorts. A popular feature during the pandemic has been the hotel’s special butler service, which ensures guests are in touch with one person instead of multiple hotel staff from various departments.Interglobe Hotels, which runs properties like Hotel Ibis in Vile Parle and Navi Mumbai, has been organising activities like live music gigs and wine promotions. “After the lockdown and with gradual reopening, we understand that people needed to break the monotony of working from home and relax. Hence, we have introduced customised and attractive F&B [food and beverage] offerings,” said Shwetank Singh, vice president (development and asset management), Interglobe Hotels. At JW Marriott in Sahar, guests are offered activities like zumba workshops and pizza-making sessions. The hotel is also allowing early check-ins (before 12 noon) and late check-outs (after 2pm). Nikita Gonsalves, director of sales and marketing for the hotel, said the hotel had also received a good response to its social media campaign. “Our campaign emphasised that we are taking all the precautions to ensure a safe environment at our hotel, which worked very well and attracted many guests,” said Gonsalves.Hospitality experts said the staycation crowd is an important clientele for hotels right now. “Since business travellers are few, we are seeing hotels offering rates at unheard of prices with many reducing [tariffs] by more than half to attract domestic travellers. This is just covering the running cost of these establishments and none of them are making any profits,” said Zia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-business-hit-hotels-in-mumbai-woo-local-patrons-with-staycation-offers/story-XEXaCDym1yqpGAZamIivCP.html
19-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: At 48%, number of patients in home isolation highest in first 15 days of December||Ghaziabad: The average number of patients who were allowed the facility of home isolation has reached 47.73% of total active cases during the first fortnight of December. The figure is the highest in any fortnight achieved so far ever since the home isolation facility for asymptomatic patients was allowed by the state government in July, according to data of the district health department. The official records also indicate that 10,381 patients so far opted for home isolation till December 18, and 9,602 of them were discharged. The discharge rate is about 92.49%. The health department data indicated that there were an average of 1,370 active cases during the first fortnight in December and an average of 654 of these patients were allowed home isolation. During the previous fortnight from November 16 to November 30, the district had an average of about 1,335 active cases and an average of 561 of these were eligible for home isolation with a share of 42.03%. The experts said the records indicate that the district has more of asymptomatic patients. “The higher percentage of Covid-19 positive patients in home isolation indicates that they were asymptomatic patients and the number of such patients has increased. The figures also indicate that the severity of infection has also decreased,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “The trend so far is encouraging as we were expecting major spike in winter season, but cases have not increased much. Still, there is need to keep monitoring the situation each day,” he added. During the period November 1 to November 15, the district had an average of 1,281 active cases with an average of 575 patients in home isolation at a share of about 44.8%, the data showed. Similarly, from October 16 to October 31, the district had an average of 1,153 active cases with an average of 542 patients in home isolation which is a share of about 47%. This is the second highest share ever since the home isolation was introduced. “Our teams carefully scan patients before allowing them for home isolation. The trend is encouraging and we are still monitoring every home isolation patient through our Covid control room, besides initial monitoring by the rapid response teams,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. “Since, there are more patients in home isolation and our active cases have also fallen below 1,000, we have sufficient availability of beds in the district,” he added. The officials said that with the overall discharge rate of 95.77% as per the state control room figures on December 18, the occupancy of beds in both the government and private hospitals has come down. They further said that 394 patients were active in home isolation on December 18, while another set of 460 patients were in healthcare facilities. These include 72 patients in government hospitals and 388 in private hospitals. The district at present has 1,264 Covid beds in the private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-at-48-number-of-patients-in-home-isolation-highest-in-first-15-days-of-december/story-aYxJWl372JmT1ejez8QEoJ.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Reopen varsities in phased manner: Students to Maharashtra government||Even as colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) are currently busy conducting their first-semester exams online, different student groups have demanded that the state government take immediate steps to reopen colleges and universities in a phased manner. In their demand, student groups mentioned the need for practical classes for several subjects which cannot be conducted online, leaving students at a loss during exams. “First-semester classes across colleges were conducted virtually where the focus was mainly on theory. However, a host of subjects in arts, sciences as well as other streams require practical classes to understand concepts better, which has been missing from the curriculum,” said Siddharth Ingle, president of Maharashtra Students’ Union (MASU). He added that MASU and other student groups have already raised this issue with local authorities and now hope for the state education minister to take a stand. “The state has allowed temples and churches to open to public but schools and colleges still remain shut. The government should take steps and form guidelines to ensure safe reopening of colleges for the benefit of students,” added Ingle. His group has also demanded that the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant take a stand on the status of fees being charged by colleges, especially when lectures have only been conducted virtually this entire semester. In November this year, the state government decided to bring back students from Class 9 to Class 12 back to schools and colleges in batches so as focus on conducting practical lectures for them. However, in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19, the government asked educational institutes to remain shut till December 31 for students of other classes.At present, many schools across the state, barring Mumbai and Thane, have already started bringing students of Class 9 to Class 12 back to the campus after ensuring that teachers undergo Covid-19 tests and students, too, get consent forms signed by their parents before coming back to school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reopen-varsities-in-phased-manner-students-to-maharashtra-government/story-hNvrzi1GytkB926atSruCK.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||15 minutes at a tea stall saves life of 21-year-old from Vishnu Garden roof collapse||For 21-year-old Rizwan Shah, whose mother was among the four killed in the factory roof collapse in Vishnu Garden, it was the 15-minute delay in reaching the factory, stopping at a nearby stall for a cup of tea, that saved his life.“I usually used to start work at 9.15am. On Saturday, however, I was late by 15 minutes as I had not been feeling well for the past two-three days. I had stopped at a stall for tea when people came running out of the lane, screaming about an earthquake. Soon, more people came and said our factory had collapsed. I rushed to check on my mother and called out her name, but she did not respond. There was dust all around and nothing was visible,” said Rizwan, who is from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh.Rizwan is among the seven who worked on the mezzanine floor of the motor stamping factory in RZ-block of Vishnu Garden where the mishap took place around 9.30am on Saturday. Four people were killed while two were injured – one critically – in the mishap. Rizwan’s 45-year-old mother Guddi (single name) was among the four dead. The other three deceased were identified as China Devi, 36, Twinkle, 25, and Ramesh, 35. The two injured are Ravi, 20, and Guddu Kumar, 18.According to Rizwan, when the roof of a loft constructed on the ground floor, by laying red stones upon iron angles, collapsed and fell on the six people working inside, nearly a dozen workers who were working on the first floor of the building rushed out, puzzled as to what had happened and what to do next.“It took us two-three minutes to understand that the loft’s roof had collapsed and the raw as well as manufactured iron materials kept in the nearly 100 plastic sacks and stored on the roof had fallen on my mother and five other workers. Some locals joined us in the rescue operation. It took us almost half an hour to rescue my mother and the other trapped workers, despite 20 of us working together,” said Rizwan, adding that the left side of his mother’s face was totally crushed.Guddi lived with her husband, Mumtaz Shah, son Rizwan, his wife and three children in a rented home in Khyala, nearly half a kilometre away from the factory, where she had been working there for the past nine years.Waiting for his wife’s body at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital mortuary after autopsy, Mumtaz said his family had migrated to Delhi in search of livelihood.“Despite factories being closed during the lockdown, we stayed in Delhi and survived the entire lockdown on free meals distributed in our neighbourhood. We belong to a poor family and there is no work back home. But after losing my wife, I am considering returning to my village,” said Mumtaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/15-minutes-at-a-tea-stall-saves-life-of-21-year-old-from-vishnu-garden-roof-collapse/story-WpFlLDreSOZztkkDb1lv9O.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||DCPCR announced Child Rights Fellowship||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Saturday announced a Child Rights Fellowship to engage five young professionals on this subject. These professionals will be working on policy implementation, data analysis and reforms on child rights, and engaging with government stakeholders, DCPCR said in a statement.The fellows will be expected to work in the assigned district for a year while receiving training, mentorship and support for professional development from government officers and the programme team. The fellowship is being launched in collaboration with Ashoka University.Rajender Pal Gautam, minister for women and child development and social welfare, launched the fellowship. Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said, “The coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has put the children in a very disadvantageous position… Only a dedicated mission-mode focus on children’s issues can save us from the disaster.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dcpcr-announced-child-rights-fellowship/story-cIV08IczlwIPGoeu0SpJMM.html
19-12-2020||City||JNU allows differently-abled PhD students of science cadre to return to campus||New Delhi: As part of its phase-wise reopening, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday allowed PhD scholars from the People with Disabilities category of Science schools and centres to return to campus from December 21. The university administration, in a circular, said that both day scholars and hostellers from this category requiring access to laboratories will be allowed to return to campus. In October, the university had initiated phase-wise reopening for final-year PhD students from Science courses beginning November 2. Like previous circulars on the matter, the varsity administration on Saturday reiterated that JNU’s central library, canteens and dhabas will remain closed for now.Upon their return to Delhi, outstation students will have to undergo a seven-day self-quarantine before entering the campus. They have also been asked to submit a self-declaration form on the matter. Students have also been advised to install the Aarogya Setu app on compatible mobile phones and update their health status on it. They have also been asked to wear masks and gloves while working in the laboratory.The JNU students’ union has, however, opposed the move and will hold a demonstration on the campus on Monday demanding the return of students from non-science backgrounds as well. They have also been demanding the reopening of the varsity library and dhabas, along with mess facilities for all hostellers.JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the university took the decision consulting the university coronavirus (Covid-19) monitoring committee and based on guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. “We are concerned about the safety and security of students, if they come in large numbers. We can allow more students to come into the university once the Covid-19 situation improves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-allows-differently-abled-phd-students-of-science-cadre-to-return-to-campus/story-Ym1axtVcIpvEENdPysYXaL.html
19-12-2020||Noida||Farmer’s daughter from UP village cracks NEET, gets selected to AIIMS||Greater Noida: When 18-year-old Charul first thought of becoming a doctor, she did not know that her dreams will very well become a reality. From studying at the public school in her village in primary to attending classes at one of the premier institutes of the state, Charul has come a long way.Born as the second oldest among five siblings to farmer parents, Charul is adamant on changing the health conditions in her village – Kiratpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnore district.“I became involved with Vidyagan after fifth standard and that was a life changing moment for me. I lived at the residential school but every time I went home, I would realise that healthcare services in my village were not up to the mark and a lot needed to be done. That is when I decided that I wanted to become a doctor,” said the teenager.Vidyagyan is a co-ed school established by HCL group’s Shiv Nadar foundation, offering free education to meritorious underprivileged students in Uttar Pradesh. Children whose family’s annual income is less than Rs 1 lakh are admitted to this residential school, where they are imparted free education from class six till 12. The school is located in Dulhera village in Bulandshahr district, around 28 kilometres from Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk.A music enthusiast, Charul is also a closet Hindi poet.“After my 12 exams last year (in which she secured 93%), I decided to take a year off and prepare for my medical exams. I obtained a scholarship to a training institute in Pune where I spent the last year preparing, before taking my NEET-UG exams in September. I was nervous but when my result was declared in October, I was beyond ecstatic. My family was very proud of me, when I got selected at the AIIMS, Delhi,” said Charul.She feels that with this achievement, she will be able to set a good example for her two younger brothers and sister.“I have to be responsible for guiding them in the future and now I can do that. I can eventually help in the medical field and give back to the society,” she said, though she has yet to decide on her doctoral field.She said she is thankful to her parents for their strength and belief in her. Her father is a graduate and continues to work as a farmer to take care of the family of seven.Because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, she is currently taking online classes while staying at home, though she has been facing some challenges with internet connectivity issues in her village, making it difficult to undertake all lessons. She is excited, however, to start actual classes at the AIIMS campus whenever the opportunity arises.Sudeeksha Bhati, a tea seller’s daughter from Dadri, who was the district topper in 2018 and was granted a scholarship to USA’s Babson college, was also a Vidyagyan student. Sudeeksha died in an accident in August this year in Bulandshahr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmer-s-daughter-from-up-village-cracks-neet-gets-selected-to-aiims/story-84HvZkaSYeNo5z6HY4WcAL.html
19-12-2020||Noida||14 people injured as truck hits bus on Yamuna Expressway||Noida: At least 14 people were injured when a UP Roadways bus carrying about 45 passengers was hit by a speeding truck on the Yamuna Expressway in Dankaur, Greater Noida, on Friday night. The police said that the incident took place around 11.30pm when the truck lost balance, hit the divider, and rammed into the bus on the other side of the carriageway. The state-run bus belonging to Shikohabad depot was going to Delhi via Agra from Lucknow, the police said, adding that the truck was going to Jewar from Greater Noida. Anil Kumar Pandey, station house officer (SHO), Dankaur police station, said that the accident took place at about 13km from the zero point in Greater Noida.“It appears that the truck driver dozed off behind the wheel and lost balance of the vehicle. The truck hit the divider first before crashing into the roadways bus on the other side,” the SHO said.The truck driver and his helper were also injured in the accident, police officials said.The bus passengers informed the police, and teams from Dankaur police station and Yamuna Expressway patrol reached the spot and rescued the victims, the officials said. Pandey said that five of the 14 victims had received serious injuries. Some of the injured were identified as Shyam, Deenanath, Vickey, Akash, Raj Kumari, Yogesh Kumar, Anil Kumar, Laxmikant, Raju, Dharmendra Kumar, and Rampal. The victims have been admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida.The accident led to a traffic jam on the expressway for about half an hour, the officials said. However, the police personnel placed barricades and signalled other vehicles to stop to avoid a pile up. The police team later removed the two damaged vehicles from the spot and cleared the road.According to the police, the passengers, who escaped unhurt, boarded other buses and left the spot while some others were picked up by their friends and relatives from the accident spot. Pandey said that the police have not received any complaint in this regard. Last week, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority had directed for reducing the speed limit on the Yamuna Expressway to 75 kmph from 100 kmph in view of foggy weather conditions. This has come into force from December 15 and will continue till February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/14-people-injured-as-truck-hits-bus-on-yamuna-expressway/story-XQ5yFAVOZxOJYW5SdeU7VL.html
19-12-2020||Noida||Cold wave persists, Noida temperature falls by three degrees||Noida: Cold wave weather conditions continued in Noida and neighbouring areas on Saturday, as the mercury fell by at least three degrees over the past 24 hours. According to weather analysts, cold wave conditions will continue on Sunday, and return from Tuesday December 22 again after a short breather on Monday. On Saturday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 5.1 degrees Celsius against 8.1 degrees a day earlier. The maximum temperature was recorded at 21 degrees, same as a day earlier, said officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Meanwhile, the minimum temperature for the national Capital region, based on the Safdarjung observatory, was 3.9 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s average, against 4.6 degrees a day earlier.“Icy cold winds will continue their effect on the region towards Sunday as well, with the minimum temperature likely to hover around 5 degrees Celsius and the maximum around 22 degrees Celsius, respectively,” said an official from IMD. Experts said that the mercury will, however, rise by two to three degrees on Monday, briefly pulling the region out of the cold wave situation. “There is a western disturbance expected to cause light snowfall or drizzle over the Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. The western disturbance will create an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan, leading to a change in the wind directions over the NCR from icy-cold north-westerly to easterly and south-easterly on Monday. The change in winds will lead to a rise in mercury,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet. He added that the change in wind directions will be short lived as they will revert to the icy-cold north-westerly winds coming from Himalayan states, leading to drop in the mercury. “The wind directions will revert to north-westerly from Tuesday, which may lead to another series of cold-wave from Tuesday, December 22, or Wednesday onwards,” said Palawat. Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida entered the “very poor” category on Saturday, while Greater Noida and Ghaziabad were under “poor” category. Noida has been oscillating between the “moderate” and “poor” category since December 14. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Saturday was 301 or “very poor” against 288 or “poor” a day earlier. Greater Noida’s air quality was 292 against 297 a day earlier, both “poor”. The AQI of Ghaziabad improved from 304 or “very poor” a day earlier to 295 or “poor” on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cold-wave-persists-noida-temperature-falls-by-three-degrees/story-EkjT7JrYjHjrg545kr7NML.html
19-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad plans ropeway system for local commute, feeder to metro stations||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) has planned to develop aerial “urban passenger ropeway” links, which will provide better short-distance mode of commute and also serve as feeders for the metro system in the city. Authority officials said that on Friday, they floated an expression of interest (EOI) for the preparation of a techno-feasibility study and a detailed project report (DPR) for the project. At present, the city has two metro links, which connect commuters from Vaishali to Anand Vihar and Dilshad Garden to New Bus Adda (Shaheed Sthal). The authority, in its EOI, has specified three routes – New Bus Adda to Ghaziabad railway station, Mohan Nagar to Vaishali, and Electronic City to Vaishali – for the ropeway project. “During a recent meeting, the chief minister directed for finding alternate modes for local commute. So, we decided to go for the ropeway system and the cost per kilometre is estimated to be about Rs 35-70 crore. The EOI has been floated and once the DPR is prepared, it will be sent to the state government,” said Kanchan Verma, the vice-chairperson of the authority. Ropeway is a transport system for ferrying goods or people especially used in mountainous areas or mines, wherein the carrier cars are suspended with the help of moving cables, powered by a motor system. Such ropeways or cable car systems are already in operation in Haridwar and have also been proposed for Ayodhya. A 16km ropeway route is also popular in La Paz in Bolivia. “It is proposed for short distance commuting and will also serve as a feeder system for metro stations in the city. It is being thought of for two proposed extensions – Vaishali to Mohan Nagar and Electronic City to Mohan Nagar – will take time for construction. The ropeway system will help out local commuters,” Verma added. In all, the Ghaziabad city has 10 operational metro stations. Officials said that the New Bus Adda to Dilshad Garden route has no direct connectivity with the Vaishali metro. Likewise, the New Bus Adda has no further extension towards the city, besides which, many commuters willing to go to Vaishali metro station from Indirapuram and Vasundhara have to use their own vehicle or change autos. “Commuters face daily hassles, and this is why the authority has planned the ropeway system which requires less funding and less space in terms of land than the metro. For instance, we cannot extend the New Bus Adda metro towards Ghaziabad railway station as the route has less space and is highly congested. Besides, there is also a flyover at the central verge. The ropeway will be more feasible and it will also be at a lesser cost than the per kilometre cost of metro system,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner. The GDA officials clarified that the proposed ropeway system will be a “self-sustaining model” and will be developed on the basis of a public-private partnership model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-plans-ropeway-system-for-local-commute-feeder-to-metro-stations/story-gpmeXg7hYMNISJCFeNvcQM.html
19-12-2020||Noida||Farmers continue sit-in at Chilla, traffic diverted||Noida: Farmers gathered at the Chilla border to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws on Saturday continued their sit-in protest. As a result, the traffic going from Noida to Delhi remained diverted via the DND flyway.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting at the Chilla border (Noida-Delhi link road) for the past nearly three weeks. Members of Bhanu faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have been camping at the Chilla border after they were stopped from entering Delhi.On Saturday, the BKU (Bhanu) supporters were joined by a small group of farmers from Telangana. “A larger delegation will also join us in the coming days. If the government had thought that the movement would lose its momentum, they were wrong,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU (Bhanu).The number of protesting farmers at the Chilla border are swelling, as a group of farmers from UP’s Etah had joined the group on Friday night.The border had opened on December 13 before the traffic from Noida to Delhi was once again blocked on December 16 after the farmers alleged that their supporters were being illegally detained in the state. The Noida-Delhi side was opened on Saturday for a brief period to let a medical emergency vehicle pass through, the police said.On Saturday evening, farmers camped at the border also burnt some copies of the new farm laws and a letter from the minister of agriculture to the farmers.“We don’t need them to write letters to us. We need them to talk to us and listen to the problems that we are facing and then take steps to improve them. The cold weather no longer affects us. We are going to remain here until the government takes some action in our favour,” said Singh. The BKU (Bhanu) leader was on a hunger strike which he had broken on Thursday. The members of the BKU (Lok Shakti) camped at the Dalit Prerna Sthal are also on an indefinite hunger strike. They were joined on Saturday by the local transgender community that gave cultural performances to boost the morale of the protestors.Meanwhile, with one side of the border remaining closed, traffic continues to be diverted through the DND flyway.“Traffic is moving steadily through alternate routes. The protestors were joined yesterday by a group from Etah. Police is on high alert to manage any law and order situation and we are monitoring the developments,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-continue-sit-in-at-chilla-traffic-diverted/story-cgjX5UJ0WYLj5tqOs0noyH.html
19-12-2020||Noida||At UP Gate, farmer leaders ask volunteers to gear up for ‘long fight’||Ghaziabad: Leaders of various farmer organisations protesting at the UP Gate in Ghaziabad on Saturday asked their supporters to prepare for a “prolonged agitation” and also suggested measures so that the ongoing protests go on without any disruption. Thousands of farmers have been occupying the UP Gate border area since November 28 to press for their demand for rollback of the Centre’s three new farm laws. The farmers’ leaders said that the Bharatiya Janata Party has been organising ‘kisan’ meetings across the country to publicise the benefits of farm bills, and it seems that the ongoing agitation will get prolonged but they are prepared for it. “The government is not inclined to take back the farm laws and has been publicising their benefits. So, it appears that the fight will continue and you must prepare for a long fight. Those willing to join the protest here should come just like the farmers of Punjab. So, you spend couple of days here and return, while other groups will come here,” said Rakesh Tikait, leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). He told the farmers that the protest as well as work in the field back home should continue. “We have asked them to keep an eye on the protests at Delhi borders, and if the situation demands they should be able to arrive here within 3-4 hours. Here we have provision of electricity and we also have solar panels. Our volunteers also ensure that outsiders or any disturbing elements get spotted at the outset. Further, we must tell the media persons about our issues so that more people become aware of our problems,” Tikait added. Thousands of farmers from UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand have joined protests at the UP Gate and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the National Highway-9 since December 3. “Our farmers’ associations have given a joint call to pay tributes to our members who have died during the agitation, and everyone has been asked to remember them from 11am to 1pm in whatever way they can. When the court has already said that protest can go on peacefully, tractor-trolleys are getting stopped and other coercive measures are being taken to stop them. If this continues, ten times more people will come and try to enter Delhi,” said Sardar VM Singh, a prominent farmer leader who heads the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan. The farmer leaders further said that they have a fight with the Centre and not with any state government. “We have no fight with governments of UP and Uttarakhand. So, they must not stop our tractor-trolleys. Some of our vehicles have been stopped in different districts that include Rampur, Bareilley and Amroha, among others. If they do so, we have directed our district volunteers to ensure that such trolleys move ahead from such districts. The government representatives are going in villages while we are in Delhi. Let them come back to Delhi and we will talk to them,” Tikait said. However, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that there have been no incidents of stoppage of tractor-trolleys in the district. “We are in regular talks with the farmers’ leaders and there is no issue of any stoppage of their tractor-trolleys in Ghaziabad. We are ensuring that their protest remains peaceful,” he said.Chandra Mohan, BJP’s state unit spokesperson, said that they are getting good response for the farm bills in villages across UP. “We are holding meetings with farmers to tell them about the benefits of the new farm laws. Most of the farmers are with the government. Also, our government has not tried to stop any tractor-trolley of farmers,” he said.Meanwhile, the farmers’ leaders on Saturday reiterated that the farm laws be rolled back and a new law on MSP should be enacted, otherwise the farmers will stay put and continue their protests. There have been at least six rounds of talks between the central government and the farmers’ leaders, but have failed to end the stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-up-gate-farmer-leaders-ask-volunteers-to-gear-up-for-long-fight/story-bGtBSOxS7MqIPvA9K3A25K.html
19-12-2020||City||Cauliflower prices come crashing down in Ludhiana as farmers’ protest causes veggie glut||The price of cauliflower, which till a few months ago was being sold at Rs 50/kg, has gone as low as Rs 2 in the wholesale market of Ludhiana. This free fall has been attributed to the glut-like situation resulting out of farmers’ protest at Delhi borders.Rajinder Kumar, an arhtiya, said as the routes leading to Delhi are closed due to the farmers’ stir, vegetables are being dumped in the wholesale mandis of Ludhiana. “Earlier, vegetables from the neighbouring states used to be transported to Delhi. Farmers from Ludhiana were also selling their produce in the capital. But nowadays, instead of selling their crop in mandis or directly to customers, farmers are dumping it in the wholesale market before leaving to join the protesters at Singhu and Tikri borders,” the arhtiya added. Same is the story of radish and carrot, which are being sold for Rs 2/kg and Rs 5/kg, respectively. The rates of onion and potatoes have also seen a dip, with the former being sold at Rs 20/kg and the latter settled at Rs 10/kg. Peas are currently available for Rs 12 to Rs 13/kg and so is pumpkin. Karam Singh of Ek Allahi village in Khanna said he was getting about Rs 1.5 for a kilogram of cauliflower. “If I include the expenditure of harvesting and transportation of cauliflower, one kilogram of crop costs me Rs 4 to Rs 6. I am running into losses. If vegetable rates don’t spring back, I will be left with no other option but to run tractor on my next cycle of crop which is due for harvest by next week,” he added. Sahnewal’s Gurpreet Singh also airs a similar plight. He said that he had sold cauliflower between Rs 15 to Rs 25kg earlier this year. “Now, I am getting merely Rs 2/kg. Due to the protest, I could not take my produce to Delhi. So I have donated some of the crop to community kitchen for preparing langar,” Gurpreet said. Prof Raj Kumar from the economic department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) said the cost of cultivating a kilogram of cauliflower is about Rs 4.5 to Rs 5.Prof Tarsem Singh Dhillon of PAU’s vegetable sciences department, meanwhile, sought rate regulation of the perishable crops to protect farmers from fluctuating prices.“It is not the first time that vegetable growers are facing losses. This, in fact, is primarily the reason why farmers shift to wheat and paddy as these two crops offer assured price,” Dhillion added. Hemant Dhawan, another vegetable arhtiya, said he has witnessed the slump in vegetables prices for the first time. “Be it radish, carrot, onion or potato, prices of all vegetables have crashed and strangely, there are not enough buyers,” Hemant said. However, while the wholesale rates are nosediving, vendors are selling vegetables at premium prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cauliflower-prices-come-crashing-down-in-ludhiana-as-farmers-protest-causes-veggie-glut/story-Ae57t3xHq2c0IHmIwvUKUM.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Over 15,000 schools reopened across Maharashtra with 10 lakh students||Almost a month after the state allowed schools to reopen, the number of students resuming regular classes is increasing while schools attempt to meet the challenges posed by the pandemic. Schools were allowed to reopen from November 23, provided they followed guidelines laid down by the state government. According to the state education department, more than 15,000 schools have reopened and over 10 lakh students have been attending classes as of December 14. More than 90% of schools in districts such as Gadchiroli, Osmanabad, Satara, Solapur, Jalgaon and Nanded have reopened.As per data shared by the state education department on December 3, a total of 1,51,539 teachers and 56,034 non-teaching staff in schools across the state underwent reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to check their Covid status before schools reopened. Of these, 2,212 teachers and 682 non-teaching staff tested positive. Officials said so far, no Covid-positive cases have been reported among students since schools reopened.Balasaheb Wagh, principal at New English School Koregaon, Ahmednagar, said, several students requested certain topics that were taught online be repeated. “Students said they did not understand a few concepts well in the online mode and even the teachers realised that there was no point going ahead unless previous doubts are cleared,” said Wagh. Manoj Mothe, teacher at Latur’s Deshikendra Vidyalay, said, “Many parents requested us to repeat what was taught. We are trying to revise the syllabus and finish what is left at the same time. Every day, we are calling students for four hours.” Most schools HT spoke to said they were seeing a steady increase in the number of students in attendance. However, convincing parents to send their children to school remains a challenge. “Parents had genuine concerns, which we had to hear. For instance, many said they were worried about sending their children as there were senior citizens or people with ailments at home and they were worried about the risks involved,” said GG Ahire, principal of Tilak High School in Karad, Satara. The school has seen nearly 50% attendance over the last few weeks and has offered both online and offline options to students. “Our school timetable is shared with students who wish to continue online and teachers live stream the entire class for such students. This avoids duplication of efforts and students get the feel of being in a classroom and get to solve their doubts then and there,” Ahire said. Balu Bhoyar, principal, Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur, said teachers are also working with students who struggled to adjust to online classes. “Special attention can be given to such students to ensure they do not face any learning hurdles,” said Bhoyar.Adhering to the mandatory safety protocols means longer working hours for schools’ staff, many of whom must now come at least two hours before working hours. “We reach the school at 8.30am even as children are called at 10am. We have to get the entire premises sanitised and make sure students enter in a systematic fashion, wear masks and have their temperatures checked. We are new to this routine, but are slowly making it a habit,” said Wagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-15-000-schools-reopened-across-maharashtra-with-10-lakh-students/story-XCYNtQsn81TiYoOb2Y7dgP.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Declare Christmas holidays, schools urge Maharashtra education department||Schools in Maharashtra have requested the state education department to grant Christmas vacations for teachers and students to give them a break from online classes. Recently, several teachers requested the department to give them at least a week-long break like many schools give during the festival every year. “Students are tired due to the online classes that began in June this year. Due to the Covid-19 situation everyone is cooped up at home, so some break is definitely needed. The department has not given an academic calendar this year, thus making it difficult for schools to plan their year. We request that the department at least asks schools to not conduct exams or any sort of assessment this month,” said Rajesh Pandya from Teachers Democratic Front. Several schools in the city generally declare holidays each year for Christmas and New Year with schools remaining shut between December 24 and January 1. While some schools have given classes a break even this year, teachers said an official policy was needed for everyone to be able to implement it. “Just like the government announced Diwali break, we are hoping that they give at least a few days off for Christmas,” said a teacher from a convent school in the suburbs. An official from the state education department said, “A decision is yet to be taken in this regard.”Over the past few months, teachers have been requesting the education department to give them an academic calendar for the current year as classes continue to remain online this year. “In the absence of a calendar, each school is following its own schedule and there is absolutely no uniformity whatsoever,” said the teacher of an aided school in Dahisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/declare-christmas-holidays-schools-urge-maharashtra-education-department/story-7kkXzhyJTjJItaDykD8yLK.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests murder accused on the run for six years||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested a 37-year-old man accused in a murder case who has been on the run since the past six years. The accused identified as Jebastian alias Zabba Koyal Piche Nadar, along with his two associates, had allegedly killed Kartik Nadar in Dharavi area in 2015. Thereafter, he fled from the city and was hiding at his native place in Tamil Nadu.Nadar, who had hold in Dharavi area, along with his two associates had allegedly assaulted Kartik with iron rods over previous enmity leading to Kartik’s death. Dharavi police had then arrested his associates.In 2014, Nadar was also wanted in attempt to murder case registered by Wagle Estate police station in Thane. According to police, he was involved in at least 10 cases of assault and attempt to murder in Dharavi and Wadala area, said inspector Yogesh Chavan of crime branch unit 5.Due to his terror in the area, he was externed from Mumbai in 2005 for two years. After the Dharavi murder, he started living in Tamil Nadu but used to visit Thane and lived in Kalwa, said Chavan. Police got a tip-off that he was coming to meet his friend in Sion on Friday, following which unit 5 officers laid a trap and arrested him, said Chavan. He was later handed over to Dharavi police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-murder-accused-on-the-run-for-six-years/story-d9QPvSIf1nkHojEPtFXRZI.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Inc seeks Centre’s intervention over hiked raw material rates||Disconcerted by the steep hike in price of raw material amid the pandemic, the industrialists here have urged the Centre to step in to bring some relief otherwise nearly half of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector would face closure.Under the banner of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), the industrialists on Saturday stated that their working conditions were turning unviable and they were not able to meet even the previously made commitments and contracts on low rates. Production has already decreased and the hike in raw material rates could increase the price of finished products, they rued.According to a survey conducted by the industrialists in the last five months, the price of stainless steel has increased by 32 percent (Rs 200/kg hike), aluminium by 26 percent (Rs 210/kg hike), and natural rubber by 52 percent (Rs 156/kg hike). Rates of copper, which is a key component for the MSME sector, has witnessed a hike of Rs 600/kg, which comes to around 77 percent hike. The rate of steel at present is highest in the last 12 years.Stating that large quantities of steel is being exported by India, the industrialists demanded that the Union government should suspend the export for at least six months and no duty should be imposed on import. They also asked for tightening the noose around cartelisation by the big players, which is one of the major reasons behind the price hike.Industrialist Avtar Singh Bhogal said, “The frequent fluctuations in the prices are taking a toll on the industry. If we book an order and the rates of raw material witness a steep hike, we land in trouble and are forced to bear losses on our previous commitments.”“Steel rates have gone up across the world because the iron ore mines remained closed due to lockdown. However, the hike is 25 percent in other countries, while in India, the rates of different types of steel have been increased by around 45 percent. The demand of steel products is high but we are forced to bring down production due to the hike in raw material rates,” said Hand Tools Association president SC Ralhan.The industrialists said if the conditions prevail for some more time, 50 percent of the MSME sector will face closure, which will push around 5 crore staff/labourers towards unemployment.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Sharma said that the industry is already struggling due to the ongoing pandemic and the hike in raw material rates has added to their woes.Sharma stated that Union minister Nitin Gadkari had also raised concern over the issue in the recent past, while Ahuja said, “We will take up the matter with the Union government and ministry of steel in the coming days. The government needs to stop export of steel for a certain period to save the local industry.”‘Make in India campaign ignored’ The industrialists also slammed the Centre for allegedly ignoring the Make in India campaign by allowing huge steel exports to China even when the local industry is in dire need.CICU publicity secretary JS Bhogal said, “Large quantities of steel is being exported to China, which is a major competitor for bicycle parts, hardware, auto component, hand tools and sewing machine industry in the international market. The cost of final products being exported from India is increasing due to the hike in raw material prices, but China is not hiking the rates, which makes it difficult for us to survive globally. Even when we are not in good terms with China, we are benefitting China through exports.”Form price control panel: FICOFederation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) also warned that the MSME sector will collapse if the central government failed to intervene and ban steel export. FICO members demanded that the Union government should constitute a price monitoring committee to control the rates of essential raw material like steel. FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “Ludhiana is a manufacturing hub of bicycle, its components and engineering products. The steep hike in raw material prices in the pandemic has hit the industry hard. The price of steel, copper, CRCA steel, craft paper, zinc and brass has increased by 40-50 percent since August and it is expected to rise further in the coming weeks. The MSME sector will not be able to survive and will be forced to shut down. The government should constitute a monitoring committee to control the hike in prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-inc-seeks-centre-s-intervention-over-hiked-raw-material-rates/story-7YA8zC3ieeblGaAEEe1iUO.html
19-12-2020||City||Ban on outsourcing staff: Future of 43 JEs, SDOs in Ludhiana hangs in balance||With the Punjab local bodies department stopping the municipal corporation (MC) from appointing outsourced staff, as many as 43 outsourced junior engineers (JE) and sub-divisional officers (SDO) are on the tenterhooks about their future. The term of these officials, working in the bridges and roads (B and R), light and horticulture wings of MC, ended in June. In the absence of a formal extension of their services, they have been working without pay since July.Some have even stopped reporting for work, leaving MC grappling with acute staff shortage. Earlier, the local bodies department had also delayed the extension of 20 JEs and SDOs working in the operations and maintenance (O&M) cell. But, it was allowed later. One of the SDO, requesting anonymity said, “We have received nothing but false assurances that the contracts will be renewed. While MC failed to renew the contracts, the local bodies department has also issued a letter refraining it from outsourcing staff.”“A lot of outsourced staff are not coming to work due to uncertainty over disbursal of salaries since July. It has become difficult to make ends meet. Worse, MC’s work has also been affected. Even if MC starts development works, there will be no staff to monitor them,” the official said.Mayor Balkar Sandhu had met local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra in this regard on Thursday and sought that MC be allowed to outsource its manpower and extend the contracts of employees required to continue so as to keep a check on the quality of works underway across the city.“Mayors from Amritsar, Patiala and Jalandhar were also present in the meeting, where minister Mohindra assured to find a solution soon,” said Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-outsourcing-staff-future-of-43-jes-sdos-in-ludhiana-hangs-in-balance/story-WZJzvhWsGG3Aktbof20DfI.html
19-12-2020||City||Ludhiana youth stabbed for bursting fireworks on Diwali dies||Stabbed in the stomach and chest over bursting of firecrackers on Diwali, a 22-year-old man succumbed to his injuries on Friday night after struggling for life for over a month. The victim, Monu of New Madhopuri, was admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh.According to police, Monu, a factory worker, hailed from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, and lived on a factory premises with his parents and two siblings.His father, Dinesh Kumar, told the police that Monu was bursting firecrackers outside the factory on November 14 when their neighbour, Rohit, started hurling abuses at him. “After a spat, Rohit left the spot, only to return with a knife. He stabbed Monu in the stomach, chest and arms with the knife and fled,” Dinesh alleged.“I had rushed Monu to the civil hospital, where sensing his critical condition, doctors referred him to PGIMER. But, he died on Friday night,” the father rued.On Saturday, the family said they will not cremate the body till the accused was arrested. Despite police efforts to pacify them, they remained relentless. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO, Daresi police station, said they had added the murder section in the FIR already lodged against Rohit, adding that he will be arrested soon.Parents forced to skip daughter’s weddingAccording to Dinesh, he had to borrow Rs 2 lakh for his son’s treatment and therefore could not afford to pay for the marriage of Monu’s elder sister that was scheduled on December 16. While Dinesh and his wife were taking care of their son in Chandigarh, his daughter’s maternal uncle paid for the wedding expenses.Following the attack on Monu, his younger brother, a student of Class 8, was also forced to leave school and started working in a factory to support his family financially. Dinesh said Monu wanted his brother to study further and used to pay for the expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-youth-stabbed-for-bursting-fireworks-on-diwali-dies/story-E2AV5CnHUmMfrjueu1siCP.html
19-12-2020||City||Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament: Ludhiana, Jalandhar continue winning spree on Day 2||Players of Ludhiana 11 and Jalandhar 11 continued their winning spree as both emerged victorious after defeating their opponents in almost one-sided contests on the grounds of Hara Cricket Club and GRD Academy here on Saturday.Ludhiana 11 defeated Mohali Legends by 7 wickets on the second day of the ongoing Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament. Though Mohali Legends won the toss and decided to bat first, their innings was in a shambles from the very beginning as they lost wickets at regular intervals and were all out for 92 in 19.4 overs.Ravi Inder Singh, who has also played for the Ranji Trophy, scored 20 runs, which was the highest individual score from the side. Sahin contributed with 17 runs. For Ludhiana, left-arm spinner Gurmeher Singh was the ‘wrecker-in-chief’ with 5 for 14 in 3.4 overs. He was ably supported by Harshit Takkar’s 2 for 16.Ludhiana 11 finished the match with 93 for 3 in 15.3 overs, winning by 7 wickets. Dipin Chitkara (33 runs of 20 balls, 3 fours and 2 sixes) and Sunny Pandey 31 not out of 30 balls (4 fours and 1 six) were instrumental in achieving the target and gaining 2 points for their team. Ludhiana 11 at present tops the group with 4 points from 2 matches. Spinner Gurmeher was declared man of the match for his brilliant bowling.Jalandhar defeats Patiala Colts HRCF In the second match held at GRD Academy ground, Patiala Colts HRCF won the toss and decided to bat first. But they were in deep trouble from the start as they kept losing wickets and were restricted to 84 all out in 19.4 overs. Fatehveer Singh scored 33 runs in 41 balls.For Jalandhar, medium pacer Harit Sachar claimed 4 for 13 in 3 overs. Aryan Mehra claimed two wickets for 11 run and Arun Kalia sent two players to pavilion for 19 runs. While batting, Jalandhar achieved the target in 14.5 overs for the loss of 3 wickets. Opener Azam Nazar scored a half century (52 in 55 balls) studded with 7 brilliant fours, while Arun Kalia supported him with 19 runs in 17 balls. Harit Sachar of Jalandhar 11 was declared man of the match. With this win Jalandhar got 2 points.Match Schedule for today Mohali Legends vs Amandeep Club Amritsar at GRD Academy groundPatiala Colts HRFC vs Malwa Heroes at Hara cricket ground||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trident-cup-t20-cricket-tournament-ludhiana-jalandhar-continue-winning-spree-on-day-2/story-tf5BZGGScjxBiOC5azZckK.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL jumps on social media bandwagon||Catching up with the times, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to join the social media bandwagon to provide better access to its consumers. Now, one can contact the state power corporation on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp, and through the customer care email and mobile app.The move is a part of a comprehensive plan chalked out by the department to ensure quality, reliable and uninterrupted power supply to all its consumers, especially on the farming and industrial sector, during the upcoming paddy season.PSPCL chairperson-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad visited Ludhiana on Saturday to take stock of all pre-preparations. Central Ludhiana, chief engineer (distribution) Bhupinder Khosla received him.Prasad took stock of the working of the electricity fuse at the call centre in Chaura Bazaar and Janta Nagar (both respond to toll free number 1912). He said, “ To earn consumers’ trust, it is important to hear their complaints and resolve them immediately. Thus, the PSPCL has set up a round-the-clock electricity call centre and erected a new building for the same at the 66KV gas-insulated substation kilovolt substation at Chaura Bazaar in Ludhiana.“Apart from registering a complaint by calling or sending an SMS at 1912, the consumer can also use the PSPCL mobile application to register and track status of complaints, which will provide feedback on complaint resolution. If not satisfied, the consumer can also contact PSPCL through the customer care email (1912@pspcl.in), Facebook (fb.com/pspclpb), Twitter (twitter.com/PSPCLPb), Instagram (instagram.com/PSPCLPb) or Whatsapp at 96461-06835,” Prasad said.He said that a special control room had been setup to deal with complaints during the paddy season. One can contact the paddy control room at 96461-06835 or 96461-06836 to get their complaints registered and redressed.Prasad also inspected the position of the 220 KV power system transmission network lines,66 KV lines and grids feeding Ludhiana city and surrounding areas under the central zone. He studied the different works in progress including the de-loading of the 220 KV gausgarh substation by connecting the 220 KV Ladowal-Gausgarh line.He asked the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) officers to expedite the augmentation of the 220/66 KV transformer and the 160 mega-volt ampere (MVA) transformer at BBMB, Jamalpur, so that the industrial consumers feeding from 66 KV Chandigarh Road and other high-end 66 KV industrial consumers at Industry Focal Point Ludhiana do not get a restricted load.He also directed the officers to ensure that the repair and maintenance of transmission lines, grids, substations and transformers is completed at the earliest. He said overloaded transformers’ supplying power to tubewells should be de-loaded in advance without delay to facilitate consumers in rural areas. He said directions had already been issued to field officers to complete the developmental works by January 15, 2021, and to solve problems of transmission lines and transformers and tree cuttings well in time.He also directed the chief engineer (stores) and the local PSPCL workshop to ensure every material required to tackle any power-related exigency was available. While appealing consumers to deposit their electricity bills on time, Prasad also directed officers to expedite the recovery of arrears of bills from erring consumers since PSPCL is a commercial organisation, which requires financial resources to provide reliable and uninterrupted electricity to 96 lakhs consumers in the state.He also appealed the consumers to report power theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pspcl-jumps-on-social-media-bandwagon/story-GNLDKN15I0kcOibh2DqryM.html
19-12-2020||Gurugram||BJP members hold one-day fast on SYL Canal issue||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday held a one-day fast in support of state farmers on the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal matter, which has remained stuck for the several years owing to a dispute between the states of Punjab and Haryana. The BJP leaders in Gurugram, who congregated at Rajiv Chowk on Saturday morning, said that issue of SYL Canal was crucial for the agriculturists to prosper in Haryana, but the decision of the apex court has not been implemented for many years. A large number of farmers and party workers from rural areas, including Pataudi, Tauru and Sohna, joined the fast, said party leaders. Sudhir Singla, Gurugram member of legislative assembly, who attended the protest along with other party functionaries, said that farmers in Haryana have been denied their share of Sutlej water and it is time that the directions of the Supreme Court are implemented. “The farmers in Haryana must get their share of water for agriculture. As far as farm protests are concerned, the Central government has shown considerable flexibility,” said Singla.Gargi Kakkar, district BJP president, said that around 4,000 farmers and workers from across the district participated in the protest. “The rights of the farmers of Haryana need to be supported. Farmers’ protests have become more political as people realise that the primary agenda is to malign the government and influence elections in other states,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bjp-members-hold-one-day-fast-on-syl-canal-issue/story-6khInITsHxM7IPaSeax2FM.html
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Duo arrested, phones worth Rs 50 lakh recovered||The police have arrested two alleged thieves and recovered 38 iPhones worth Rs 50 lakh from their possession. The police said that the duo worked at the warehouse of an e-commerce delivery platform in Bilaspur and has stolen 78 iPhones worth Rs 1 crore, by taking advantage of the relaxation in physical checks during the lockdown to stall the transmission of Covid-19.They were produced in court on Saturday and sent to one-day police remand.The city police on Saturday identified the two accused as Ansar Ul Haq and Nawab Singh, both residents of Nuh, and were arrested on Thursday and Friday, respectively. The police said that the duo had hidden 38 mobile phones and they had planned to sell them in the near future. The phones were recovered on their instance, said officials, adding that they have taken them on a one-day remand.“The duo was working at a warehouse and during the lockdown, they managed to steal expensive smartphones as there was no physical checking due to Covid-19. The accused would throw the boxes in the warehouse after taking the mobile phones from the boxes. By the time the company came to know of the theft in September, the duo had quit the job,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), Gurugram.The police said an official of the e-commerce company had complained to the Bilaspur police on November 7, stating that they have found 78 empty boxes of expensive iPhones and that these were stolen from the warehouse. A case was registered and the crime unit of Sector 10 and the police started a probe in the matter.The accused were arrested after sustained technical and human surveillance. During questioning, they revealed the modus operandi used by them, said officials.“During the investigation, the role of two more persons has also been found and they would also be arrested soon,” said Sangwan, adding that the remaining phones will also be recovered from their associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/duo-arrested-phones-worth-rs-50-lakh-recovered/story-qkj5WfvDgxFafhXBUCOW4N.html
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Vij stable but still in ICU||The health condition of Haryana home minister Anil Vij remains stable, as per the health bulletin issued by the state health department on Saturday.The vital parameters of Vij, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Medanta Hospital, are stable. “Though he is still in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on high flow nasal cannula oxygen support, doctors are satisfied with his response to treatment,” the Saturday bulletin read.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, and doctors from Medanta, Dr Deepak Govil and Dr Sushila Kataria, examined Vij on Saturday morning and advised to continue the same treatment.The chief minister, who was in the city on Saturday, also visited Vij at the hospital.Since December 15, Vij has been undergoing treatment in Gurugram for lung infection due to Covid-19. He was admitted to the ICU after being shifted from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak.Tests conducted on Vij so far have shown normal functioning of the liver and kidney. On Friday, doctors said that his oxygen requirement and respiratory rate have reduced, while his blood investigation results have improved.Vij, 67, who is also Haryana’s health minister, tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5. He was admitted to Civil Hospital in Ambala and later to PGIMS, Rohtak, after he was detected with Covid-19 pneumonia, which led to lung infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/vij-stable-but-still-in-icu/story-acT5wmPUkU3E1xzfEPV2rL.html
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Weekly test positivity rate down to 4.2%||With a constant decline in daily Covid-19 cases over the last week has brought down the weekly test positivity rate (TPR) — total positives out of the tests conducted — to around 4.2%, which is lower than the threshold level of almost 5%, indicating that the coronavirus transmission is under control. According to the district health bulletin, Gurugram has recorded 187 new infections, on an average, per day, over the last week. On Saturday, 151 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the total tally to 55, 638. The Covid-19 toll stands at 139. No deaths were reported on Saturday.Over the previous week, from December 6 to 12, the TPR remained at 6.8%, with an average of 356 new cases recorded daily.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a positivity rate of less than 5% indicates that the epidemic is under control. A higher TPR is usually an indication of higher transmission in the community, with chances of more people having contracted the virus but not having been tested.On Saturday, 6,344 tests were administered, with the health department continuing with its strategy of conducting the maximum number of tests in the week every Saturday. This week, 4,472 tests, on an average, were administered daily, which is almost 23% lower than the average of over 5,800 tests per day between December 6 and 12. As per the health department, over 93% of the tests administered were of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), which is the gold standard test for Covid-19.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that increased testing over the last month has helped in lowering the TPR. “The TPR is now below 5%. If 4,000 tests are being administered, only 2% are being detected positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. The department is doing sufficient testing compared to the number of people who are getting infected,” said Yadav.The downward trend in new infections and a high recovery rate, of almost 96%, has also led to an overall decline in active cases. Currently, Gurugram has 1,586 active cases, of whom 1,425 are in home isolation, while 157 are seriously-ill and undergoing treatment in private hospitals and four in district Covid care centres. Considering the decline in hospitalisation, the district administration on December 15 reduced the reserved bed capacity from 50% to 35%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-weekly-test-positivity-rate-down-to-4-2/story-ugSyU80a96GSjX7fI8Y1eJ.html
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers will pay tribute to those who died during agitation||Farmers protesting along the Delhi-Jaipur national highway against the new farm laws on Saturday said that they will pay tribute to fellow protesters, who have died during the agitation, on Sunday.Addressing a press conference from the protest site at Jaisinghpura-Khera village, near Shahajahanpur in Alwar of Rajasthan, farmer leaders criticised the country’s leaders over the laws and reiterated their demand for a rollback. They said that tribute meetings would be organised in villages and towns across the country on Sunday.“Lakhs of farmers are now on the streets surrounding Delhi amid the severe cold. They are braving the cold and other obstacles created by the government, as they are determined to achieve their goal. Their only demand is that the three anti-farmer laws should be revoked,” said a farmer leader, protesting under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Farmers from Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Haryana have been protesting near the Haryana-Rajasthan border on the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past seven days, after the Rewari police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi.Farmers at the site said that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) that they receive for important crops.Sanjay Madhav, the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that meetings will be organised on Sunday to recognise the sacrifices made by farmers since the agitation started. “More farmers from Sikar, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh from Rajasthan arrived today with their tractor-trolleys. We are getting support from all social classes, who are pitching in with food and other resources,” said Madhav.Farmers protesting at the site have also made arrangements for buses to ferry farmers in Rajasthan between their homes and protest sites, free of charge.Harvinder Singh, a farmer from Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, said, “The free bus service will start tomorrow, from Hanumangarh. With this facility, more farmers will be able to join us and manage errands at home too,” said Singh, who is a member of Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti.He said that 25-30 tractors and trolleys from Sri Ganganagar district were not being allowed to reach the protest site by the Haryana Police.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, said that farmers were being misled by opposition parties and they were creating false apprehensions among the people, which the party would clear by reaching out to them. “The Congress, during its rule, had entered into agreements with private companies to store grains and same policies were endorsed in its manifesto,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-will-pay-tribute-to-those-who-died-during-agitation/story-QXvfEUb14iLPhiulh8AcKM.html
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Mercury hits season’s lowest at 3.8°C, day temperature rises||The minimum temperature in the city plummetted to 3.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, marking the lowest temperature so far this winter. The temperature was five degrees below the normal and a dip from the 4 degrees Celsius recorded the previous day.There was a slight relief for residents as the maximum temperature increased to 20.1 degrees Celsius on Saturday, from 18.4 degrees Celsius the previous day and 13.1 degrees Celsius the day before. However, as per the data, the maximum temperature was two degrees below the normal.Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) pointed to cold winds from snow-capped mountains as the cause for the drop in temperatures. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 20 degrees Celsius on Sunday as well, while the minimum temperature is also expected to stay around 4 degrees Celsius. As per the weekly forecast, shallow fog might prevail in the morning hours, followed by cloudy skies later in the day. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that cold wave conditions are likely to continue due to clear skies. “There may be some relief from cold wave around December 21, when another western disturbance is expected,” said Srivastava. The air quality in the city deteriorated slightly on Saturday, with a reading of 260 (“poor”) on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin, up from Friday’s AQI of 224, also in the ”poor” category. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5) — the city’s primary pollutant —was recorded at 178.9 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Saturday, as per the data from the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” to lower-end of “very poor” category on Sunday. On Monday, the air quality might stay in the lower-end of “very poor” category. Further, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the lower-end of “very poor” category over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mercury-hits-season-s-lowest-at-3-8-c-day-temperature-rises/story-eavUGwQLpS1EgzD7ed6phP.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Our Take: It’s up to us to ensure the success of the new waste collection system||In another attempt to effectively manage waste in the city the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will from Tuesday launch door-to-door collection of waste using twin bin vehicles.With UT administrator VP Singh Badnore inaugurating the drive, the vehicles will first cover sectors 1 to 30 as part of a three phase plan. Part two, covering the rest of the sectors, will begin from January 1 and the last phase on January 7, covering Manimajra.Until now, independent garbage collectors were lifting mixed waste from houses and commercial spaces. Earlier attempts to segregate waste fell flat as people refused to follow rules.Residents will now have to pay user charges to the MC and will also be penalised for mixing waste. The new system will take off ahead of the upcoming Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness survey).About 115 vehicles which will be used for collection in the first phase have reached the city and passed technical checks and 392 vehicles will join the fleet by the end of December.The move comes in a year when Chandigarh improved its Swachh Survekshan ranking to 16 from 20 last year. However, the city could not make it to the top 10 cleanest cities in the country for the second year in a row.Chandigarh last made it to the top slots in 2018 when it was adjudged the third cleanest.The reason for the city’s poor show is largely due to its waste management strategies, which are not up to scratch yet despite years of planning.Chandigarh’s experiment with the waste segregation plant at Dadumajra has so far been a fiasco, with the municipal corporation this year taking over from Jaypee.Now, hopefully, with stricter action, the segregation mission might finally be successful.Another issue that the city authorities need to resolve immediately is the manual garbage collectors’ plight. They have been demanding that they be allowed to lift waste and get paid 50% of the fine collected from defaulters.MC joint commissioner Anil Garg, sanitation committee chairman Rajesh Kalia and medical officer of health Dr Amrit Warring recently met representatives of the collectors.“We have heard them and will take up their demands with senior officers. We are already registering them with us as drivers and helpers in the twin-bin hopper vehicles,” Dr Warring has said.In a year with soaring unemployment rates because of Covid-19 lockdowns the administration and municipal corporation should ensure rehabilitation of each and every collector by integrating them into the system, help them work with dignity and earn enough to live a comfortable life.Meanwhile, it is up to each and every resident of Chandigarh to ensure the success of the new system and ensure the city once again tops the Swachh Survekshan rankings.WASTE NOTHow can success of door to door garbage collection be ensured?The new segregated waste collection system rolls out in Chandigarh from December 22. How can its success be ensured? Send your response with your photograph to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by December 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-our-take-let-s-ensure-the-success-of-the-new-waste-collection-system/story-CbfPtdFg6rC3tl0z8EDdWM.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: For whom the Jingle Bells scroll||Dear Santa, it’s that time of the year, but then this isn’t like any other year. As Xmas comes riding Pandemic season, that spells more woe than mistletoe and more things glum than cakes rum ‘n’ plum, hope you’ll understand if the Wishlist sounds Pandemic fixated.To script a wishlist that’s non-Covid centric would be like Edvard Munch painting his fabled self-portrait with nary a shade of the Spanish Flu he survived.Assuming, dear Santa, that you’re also in #WorkFromHome mode, here’s keeping scrolling down Wishlist 2020 short ‘n’ tweet:Of Words’ Worth & WishlistsDear Santa, since we Tweeple are suffering from not only overexposure to sanitisers but also another overdose – Pandemic Vocabulary Fatigue – for 2021, could you please gift us lingo-ism that’s better or battier?In Pandemic year-end, when Oxford English Dictionary seems suffering from a strange disorder, being at a ‘loss for words’, figuratively as much as literally, to name one “word of the year”, The New York Times has played it ‘safe’ and smart. It’s scripted a Short List of 20 phrases that defined Season 2020. From ‘blursday’ and ‘doomscrolling’ to ‘flatten the curve’ and ‘contact tracing’, making it to the list is all such sundry hashtag-ism hurled at us by Tamasha TV or Twitterverse, for better or adverse.Dear Santa, could you beat Shashi Tharoor at it and be the first to gift us a farrago of fancier catchphrase-ism for 2021? Or, if #WFH has made you lost ‘n’ lazy like most of us, could you simply tweak 2020’s vocabulary to make it battier if not better?F(l)atten the Curve: So sick are our cochlear compartments of being fed on this 2020 catchphrase that, dear Santa, could you gift its tweaked version – Fatten the Curve?Hopefully, this ‘Fatten the Curve’ narrative would drive ‘n’ define fattening of pay-packet curves or employment curves in 2021. As much as denoting the fiscal curve, #FattenTheCurve hashtagism could also hopefully herald fattening of the follicular curve on the balding pates of Lamba jis, Lally jis & Co.New (Ab)Normal: Again, so fatigued are we Twitterati at this catchphrase-ism called #NewNormal that, dear Santa, could you gift us tweaked newness – #NewAbnormal?‘New Abnormal’ could be a Godsend (or Santa-send) to describe our Pandemic-bestowed battiness better – such as dashing into the apartment or Mall lift with lightning speed one minute and darting out the next second, faster than an AK-47 bullet, upon seeing the strength of lift boarders touching a social distance-defying number of four or more.#NewAbnormal could also be more befitting for Pandemic’s paranoid quirkiness, such as Lockdown’s Lollitas & Co imagining themselves suffering ‘fatal’ breathlessness every time that jogger of a neighbour – drop-dead dashing dandy Khullar Junior or Khanna Junior – takes the breath away by breezing past few breaths away minus a mask, waddling like wannabe Usain Bolt.The curious case of “Will You Be My Quarantini?”Of Maskne & MeetIn a Corona-scape that also spawned cosmetic catchphrase-ism called ‘Maskne’ (mask-induced acne), dear Santa, could you gift masks to camouflage midlife blues, or at least midlife clues. Eyebrows or nostrils that betray more grey than Trump’s grey cells or wrinkles that’re erupting faster than the rash of OTT flicks.Dear Santa, since we’re pretty fatigued by Coronascape’s crap and many an app – Arogya Setu to Google Meet – could you please gift us life beyond Lockdown’s Living Room called Zoom?The curious case of more than Meet (s) the eye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-for-whom-the-jingle-bells-scroll/story-aJ0ppXEr1OJ4K5Nxst2bmK.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: You win some, you lose some||The battle of life is a long-drawn affair, for all human beings, relentless in its bombardment, with challenge upon challenge thrown at us, day after day. Yet there are sunny moments in each day, or most days, which cause us to smile and feel blessed. Some days actually end up leaving us feeling lighter, even satiated, at having conquered new ground or having made new friends. But on other days, those which only add to our list of lows, we might be forgiven for wishing that such days had never dawned at all.“You win some, you lose some”, goes the old saying. And in these philosophical words we find the answer to the seeming unfairness of life. Those who think they will always be on a high, might just discover that life will jolt them sooner than later. And those who are so despondent with their lot that they cannot visualise any light at the end of a tunnel, need to shake themselves out of their sense of despair. Life is imperfect after all. But it need not all be downhill. Sunlit, flowery, pathways will surely emerge along the way.The year 2020 has epitomised the mother of all worst-case scenarios. The pandemic and its severe impact upon the lives of people all over the world, whether they were infected or not, has left many rattled, even shattered. The pain and tragedy of families which have experienced illness and even loss of life, cannot be imagined by those who have been more fortunate. But the generic consensus is that the whole year has been a write off for everyone.Yet, will 2021 bring all the answers to mankind’s problems? Will pollution, disease, ignorance, poverty, petty politics, crime, and degradation of values, simply fade away? Indeed, the pandemic shows signs of relenting at last and the new year will offer hope that we have seen the worst of it. Things can only get better in the new year. Yet, the shades of grey and the incessant play of darkness and light will go on unendingly, will it not?Have we not found any moments of joy at all in the year 2020? Those who have not been affected by illness must surely have spent many more months of quality time with family and themselves. A new skill, a new art, a new hobby or a new outlook must have made its glorious entry into their existences, and brought some cheer with it. The very fact that mankind has been able to produce medical heroes from within its ranks who have combated the worst of the virus is a very heartening sign. Numerous common individuals, too many to name here, have inspired and led by example to help those who have needed an embalming intervention during this global crisis.Life is never black or white, after all. And it is not in the calendar but within us that the answers to greater happiness can be found. Those who can carry on unflinchingly despite the surmounting challenges that life keeps presenting as the years roll by, will win the greatest battle of them all, the battle of the mind. It is within us that triumph and turmoil coexist. And the choice is ours, whether to focus on the sunshine or the darkness in each situation.Walt Whitman said, “Keep your face towards the sunshine, and the shadows will fall behind.” The choice is actually ours, and not the making of our circumstances. We make of life what it ultimately becomes. We can forever focus on the black spots in our lives, or on the bright light that envelopes most of our days. Even in our worst moments, we can summon the resolve to bounce back, if we exercise our will power to the fullest.And on a lighter note, even India’s poorest ever cricket Test Match score of 36 All Out is being blamed on the year 2020! Team India had better salvage some pride in the second Test which begins on December 26, Boxing Day, at Melbourne. The players, the fans, and even the year 2020 will do well to remember those golden words. You win some, you lose some!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-you-win-some-you-lose-some/story-IeRyOzMxhm14Iw4mECpNxN.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Centurion Prithipal Gill’s smoking barrel||A trait associated with some ladies hailing from an era long past is that their memories are elephantine and remembrances lucid. There is no better embodiment of this attribute than Preminder Kaur (93), who has this delightful anecdote to share about her centurion husband: “He was painfully thin. So, when a wounded bison charged at him and tried to gore him with the expansive, curving horns, Prithipal’s reed-slim body saved the day. The horns went around and not through him! That gave him enough time to pull out his service revolver and shoot the bison in the head at point blank range. But not before a final, glancing blow from the dying horns took out a pair of Prithipal’s front teeth!”On December 11, 2020, India celebrated the 100th birthday of a unique veteran and city beautiful resident, Col Prithipal Singh Gill (retd). He holds the distinction of having served the Air Force, Navy and Army. During the 1965 War, four artillery guns of his regiment were cut off by enemy action in the Sialkot sector, but then Lt Col Gill personally led a successful mission to retrieve the guns. Also a World War II veteran of air and naval battles, Col Gill hung up his boots in 1970. The sprightly couple celebrate their 70th wedding anniversary on December 24, 2020.A life across three armed services lent Col Gill a unique opportunity to traverse diverse Indian jungles and luxuriate in his childhood passion for the outdoors and the true calling of his heart, shikar. The gleam still prevalent in his eyes reveals one of the defining traits of his character, an intrepid naughtiness inherent in his fauji escapades! “Prithipal was born naughty, his mother could not handle him. That trait was omnipresent throughout his career. A leopard wandered into the Army camp near Hoshiarpur and Prithipal brought it down with a .12 bore shotgun. He then hatched a plan to surreptitiously place the dead leopard in his commanding officer’s (CO) tent while his boss was away so that the latter suffered a memorable though dreadful fright on return. However, wiser counsel prevailed and Prithipal’s wicked plot was abandoned on the apprehension that the unknowing CO could have suffered a heart attack,” Kaur told this writer.Her husband, despite his mesmerising age, is all there. His skin glows with daily oil massages and grooming by an attendant. The “young” man still insists on clipping his fingernails and does so with such deft application of force that they fly off like spent cartridges dispensed crisply from an English shotgun’s ejectors! Till just six months back, 200 ml of Scotch would daily and just past twilight regale the run up to his dinner. The rare secret of his longevity, as he claims!Adding shikari detail to the bison encounter, his eyes mist over with a recall of his fondest memory. “I had gone to hunt bison with a local guide in Madhya Pradesh. I fired upon the bison with my rifle, a .450/.400 Nitro Express by John Rigby. The guide, being a canny fellow and wise to a bison’s rages, promptly abandoned me and scaled the first tree in sight. The wounded bison charged and crashed into me, my rifle was flung with the impact but my revolver saved the day,” grinned Col Gill. He had his two teeth replaced or else the gap in his otherwise gleaming dentition would have showcased a remarkable relic of his shikar escapades!The pursuit of shikar harboured more than the danger of diehard beasts. A remarkable Army connection ensured he lived to tell this tale, too. Posted with the Gwalior Mountain Battery, the irrepressible shikari would venture into the jungles every night on a jeep. “One night, dacoits laid a tree across the jeep track. They took Prithipal and his guide prisoner. Upon learning their prisoner was from the Gwalior Battery, one of the dacoits tested Prithipal’s claim and queried if he knew a particular subedar of the Battery. That subedar, as luck would have it, was a relative of the dacoit. Upon receiving a precise reply of affirmation from Prithipal, the dacoits released him with the warning that he should not venture into the jungles again. I thanked my stars when Prithipal got back as I was very young, had a baby son and was virtually alone. To whom would I have turned had the dacoits not spared the shikari,” said Kaur.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-centurion-prithipal-gill-s-smoking-barrel/story-0OmoXBz0qrJT7dOSCYHqnN.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: The Lost Homestead – from Sargodha to Sussex||Sargodha born Dip (pronounced Deep) Singh grew up in Delhi and then settled in the UK with her BBC correspondent husband Charles Wheeler. Though she travelled far and wide, yet the memories of a Pakistan town lost to her with Partition remained etched in her mind forever. Talking to her grandchildren of what seemed to them an imagined town recalled the cold winter evenings of her childhood: “On winter evenings, we would sit around the fireplace in our parents’ bedroom, munching at dried fruits and roasted nuts. Papaji sat too. He enjoyed being by the fire but felt compelled to point out its perils by recounting a story about dacoits. A gang of dacoits robbed a house nearby but delayed their escape to sit by the fire. Its soothing warmth lulled them to sleep and so they were caught”.The little ones who had heard this story many times nodded their heads each time Dip recounted it and listened with due respect. And their mother and Dip’s daughter would get lost in deeper thought about the calm and order of her mother’s childhood and adolescence and a simple but happy life she led till the age of 15, never handling money or going to a shop or cinema hall. This and much more prompted Marina Wheeler, a lawyer and former wife of journalist politician and now UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, to put it all down in a book. Not a writer by profession, the memories of her mother’s serene world destroyed forever by the 1947 Partition pushed her to make a journey in recent times to bring back the story of the two Punjabs in India and Pakistan for her mother.Wheeler’s journeys are encased in a travelogue with a difference: The Lost Homestead, published by Hodder and Stoughton, UK, and brought to us by Hachette India. Essentially a personal journey to Wheeler’s ‘motherland’ it becomes a much larger story of the violence, Partition, displacement and rebuilding of the wounded subcontinent which saw millions of homesteads lost for all times. What was it that led Wheeler to journey back and forward in time tracing her Anglo-Indian roots? The seeds were sown when she went to see the screening of Gurinder Chadha’s film The Viceroy’s House in 2017 with her youngest child Theo, studying A-Level history. That was the year when the Seventieth anniversary of Indian Independence and Partition, which came hand in hand, was being commemorated. In fact an editor who knew that Wheeler’s mother had borne Partition and migration personally asked her to review the film.Looking back at what troubled her even as she praised the film and its impact on ordinary families was the question: Why Partition? Wheeler says: “The answer (the film claimed) was that, unbeknown to Lord Mountbatten, the outgoing Viceroy, Britain had a secret plan to partition the country, to secure oil supplies and advance its own geopolitical interests in the brewing cold war with Soviet Russia. Really? This did not tally with what Dip had told me and anything I had read.” Thus, this question led to a publisher asking her to do a book and one thing led to another and when she put pen to paper it was not just to check Chadha’s facts which did interest her though. The author says: “As I travelled across the plains of the Punjab and into the Himalayan foothills, and as I mulled over the trajectory of my mother’s own life, I discovered I was indeed on a journey. It was a journey about memory and identity, what we have, what we lose and what we rebuild.”During her travels and writings Wheeler remained in touch with her mother who chose to guide her daughter whenever she could and also suggested that the title of the book could be From Sargodha to Sussex. The book then became a gift from a daughter to her mother who never forgot her homestead. It is a matter of surprise when Dip told her that she never read a book from India, not even Vikram Seth, because that would make her homesick. This was after a lifetime in Sussex, where she chose to live alone after her husband’s death, yet home remained Sargodha. Then, in the course of three years, Dip’s health deteriorated and she was buried by her children under the weeping beech. But not after she saw the pictures of her town of Sargodha lost somewhere in the pages of history.The book, which touches themes that resonate even in these times like political change, religious extremism, migration, minorities, nationhood, identity and belonging, has been hailed in reviews in India and abroad. It has been called a personal sometimes harrowing history of Partition, and a relatable journey for many in the diaspora abroad. Closer home, author Shashi Tharoor, gives it a fine review without using difficult words: “ Marina Wheeler delves deep into the history of her family that is linked inextricably with the history of a nation. This book is more than a family memoir – it is an insightful glimpse into the way small worlds are forever changed by the impersonal currents of history”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-the-lost-homestead-from-sargodha-to-sussex/story-yL1aYl7V8OndQ1z8DbuAKL.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi MCD mayors call off strike after 13 days||The 13-day strike called by BJP mayors demanding the release of Rs 13,000 crore in dues from the Delhi government was called off on Saturday with union minister Hardeep Singh Puri offering fruit juice to the protesting lawmakers. The MCD mayors and 22 councillors from the Bharatiya Janata Party were protesting outside the chief minister’s residence for almost two weeks.The mayors were also observing a hunger strike since Thursday demanding a response from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal regarding their grievances. Union minister Puri said that the chief minister should have at least met the protesting MPs once to listen to their demands.“These mayors and leaders were not protesting for themselves or the party, they were protesting because dues of Rs 13,000 crore have not been paid and the salaries of the sanitation workers and other employees of the municipal corporations are affected,” Puri was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He also requested the chief minister to understand the concerns raised and find a solution to the problems faced by the residents of Delhi. The Delhi BJP has also said that the agitation demanding the dues from the Delhi government will continue in other forms.Delhi MCD mayors had already begun working from the protest site and also warned the Delhi government that if dues remain unpaid, then the city may face a sanitation crisis. North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash on December 14 said, “The three corporations have 70,000 sanitation staff, and we lift close to 10,000 metric tonnes of waste and 100 metric tonnes of biomedical waste. But we have not been able to pay them on time. Does the AAP government want a sanitation crisis in the midst of a pandemic... Our sanitation and medical staff will go on strike if we don’t release their salaries.”The strike was also called off as three councillors North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash and South Delhi Mayor Anamika Mithilesh along with former South Delhi mayor Sunita Kangra who were on a hunger strike were asked to hospitalize themselves.On Friday, the Delhi High Court had asked the Delhi police to ask the protesters to vacate the area in front of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house in Flag Staff Road, Civil Lines after residents raised concerns regarding movement within the area and blocking of roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-mcd-mayors-call-off-strike-after-13-days/story-VxKyVgwuhsnBOi5XCBifjJ.html
19-12-2020||City||Former employee kidnaps, assaults 45-year-old knitwear factory owner||A 45-year-old knitwear factory owner was assaulted and kidnapped by his former employee and his five accomplices in broad daylight before being thrown out of a moving car at Dhanansu village on Friday.Police said the main accused, identified as Kripa Shankar of Punjabi Bagh Colony, Tibba Road, had been pressuring his former employer, Sabajit Gaur, to marry his brother with the latter’s daughter. As Gaur, a resident of Gurpreet Nagar of Lohara Road, did not agree to the alliance, Shankar kidnapped him from his factory on Dheri Road in Bajda village. Gaur said Shankar and five more men turned up outside his factory in a Toyota Innova without a number plate. They forcibly dragged him into the vehicle and drove off. As Gaur’s workers informed the police, cops pursued Shankar over the phone, prompting him to throw Gaur out of the moving vehicle near Dhanansu, before fleeing towards Chandigarh Road. Gaur borrowed a mobile phone from a passer-by and informed the police, who reached the spot and rescued him.In his statement, Gaur said Shankar and his brother, Kashi, used to work for him, but he sacked them as Kashi had an eye on his daughter.“Since then, Shankar has been forcing me to solemnise the marriage of my daughter with his brother. As I did not relent, he kidnapped and beat me up,” he alleged.ASI Harjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had registered a case under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code against Shankar and his five unidentified accomplices. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-employee-kidnaps-assaults-45-year-old-knitwear-factory-owner/story-67d7khDa81zmRNpXxbSvoL.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Mental health film festival theme is ‘Covid-19 and me’||Pune: This year Covid -19 plays a major role in the 5th Mindscope, Mental Health film festival that will begin online https://www.digital-infomedia.com/mindscope2020/ (open to all) at 4pm on December 20, 2020. The festival is curated and organised by Trimiti Trust, Pune and co-organised by Sangath, a non-governmental, not-for-profit organisation, Goa in collaboration with Psychiatric Society of Goa and District Mental Health Programme, District Hospital, Pune.Using the theme “Covid-19 and me”, NGO Trimiti Trust working in the field of mental health will strive to depict the facets of how the pandemic has affected our well-being and daily existence with the film festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mental-health-film-festival-theme-is-covid-19-and-me/story-gyvHsCjueahl9ikr5Bwb9L.html
19-12-2020||City||Srinagar MC mulls action plan to enforce wearing masks in city||The Srinagar municipal corporation (SMC) is planning to devise a multiple department action plan to enforce wearing of masks in the city as majority of people have not been adhering to the Covid-19 rules.In Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar district tops in the number of Covid-19 infections and deaths. More than 100 cases are detected every day in the city. Experts say the shunning of masks could lead to multiple infections in the coming days. “Masks are our biggest shield. Earlier, a lot of people could be seen wearing masks but now only a few are following it, which is not a good sign,” said Dr Amjid, senior consultant at a government medical college. Mayor Junaid Mattu tweeted: “Have noticed that a large number of people are seen in public places and on public transport without masks. Wearing of face masks when you step out of your homes is mandatory under Covid-19 guidelines. We are evolving a joint, multi-department action plan to enforce adherence.” In another tweet, Mattu said people have always come together as a city to combat diseases. “Srinagar, we have come together as a city to combat Covid-19 in the past. There is no room for complacency now. Let us resume a mass movement to defeat Covid together! Post your selfie with a mask and use #SrinagarMasksUp!.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-mc-mulls-action-plan-to-enforce-wearing-masks-in-city/story-UwpnEV1OMHcdK4cPiThXdN.html
19-12-2020||City||JP Nadda, Rajnath Singh to address virtual rally on completion of three years of Jai Ram govt on December 27||BJP state president and MP Suresh Kashyap on Saturday said Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda will address the state virtually on completion of three years of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur led Himachal Pradesh government on December 27.While addressing a meeting held with all district and division presidents of the party, Kashyap said the BJP will celebrate this occasion on division-level in all 68 constituencies and two LEDs will be installed where maximum 50 people will witness the event. All state office bearers, district office bearers and BJP leaders will be present in their own constituency while the main event will be organised in Shimla. He said the BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, Union minister Anurag Thakur, former CM Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal will also join the event virtually . He said the three years of Jai Ram government in Himachal Pradesh has been a success and this is for the first time that a government has taken care of all sections of society. He added that the state is heading towards development under the leadership of Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jp-nadda-rajnath-singh-to-address-virtual-rally-on-completion-of-three-years-of-jai-ram-govt-on-december-27/story-oW7TFVqctHLOMHw2KttgBN.html
19-12-2020||City||RERA penalises Shimla realtor for malpractices||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) has directed Rajdeep and Company Infrastructure Private Limited to refund ₹1.65 crore to nine persons who had booked flats in Shimla town’s Bharari locality in 2014. The RERA had received 12 complaints against the realtor. The complainants alleged that they had booked flats in the Claridge Residency Project at Bharari in blocks A, B, C and D in 2014. The total area of the project is 1,418 square meters. Project owner Rajdeep Sharma had transferred the titles and interests in the land to M/s Rajdeep and Company Infrastructure Private Limited through Joint Development Agreement in May, 2014. Out of 12 complaints received against the promoters and developers, nine have been decided in favour of allottees and three others are pending for hearing. The five complainants had alleged that Rajdeep Sharma along with other members of the family had taken ₹1.65 crore for booking two bedroom and three bedroom flats in Blocks C and D. They alleged that the company has not executed the construction work in time or have delayed the possessions of flats in the prescribed period and in deviation of the sanctioned plans approved by the municipal corporation. The complainants also alleged that inspite of receiving their consideration amount for booking the flats in Block C, the promoters have even sold their flats to third party and they are deprived of the flats for residential purpose. Other complainants have alleged that they are living in these flats by spending huge amount in crores in Block A but the realtor has still not provided them domestic water connections, electricity connections despite repeated requests. They are paying commercial rates for water and electricity. The realtor has also received maintenance charges in lakhs from them without providing basic facilities of parking, electricity and water connections, club house building/gym etc. The authority has decided nine cases on merit and directed the respondent promoters to refund an amount of ₹1.65 crore with 7.3% interest at SBI-MCLR (Highest Marginal Cost of Lending Rate) plus 2% as per rule 15 of Himachal Pradesh Real Estate Regulation and Development Rules 2017. They are liable to pay 9.3% interest on the above amount of ₹1.65 crore approximately along with refund of it. The authority has also imposed penalty worth ₹21 lakh to be deposited in the RERA account for non completion of obligation under the Act to be paid in two months, failing which they have to pay a penalty of double the amount. The authority has further imposed penalty upon the promoters M/s Rajdeep and Company Infra Pvt. Ltd and Rajdeep Sharma the Promoters for not providing basic facilities like electricity and water connections and also taking charges from the complainants without providing facilities worth ₹18 lakh to be paid in a prescribed period 2/3 months, failing which the amount of penalty and refund of extra maintenance charges will be paid by the defaulting promoters worth rupees above ₹50 lakh. Further, they have to pay interest at SBI-MCLR rate to the complainants from the date of disconnections of their electricity and water connections till the date of restoration of these connections on the amounts charged by them and the date of charging of extra maintenance charges from complainants at the rate of 9.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rera-penalises-shimla-realtor-for-malpractices/story-YC1L9bi877d2Chg1pQy6QL.html
19-12-2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah does not understand the reality of West Bengal politics: TMC MP||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Kalyan Banerjee took a swipe at Amit Shah, stating that the Union Home Minister does not understand the politics of West Bengal and that Mamata Banerjee would come to power for a third term ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections in 2021. “Amit Shah doesn’t understand the reality of West Bengal politics. Mamata Banerjee will come in power for the third time. People have inbuilt confidence in her,” he said. The Trinamool MP also took a swipe at Shah’s criticism against family-centric politics, implying that the Home Minister’s own son was in a top position in the Board of Control for Cricket (BCCI) in India thanks to his influence. “Amit Shah speaks of family-centric politics of others. Let me remind you, isn’t Adhikari from an influential political family? Your son too is a top official of BCCI on whose influence?”, he said. Suvendu Adhikari, along with other former TMC leaders, publicly joined the Bharatiya Janata Party during a public address delivered by the Home Minister in West Bengal’s Paschim Medinipur district. Adhikari had quit West Bengal’s ruling party after months of discontentment. He was one of the most powerful leaders of the TMC and had played an influential role in the Nandigram constituency that had helped Mamata Banerjee come to power, ending the CPI(M)’s three-decade long rule in 2011. Amit Shah claimed in his rally that the BJP would come to power in the state with 200 seats and slammed the chief minister for accusing the BJP of inducing defection, also stating that she would be left alone by the time election comes. “Senior party members are leaving TMC. Didi accuses BJP of inducing party members to defect. But I want to ask her when she quit Congress to form TMC, was it not defection? This is just the start. She will be left alone by the election,” he said. The TMC and the BJP are the two main rivals for power ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to be held during April-May. The BJP had a poor showing in the state’s previous assembly election but the party won 19 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amit-shah-does-not-understand-the-reality-of-west-bengal-politics-tmc-mp/story-Mlt0HDxgAfHAMEs0ze1ODL.html
19-12-2020||City||Sirsa: 2 held with 14 country-made pistols, live cartridges||The crime investigation agency (CIA) of Sirsa police arrested two persons with 14 country-made pistols and 24 live cartridges from Khairpur area on Saturday.The accused were identified as Dara Singh and Amarjeet Singh, residents of Sirsa district. Sirsa superintendent of police (SP) Bhupinder Singh said the CIA had received a tip-off about the duo’s movements. “On seeing the police party, the duo tried to flee, but were nabbed by cops. During questioning, they revealed they were planning to attack members of a rival group,” the SP added.He revealed that Dara Singh is a repeat offender and was booked in 11 cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, loot and other offences in various police stations of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sirsa-2-held-with-14-country-made-pistols-live-cartridges/story-wirrI6y9AYkLrUV5zwYP7K.html
19-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Get over narrow politics of regionalism’: Amit Shah targets Trinamool Congress||Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday that revolutionary Khudiram Bose is as much a pride for the whole of India as he is of Bengal, hitting out at those indulging in “narrow” politics of regionalism.Garlanding the statue of Khudiram at the freedom fighter’s ancestral residence here, Shah said that he has inspired the youths of the country with his slogan ‘Vande Mataram’ while he was hanged by the British in 1908 at the age of 18.“I want to tell those who are doing narrow politics in Bengal that Khudiram Bose is as much a pride of India as he is of Bengal,” he said.He said that freedom fighter Pandit Ram Prasad Bismil, who gave his life for the country, was also as much a son of Uttar Pradesh as he was of Bengal.In an indirect dig at the ruling Trinamool Congress, he said that those indulging in politics of regionalism should overcome it.Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and other leaders of her party have often accused the BJP of bringing in “outsiders” to West Bengal ahead of assembly elections, likely in April-May next year.Shah said that those brave sons of the country who fought and made great sacrifices for Independence together “could never have imagined such narrow politics of regionalism”.Maintaining that the country can never forget the contributions of Bengal and its brave men in the freedom struggle, Shah said that the future generations will be inspired to work for the cause of the nation by the supreme sacrifice made by Khudiram Bose.“With Geeta in his hands, Khudiram Bose had walked up the podium where he was hanged,” the BJP leader said, remembering one of the youngest freedom fighters to have been executed by the British imperialists.Shah said that Khudiram was so popular among the people that some weavers had started weaving his name on clothes, which became an inspiration for the youths of Bengal to join the freedom movement.Arriving at the ancestral house of Khudiram after landing at Midnapore town from Kolkata in a helicopter, the home minister greeted the revolutionary’s family members with shawls and mementos.“I am having the feeling of a new consciousness on having had the opportunity to have touched this sacred soil on my forehead,” he said.“I want to tell the youths that though we have not had the occasion to give our lives for the country, we have got the opportunity to live for the nation. We should endeavour for building a strong and secure India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Shah said.The home minister interacted with the family members of Khudiram Bose for some time before visiting the centuries- old Siddheswari Mata temple nearby.He paid floral obeisance to the goddess and performed ‘aarti’. PTI AMR SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/get-over-narrow-politics-of-regionalism-amit-shah-targets-trinamool-congress/story-ns158KW2Be9G96ZY3WQflM.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Three techies from Pune drown off Anjarle beach in Dapoli||Three software engineers from Pune drowned off the Anjarle beach on Friday, located at a distance of 30km from Dapoli in Ratnagiri, the Dapoli police have said. Three others were rescued by locals on Friday afternoon. The victims were part of a 14-member group of tourists from Pune who had gone to the beach for a picnic along the coast Konkan, police said. The group are employees of a private company and entered the sea around 10.30 am. The three who were rescued were rushed to a hospital in the area and are currently being treated. The deceased have been identified as Akshay Rakhlekar (25), Vikram Srivastava (24) and Manoj Gawande (24), while those who have been rescued have been identified as Rohit Palande and Nihal Chavan. Dapoli police station incharge Rajendra Patil said, “Fourteen persons had come to Anjarli for a picnic. Some of them entered the water to swim. Six of them drowned as they could not fathom the depth. The others raised an alarm after which locals rushed to their help and rescued three of them.” Inspector Patil added, “The victims are software engineers from the Concentrix company. Their bodies have been fished out and a case of accidental death has been lodged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-techies-from-pune-drown-off-anjarle-beach-in-dapoli/story-kj2Sml7aXL2Yf8mz0chhmI.html
19-12-2020||City||West Bengal woman reunited with family after four years||Leela Tamang, 49, who went missing from Bagdogra in West Bengal in January 2017, has finally been reunited with her family. The credit for tracing her and reuniting her with her family goes to the anti-human trafficking cell of the Haryana Police crime branch. Leela, who was living at Nari Niketan, Mashobra in Shimla, had gone missing from a hospital at Bagdogra near Siliguri on January 25, 2017. Her daughter Sanjana Rai and son Krishnan Tamang saw their mother after almost four years when they reached Shimla to take her back home. Sanjana said her mother was mentally unstable and had been admitted to the hospital at Bagdogra for treatment when she went missing. On seeing her children, Leela was overwhelmed and said, “I just can’t describe the feeling of seeing my children again.” “We lodged a complaint with the police at Bagdogra after she went missing. We made every effort to look for her and even launched a campaign on social media but in vain. We had lost hope till we got a call the other day,” says Krishnan. Reuniting families gives me immense joy: Cop Haryana Police assistant sub inspector Rajesh Kumar of the anti-human trafficking cell says his team gathered records of missing persons and while researching on it traced Leela to Shimla. Over the years, Rajesh says he has reunited more than 500 families across India. “I feel I’ve been sent by God to reunite families. It gives me immense joy. In Himachal Pradesh alone, I have reunited 30 members with their families. They include missing children,” he says. “In this case, we got details of the woman from Bagdogra police station and matched the records with Nari Niketans in the region and were able to trace her to Mashobra. We shared Leela’s pictures with her daughter and she confirmed they were her mother’s,” he says. The family left for Siliguri soon after they were reunited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/west-bengal-woman-reunited-with-family-after-four-years/story-swZOw2ipCH9Fcq9BtI78YL.html
19-12-2020||Pune||PMC prepares Rs 9,000-cr plan to develop newly included villages||Considering its growing population, after Pune’s limits have now been expanded with the proposed merger of 23 areas (villages) into the civic limits, the civic body has prepared a plan of Rs 9,000 crore to build basic amenities for the newly included villages. The money will be mainly spent on amenities like water, road, sewage and solid waste management, to create basic facilities which residents of these 23 areas residents want badly. According to Prashant Waghmare, PMC’s city engineer, “Corporation had sent a detailed note in 2015 about development of 34 villages to be merged in PMC. Of these 34 areas, 11 were merged in 2017 while a proposal has been put forward to merge the 23 more areas.” In 2014, the civic body had sent letter to state government that it will require Rs 5,740 crore to carry out amenities in 34 villages. (HT has a copy of the letter). According to Waghmare, the civic body has estimated that there would have been a 10 per cent rise every year in the expenditure, taking the overall amount to Rs 9000 crore. “It is a challenge for PMC to develop upcoming areas which are unplanned. We will have to take a lot of effort in every aspect of development - from planning to execution,” said Waghmare. According to another civic official, the PMC requires Rs 4,598 crore for water supply road and solid waste management and drainage system. The other money will be spent for developing amenities like garden, playground, schools and administration. V G Kulkarni, superintendent of the road department, said, “Without a development plan, we cannot build a good quality road network. Right now, we can repair and maintain existing roads in inclusive areas.” Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have not estimated the water quota yet, but the existing quota is not enough for the new areas. We have to make provision for these inclusions.” Sanjay Gawade, acting head of solid waste management, said, “We will have to develop a proper garbage collection system and acquire land to set up new processing plants. At present, there is no proper system in these villages. Generation of garbage has been increased due to urbanisation in these areas. The local body has no system for solid waste management. We will have to set it up.” Besides these basic facilities, the PMC will have to build social infrastructure like education, health, parks, and community halls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-prepares-rs-9-000-cr-plan-to-develop-newly-included-villages/story-WQiVHtDgxcXTF1UmL5RneL.html
19-12-2020||Pune||NHS: 27 per cent married women in state have experienced spousal violence||A total of 27 per cent married women in the state have experienced violence by a spouse, according to the National Health Survey (NHS). The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) states that the rate of crime against women in Pune is 58.1. Also, cruelty by husband or relatives has a rate of 13.6 as per NCRB for Pune city. Speaking on violence against young girls, activist Kiran Moghe said that under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), there is relatively more awareness about child abuse.. According to the NHS, young women of 18-29 years who have experienced sexual violence by age 18 are 6.2 per cent in Maharashtra. The percentage has shown an increase from 2.9 in the last survey which was released in 2015-16. “The reporting has increased. There is greater awareness among the public as well as the police about these cases. And police are also sensitive and proactive towards the victims which is one of the reasons for the increase in reporting. Also, there is an increase in sexual violence also,” said Moghe. Talking about spousal violence, Moghe said that married women understand consent and so they understand rape as well. “Marital rape is evident as many women talk about it. There is enough awareness about it. Spousal violence that is physical, as well as sexual violence in a marriage, is affecting a lot of women and the numbers speak for themselves,” said Moghe. She further added that marital rape should be recognised by law. “We have laws in place which deal with rape. But there is a need to recognise marital rape and it should be publicised like other laws. So that the victims can get justice,” said Moghe. According to Varsha Deshpande, activist and lawyer, as nuclear families have increased the need to intervene in case of domestic abuse has decreased. “No one wants to interfere with the family matters of others. Also, communication between families has decreased. So we can see an increase in spousal violence,” said Deshpande. Box National Health Survey (NHS) findings on gender-based violence in Maharashtra Age: Married women age 18-49 years who have experienced spousal violence Rural: 21 per cent Urban: 28.6 per cent Total: 25.2 per cent NFHS-5: 21.3 per cent Age: Married women age 18-49 years who have experienced physical violence during pregnancy Rural: 2.5 per cent Urban: 4 per cent Total: 3.3 per cent NFHS-5: 2.9 per cent Age: Young women age 18-29 years who experienced sexual violence by age 18 Rural: 4.5 per cent Urban: 7.6 per cent Total: 6.2 per cent NFHS-5: 2.9 per cent (NFHS: National Family Health Survey) Source: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Header: Crime against women in Pune Incidents in 2017: 2,032 Cruelty by husband or relatives: 58.1 per cent Incidents in 2018: 1,481 Cruelty by husband or relatives: 13.6 per cent Incidents in 2019: 1,390 Cruelty by husband or relatives: N/A Source: National Crime Records Bureau||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nhs-27-per-cent-married-women-in-state-have-experienced-spousal-violence/story-iQ9MdydETTJtQGFMFHwORM.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Man wanted in 22-year-old cheating case arrested by Pune police||A man booked in a cheating case 22 years ago in Pune was arrested by crime branch officials on Friday. The arrested man was identified as Sandeep Sudhakar Dhaygude (53), a resident of Sadashiv peth in Pune who was found living in a rented house in Kothrud. He was booked with two others in the case - Anand Prabhakar Gore, a resident of Navi peth currently residing in America and Subroto Das, a resident of Andheri East in Mumbai, according to a statement issued by Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) Of Indian Penal Code was registered against the three at Chatuhshrungi police station in 1998. They were accused of duping the Senapati Bapat Road branch of Vidya co-operative bank. The three had forged documents to siphon Rs 13,55,936 from the bank, according to the police statement. The police claim that the arrested man has confessed his involvement in the 1998 case. The man has been handed over to Chatuhshrungi police station officials who will investigate the case further. The man will be produced in a local court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-wanted-in-22-year-old-cheating-case-arrested-by-pune-police/story-IH93df6WtvuglUo1ukp66K.html
19-12-2020||Pune||25-year-old arrested for molesting elder sister in Pune||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a 25-year-old man for molesting and stalking his elder sister on the intermediate night of Wednesday and Thursday. His 33-year-old sister was sleeping in their house when he entered and touched inappropriately, according to the complaint. “He used to verbally abuse her since September. The family does not want him in their house, they want him to be in jail due to his behaviour,” said senior police inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station. The complainant woman is married and lives away from her husband, with her parents. “They had come before to the police station about fights between the two. He had tried similar things earlier as well, but the family had not lodged a complaint. This time they did,” said assistant police inspector Gajanan Bansode of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case. The man is unemployed and has studied until class seven. He is habitual of drug and alcohol consumption and often picks fights with his family members, according to the complainant. When the woman raised an alarm, the man started hitting her, and their mother with a wooden plank in the house, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 354(d) (stalking), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/25-year-old-arrested-for-molesting-elder-sister-in-bhosari/story-oXxXGaQBlNQvvtXAoGRGoO.html
19-12-2020||City||Snow, rain likely in higher reaches of Himachal tomorrow||Heavy snowfall and rain in higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh is very likely on Sunday, as per the state meterological department. The MeT department has also issued a yellow warning for intense cold wave and dense fog in Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Mandi and Sirmaur districts.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said snowfall is very likely to occur in isolated places of Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu, Chamba and Kinnaur districts. Visibility will be less than 500 metres in the five districts, causing disruption to traffic and damage to crops due to frost. He advised people to stay updated.“Weather will remain dry throughout the state till December 25,” he added.Weather was mostly sunny throughout the state on Saturday. However, cold wave continued throughout the state as minimum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal while maximum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal.Minimum temperature in Shimla was 4.4°C while Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded minus 1°C, 2.4°C, 4.7°C and 0.8°C respectively. Minimum temperature in Una was 0°C, minus 1.3°C in Solan, 0.1°C in Palampur, 2°C in Bilaspur, 1.8°C in Hamirpur, 7.5°C in Nahan, minus 1.1°C in Mandi and minus 3°C in Kalpa. Keylong was the coldest at minus 12.1°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snow-rain-likely-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-tomorrow/story-eljoQVlWZ9oRFgZ9XzBfRM.html
19-12-2020||Pune||“Issues with data” may have led to 80 per cent unpaid traffic fine in 2020||The citizens of Pune have failed to make payments on 80 per cent of traffic violation cases registered in the city in the past year, despite a lockdown in place. The per cent of unpaid fines for traffic violations has gone up from 64.34 per cent in 2019 to 79.59 per cent in the second week of December 2020. The number of cases of traffic rule violations has reduced, however, by a thin margin in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 2018, according to data provided by Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, Pune. “The unpaid fines this year are almost 80 per cent as per the data. The amount of the unpaid fines is Rs 59,96,12,400 and the collection of paid fines was Rs 15,37,10,853 since January 1. The maximum number of cases are for no parking, helmet use, signal jumping,” said DCP Shrirame on Thursday. Even though the annual number of cases is less than the past two years owing to the vehicle movement restriction during the lockdown, the number of annual cases in which the fines have remained unpaid has remained constant. At the end of 2019, 14,67,211 violations were unpaid for. A traffic police official pointed out that there are multiple issues with the data used for sending information about violations to violators. For example, the contact information is missing, or the number seen in the online system is misread by traffic officials sending the message. While the traffic police officials blame the regional transport office (RTO), the RTO officials have a different story to tell. “The data is not provided by us. The National Information Centre (NIC), through the road transport ministry is the custodian and provider of that data. We do get the data when new vehicles are registered. But, the under V4 system, which has been in place since April 1, 2019, every government agency involved in the process has access to it,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune. The vehicle numbers which were purchased before 2007, and are still owned by the same person, are yet to be digitised. Therefore, those numbers are missing from the RTO and police’s online system. “We could not finalise an agency to undertake that task. If those numbers have been transferred, they have entered the system. However, the ones which are still in the same person’s name as in 2007, are yet to be digitised. If the police find such numbers in violation and are not able to find their contact details, they can send the numbers to us and we will manually find and digitise them immediately,” said Sasane. The numbers which are charged for traffic rule violations, and have remained unpaid, can face action as it can reflect on their vehicle record. The traffic police or the RTO officials, either one of them can mark the vehicle number owner as “wanted”, according to RTO officials. “The police can themselves mark it as wanted. But if they send us the license numbers, we can mark them too. Upon request from the police, we can also cancel the license,” said Sasane. When the violator has to undertake any routine work like license renewal, insurance renewal, transfer of ownership done, the violations committed using those numbers in any part of the state will reflect on their registration numbers. According to said Prashant Inamdar, convener of a citizen group called “Pedestrian First”, most of these fines must be e-challans. “When traffic police put a nakabandi, the pending fines are paid. There could be a reluctance to pay fines but there are 2-3 aspects that need attention. I am not sure whether the police have the mechanism which smoothly delivers the challan for the violation to the offender. This must be the biggest reason for the non-payment of fines. The RTO data for contact details of offenders is most likely insufficient and not getting updated. The physical delivery of the challans and delivery of it on the phone number need robust, updated information. There is also a possibility that the people who have received the intimation do not pay, but a major issue is whether the challan is falling in the right hands within a reasonable time period. There needs to be a fool-proof result-oriented delivery system to solve this issue,” Inamdar said. Do you have a pending fine on your vehicle? -If you are not sure about whether there is a fine on your vehicle or not, go to mahatrafficechallan.gov.in and check your vehicle number -Make sure to check the image attached with the violation, if there is one against it, and make sure it is your vehicle and location in the image -If the fine is verified, pay it and clear your dues -Payment can be made using online payment options or approach a traffic police official deployed on the street and swipe your debit card -If the fine is not verified, send details of the fine to cctvtrafficpune@gmail.com. The police will reverse the fine. Header: Breakup of violations and dues Info: The amount of the unpaid fine is Rs 59,96,12,400 and the collection of paid fines was Rs 15,37,10,853 since January 1. The maximum number of cases are for no parking, helmet use, and signal jumping. 2018 Total Cases: 1,535,844 Amount: Rs 38.2 crore Unpaid Cases: 6,47,127 Amount: Rs 16.9 crore Paid Cases:8,88,717 Amount: Rs 21.2 crore 2019 Total Cases: 2,50,3607 Amount: Rs 109.7 crore Unpaid Cases:1467211 Amount: Rs 70.6 crore Paid Cases: 1036396 Amount: Rs 39.1 crore 2020 Total Cases: 1958516 Amount: Rs 75.3 crore Unpaid Cases: 1420892 Amount: Rs 59.9 crore Paid Cases: 537624 Amount: Rs 15.3 crore THE POPULAR VIOLATIONSNo parking 2018 Cases: 2,40,933 Amount: Rs 4.81 crore 2019 Cases: 3,23,074 Amount: Rs 6.47 crore 2020 Cases: 95,812 Amount: Rs 1.91 crore No helmet 2018 Cases: 79,035 Amount: Rs 3.95 crore 2019 Cases: 17,05,915 Amount: Rs 85.2 crore 2020 Cases: 3,73,257 Amount: Rs 18.66 crore Signal jumping 2018 Cases: 1,60,861 Amount: Rs 3.2 crore 2019 Cases: 75,134 Amount: Rs 1.5 crore 2020 Cases: 34,124 Amount: Rs 68.2 lakhs Mobile use while riding/driving 2018 Cases: 54,129 Amount: Rs 1.08 crore 2019 Cases: 19,299 Amount: Rs 38.5 lakh 2020 Cases: 6,778 Amount: Rs 13.5 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/issues-with-data-may-have-led-to-80-per-cent-unpaid-traffic-fine-in-2020/story-kB3tvF1UYK8QkFvPCD0YEM.html
19-12-2020||Kolkata||By the time Bengal goes to polls, you’ll be left alone, Amit Shah warns Mamata at Midnapore rally||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday challenged Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a rally in Midnapore and said that she will find herself facing the BJP all by herself by the time West Bengal goes to polls next year. Shah said, “Mamata Banerjee keeps on saying that BJP forces other politicians to switch sides and join BJP. I want to ask the chief minister if she remembers she was also a member of the Congress party before she formed Trinamool Congress. Today several leaders from Congress, CPI(M) and Trinamool Congress have joined BJP because they believe in the developmental work of the BJP and the leadership of prime minister Narendra Modi.”He further added, “This is just the beginning, by the time the state goes to polls, you’ll be facing the Bharatiya Janata Party alone.”Shah also took a jibe at Trinamool Congress leader and MP Abhishek Banerjee saying that the chief minister is always looking forward to install her nephew as the next chief minister of West Bengal. He said, “You took the slogan of Maa Mati Manush and used it to extort the people of Bengal. You paved the path for appeasement politics and nepotism in Bengal. You chose to ignore the future of more than 10 crore Bengali people and then ignored the cries of Bengal’s unemployed youth. You chose to concentrate on how to install your nephew as the next chief minister of this state.”He also alleged that Bengal’s farmers are not able to avail the benefits of Centre’s schemes because the state government decided to not implement those schemes. He said, “If the farmers of Bengal do not vote out the Trinamool Congress from power, they will not be able to avail the benefits of Centre’s schemes. Farmers here have said that they have not received the Rs 6000 that is guaranteed under the agricultural schemes designed for farmers by the Modi government.”Shah also targeted other TMC leaders and said, “Several TMC leaders said that in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, BJP will not be able to win a single seat from Bengal but we won in 18 seats across Bengal. When the results of the 2021 legislative assembly elections are out, chief minister Mamata Banerjee can see for herself that BJP will form the government by winning more than 200 seats.”“You promised development in Bengal. There has been no development in the state and the amount of money the prime minister sent for developmental schemes has been used to fill the pockets of anti-social elements,” Shah further added. Shah is on a two-day visit to West Bengal to take stock of BJP’s preparations ahead of 2021 Bengal legislative assembly elections.Suvendu Adhikari, Trinamool Congress rebel leader, also joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in the presence of the union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday at the rally in Midnapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/by-the-time-bengal-goes-to-polls-you-ll-be-left-alone-amit-shah-warns-mamata-at-midnapore-rally/story-F9OdGbBXrlmuceFwb3eeRO.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers uproot BJP workers’ tent in Fatehabad for fast backing farm laws||Raising slogans against the BJP, farmers uprooted a tent put up by party workers in Fatehabad on Saturday during their day-long hunger strike in support of the three farm laws and their demand for Haryana’s share of water from Punjab through the Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal. BJP district chief Baldev Groha and other party leaders were present when the farmers showed them black flags, raised slogans and uprooted the tent. They left the venue under tight police security. The state BJP announced a day’s fast and dharna at district headquarters to counter the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws and to demand the construction of the SYL Canal in Punjab and its share of water. Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal, Fatehabad MLA Duda Ram and Ratia MLA Laxman Napa did not join the protest on Saturday. HISAR MP SKIPS PARTY PROTEST A day after his father extended support to the protesting farmers against the farm laws, BJP’s Hisar MP Brijendra Singh skipped the day-long hunger strike. State agriculture minister JP Dalal led the protest in Bhiwani, while Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar observed the protest in Jhajjar. In a video message, Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry of the Congress hit out at the BJP for trying to divide farmers of Punjab and Haryana. “The BJP can do one thing, and that is to create a division among farmers. But the farmers have seen their real face. I want to ask the Haryana agriculture minister why did his party fail to take a single step to bring the SYL water to Haryana despite being in power for six years? The minister should ask his government to send water in the Hansi-Butana canal so that farmers of southern Haryana can benefit,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-uproot-bjp-workers-tent-in-fatehabad-for-fast-backing-farm-laws/story-K9mX5OI10Dgqzwn40P2IqJ.html
19-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC rebel Suvendu Adhikari joins BJP in presence of union minister Amit Shah at Midnapore rally||Trinamool Congress (AITMC) rebel leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of union minister Amit Shah at a rally in Midnapore. Adhikari left Trinamool Congress alleging that the party has become corrupt and there is ‘extremely deep rot’ within the party. BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh, leader Mukul Roy and senior leader Kailash Vijayvargiya were also present in the ceremony with union minister Amit Shah. Shah is on a two-day visit to Bengal to take stock of BJP’s preparations ahead of the 2021 legislative assembly elections. Adhikari after joining the ceremony said that if the same government which rules Delhi does not rule Bengal then it will hurt the state’s economic prospects. Adhikari said, “If the same government which rules in Centre does not rule West Bengal then it will hurt the state’s chances of development and economic prosperity.”Adhikari also questioned chief minister Mamata Banerjee regarding her opposition towards Bharatiya Janata Party and reminded her that she was a partner of the NDA-led government when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. He also recalled that he was introduced to Amit Shah in 2014 in Delhi by Uttar Pradesh health minister Siddharth Nath Sinha. He also pointed out that despite knowing several BJP leaders not a single one of them ever asked him to switch sides. Adhikari also said, “When I was ill with Covid-19, the party (TMC) for whom I worked for 21 years did not feel the need to ask me how was I doing. It was only Amit Shah who felt the need to inquire about my health.”The TMC rebel leader cited that who dares to oppose the hierarchy in Trinamool faces the wrath of the chief minister. He said people like Mukul Roy, Dilip Ghosh and Arjun Singh has been subjected to arrests under false cases because they dared to raise their voice against Banerjee. Adhikari also said that Banerjee will not be able to defeat BJP using police as her tool and in the upcoming elections BJP will replace the Trinamool Congress to form a government in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-rebel-suvendu-adhikari-joins-bjp-in-presence-of-union-minister-amit-shah-at-midnapore-rally/story-BVblwwcFQ6y0SXLOu2HC3K.html
19-12-2020||Ranchi||Maoists attack Jharkhand coal project, seek suspension of mining||In a late night strike, suspected members working for the outlawed Tritiya-Sammelan Prastuti Committee (TPC), a faction of CPI (Maoists), allegedly attacked the central coalfields limited (CCL)-run Tetariyakhad coal mine at Balumath in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Friday. In a brief assault, the armed miscreants set four coal laden trucks and a bike on fire. Four drivers and cleaners also sustained bullet injuries in the indiscriminate firing. The armed miscreants fled after reinforcements from Balumath police station reached the spot. Both sides also exchanged fire for a brief period. Incidentally, the Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran had visited the same location around 48 hours before the attack to find out if the operations at the coal mines were running smoothly. One Pradeep Ganjhu, working in connivance with the TPC, the People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) and a criminals’ gang led by jailed gangster Sujeet Sinha, later claimed the responsibility for the attack and warned the coal traders of more such action if they continued working without his consent. The attack assumes significance as the TPC had been posing a tough challenge for the state police by calling for the stoppage of coal mining and coal transportation work for four days beginning December 13 and had put up posters and banners at many locations in Latehar and Chatra district apart from a crowded place in the state capital of Ranchi, surprising police. Upping the ante against the TPC, the security forces had gunned down a sub zonal commander on Wednesday and seized one AK-47 and cache of ammunition and other items from the spot in Latehar district. The district police had also made elaborate security arrangements to ensure that coal mining and transportation work was not stalled. Also Read: NCW seeks report on ‘rape’ complaint against Jharkhand CM Hemant SorenThe Latehar superintendent of police (SP) Prasant Anand said, “Pradeep Ganjhu is the same man who is having a nexus with both the TPC and the PLFI besides working for the criminal gang. We have recently arrested two of his accomplices and seized the AK-47 carried by him after an encounter from Balumath area. The duo was involved in firing at coal sidings in Latehar and Chatra district.” The SP added, “This is an act of desperation by the TPC after being forced on the back foot by the security forces. They used Pradeep who is also frustrated after losing two of his close aids and the weapon. He however, will soon be neutralised.” Incidentally, the marauders selectively targeted the drivers and the cleaners. They spared the traders and transporters and the officials. “They especially targeted the drivers and cleaners as the act was aimed at creating fear for extortion,” the SP pointed out. Those injured were identified as cleaners Pintu Yadav and Suraj Ganjhu; driver Anil Yadav and clerk Bansropan Ganjhu. After the first aid at the community health centre at Balumath, they were shifted to Ranchi for better treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/maoists-attack-jharkhand-coal-project-seek-suspension-of-mining/story-SY9oZIV8xULePBFOxiUkdJ.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi mayors likely to call off stir outside CM’s residence today||Mayors and councillors of Delhi’s three municipal corporations, who have been sitting on a protest outside the chief minister’s residence for the past 13 days, are likely to leave the protest venue on Saturday following court orders. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri is expected to meet the mayors and councillors outside CM’s residence around 3pm on Saturday. After that, the protest will be called off, said a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader.Mayors and BJP councillors have been protesting outside the CM’s residence since December 7, demanding pending dues worth Rs 13,000 crore. The BJP-led corporations claim that they are unable to pay salaries to their employees as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has not released the dues. On Saturday, South Corporation Mayor Anamika Singh, who was on an indefinite hunger strike, was admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital after her condition deteriorated. She is said to be stable right now.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, who was undergoing treatment at the protest site, said that they have been served notice by the Delhi Police to vacate the protest venue. “We are law-abiding citizens. We will follow the court’s order and leave the venue. But our protest will continue in a different form. We will now take this battle for the rights of municipal employees to each ward,” said Jai Prakash.Delhi BJP media head Naveen Kumar said that Puri, along with party’s state unit chief Adesh Gupta, will visit the mayors and councillors outside CM’s residence at 3 pm. “It is unfortunate that Delhi CM couldn’t find time to meet these people for the past 13 days. A decision to take this protest forward in a different way will be taken soon,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-mayors-likely-to-call-off-stir-outside-cm-s-residence-today/story-tj9WbYr5tv1x5usstD6xmO.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Seems third Covid-19 wave in Delhi has been brought under control: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi seems to have overcome the third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said from a peak of around 8,600 fresh cases on a single day, Delhi’s corona situation seems to have “significantly” improved with only 1,133 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. He also claimed that each and every Covid-19 test conducted in Delhi is genuine and no “fraud” was done, as reported in some other states. “There was a time in November when of every 100 persons tested for Covid-19, over 15 people used to test positive. The positivity rate back then was 15.26%. Today, the positivity rate has come down to 1.3%. This is probably the lowest in the country. In today’s health bulletin, which will be released shortly, the total tests done in 24 hours was 87,000,” he said. Kejriwal further said there was a time when Delhi had 45,000 active Covid-19 cases, which came down to nearly 12,000 on Saturday. The recovery rate of the city is nearly 96.5%. On November 19, Delhi recorded the highest number of fatalities with 131 deaths in a single day. On Saturday, the number of Covid-19 deaths in as single day was 36. “In Delhi, testing was most important for us to fight Covid-19. I am proud of our doctors, officers and other corona warriors who have helped us increase the city’s testing numbers. Till August 20, Delhi used to conduct about 20,000 Covid-19 tests every day. When the second wave came, we increased this to 60,000 tests per day in just about 10 days. When the third wave came, we increased this further to 90,000 tests per day. We tested and isolated people, which has been our main Covid-19 management strategy,” Kejriwal said. The Delhi chief minister said the current daily figure of about 90,000 Covid-19 tests per day in the city is not only the highest in the country, but is also one of the highest across the world. “Today, Delhi is conducting 4,500 tests per million population every day. Uttar Pradesh is testing only 670 people per million daily. Gujarat is testing 850 people per million every day. In the USA, 4,300 tests per million are being conducted every day. England is testing more than Delhi, with 4,800 tests per million,” Kejriwal said. He reiterated that Delhi was the first in the world to introduce the home isolation system, which reduced the load on the city’s hospitals manifold. He cited example of New York city of how despite having around 5,600 cases per day the city had patients lying in hospital corridors for want of treatment. Kejriwal said that even when Delhi had 8,600 cases on a single day, the city had over 7,000 beds vacant for Covid. He also recalled how Delhi was the first to start plasma therapy which helped keep the number of deaths low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seems-third-covid-19-wave-in-delhi-has-been-brought-under-control-kejriwal/story-f8PhCdIfBaJ5hkn7Oy9QHO.html
19-12-2020||Noida||Yamuna expressway crash on late Friday night injures 14 people||14 people were injured when a speeding truck going to Jewar from Greater Noida lost balance, hit the divider, and rammed into an oncoming UP roadways bus on the other side of the carriage in Dankaur, Greater Noida late Friday night at around 11.30 pm. The roadways bus belonging to Shikohabad depot was coming from Lucknow and going to Delhi via Agra and Greater Noida. There were 40-45 passengers on board when the accident took place.Anil Kumar Pandey, station house officer (SHO) Dankaur police station, said that the accident took place at about 12.7 km from the zero point in Greater Noida.“It appears the truck driver slept on the wheel and lost balance of the vehicle. The truck hit the divider first before crashing into the roadways bus on the other side,” he said. The truck driver and the helper were also injured in the accident.Also Read: Noida’s air quality dips, Ghaziabad enters ‘very poor’ zone againThe bus passengers informed the police and a team from Dankaur police station and a team of Yamuna expressway patrol reached the spot and rescued the victims. Pandey said five of the 14 injured passengers had received serious injuries. The victims have been admitted to Kailash hospital in Greater Noida.The accident led to a traffic jam on the expressway for about half an hour. However, the police personnel placed barricades and signalled other vehicles to stop to avoid a pile up. The police team later removed the two damaged vehicles from the spot and cleared the road.The passengers, who escaped unhurt, boarded other buses and left the spot while some others were picked up by their friends and relatives from the accident spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-expressway-crash-on-late-friday-night-injures-14-people/story-ph9mdfYENpmTRgg9L0ArTI.html
19-12-2020||Patna||Another attack on judicial officer in Bihar, Patna HC takes cognisance||Three days after the Supreme Court sought the Bihar government’s response to a plea demanding judicial inquiry into an alleged attack on Aurangabad district judge by a police sub-inspector, the Patna high court took cognisance of another case of alleged assault on the judicial officer at Hilsa in Nalanda district of the state. A bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice S Kumar directed the Bihar government as well as the state police chief to file a complete action taken report before December 23. The court was hearing the matter suo moto following news reports.“Upon information received from the concerned officer, the Nalanda police lodged an FIR under Sections 341/323/504/427/307/506/34 of the IPC and further states that no incident of firing of gunshots (was reported),” Bihar advocate general had said before the hearing.He further stated that an investigation was on and the police authorities shall ensure that action per law is taken against the assailants on an expeditious basis.Earlier on Thursday, additional district and session judge (ADJ-1) Jai Kishore Dubey of Hilsa court and his driver Sanjay Prasad came under attack from some bikers on the Yogipur stretch when the ADJ was on the way to his official residence. Meanwhile, Bihar police headquarters claimed that the incident of firing at the spot where ADJ’s vehicle was attacked was not related.On Wednesday, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar had issued notice to the Bihar government on a petition demanding a judicial probe into an attack by a police sub inspector on district judge Dr Dinesh Kumar Pradhan. The court also posted the case for further hearing after four weeks.The accused sub-inspector, Pranav Kumar, of the Town police station was impleaded as a party as per the court’s order to the petitioner, advocate Vishal Tiwari, to do so at the last hearing.The SI, accompanied by paramilitary personnel on October 21, had allegedly threatened, abused and chased Dr Dinesh Kumar Pradhan when he was out on an evening walk. The plea stated that the sub-inspector was accompanied by paramilitary personnel on a flag march when he attacked Dr Pradhan. It alleged that the attack was an act of retaliation against the judicial officer for finding the sub inspector and some other officials guilty of ‘dereliction of duty’ when he was the Aurangabad judicial magistrate a few months ago.The secretary of Bihar Judicial Services Association, Ajit Kumar Singh, had written a letter to the director general of police, Bihar on October 24, seeking action against the erring officers, but no step was taken yet in connection with the incident, the petition has stated. Also Read: Nitish Kumar spells out Bihar’s priority list for Covid-19 vaccinationTiwari has sought setting up of a two-member inquiry commission comprising sitting judges of Patna high court to probe the alleged incident and submit a report before the Supreme Court.He has prayed for directions to be issued to Bihar police for registering an FIR in the case and for orders to be issued to all States to “take measures for the safety and security of the judicial officers of the subordinate judiciary in their respective states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/another-attack-on-judicial-officer-in-bihar-patna-hc-takes-cognisance/story-dB0Y1xDXTmloLxEGcCByRL.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Four dead, two hurt as two-storey house collapses in west Delhi||Four persons died and at least two others were injured after the portion of a two-storey house collapsed in west Delhi’s Vishnu Garden near Khyala on Saturday morning, fire department officials and police said. The house was being used as a factory for motor winding, police said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Subodh Kumar Goswami confirmed the four deaths and said that police was received a call around 10am about the roof collapse. “Six men were inside the factory when the incident happened. They were rescued by the police, ambulance and Delhi disaster management authority officials. All six were sent to the nearby hospitals. Four of them were declared dead by the doctors after examination. The other two are out of danger,” said Goswami. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call about the house collapse in RZ-block in Vishnu Garden. Four fire tenders along with the rescue teams were dispatched. “Of the six people who were rescued, one was admitted to Guru Govind hospital while the others were referred to Deen Dayal Memorial hospital. It’s a 60 square yard house, which was also being used for some manufacturing unit,” said Garg.Police said that the factory building belongs to one Mahendra Pal, a resident of Uttam Nagar. The local sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) has been informed for further legal proceedings, said Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-dead-two-hurt-as-two-storey-house-collapses-in-west-delhi/story-B7qzUqOw0zL3ZTEDMUYaKO.html
19-12-2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar spells out Bihar’s priority list for Covid-19 vaccination||The Bihar government on Friday spelt out its priority list for Covid-19 vaccination with chief minister Nitish Kumar placing health care workers, frontline workers, priority age groups, public representatives, all people engaged in government works, contract workers, shopkeepers, traders and all vulnerable groups, first in the line.On Tuesday, the state cabinet had approved free of cost Covid-19 vaccination for the entire population of the state, subject to its availability. The BJP too, in its poll manifesto, had announced a free corona vaccine for residents of the state.The chief minister asked the officials to formulate plans for Covid vaccination and manpower utilisation in such a way that other medical operations are carried out uninterrupted.“Covid vaccination has to be carried out on the patterns of Pulse Polio campaign with full alertness and it has to be monitored at district magistrate level every day,” said Kumar.Lauding the work done by the health department, the chief minister said that increased testing has helped in containing the spread of the virus. He, however, advised the officials to maintain the same tempo till the vaccines are out. “There should be a proper and adequate storage facility for vaccines,” he said.The health department on Friday tested 122,444 people, out of which, 535 positive cases were reported. Recovery rate in the state was 97.40% on Friday, more than the national average of around 94%.Also Read: In Bihar, exercise to update electoral rolls startsBihar government has decided to form a block-level task force and use its routine immunisation channel for administering the Covid-19 vaccine, once available, with the Centre committing to increase the state’s vaccine storage capacity by one crore vials.It will also engage doctors, dentists, medicos, paramedics, nurses and nursing students as alternate vaccinators for the purpose, said officials.Kumar also asked the health department officials to improve facilities further at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences(IGIMS), Patna and Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC), where heart-disease related patients are treated.Kumar said that the government is doing its best to provide better health care facilities in villages and advised connecting primary health centres, community health centres, sub-divisional hospitals and district hospitals through telemedicine in order to provide seamless medical consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-kumar-spells-out-bihar-s-priority-list-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-b8ua5URORaDETjK3O0DQkL.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||At 278, Delhi’s AQI remains in poor category||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the “poor” category on Saturday morning like the previous day. As per data from the Central Pollution Control Board at 10am, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) value stood at 278. On Friday, it was at 281.“Moisture may increase and there may be some clouding on Saturday, because of which air pollution levels may increase marginally but they will hover around “poor” to “very poor” category. Further deterioration is expected in air quality from December 22 due to change in wind direction and speed,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, air quality division, IMD.Meanwhile, on Saturday, the minimum temperature is predicted to be at 4 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature at 21 degrees Celsius with partly cloudy sky towards afternoon and evening.After dealing with four consecutive days of a cold spell, Delhi’s maximum temperature increased to 19.8 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above normal, on Friday. However, the cold wave continued as the minimum temperature was very low on Friday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-278-delhi-s-aqi-remains-in-poor-category/story-LC5oXgTryCX0DmukYxPIdI.html
19-12-2020||Bhopal||Tiger found dead in suspicious circumstances in MP’s Seoni||A tiger was found dead under suspicious circumstances in Seoni district, 344 km northeast of Bhopal on Friday evening. However, forest officials have ruled out the poaching angle. “The body of adult male tiger was found in a forest area of Keolari near Pundrai village of South Seoni. All the body parts were found intact so it is not a case of poaching,” said RS Kori, the chief conservator of forest (CCF), Seoni.The reason for the tiger’s death is yet to be ascertained. The post-mortem will be conducted Saturday morning.This is the second incident of tiger death in Seoni district. Two days ago, the forest officials arrested a man with body parts of a tiger from Barghat region.Later, the forest officials recovered the carcass of the tiger, which was killed by electrocution, from a forest area near Ugli village in the district.“The investigation is still going on and a team of STF is trying to nab the other accused,” said CCF. Protective big sister Ella separates elephants engaged in a sparring match. WatchIn another tiger related incident, a 40-year-old tribal woman was mauled to death by a tiger in the district, an official said on Friday. The victim, Sonwati, had gone to collect wood when the attack took place in Kopizhola, part of Barghat forest, Ranger BS Sanodia was quoted as saying by a news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/tiger-found-dead-in-suspicious-circumstances-in-mp-s-seoni/story-0ofoCsL757eRodTQ1gGNyH.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Driver carrying illegal sand from Mohali held after 12-km chase||The officials of the Mohali mining department caught a tipper-truck driver who was carrying illegally mined sand after a chase of 12 kilometres into Chandigarh when he jumped a naka at Kurali Siswan T-point and damaged a street light in Sector 24 on the intervening night of December 17/18.The accused was identified as Parminder Singh, 23, of Abheypur village in Mohali district. He was produced before a court on Friday and sent to judicial custody. Parminder was hauling sand from Abheypur and was on his way to Mohali. On Thursday night at around 12.30am, officials of Punjab mining department had set up a naka at Kurali Siswan T-point and were patrolling in the area to check vehicles for illegal mining of sand.A tipper-truck loaded with wash sand was signalled to stop, but instead of slowing down the accused tried to drive away after breaking the naka. The mining officials followed the truck in four vehicles and chased it for about 12km into Chandigarh.The tipper was finally intercepted near Gujarat Bhawan in Sector 24. In the process, however, the tipper damaged a street light. The driver tried to flee, but was caught and handed over to the Chandigarh Police.In-charge of the police post in Sector 24 Ravdeep Singh said, “We have registered a case of damaging public property while the complaint regarding mining has been forwarded to Mohali.”Mining inspector, Mohali, Gurjit Singh said that the tipper was speeding and was loaded with sand, and the driver failed to show any documents regarding transportation of the sand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/driver-carrying-illegal-sand-held-after-12-km-chase-into-city/story-HWyxW3d91A1MLJW6REiSoJ.html
19-12-2020||City||Bar president, advocates booked for blocking judge’s way in Panchkula||The Panchkula police have booked the president of the District Bar Association and other advocates for allegedly blocking the way of a sessions judge and the people.A case was registered at a police station in Sector 5 on December 15 under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 283 (anger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code.The FIR mentioned that the police got information that the president of the association and 70-80 advocates were protesting at the court chowk and had blocked the way from four sides using pipes, chairs and wires.“The police were called and yet, advocates did not move from their place and continued to cause inconvenience to commuters. At 4.15pm, the vehicle of a sessions judge was blocked. Protesters started raising slogans against the judge, used derogatory words and did not clear the way, following which, the judge went back to the court,” the FIR mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bar-president-advocates-booked-for-blocking-judge-s-way-in-panchkula/story-BFHFlRgHqfWsELf4XPbqwJ.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||House tax assessment committee meeting: Chandigarh MC will issue 90,000 no-dues certificates till Jan 31||A meeting of the house tax assessment committee of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) was held on Friday under the chairmanship of Charanjiv Singh and was attended by member councillors Sunita Dhawan, Ajay Dutta, Sachin Lohatiya, Anil Garg, additional commissioner and other officers concerned.During the meeting, the members discussed various issues related to property tax and decided that the MC will issue 90,000 no due certificates/clearance certificates to city residents as well as commercial tax payers till January 31, 2021.The agenda item reviewing the self-assessment scheme under residential, commercial, industrial and institutional lands and buildings was discussed during the meeting and the members of the committee decided not to increase the rateable value or tax rate keeping in view the pandemic, and also because it was increased only last year.Regarding the waiving off of the interest from November 22, 2004, to March 31, 2006, on building temporary shed areas at industrial areas Phases 1 and 2, the committee members passed the agenda to waive off interest and penalty only with the condition to deposit the principal amount.The committee members decided that charitable institutes registered under the Charitable Endowment Act and not doing any commercial activity will be considered for exemption of the property tax. The institutional buildings will have the benefit of deduction under Section 80 G of IT Act 1961.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/house-tax-assessment-committee-meeting-chandigarh-mc-will-issue-90-000-no-dues-certificates-till-jan-31/story-djFm8RpTpTE41ttcFCpquI.html
19-12-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath govt coins MYK mantra to counter opposition before 2022 polls||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh is focusing on a new MYK mantra, with Mahila (women), Yuva (youths) and Kisan (farmers) at its centre, to counter the opposition in the run up to 2022 Assembly elections.At a meeting attended by State ministers and BJP’s senior office bearers, held at chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s official residence in Lucknow on Friday evening, it was decided to hold Kisan Samvad Sammelans via video conference on former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary on December 25. Party workers have been asked to set up big screens at major public places to take Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to the people on this occasion.A government spokesperson described the meeting as an informal get together at a dinner, however, those aware of the development said the leaders met to discuss BJP’s roadmap to the elections along with a sound strategy to neutralise the opposition’s attacks in the backdrop of the farmers’ stir, law and order challenges and the forthcoming panchayat elections.Party is also trying to factor Arvind Kejriwal led Aam Aadmi Party’s decision to contest 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, however, senior UP minister and government spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh called AAP’s foray ‘Mungeri Lal Ke Hasin Sapne’ or wishful thinking. He said the phrase would soon change to ‘Kejriwal Ke Hasin Sapne’.The BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party are locked in a tussle over Covid-19 management and school education after AAP announced its decision.“The ministers and the party’s leaders discussed the prevailing political scenario and decided to focus on MYK mantra with an objective to take the Yogi Adityanath government’s achievements to Mahila, Yuva and Kisan and counter the opposition’s attacks,” said a party functionary on condition of anonymity.Also Read: If govt can’t find a solution, we will plough our way to one, warns Bharatiya Kisan Union at UP GateUP BJP spokesman Chandramohan also confirmed that the meeting discussed the prevailing political situation in the State along with various other issues. He added that the government, along with the party organization, will take the achievements of Yogi Adityanath government to the people.The party functionary quoted above added that senior party leaders asked ministers and party workers to toil hard for the panchayat elections and stay away from fielding close relatives. The panchayat elections are due by March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-govt-coins-myk-mantra-to-counter-opposition-before-2022-polls/story-smW9tvVgAhc76sdpuDnVxH.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy: Former quickie VRV Singh retained as Chandigarh coach||Just when India and Australia were in the middle of top-class test cricket on Friday, back in Chandigarh, 36-year-old former India fast bowler Vikram Rajvir Singh, aka VRV, was already chalking out plans for his state team for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy starting January 10.For the second successive term, VRV, who has played five tests and two ODIs for India, has been appointed as head coach of the Chandigarh senior men’s team by the UT Cricket Association. His name was finalised by a three-member cricket advisory committee comprising former first-class cricketers Rakesh Jolly, Daniel Bannerjee and Sharanjit Singh.Chandigarh play their matches in Chennai. Top registered U-19, U-23 and senior cricketers have been called for their fitness test to be held on Saturday at the Sector 16 stadium by UTCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-trophy-former-quickie-vrv-singh-retained-as-chandigarh-coach/story-nYHLSG7850JoNPEfPrvBjM.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor launches ‘neki ki deewar’ scheme||City mayor Raj Bala Malik on Friday launched the “neki ki deewar” or wall of kindness scheme of the municipal corporation here at the community centre in Sector 8.The mayor said that people could leave their old clothes, old blankets, sheets, shoes and other items here so that they could be used by the needy. The facility will be started throughout the city outside the community centres in phases.KK Yadav, municipal commissioner, said that there were many people in the city who were helping the needy by taking care of them and leaving things at the wall of kindness to help the poor. He said that the MCC was also running a vehicle, Swachhta Swari, throughout city sectors and colonies including villages to collect clothes, bags, shoes etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-launches-neki-ki-deewar-scheme/story-hlJ4YfVDodhTkkmgnqsnvO.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cab driver held with 22g heroin in Chandigarh||The police have arrested a 29-year-old cab driver with 22 gram heroin. The accused was identified as Sukhpreet Singh, alias Johan, of Omega City, Kharar.Johan was produced before a court on Friday and sent to one-day police remand. He was arrested by the police during checking at a naka near Ziri Mandi chowk (grain market, Sector 39).During preliminary questioning, the accused told the police that he had been supplying drugs to his regular customers in Chandigarh and Mohali from his taxi itself.The police said that the accused was involved in immoral trafficking as well and had been supplying females for flesh trade to his customers.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cab-driver-held-with-22g-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-BLIy2acxyXPBaGQQoXYJxL.html
19-12-2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah in Kolkata for a 2-day visit: All you need to know||Union home minister Amit Shah arrived in Kolkata early Saturday morning for a two-day visit to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) affairs in West Bengal ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held in the eastern state next year. “I bow to this revered land of greats like Gurudev Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Syama Prasad Mookerjee,” Shah tweeted as he reached the state capital of Kolkata.In the days leading up to his visit to the state, several Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders including Suvendu Adhikari quit the party and speculations are rife that they may join the BJP in the next two days.Here is all you need to know about Amit Shah’s visit to West Bengal:1. Amit Shah is scheduled to address a public rally at Midnapore on Saturday. A number of TMC leaders are likely to join the BJP during this rally, reported news agency PTI.2. A day before his visit, a controversy erupted after placards with his picture above Rabindranath Tagore’s were found all over Bolpur and Santiniketan in Bengal’s Birbhum district. Shah is slated to visit Bolpur on Sunday.3. The placards were removed after local people and students of Visva Bharati, Bengal’s only national university set up by Tagore, raised objections.4. Meanwhile, the tussle between the Centre and the state over the alleged breach of law and order situation in the state during BJP chief JP Nadda’s visit continued. Nadda’s convoy was attacked during his visit to the state. While the Centre has summoned state officials over the attack, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was staged as BJP leaders always come with their own security.5. It was decided in a party meeting last month that the Shah and Nadda would visit West Bengal every month till the assembly elections, likely in April-May, are over.6. Nadda was on a day-long visit to the state in October and came on a two-day tour last week, while Shah was in the state for two days in November before this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amit-shah-in-kolkata-for-a-2-day-visit-all-you-need-to-know/story-BFTFss7dzmlRLkOX2rUR4N.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Saddam’s gajar ka halwa||It’s such a deathly cold evening that the mere sight of steaming hot gajar halwa (carrot pudding), here in this central Delhi market, brings instant relief.Only later does the attention shift to the boy manning the cart. His face is hidden behind a mask but his eyes—so huge—seem to speak for his entire being. In such a chilly hour, he ought to be snuggled inside a cushy quilt at home, with one of his parents perhaps serving him a bowl of this very same halwa.Saddam giggles.“My mummy is dead, my papa is ill,” he says matter-of-factly.Saddam says he is 18. He arrived in the Delhi region “many years ago” from his village in Bahraich, UP, where his father still lives. He works for a sweet seller in Noida, in neighbouring UP, and sells the freshly made gulab jamun and carrot halwa on the street every evening from 5 to 8. He gets Rs5,000 monthly, he says.Responding to queries, Saddam replies that he lives by himself in a small room in Noida given to him by his employer. “I have an elder brother, he lives and works in Karkardooma.” That’s in east Delhi, a few miles away from his address. The brothers rarely meet. But Saddam does have friends, he says, “I meet them when I have time.”Usually, Saddam’s street vending is confined to a few Noida sectors but today his employer sent him across the interstate border to this Delhi market. “It took me two hours to cycle here,” he says. The cart is fitted with a bicycle. After finding a spot to park his stall, Saddam went on to lit the stove to reheat the desserts.Gazing towards the halwa platter, he says he can barely recall his mother. “If mummy ever cooked gajar halwa for me, I don’t remember it.”On the possibility of having dreams for the future, he stays silent, smiles shyly and shakes his head.Now a female beggar gets up from the footpath nearby, and silently hands over a Rs10 note gesturing towards the halwa. Saddam deftly picks out a disposable bowl, fills it with a ladle of halwa, and gets his first transaction of the evening done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-saddam-s-gajar-ka-halwa/story-ZLiKuAkQX4jhsOBsDtj5OJ.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body clears redevelopment of 4 housing societies||In a major relief for the residents of dilapidated buildings in the city, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has sanctioned the redevelopment of buildings in four housing societies in the city on Friday.The proposal for these buildings was stuck in alleged bureaucratic red tape and political interference for more than five years. The decision has now given hopes to more than four lakh other residents residing in 3,500 dangerous buildings across Navi Mumbai.The approval for redevelopment was given to 31 buildings in four housing societies in Vashi and Nerul where 616 families reside. The buildings include Nivasti Tvisa Society in Sector 2, Little Flower Society in Sector 9, Utkarsh Society in Sector 9 and Panchsheel Apartment in Sector 1A in Nerul.The redevelopment issue of Cidco buildings, which are more than 30 years old and declared as extremely dangerous (C1 category) was stuck for over five years. The state government has already sanctioned 2.5 FSI for redevelopment in the city and recently, the CM Uddhav Thackeray has given the green signal for granting 4 FSI, a proposal for which is being readied by Cidco.NMMC has formed an identification committee for the purpose of scrutinising redevelopment proposals of dangerous and dilapidated buildings. The committee, headed by the municipal commissioner, includes Cidco chief planner, Cidco chief engineer, superintending engineer PWD, Thane, Joint director – town planning, Konkan Division and NMMC chief engineer.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “The residents of buildings declared in C1 category had constantly been following up on the redevelopment proposal submitted by them. The approval had been stuck lately due to the Covid pandemic. Now, we have taken up the issue on priority as the residents do not have a proper home of their own. The members of the identification committee personally inspected these buildings on December 15 and 17. They then submitted their report to me based on which the committee has approved the proposals for the redevelopment of the buildings in these four societies.”Bangar added that the decision to approve redevelopment plans for the four societies will benefit a large number of residents residing in them and help them get quality houses of their own.Welcoming the sanction by the civic body, BM Siraj (51), a resident of Nivasti Tvisa society, said, “We have long been suffering and waiting for the sanction for long. A lot of people in the society have no other option but to risk their lives on a daily basis by residing here. We know there is still a long way to go before we get new houses as there are several other permissions to get as well. However, this is a very important hurdle that has been crossed and the redevelopment process can finally be set in motion.”Vikas Sarote, 40, resident of Utkarsh society, added, “This is a good crucial decision by NMMC and a major relief. Hopefully, residents of other dilapidated buildings too will get their sanction early and will not face the problems we faced.”THE REDEVELOPMENT ISSUECidco constructed around 44 per cent of the total houses in Navi Mumbai. The total housing stock created in Navi Mumbai is about 3,00,000 units, out of which 1,30,000 units are built by Cidco and around 1,70,000 tenements by the private sector.There are around 55,000 people living in extremely dangerous buildings in Navi Mumbai. In all, there are around 3,500 dilapidated buildings in the city, in which around four lakh residents live.Several buildings constructed by CIDCO in Vashi, Koparkhairane, Ghansoli, Airoli, Sanpada and Nerul are in a pathetic state and have been declared dangerous by the NMMC. The residents of these buildings risk their lives daily. There have been several instances of slab, ceiling and plaster falling, injuring the residents.The state government had issued a GR on February 4, 2015 allowing 2.5 FSI for the redevelopment of dilapidated Cidco-constructed buildings. Despite almost six years having passed, the redevelopment process in the city has not really taken off yet.THE BENEFICIARIES Nivasti – 10 buildings – 160 families Little Flower – 1 building – 16 familiesUtkarsh – 3 buildings – 48 families Panchsheel – 17 buildings – 392 families||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-clears-redevelopment-of-4-housing-societies/story-6Gu2bIibHfVsNBIOnNZCXK.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Vishnudas Bhave auditorium in Navi Mumbai reopens today with Marathi play||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) Vishnudas Bhave auditorium in Vashi is set to reopen on Saturday. The auditorium had been shut for nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The auditorium is set to take off with ‘Tu Mhansheel Tasa’, a Marathi play to be staged at 4pm. The ticket sale was inaugurated on December 16 by deputy municipal commissioner, Yogesh Kudaskar, who is also the manager of the auditorium.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “The auditorium management has readied the hall for the programmes by sanitizing the seating areas, green rooms and also the areas around the auditorium. As per the government order, the auditorium will function at 50 per cent capacity and hence seating arrangements have been made accordingly for the patrons who will sit on alternate chairs.“Sanitizers will be provided during the plays at the auditorium entrance and other necessary spots. ‘No Mask No Entry’ rule will also be followed. The 43 personnel working at the auditorium have been tested for Covid-19. One sanitation worker had tested positive and is being treated.”NMMC has given 75 per cent relief on the charges to boost the theatre industry. Welcoming the opening of the auditorium, Sachin Adsul, 50, a theatre lover from Vashi, said, “We were eagerly waiting for the auditorium to reopen. It is high time we got to enjoy Marathi theatre. It will help us all get back to normal life by including some entertainment in it.”What’s on this monthA series of popular plays are set to be performed at the auditorium in December. Apart from ‘Tu Mhansheel Tasa’ on December 19, the other plays include ‘Punha Sahi Re Sahi’ on December 25, ‘Eka Lagnachi Pudhchi Gosht’ on December 26 and ‘Bhayankar Anandachi Batmi’ on December 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vishnudas-bhave-auditorium-in-navi-mumbai-reopens-today-with-marathi-play/story-IdUTINDQ6CQjueojG6vQeL.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||More than 9K visit Karnala sanctuary since reopening||More than 9,000 tourists visited the Karnala bird sanctuary in Panvel within a month after it was thrown open to the tourists despite trains and buses not operational for the common people.The sanctuary, which saw close to 10,000 visitors per month before the pandemic, has now become the much sought-out destination due to its proximity to Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Raigad.After remaining shut for nearly eight months, the Karnala bird sanctuary was reopened on November 12. Since then, the sanctuary has received an overwhelming response. Tourists choose to visit in their private vehicles as trains are not operational for the common man.The number of tourists noticeably goes up on Saturdays and Sundays. Pradeep Chavan, range forest officer of the bird sanctuary, said, “We believe that after staying at home for a long time, people want to spend some time amidst nature, and that too without travelling much. People from Mumbai and its peripheries can come to this bird sanctuary and return in a day. Thus, it has become an ideal destination from the entire region.“Normally, around 10,000 tourists visit the sanctuary in a month during this time of the year. Since the local trains are not for all, and also there are several other restrictions, 9,084 is a huge number of us,” he said.The Karnala bird sanctuary is located along the Mumbai-Goa highway, around 10km away from Panvel city. According to the authorities, around 134 species of birds including many migratory ones are present in the sanctuary. Three rare birds – Ashy Minivet, three-toed kingfisher and Malabar Trogon – are spotted here.Chavan said, “We are following all safety and hygiene measures at the sanctuary as directed by the government. Our officials are checking the body temperature of the tourists before allowing them in. We have kept hand sanitizer at the main entrance and using it is compulsory for all. No one is allowed inside the sanctuary without wearing a mask.“Our sanitation workers clean the washrooms twice a day from Monday to Friday. On weekends, they clean them thrice a day as more people visit,” another forest official said.Three local self-help groups are operating a cafeteria inside the sanctuary. “It is compulsory for them to wear face masks and gloves and to sanitize the plates before serving the customers,” the official said.Raju Mumbaikar, an animal lover from Uran who visited the bird sanctuary last week, said, “The officials have maintained the bird sanctuary well and are also following the rules to stop the spread of Covid. No one is allowed to feed the monkeys. This rule was there even before the pandemic, but some people violated it. Now, they are strictly warning the tourists not to do it. They have even stationed their officials at different places to keep a tab on the tourists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-than-9k-visit-karnala-sanctuary-since-reopening/story-g3pA94CSenTpe7o4Z9FAzL.html
19-12-2020||City||Illegal portions of 200 shops at south Mumbai mall razed||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has demolished illegal portions of around 200 shops located at the City Centre mall in Mumbai Central, where a massive fire had gutted the top two floors of the structure on October 22. The demolition had started on Monday and concluded on Thursday. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant commissioner of D ward, which has jurisdiction over the area, said, “BMC demolished illegal portions of over 200 shops on the ground and first floors of the mall. The second and top floors were completed gutted in the fire. Many owners have constructed mezzanine floors in their shops, and bigger shops have been divided into smaller ones with false walls.” Earlier this week, the fire brigade had also revoked the fire no-objection certificate issued to the mall. It will not be allowed to reopen until a structural audit, declaring the structure safe for habitation, is completed. Three weeks ago, the fire brigade had submitted a preliminary inquiry report about the blaze to BMC’s standing committee. It had noted that while the mall’s blueprint showed only 344 approved galas (shops), there were 1,344 shops. Gaikwad said, “The remaining galas had been approved by the civic body’s building proposal department in 2017. However, these 200 shops had unauthorised additions and alterations to their original structures and we demolished them in the past four days.”The committee had directed the administration to not reopen the mall until all the illegalities had been removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-portions-of-200-shops-at-south-mumbai-mall-razed/story-wrh7egDjXerbe3k6yfFmIL.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Low-key X’mas celebrations with most indulging in home-made delicacies||With most families working from home this year, the age-old tradition of making Christmas goodies like Jujube, Kulkul or Marzipans is back.The demand for store-bought goodies, which was increasing since the last few years, has reduced this year with most people still wary of outside food. Even those who have been making goodies at home and selling have got fewer orders this year.The city, though, has managed to prevent a second wave of Covid-19 so far, Christmas celebrations in the city still will be low-key. Most families are not expecting guests and, thus, are not indulging in large quantities of store delicacies.Penny Rathore, 47 and a resident of Kolbad, has been making Christmas goodies and selling them since the last 25 years. She said, “I take orders from other countries as well. My regular clientele remains the same. However, owing to the pandemic situation, the quantity of goodies ordered has reduced as everyone may not be visiting friends or expecting guests like earlier. Also, there are many who have started selling cakes from home. Not everyone has been financially sound post-lockdown and this has become a means to earn.”From cakes including the traditional plum cake, coconut rawa cake, date and walnut cake and the goodies like guava cheese, coconut cookies, milk cream and marshmallows are preferred during Christmas.“Sweets like jujube, kulkul and marzipan are traditional Christmas delicacies. Many households also make nankhatai and chakli. These are not very complicated recipes. However, they are time consuming, but with enough time to spare during the lockdown, I have managed to learn a few and will try them this year,” said Benita D’Silva, 39, resident of Rabodi.Many have elaborate plans to decorate the house. “As we do not really have to juggle between work and home like before, work from home has given a lot of time at hand to focus on the decorations and we are coming up with innovative ideas. But, we will not be having any guests due to the social-distancing and pandemic rules this year,” said Alex Coelho, 45, resident of Rabodi.Though people may not be visiting friends and relatives, Christmas this year surely is more about celebrating together as a family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/low-key-x-mas-celebrations-with-most-indulging-in-home-made-delicacies/story-HeoMxWSVk6EIuS0ZUXt3ZP.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Dombivli ground receives facelift||The popular Bhagshala ground in Dombivli, lying in a state of neglect for more than three years, has got a facelift, thanks to a local resident and MNS party worker Prahlad Mhatre, 52.Residents and sportspersons in the city reached out to Mhatre, who also resides in the same area, after their complaints to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fell on deaf ears. He agreed to take up the entire expenses for the ground.Mhatre spent around ₹90,000 on the ground that sprawls in an area of 4521.50sqm, since the start of this month.Mhatre visited the ground and found there was no water supply while the seating arrangements were missing. The watering activity at the ground had stopped for three years, causing the ground to dry up and releasing dust, posing problems to the residents.“The pump room had turned into a dumping ground and was not functional. I decided to buy a new pump instead of repairing the existing one. I also bought a pipe for watering the ground,” said Mhatre.Mhatre appointed two persons to keep the ground clean by giving them salary from his pocket.“There were no seating arrangements in the ground. The old benches were broken, so I fitted new ones. I have plans to paint the premises so that the entire ground is beautified,” added Mhatre.Chandrashekhar Pradhan, 77, who lives nearby, said, “I have been visiting the ground daily since the last 40 years and am happy to see the facelift Mhatre has given it. We had to close our windows to not allow dust from the ground to enter the home. Since the ground is being watered for two hours, that issue is resolved. Several senior citizens go to the ground regularly, all are glad with the change in the ground.”An officer from Dombivli KDMC office, who did not wish to be named, said, “Under budgetary allocation for the maintenance of the garden in Kalyan-Dombivli, the civic body takes up maintenance and repair works. Due to the Covid pandemic, some work got delayed. However, the repair and maintenance work will be undertaken without further delay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dombivli-ground-receives-facelift/story-ZXmh2uIqpmBd3i6NSpabVK.html
19-12-2020||City||Apologise in 15 days or face ₹100-crore defamation suit, Thane MLA Pratap Sarnaik tells BJP leader Kirit Somaiya||Two days after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Member of Parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya had alleged irregularities in the housing projects undertaken by Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik, the latter has issued a notice to Somaiya on Friday. The notice has stated that Somaiya must either prove the allegations or apologise before the media in 15 days, failing which Sarnaik will file a ₹100-crore defamation suit against the former MP. The notice has also stated that the allegations by Somaiya are “childish”, made with an intention to revive his political career. On Wednesday, Somaiya in a press conference had claimed that the construction at Thane’s Vihang Garden by Sarnaik’s Vihang Group is illegal. He had also alleged that the building constructed by the group does not have permissions to increase its floors from nine to 13 and that the Thane Municipal Corporation has given orders to demolish the structure. Sarnaik’s lawyer advocate Raghunath Kulkarni said, “The BJP leader has given an extremely wrong statement to the media against my client without any proof. These statements have maligned the political reputation of my client.” Replying to Somaiya’s allegations, Sarnaik had said, “The issue pertaining to the structure was resolved several years ago. When the then commissioner RA Rajeev had sent us a notice over the structure, we had explained that we have constructed a civic school in exchange of the transferable development rights (TDR). The notice was then taken back.”Meanwhile, Somaiya has given a written complaint to the Vartak Nagar police requesting them to probe Sarnaik’s projects and file a case against him for cheating the residents of Vihang Garden. “Sarnaik has only issued a defamation notice. He doesn’t have the guts to file a defamation suit against me. I have submitted one letter to TMC about his illegal construction and also given a complaint to the police,” said Somaiya.The police said it will probe into Somaiya’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apologise-in-15-days-or-face-100-crore-defamation-suit-thane-mla-pratap-sarnaik-tells-bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya/story-6KSBsim3JqM3hJe48zEp5M.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chinese air force’s combat experience sketchy: Former IAF chief BS Dhanoa||Former Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa said on Friday that the combat experience of China’s People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) is “very sketchy”, even as he raised concerns over the large resources available with the neighbouring country in case India goes to war with it. The former Indian Air Force chief was moderating a panel discussion on China airpower capabilities on the opening day of the fourth edition of Military Literature Festival, which is being organised in virtual mode this year. Other participants included former Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam, Group Captain Ravinder Chhatwal and Dr Ming-Shih Shen from Taiwan. Speaking amid rising tensions in eastern Ladakh, Dhanoa said China has got such a large force that whatever it loses at the battlefront can be replaced from elsewhere. The same goes for its loss of fighter aircraft. “One of the reasons we always say that (India) needs squadron strength is because we also need deep pockets to replace our attrition,” he said. However, he also raised doubts on the combat experience of Chinese air force. “Combat experience of the PLAAF is very very sketchy; there is one bombing mission they carried out in the Korean war… after that, there have been no offensive missions by them,” said Dhanoa. Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam (retd) said that unlike in 1962, when thousands of PLA troops swarmed down the Himalayan slopes in the eastern sectors and into Ladakh, this time around, “I think no such thing will happen as because every thrust will be met by significant friction on the ground”. “Outcomes (of the war) will likely be driven by the air power with a few disruptive technologies, like electronic warfare, cyber, unmanned aerial vehicles and space capabilities, emerging as important factors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chinese-air-force-s-combat-experience-sketchy-former-iaf-chief-bs-dhanoa/story-ibrlfPxnCu0pH3U9KdxJvN.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Nature of threats, wars is changing: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that with changing times, the nature of threats and wars is also changing, adding that in the future, more security-related issues may arise before India.Inaugurating the fourth edition of Military Literature Festival through a virtual ceremony, the defence minister underlined the ever-evolving nature of warfare in global scenarios and urged people, especially youngsters, to acquaint themselves with the “defence way of life” to act as a formidable shield in case of need. “Today, a mobile is as potent a weapon as missile and our youngsters must leverage and complement our forces by leading research in cyber, biological and information domain,” he said.He added that the enemy can now reach people even without crossing any borders, and urged everyone to play the role of a soldier. “We should remain alive to these dangers and save ourselves from wrong and misleading information and save others too, and festivals like this can play a key role in this,” he saidPunjab governor VPS Badnore said that given the rich martial traditions of Punjab, it comes as no surprise that this region is a treasure trove of military events, such as the literature festival. Lt Gen TS Shergill (retd), senior adviser to the Punjab CM, lauded the Western Command headquarters for providing support in organising the festival.NN Vohra, former governor of Jammu and Kashmir, said earlier there was a sense of secrecy revolving around defence-related matters, such as sharing experiences of war and making documents shedding light on military matters. “But now, the scenario is undergoing a change and if it continues, the young generation, especially cadets in military academies, can be really inspired,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nature-of-threats-wars-is-changing-rajnath-singh/story-c2UwGrWnCr0jdHq8TMxkpL.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway starts online survey to get feedback of passengers on AC locals||In a bid to popularise air-conditioned (AC) local trains among passengers and know their commuting preferences, Central Railway (CR) has started an online survey. The survey mentions details of AC local trains and asks passengers on preferred time of travelling during the morning and evening rush hours between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway stations.Passengers also have an option to select their preferred travel routes. Commuters can select from CSMT- Kalyan, CSMT-Dombivli, CSMT-Thane, CSMT-Kurla, CSMT-Vashi, CSMT-Belapur, CSMT-Panvel, CSMT-Bandra, CSMT-Andheri and CSMT-Goregaon railway stations. “The survey is to find out what the passengers will prefer after the local train resumes for the general public. The present operation of the train is under trial basis. After checking the passenger response, the frequency and timings will be changed.” said a senior CR official. Passengers will also have to provide their age and occupation. CR introduced 10 AC local services on Thursday between CSMT and Kalyan stations on the slow railway line corridor. The services are operated from Monday to Saturday. The fares of AC locals are 1.3 times higher than that of the non-AC locals.Meanwhile on Friday, 15 passengers travelled on AC locals on CR till 8pm. CR issued 14 journey tickets and one monthly season ticket on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-starts-online-survey-to-get-feedback-of-passengers-on-ac-locals/story-GtRqOKA3ykMDnB8Swp3oIO.html
19-12-2020||City||Six in fray for mayor’s post in Panchkula||Six candidates are in the fray for the mayor’s seat while 83 will contest from 20 wards of the Panchkula municipal corporation House, which goes to the polls on December 27. As many as 35 people took their names back while 17 nominations were cancelled, as the final list was announced on Friday. Those who are contesting for the mayor’s seat are Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia of the Congress, Kulbhushan Goyal of the BJP, Anil Pangotra of the BSP, Sudarshan Bansal of Janral Samaj Party (registered unrecognised) and Independents Padam Garg and Shyam Singh Negi.Returning officer Mohammad Imran Raza said four people who had filed nominations for the mayor’s post – Anju Goyal, Dhawal Partap Ahluwalia, Krishan Aggarwal and Pushpender Rana – had taken back their names besides 31 who filed papers for councillor seats.Also, during examination, 17 names were cancelled: Amrik Singh, Ratanchand, Ruchi, Vijay, Ravinder Kumar Rawal, Seema, Sunny Kumar, Kanta Devi, Diksha, Neelam Malik, Mamta Swami, Sushila Shukla, Sukhjeet Kaur, Avinash Malik, Jitender Parsaad, Ajaypal Singh and Harpreet Kaur.Ahluwalia holds 14 public meetingsIntensifying her poll campaign, former mayor Upinder Ahluwalia held 14 public meetings in Ward No. 20 on Friday. The meetings at Kot, Bader, Dabkori, Toka, Khangeshra, Alipur Town, Naggel Khurd, Jalauli, Khatola, Khatoli, Mattawala and Ashiana block in Sector 26 witnessed huge gatherings.Chander Mohan, former Haryana deputy CM; Pardeep Chaudary, sitting Congress MLA from Kalka; and Salim Khan, party candidate from Ward No. 20, also accompanied Ahluwalia.“The villagers and farmers are forced to sit on dharna. Even in this biting cold, they are out in the open for their demands. But this heartless government has no feelings and they are paying no attention to farmers’ pleas,” said Ahluwalia on the ongoing agitation against new agricultural laws. “The change starts from the grassroots. So, it’s high time for you to bring change and support Congress for all-round development of your area,” she said, while adding her special focus will be on improving basic amenities in villages and bring them on a par with urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-in-fray-for-mayor-s-post-in-panchkula/story-YMUOg3KRnEruqqXUIfbEsL.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Six more patients succumb to Covid-19 in Chandigarh tricity area||Six people succumbed to Covid-19 while 206 tested positive for it in the tricity on Friday.Chandigarh reported 74 fresh cases and one death besides 122 recoveries. As many as 18,979 have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 305 have died and 18,139 have been discharged, leaving 535 active cases.In Mohali, three people died taking the toll to 322 . Also, 94 fresh cases were reported, taking the count to 17,403, of which 2,017 are active. The number of those recovered has reached 15,064 after 116 were discharged on Friday.Panchkula reported two deaths and 38 fresh cases. As many as 9,643 cases have surfaced so far, of which 319 are active. While 9,186 patients have been cured, 138 have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-more-patients-succumb-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-G9LtnIIYQGEPB2jE0UetaP.html
19-12-2020||City||Pokhriyal launches scholarship test at Chandigarh University||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Friday launched a national-level entrance cum scholarship test CUCET-2021 at Chandigarh University in Mohali. The university is offering up to 100% academic scholarships worth ₹ 33 crore to students in more than 135 undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, on the basis of the test score. “We have often witnessed cases where meritorious students have to opt out of higher education due to financial constraints. CUCET-2021 is an attempt to plug these cases as it offers a helping hand to such talented students from all across India,” said Pokhriyal. “Chandigarh University is offering this national platform to such deserving students who aspire to be successful by undergoing quality higher education in the field of their choice,” said university chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu. Students can fill online application form at www.cucet.cuchd.in and appear online. CUCET-2021 will be conducted in two phases, with the first one from December 2020 to May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pokhriyal-launches-scholarship-test-at-chandigarh-university/story-qZIXOMkMqhULOMBHqbTwUJ.html
19-12-2020||City||Sohi Banquets owner held in cheating case in Mohali||The owner of Sohi Banquets, Zirakpur, was arrested on Friday for an alleged land fraud. Identified as Sehbaz Sohi, he was produced in a local court, which sent him to one-day police remand. Two other suspects, Nachater Singh and Jatinder Singh, are still at large. The three were together running a company, Platinum Smart Buildcon Private Limited.The Zirakpur police had booked them on July 5 last year on the complainant of one Kamaljeet Singh. He alleged they had sold him a piece of land in Rajpura in 2017 by showing fake ownership papers. After taking ₹3.5 crore from him, they allegedly returned the amount through some cheques, but they bounced.A case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy was registered against them. Station house officer, Zirakpur, Rajpal Singh Gill said: “The arrest was made after warrants were issued from court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sohi-banquets-owner-held-in-cheating-case-in-mohali/story-4CDkY16yaVkhWLv3vmkDQL.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||CHB to launch group housing scheme in IT Park in March 2021||The board of directors has given its in-principle approval to Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB)’s group housing scheme for the general public at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park). The scheme is expected to be launched in March next year, said CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg. The board of directors held its meeting under the chairmanship of UT adviser Manoj Parida on Friday. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had already given the go-ahead to the project design in July this year. CHB will develop the project on two plots, measuring 10.51 and 6.43 acres. In all, there will be 728 flats of three categories (4, 3 and 2 BHK) in seven-storey towers. The towers will have two basements with provision of parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors. Though the exact rates of flats are yet to be decided, tentative cost ranges between ₹1.5 crore and ₹2.75 crore. During the Friday meeting, Parida also decided to abolish all discretionary quota in allotment of houses under various schemes of CHB. Earlier, it was 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chb-to-launch-group-housing-scheme-in-it-park-in-march-2021/story-m7KfaCyR3CjnZKrxiXscQJ.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature drops to 4.4°C in Chandigarh||Chandigarh recorded its coldest night of the season as minimum temperature dropped to 4.4°C in wee hours of Friday. The night temperature is expected to remain on the lower side in the coming days too.However, maximum temperature went up to 17.6°C from Thursday’s 14.3°C. Weather is likely to remain dry in the region, with cold wave conditions likely till Sunday. Cold wave is declared when minimum temperature falls 4.5-6.4°C below normal after going below 10°C. Shallow to moderate fog is expected in the morning and evening on Saturday. According to the weather bulletin, mercury will oscillate between 4°C and 19°C in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minimum-temperature-drops-to-4-4-c-in-chandigarh/story-8KCw3PJoucNn1u6e0Ag3mK.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to launch segregated waste collection on December 22||As the Chandigarh municipal corporation gets ready to launch door-to-door collection of segregated waste in the city from December 22, garbage collectors on Friday demanded that they be allowed to lift waste and 50% of the fine collected from defaulters be paid to them.The garbage collectors made the demands in a meeting with MC joint commissioner Anil Garg, sanitation committee chairman Rajesh Kalia and medical officer of health Dr Amrit Warring. Dr Warring said: “We have heard them and will take up their demands with senior officers. We are already registering them with us as drivers and helpers in the twin-bin hopper vehicles.”Om Prakash Saini, president, Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said: “The officials have agreed to some of our demands and we are satisfied with it.” Until now, independent garbage collectors were lifting mixed waste from houses and commercial spaces. However, come December 22, the UT administrator will inaugurate door-to-door segregated garbage collection in Sectors 1-30, wherein residents will have to put dry and wet waste separately in twin-bin vehicles.From January 1, other sectors and colonies will also be covered, while the final phase will be launched in Manimajra on January 7. Residents will have to pay user charges to the MC and will also be penalised for giving mixed waste. The new system will take off ahead of the upcoming Swachh Survekshan.In the first phase, around 115 vehicles will be used. These have already reached the city and their technical evaluation has been done. A total of 392 vehicles have to be purchased by December end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-launch-segregated-waste-collection-on-december-22/story-inneaFjCSlX32yLd6CsbKN.html
19-12-2020||City||Baba Ram Singh’s cremation: Politicos, religious leaders, farmers urge Modi to resolve issue at earliest||Farmer leaders, religious gurus and politicians, who attended Baba Ram Singh’s funeral on Friday, said they cannot bear more such losses and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the farmers’ issues at the earliest.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur, who was among those who attended the funeral, slammed the Union government for its failure to resolve the issue, which she said, had forced farmers to sit on an indefinite dharna on Delhi’s borders. “Baba Ram Singh’s sacrifice has shaken up every citizen of the country but the government is not taking the farmers’ concerns seriously. If Babaji’s supreme sacrifice could not shake their conscience, then I think the government is filled with oppressors,” she said. Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the Centre should respect Baba Ram Singh’s sacrifice by accepting the farmers’ demands so that they can return home and resume their agricultural work.Farmer leaders from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan who came to pay their respects to the Sikh preacher also echoed similar views. Manjit Singh Rai of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Doaba, said, “Since Babaji has already sacrificed his life for the protesting farmers, we urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately resolve this issue so that such incidents are not repeated in future. We cannot bear more such losses,” he added. A farmer leader from Rajashtan, Ram Pal Jat, who is the national president of Rashtriya Kisan Mahapanchayat, said, “Babaji’s supreme sacrifice has united the farmers of the entire country. PM Modi must take immediate steps to end this agitation by withdrawing these laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baba-ram-singh-s-cremation-politicos-religious-leaders-farmers-urge-modi-to-resolve-issue-at-earliest/story-rSVm9NqRrHmZnTZ06wvDeO.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,994 fresh Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Friday maintained its trend of below 5,000 Covid-19 cases and under 100 deaths in the state for 14 days straight. For the second day straight, Maharashra reported below 4,000 infections with 3,994 fresh cases, taking the tally to 1,888,767. The state also reported 75 fatalities on Friday, taking the toll to 48,574. Of the 75 deaths , 41 were in the past 48 hours and 17 were in the past week. The remaining 17 deaths were from before last week.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 642 fresh cases to take its tally to 285,632.The city also added nine fatalities on Friday, taking the toll to 10,970, including reconciliation of figures.Between December 5 and 18, Maharashtra has clocked below 5,000 infections and fewer than 100 fatalities each day, signifying a downward trend in the state’s Covid-19 curve. Contrary to the prediction of state authorities, the numbers are not showing any increase. In the past 14 days, Maharashtra has added 46,180 fresh cases at a daily average of 3,298.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of communicable diseases prevention control and member of the state-appointed technical committee, said, “We are definitely seeing a declining trend in the state. But we must continue taking precautions as viral activity has not died down completely.”Corporations and districts in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) collectively reported 608 new cases and 21 deaths. Kalyan-Dombilvli topped the region with 120 new cases and nine deaths, followed by Navi Mumbai with 116 new cases and two deaths and Thane city with 110 new cases and three deaths. Thane district has the second-highest number of active cases with 10,691 active patients, after Pune district, which has 16,921 active patients.On Friday, Pune city reported 313 new cases and three deaths, while its rural areas reported 126 fresh cases and one death. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 112 new cases with no fatalities. Nagpur city reported 392 cases and five deaths, while its rural areas clocked 100 new cases on Friday with one death.Friday also saw discharge of 4,467 patients, to take tally of recovered patients to 1,778,722. The recovery rate in the state stood at 94.17%. For five days straight, the number of discharges has been more than the fresh cases added, improving the state’s recovery rate.In the past 24 hours, Maharashtra tested 62,668 samples and recorded a positivity rate of 6.38%. In the past 14 days, the average positivity rate has been around 5.34%. So far, Maharashtra has tested 11,996,624 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 15.74%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-994-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-WvcZYFUqEzWAcjIZarUwxL.html
19-12-2020||City||Sonia Gandhi writes to Maharashtra CM, expresses unhappiness over “diversion” of funds for SC, ST communities||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has written a letter to Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, expressing her unhappiness over the alleged non-utilisation and diversion of funds allocated for welfare of the socially backward classes in the state. She has advised Thackeray to ensure that the budget allocated for the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities are utilised for the same purpose. HK Patil, Congress’s state in-charge has confirmed the development. This is the first time that Gandhi has expressed her unhappiness over an issue in the state since the three parties formed the government last year in November. “The party had organised a conclave of leaders from socially backward classes in which some problems and suggestions have come to the fore. It was informed that sometimes the allotted funds get lapsed, or they are diverted for other uses. This should not happen as it will affect the interest of the disadvantaged sections of the society. This was specifically mentioned by Mrs Gandhi so that these sections are protected against such administrative lapses,” said Patil. He said that it is a “natural advice” given for the “effective implementation” of schemes and laws meant for disadvantaged sections. “I am sure they [the government] will take up the matter in the days to come,” Patil added and said he hopes that the CM will take the matter seriously. The development may lead to unease between the ruling MVA partners. Congress leaders have been expressing their discontent over various issues in the past one year. They have expressed their displeasure over the allocation of portfolios, the alleged secondary treatment in decision-making and the dominance of the bureaucracy in the government, which has also led to clashes between bureaucrats and ministers on a couple of occasions. However, Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the party welcomes the advice. “We welcome the letter and the suggestion. The common minimum programme is binding on our government. In the past one year, we couldn’t do several things due to the pandemic. In the coming year, there will be progress on what was decided in the common minimum programme,” he said.In May, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had said that the party is not the key decision maker in the state. “We are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision maker there,” he had said at a news conference in response to a question on the “poor handling” of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Inputs from Swapnil Rawal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-maharashtra-cm-expresses-unhappiness-over-diversion-of-funds-for-sc-st-communities/story-MPmGXPr4B9TeVtXKq8PAjK.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||High court stays demolition in Sukhna catchment area||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed demolition and construction activity in the Sukhna catchment area besides the recovery of ₹100 crore fine each imposed on governments of Punjab and Haryana.The order was passed by high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice HS Sidhu on the plea of Kansal Enclave Residents Welfare Association, Mohali, which had sought review of the March 2 order of a division bench. At that time, the HC had fined both states ₹100 crore each for causing damage to the catchment area and ordered demolition of all structures in catchment area as demarcated by the Survey of India in 2004 besides directing the authorities that owners whose building plans were approved be relocated and compensated with ₹25 lakh each. The March order had come in a 2009 suo motu petition initiated in view of depleting water level in the lake. The order could have resulted in widespread demolitions in Nayagaon and Kansal areas, where even some upscale residential pockets have come up.“The detailed order is awaited. But the court said that demolition as ordered in March 2020 is stayed. No new kind of construction would come up. Even for renovation, residents will have to take court’s permission. The fine imposed on Punjab and Haryana has been stayed,” senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain said after the hearing. What the residents’ body contendedThe residents’ body had told court that the March order was passed without making them party in the case. There was no consensus ever drawn regarding veracity of the 2004 map according to which court had taken decision on the catchment area, it was contended. The map was questioned as well as objected to not only regarding its technical aspects in terms of accuracy but also disputed in respect of its adoption. Objections to the map were neither considered throughout the pendency of matter nor in the final order of March, the petitioner had told court. The court was also told that the catchment area is directly coming in conflict with the Master Plan of 2021 notified by Punjab for Nayagaon area, which has statutory force. However, court in March declared two master plans of Punjab and Haryana as illegal, which regulated construction in the catchment area.In March, the court had also declared Sukhna a living entity. Fine was imposed as court found that “state connived with the defaulters” in allowing construction. The chief secretaries of both states and adviser, Chandigarh, were directed to constitute high-power committees to fix the responsibilities of officers who permitted large-scale unauthorised construction.The court had also directed the ministry of environment and forest to notify at least 1 km area from the boundary of Sukhna wildlife sanctuary as eco-sensitive zone. The lake was created by Le Corbusier in 1958. By 1988, 66% of the original water holding capacity of the lake was lost due to silting. Following this, check dams were constructed in the catchment area. But the water-level has once again started going down. The man-made lake now has a capacity of around 500 hectare metres against the original capacity of over 1,074 hectare metres. The lake’s depth is 12 to 13 feet. On the north side, the lake is surrounded by 26 square kilometre area of wildlife sanctuary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-stays-demolition-in-sukhna-catchment-area/story-CpaNLLF7p1cFwkKXobK7OM.html
19-12-2020||City||Six dead as speeding truck rams into auto in Ambala’s Naraingarh||Six people, including three women and an auto driver, were killed after a speeding truck hit the three-wheeler in Ambala’s Naraingarh on Friday. The truck driver, identified as Ombir of Yamunanagar, was held later. Those who died have been identified as auto driver Sunil, 23, of Kanjala village besides passengers Mehar Singh, 82, Salamati, 62, Priyanka, 23, and Gafoor Deen besides an unidentified woman. The accident took place on the Naraingarh-Sadhaura road near Barsumajra village around noon. According to eyewitnesses, the impact was such that the truck dragged along the auto over a few metres before coming to a halt. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of Kanjala sarpanch Ved Prakash. Prakash told the police, “I was crossing the spot, when the accident took place. The truck driver waited for a moment and then fled away leaving his truck behind. With the help of other passersby, I ran towards the auto and saw that the driver, Sunil, who is from my village, was alive but stuck in the auto with the passengers.” “We rushed them to the hospital, where doctors declared five persons brought dead while one woman was taken the Panchkula civil hospital, where she succumbed,” said Prakash in his statement. Naraingarh police station in-charge sub-inspector Gurmail Singh said, “The bodies were handed over to the families after autopsy. We have managed to apprehend the truck driver, Ombir. The FIR was lodged under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence), 337 (act endangering human life) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50) of the Indian Penal Code. He’ll be presented before a court on Saturday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-dead-as-speeding-truck-rams-into-auto-in-ambala-s-naraingarh/story-3knaOkjqUd12SM93jeI8VP.html
19-12-2020||City||Khattar’s relative eyewitness in forest official’s assault case||A nephew of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was amongst the two eyewitnesses present when a divisional forest officer (DFO), VS Gill, allegedly assaulted Chief Conservator of Forests (North), G Raman on December 7 at the latter’s Ambala office. The names of Ramit (Khattar) and his friend and BJP worker from Barara, Rajat (Malik) figure in the first information report (FIR) lodged at Baldev Nagar police station on December 9. The FIR, based on a complaint by the Chief Conservator of Forests (North) G Raman, reads: “It is brought to your kind notice that on December 7, Virender Gill, divisional forest officer, Kurukshetra, had misbehaved and manhandled with the undersigned and threatened life in the presence of persons namely, Ramit, son of Jagdish, a resident of Delhi, and Rajat, son of Rajender, a resident of Barara, Ambala, in my office room at Forest Complex, Company Bagh, Ambala City.” When asked whether he was a relative of the Haryana chief minister, Ramit replied in the affirmative. Ramit Khattar is the son of the chief minister’s brother, Jagdish Khattar. Asked about the reason behind his presence at the office of the Chief Conservator of Forests (North), Ramit said: “I run my own business. This incident is not connected in any way to my being a relative of the Haryana chief minister. My friend Rajat had some issues pertaining to the forests department. Actually, it was regarding the growth of tree branches outside his establishment. I was on my way to Chandigarh and stopped by at Ambala to accompany him to the office of the Chief Conservator of Forests.” When asked about the presence of the chief minister’s relative at his office, G Raman said: “I didn’t know his surname. In fact, Ramit never introduced himself as Ramit Khattar. The other person Rajat was the one who had a grievance and had come to my office to get it redressed. They are in no way connected with the affairs or business of the forests department. They are private individuals.” Ramit’s friend, Rajat Malik, who claims to run a small business in Barara, said that he went to the office of the Chief Conservator of Forests for redressal of a grievance. He said that he went to meet the officer personally with his friend Ramit from Delhi to complain about a tree’s branch outside his residence after the issue was not redressed on a written complaint. He said that they had just reached the office and were explaining the issue when the incident (manhandling) happened. Rajat, who is associated with the ruling BJP, runs a chemist shop near Barara railway station and had unsuccessfully contested local bodies elections, sources said. A long-time friend of the chief minister from Rohtak, Narendra Khattar said Manohar Lal has always ensured that his family members do not take advantage of his official position and maintain a high level of probity. “No one from the family is even allowed to stay at his official residence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khattar-s-relative-eyewitness-in-forest-official-s-assault-case/story-JnIO3qcjJF0o7nO2YL23jJ.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Bullet train, port project to escalate MVA-Centre tussle||The tussle between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government, over the Metro-3 car shed, is set to intensify further with the state now looking at the Centre’s ambitious Vadhavan port project.On a day the leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis, slammed the Uddhav Thackeray-led government over its plan to consider building the shed at a Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) plot (see box) where a terminus for the Centre’s flagship Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project has been proposed, the state said they respect the peoples’ stance against the proposed Vadhavan port in Dahanu, Palghar district.On Friday, Thackeray called a meeting of locals from Dahanu opposing the project. On February 5, the Centre had approved setting up Vadhavan port at ₹65,544 crore as it has a natural draft of about 20m, to handle modern container vessels. Earlier, Fadnavis called the state’s BKC plan “childish”, while Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said the Opposition need not worry about the Metro-3 car shed. Fadnavis said, “The idea of shifting the car shed to BKC will increase the project cost multiple times. The cost of building a car shed will go up to around ₹5,000 crore to ₹6,000 crore, as against ₹500 crore, following the original plan, because BKC land is very much expensive. It will also increase the annual maintenance cost by many folds and make the Metro project non-feasible.”Fadnavis also said the advisors of the Thackeray government were so bad that they will drown this government as well as the state.Hitting back at Fadnavis, Raut said, “They [Opposition] don’t need to worry about it [Metro-3 shed[. The government doesn’t need to take their advice,” he said.Meanwhile, after the meeting with Dahanu locals, state urban development minister Eknath Shinde said they respect the people’s view. “Primarily, it appears that the locals are against the project and the chief minister has taken a stand that the state government respects their viewpoint and are with them,” Shinde told reporters.Shiv Sena MP from Palghar, Rajendra Gavit, who was also part of the meeting, said that it is a destructive project for the locals. “The project requires around 5,000 acres, hence, locals are of the view that they will lose their farm land. Similarly, local fishermen are concerned that it will bring an adverse impact on their traditional business and deprive them of their livelihood,” Gavit said.“The decision of the Dahanu Taluka Environment Protection Authority (DTEPA) would be very important as the authority has to clear the project first, because Dahanu is considered as an environmentally sensitive area,” he added.Dahanu taluka has been enjoying special protection since 1991, as the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) declared it an ecologically fragile area, restricting hazardous industries, among other things and also formed DTEPA. The notification was passed following the directives of the Supreme Court.Currently, DTEPA is being headed by the state urban secretary Bhushan Gagrani. MoEFCC now wants to scrap DTEPA and has filed an application before the apex court.BJP leader Ashish Shelar alleged that the intention of the Thackeray government is to halt development projects such as the bullet train .“The leaders and officials in the state government have taken the decision (to explore BKC plot as one of the options for car shed) with ill intention. Proposing the car shed at a site where it is not possible to build clearly means they want to halt the bullet train project, rather than completing the Metro-3 project. They are trying to stop Mumbai’s development,” Shelar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bullet-train-port-project-to-escalate-mva-centre-tussle/story-6ZSwphyUnlcrIpYGkyQj5J.html
19-12-2020||City||Seven mayoral, 101 ward candidates in final list for Ambala MC polls||The sub-divisional magistrate (city)-cum-returning officer, Sachin Gupta, on Friday allocated party symbols to the contesting candidates for ward and mayoral seats for the Ambala municipal corporation elections.As per the final list, there are seven mayoral candidates and around 101 candidates for the 20 wards in the fray.Gupta, in the presence of observer J Ganeshan, police observer DIG Arun Nehra and AROs alloted party symbols to all the candidates and performed the randomisation of electronic voting machines in a videographed process.The mayoral candidates include Bharatiya Janata Party-Jananayak Janata Party (BJP-JJP) candidate Dr Vandana Sharma, Congress candidate Meena Agarwal, Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) candidate Shakti Rani Sharma, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) candidate Amisha Chawla, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Jolly and two independent candidates Gurmeet Kaur and Veena Dhall.On Thursday, the scrutiny of the nomination papers was done and the papers of nearly 12 candidates, including a mayoral candidate, were rejected that led to late-night drama as a few of them staged a sit-in outside the residence of DC-cum-election officer Ashok Kumar Sharma in chilling weather. However, the DC later assured a proper hearing.On this, Gupta, in a statement said that such candidates were called before the observers for a hearing on Friday.“The observers considered the cancellation of the nomination papers was correct that was done following the criteria set by the returning officer. Now, voting will be held on December 27 and counting of votes will be done on December 30,” Gupta said.The mayor seat in Ambala is reserved for women candidates and the residents will vote directly for the seat for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-mayoral-101-ward-candidates-in-final-list-for-ambala-mc-polls/story-1x0B2hxVdyHh7iV0vSmCYK.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Over 1.85 lakh seats vacant after third round of FYJC admission in Mumbai Metropolitan Region; special round on December 20||Nearly 1.85 lakh first-year junior college (FYJC) seats remain vacant in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region(MMR) after the third admission round concluded on Friday. Of the 45,402 students who were allotted college seats in the third list, which was declared on December 15, only 14,074 students took admission. Friday was the last day for students to confirm their admissions in the third round. After the third round, junior colleges have also been allowed to surrender the vacant seats under various quotas like minority, management and in-house. As per the data on the state education department’s official website, as of Friday, nearly 62,000 seats were vacant in the three quotas, with the highest being from minority quota – nearly 42,000. Colleges will be allowed to surrender their quota seats by December 19. The department will declare the college-wise vacancies for the special round on December 20. The schedule for the special round of admission is yet to be declared. “While most high-scorers have already taken admission, those with average scores might have tried for a better college during the last two rounds. Most prominent colleges thus, have filled most of their general seats,” said the principal of a south Mumbai-based college. After three regular rounds in 2019, more than 1.70 lakh seats remained vacant in MMR. While 3.19 lakh seats were up for grabs in MMR last year, this year, there are over 3.20 lakh seats in the region.This year, the department had declared that there will be no first-come-first-served (FCFS) rounds for admissions. Instead, special rounds will be conducted for students who do not get admission in regular rounds. FCFS rounds usually follow regular admission rounds wherein students can claim seats against vacancies across colleges in a particular city or district, and are allotted seats based on who claims them first. These rounds were introduced in the academic year 2018-19, but were criticised by many parents and experts as they allowed students with lower scores to get into top colleges against vacant seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-1-85-lakh-seats-vacant-after-third-round-of-fyjc-admission-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-special-round-on-december-20/story-vIlLUg9qCTjQmhtX5CagjM.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||BKC plot rejected twice in past for Mumbai Metro-3 car depot||The 21-hectare plot in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is eyeing to build the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car depot has been rejected twice in the past for the project. The government is considering the plot, where a terminus for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train has been proposed, after the Bombay high court on Wednesday stayed allotment of 102 acres of saltpan land at Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to construct the car shed. “It is true that the BKC option was rejected, but we are now exploring different technical possibilities, including an underground car shed. We will look at its feasibility again,” said a senior state official, on condition of anonymity.The plot at BKC exhibition grounds was among those considered when the detailed project report (DPR) for the 33.5-km Metro corridor was submitted in 2011. The DPR, however, did not approve it considering its commercial value. It stated, “[The plot] be used more gainfully for property development/commercial exploitation.” The DPR also stated that a car shed in BKC would “result in loss of revenue and close doors on future expansion”.The DPR had considered an underground car shed, but stated it would cost ₹1,250 crore more, with an additional expense of ₹20 crore every year for operations. It also stated that an underground depot will require five years for completion, instead of two years for an over ground one. “[An] underground depot may be provided, in case, all other options to construct a depot at grade have been exhausted,” stated the DPR.In 2015, a six-member committee, appointed by the then Devendra Fadnavis-led state government, considered nine options, including BKC, for the car shed. However, the panel said building the depot in an intermediary location is not recommended for operations. The committee questioned that a ramp will have to be constructed to bring the trains from the underground station to an at-grade location, which would require 400 metres of land cutting across the main BKC road and cost ₹30 crore more, apart from undertaking rehabilitation. “This land [BKC] is an extremely valuable economic asset. The revenue estimated to be generated from this land is about ₹30,000 crore. Such funds are planned to be used to develop other equally important infrastructure and transport projects in MMR,” said the panel. BKC, currently, is among the most premium land in Mumbai. In 2019, the MMRDA sold a three-acre plot in BKC to Japan’s Sumitomo for ₹2,238 crore, one of the highest land deals in the country. On Friday, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, while talking to reporters, called the idea of shifting the car shed to BKC “a childish one”. “It [BKC] is prized land. Even if the car shed was to be constructed underground, it would cost five times more,” Fadnavis said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Thursday convened a meeting with officials to look at options for the car shed, which the government had moved from Aarey to Kanjurmarg. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar had confirmed that they were considering the BKC plot for bullet train as one of the options for Metro car shed. “The Kanjurmarg plot, where the car shed is being planned, is entangled in a legal process, which will take time. Hence, it has been proposed to examine the technical feasibility of the BKC plot. Based on the findings of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL), the state government will take a decision,” Kumar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bkc-plot-rejected-twice-in-past-for-mumbai-metro-3-car-depot/story-lx0bU1xq3OP5s35bjm2qvK.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers plan vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi on December 21||Farmers from Maharashtra will organise a vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi on December 21 and join those protesting in the national capital for the past three weeks. Farmers from 20 districts of the state will gather at Nashik and travel 1,266 kilometres to Delhi, after joining the protests at the Rajasthan-Haryana border on December 24. The announcement was made by the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) at a press conference in Nashik on Friday. Ashok Dhawale, president of AIKS, said in the statement, “The Vehicle Jatha will begin with a massive public meeting at Nashik on December 21 afternoon. It will be welcomed by thousands of people at Ozar, Pimpalgaon Baswant, Chandwad, Umrane, Malegaon, Dhule and Shirpur in Nashik and Dhule districts of Maharashtra before entering Madhya Pradesh.”On November 26 and 27, farmers from Maharashtra had participated in the countrywide call for protests made by AIKS, by organising roadblocks and staging protests on highways. There was participation from 21 districts, including Thane, Palghar, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Sangli, Nanded, Wardha and Solapur, among others. Similarly, farmers from state also participated in the Bharat Bandh on December 8 and held peaceful protests, including marches to government offices at the district and tehsil levels across the state. “In November, we had taken a call not to march to Delhi from Maharashtra owing to the Covid-19 situation. However, the government is being very obstinate. It is also running propaganda that whatever is happening in Delhi is only because of farmers from Punjab and Haryana. That argument needs to be razed. Now, when thousands of farmers from Maharashtra will travel around 1,300 kilometres to participate in the protest, it will effectively counter the government’s argument,” said Dhawale. The farmers will support the main demands of those already protesting in the Capital, including asking the Central government to repeal the three “anti-farmer and pro-corporate” farm laws passed by it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-plan-vehicle-march-from-nashik-to-delhi-on-december-21/story-9jfbyxQtRKOEYhNjbW4UKM.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Medical institutes across Maharashtra reopen, take steps to bring students back||Three weeks after the National Medical Commission (NMC) and the Union health ministry suggested reopening of medical colleges in phases across the country, institutes in the state are taking positive steps towards bringing students back on campus. While some institutes are following a mixed pattern by depending on digital classrooms for theory work and physical duty in hospital wards as part of the course, others have started calling students for physical lectures while ensuring that all safety norms are followed. At Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College (KEM Hospital) in Parel, digital classrooms are being conducted for all class work. “Ever since the lockdown was implemented, our classes have been conducted online and students are comfortable with it by now. They are already also working in the hospital as part of their practical teaching,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean, KEM Hospital. “Towards the end of this year or the beginning of 2021, examinations will be scheduled and most institutes are prepared for the same,” he added. At Pune’s Pravara Institute of Medical Sciences University, all batches have recently been called back on campus and the students are presently under 14-day quarantine within the institute. “Students are settled in their hostels on campus and we are continuing online lectures for the time being. Once the quarantine period is over, our students will be ready to attend regular physical lectures,” said a spokesperson of the institute. He added that even after the quarantine, the institute might opt for a combination of virtual and physical classes to ensure maximum safety for staffers and students. In a notification released in the last week of November, NMC has shared recommendations and guidelines for institutes in the wake of the ongoing pandemic. While keeping safety and health of staffers and students in mind, NMC suggested that with all safety steps in place, it will be possible for colleges to bring students back on campus starting December 1. While Maharashtra has still not given a green signal for other schools, colleges and other higher educational institutes to reopen until December 31, medical institutes are already working on bringing normalcy back into routine lectures.“We started classes from December 1 itself, and the first MBBS theory exam concluded on December 18. Students will be attending their practical exams starting next week,” said Dr Varsha Phadke, dean of KJ Somaiya Medical College. She added that before inviting students back on campus, the institute conducted RT-PCR tests for those students who were traveling from other parts of the state or country and were supposed to stay in hostels within the campus. “All safety precautions are being followed very strictly,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-institutes-across-maharashtra-reopen-take-steps-to-bring-students-back/story-GPWqNizInlK0gQMSMtBqRN.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Dance teacher held for molesting student in Delhi||A 52-year-old Kathak teacher has been arrested for allegedly molesting one of his students at a dance school in central Delhi, Delhi Police said on Friday.The teacher was arrested on Monday, the same day the police received a complaint from a 23-year-old woman and registered a case at the Chanakyapuri police station. The man was produced before a city court that sent him to jail, said senior police officers associated with the case.Deepak Yadav, additional deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said the woman approached the police on Monday after the man allegedly molested her on Sunday afternoon. The woman, in her police complaint, alleged that she was a student at the dance school.“She alleged that the teacher had been harassing her by touching her inappropriately during the training sessions. He had also been sending obscene messages to her on WhatsApp,” said a police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.The woman told the police that initially, she had ignored the teacher’s advances, but when he allegedly molested her around 3pm on Sunday, she decided to file a police complaint, the officer said.“The woman told her family members about the incident. She came to the police station with her mother and filed a complaint against the teacher. Accordingly, a case of molestation and sexual harassment under Indian Penal Code’s sections 354, 354A, and 509 was registered. We arrested the teacher the same day,” the officer added.Hindustan Times on Friday sent an email seeking a response on the incident to at least three senior officials of the school, including the director. Till late Friday night, there was no response from the school. HT also tried the landline numbers mentioned on the school’s website but no official answered the calls despite several attempts.Additional DCP Yadav said that the police are probing whether the teacher has harassed other students of the school in the past. “The statements of other students are also being recorded,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dance-teacher-held-for-molesting-student-in-delhi/story-VDDiXT23oD1kxSHzw4vSCK.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Placements at IIT-Bombay: 18% drop in job offers||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) saw an 18% drop in the number of job offers made to its final-year students in the first phase of placements. A total of 946 offers were rolled out during the campus placement season between December 1 and 15 — a four-year low — according to data released by the placement office of the institute. While the number of preplacement offers has jumped to 182 from 164 last year, the total number of offers has dropped significantly. Of the total 1,128 jobs offered, 973 have been accepted by students. The economic slowdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and logistical challenges are some of the reasons cited by the placement office for the slouch.“Comparison (of this year’s statistics) with previous years would not be fair, considering the economic, travel and logistical challenges faced during this pandemic year. The placement office has endeavoured to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on student recruitment process and has optimised selection outcomes,” the placement office said in a statement.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the institute had decided to conduct the entire placement process online. Interviews and selection exams were conducted online, thus allowing students to participate in the process from their homes.The number of public sector undertaking (PSU) visiting campus, too, has dropped further this year. Two PSUs picked up five students this year as compared to the same number of companies recruiting nine students last year. In comparison, six PSUs had visited campus in the first phase of placements in 2018 picking up 13 students. Students received a total of 58 international offers from different countries such as the USA, Japan, UAE, Singapore, Netherlands, Hong Kong and Taiwan. An official from the placement cell said the highest number of job offers were from the engineering and technology sector. The average salary, which had soared to ₹20.43 lakh per annum last year from ₹17.75 lakh per annum the year before, has dropped to ₹18.4 lakh per annum.“The highest domestic package offered is that of ₹64 lakh per annum and the highest international package is EURO 1.57 lakh per annum (roughly converted to ₹1.4 crore),” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/placements-at-iit-bombay-18-drop-in-job-offers/story-gOfChsYvVPCxd9cQTN3N0O.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Wife, accomplices murder Ludhiana farmer, dump him in Neelon Canal; held||A 40-year-old woman and her accomplice have been arrested for allegedly bludgeoning her husband to death and dumping his body in Neelon Canal on December 11.While the body has yet to be recovered, the accused, Gurpreet Kaur, and her accomplice, Gurdeep Singh of Kadiana Kalan, have confessed to killing the victim with sticks and baseball bats in his sleep.After dumping his body in Neelon Canal, Gurpreet had claimed that her husband, Lakhvir Singh, 42, a farmer living in Tajpur Bet, had left for Delhi to participate in the farmers’ protest. However, the family found her claims fishy and approached the police.The couple’s 16-year-old son had witnessed the murder, but was threatened to keep mum by the accused, said police.Uncle approached policeIn his complaint to the police, the victim’s uncle, Malkit Singh, of Durgi village, Doraha, stated that his nephew, Lakhvir, had married Gurpreet Kaur 18 years ago and they had a 16-year-old son.Lakhvir had rented out one of his shops to Gurdeep Singh, who ran an auto repair workshop there for the past three years.Malkit said on December 9, Lakhvir visited him and shared that his wife had an illicit relationship with his tenant, Gurdeep, who visited their house in his absence.“On December 12, Gurpreet called me and said Lakhvir was away at Delhi to take part in the ongoing farmers’ protest. So, I made several calls to him, but his mobile phone was switched off. Finding something amiss, I filed a police complaint,” he added.Meanwhile, he also found out that Lakhvir’s friend Sandeep Singh, who is the president of the market association of Tajpur Bet, had seen Gurdeep and his friend, Gurpreet Singh, in a Toyota Innova in the wee hours of December 12. A man was lying in the back seat of the vehicle, but Sandeep had assumed that they were taking an ailing neighbour to the hospital.“During investigation, police found that Gurdeep and Gurpreet Singh were at Lakhvir’s house on December 11. Following this, Gurdeep and Gurpreet were rounded up for questioning and they confessed to killing Lakhvir,” said inspector Kulwant Singh, SHO, Jamalpur police station, adding that Gurpreet Singh of Hawaas village was absconding.“The accused revealed that after Lakhvir went to bed on December 11, his wife called Gurdeep and Gurpreet Singh to her house and they bludgeoned him to death with sticks and baseball bats. The men then loaded the body in their car and dumped it in Neelon Canal,” the SHO added.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the three accused at the Jamalpur police station. Efforts are on to recover the victim’s body from the canal and a manhunt has been launched to arrest Gurpreet Singh. The car used in the crime has also yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wife-accomplices-murder-ludhiana-farmer-dump-him-in-neelon-canal-held/story-qWOwH4DQRSozTHBXUKtDkL.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Karan Johar replies to Mumbai NCB notice about viral video of a party at his house||Film director and producer Karan Johar has sent a reply along with a pen drive to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday, regarding a party hosted at his house in 2019.Zonal director Sameer Wankhed said a person visited the NCB office in south Mumbai on Friday and submitted a reply along with a pen drive in response to NCB’s notice to Johar.“We have received a reply but cannot reveal the contents. We are scrutinising the details submitted by Johar about the party,” Wankhede added.The NCB had issued a notice to Johar over a viral video of a 2019 party at his residence, attended by famous Bollywood stars. However, NCB said in the notice that Johar needed not have to physically come to the NCB office and could send his reply through his representative.In the notice, NCB had not asked whether drugs were consumed at the party or not. “We had only asked for the details of who had organised the party and how many stars were invited, and who amongst them attended the party,” said an NCB officer. NCB also sought to know as to what was served at the party, said the NCB officer.A few videos and pictures after and before the party taken by participants have also been submitted, the NCB officer added. The devices used for recording the videos were also called for. We will send those devices for forensic analysis, the NCB officer added.NCB in September had received a complaint from Siromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, demanding a probe into the matter, claiming that celebrities used drugs at the said party. The central agency then forwarded the complaint to its Mumbai zonal unit for further action, to check the veracity of the video and thus, notice had been sent to the producer-director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/karan-johar-replies-to-mumbai-ncb-notice-about-viral-video-of-a-party-at-his-house/story-lTHWFhMLDRaqq9asTD6zjN.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||12 injured following furnace blast at steel unit in Ludhiana||At least 12 workers were injured after a furnace exploded at a steel unit in Khanna’s Bhadla village on Thursday night. The condition of one of the victims is serious and he has been referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The rest suffered minor burn injuries and have been admitted to a private hospital in Khanna.The mishap took place at Nidhi Steel Industry when 14 workers were on night shift. Suddenly, the furnace exploded and melted metal fell on them. One of the workers, who was standing near the furnace, suffered severe injuries.Rajinder Kumar, owner of the unit, said they had all safety measures in place.Inspector Hemant Malhotra, station house officer at Sadar police station, said they were probing what caused the explosion. No FIR has been lodged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-injured-following-furnace-blast-at-steel-unit-in-ludhiana/story-6eagmdVTKWZd04uO6PiyXI.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST proposes to procure 600 new buses on wet lease||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has proposed to procure 600 new buses on wet lease. Under the wet lease model, BEST does not own the buses but get the vehicles along with staff from contractors for a fixed rate for each kilometre.The buses are proposed to be procured in three phases of 200 buses each which will be non-air-conditioned (AC) single decker buses. The buses will be compressed natural gas (CNG)-operated. Along with the buses, BEST has also proposed to hire bus drivers and conductors from the contractors.The proposal is yet to be approved by the BEST committee. Only after the committee’s approval, BEST administration will get the buses. Committee members have, however, said hiring drivers and conductors for operation of buses is a step towards privatisation. “We will oppose the proposal when it comes up for discussion. This is a step towards privatisation of the organisation, and the employees will have to suffer,” said Ravi Raja, opposition leader in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and BEST committee member. Few committee members also said BEST would soon have to take loan to get buses on wet lease. “As it is BEST is taking loans to give salaries to employees. Hiring conductors and drivers will further increase the monetary burden on the organisation. We will not support the proposal,” said Sunil Ganacharya, BEST committee member. BEST recently also floated tender to procure 100 new upgraded double decker buses. The buses will be equipped pneumatic door closers for both the rear and front doors. In addition, two staircases will be provided for passengers as opposed to one staircase in the present double decker buses.BEST presently has a fleet of 3,337 buses operating on different routes in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-best-proposes-to-procure-600-new-buses-on-wet-lease/story-g2hj2S7XoSeNPPpbCKRWEL.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows Cidco to remove mangroves for Uran bypass bridge||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday permitted the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) to remove mangroves located on around 0.6266 hectare of land to make way for the construction of a bypass bridge between Hotel Anandi to Uran City (Dronagiri). HC has asked Cidco to give an undertaking of strictly complying with conditions laid down in permissions issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF). The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing Cidco’s plea, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the planning authority wanted to commence construction of an 11-metre-wide bypass bridge starting from Hotel Anandi to Uran city in Dronagiri, Navi Mumbai over 1.0287 hectare of land, of which 0.6266 hectare was mangroves/forest land. Kumbhakoni submitted that the reliefs sought to cut the mangrove trees were in the public interest and Cidco was conscious of the preservation of the environment, hence it explored all possibilities to save the existing mangroves. However, after it concluded that there was no other alternative, it decided to remove the mangroves for implementation of the project, and hence the plea. In its plea, Cidco contended that the project was part of its efforts to decongest traffic between Mumbai and the already developed area of Navi Mumbai. The bypass bridge at Uran was proposed for easing of traffic passing through the congested Uran city, as due to the non-availability of such a road, there were continuous roadblocks, traffic jams, accidents and other issues faced by locals. The bypass bridge would also help in reducing the pollution in the local area, said the plea. Cidco further informed the court that it has proposed to set up an eco-friendly project with architectural intelligence and international standards, and had received relevant permissions from Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA), State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and clearances from the MoEF thereafter.Advocates Sharmila Deshmukh and Rui Rodrigues for SEIAA and the Central government did not oppose the plea but said that Cidco would have to comply with conditions laid down for the same.After hearing the submissions, the bench granted permission to cut/remove mangroves and noted, “We are of the opinion that an exception is required to be made in favour of the petitioner to remove the mangroves as prayed for, and subject matter of the conditions as granted by the respondent authorities as the work in question is for the public good and in public interest.” Before disposing of the plea, the court directed the Cidco officer to file an undertaking within one week of strictly complying with conditions imposed in permissions granted by SEIAA and MoEF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-cidco-to-remove-mangroves-for-uran-bypass-bridge/story-JJDHLP2rlhbsDTe79hdZpJ.html
19-12-2020||Mumbai||Hema Upadhyay-Haresh Bhambani murder case: Mumbai sessions court asks police to find tempo used in crime||The city sessions court on Friday forfeited a bond given by Ramadhar Rajbhar, father of Vijay Rajbhar, one of the accused in the artist Hema Upadhyay and advocate Haresh Bhambhani murder case, for failure to produce the tempo used in the crime.According to police, Hema and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani were allegedly smothered with a chloroform-laced cloth at Vijay’s warehouse on December 11, 2015. The killers packed their bodies in cardboard boxes and dumped them in a Kandivli sewer. The prosecution has alleged that the tempo was used to transport the bodies. The tempo was seized by the police during the investigation in 2016. After the investigation on October 21, 2016, Vijay’s father Ramadhar was allowed to take custody of the tempo on furnishing a bond assuring that he would bring the tempo back to the court whenever required for the trial.However, when the court asked Ramadhar to produce the tempo, he could not and said it was sold by Vijay’s wife. On Tuesday, the court gave him a last chance to produce the tempo. On the same day, he moved an application claiming that the tempo was never seized by the police and his son was been falsely implicated. The prosecution denied the allegations.“Ramadhar’s plea was rejected by the court and he has now been asked to pay ₹5 lakh within 15 days as he has not produced the tempo. Besides, the court has asked police to find the tempo and produce it before the court,” said special public prosecutor Vaibhav Baghade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hema-upadhyay-haresh-bhambani-murder-case-mumbai-sessions-court-asks-police-to-find-tempo-used-in-crime/story-51JbIa7PvDd8dIZYPCA9dN.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Lit Fest:Taking on the enemy in Mashkoh Valley during the Kargil conflict||Two decades after the Kargil War, here is a first hand account by Brig US Bawa (retd) of the Mashkoh Warriors, a group of Indian Army braves, involved in the conflict. What he has to reveal is surprising: “This book is written mainly to identify the mistakes we made during the Kargil War. The main aim was sharing lessons of war with young generations so that they don’t write history with more blood,” says the author.As the 4th edition of the Military Literature Festival opened “virtually” on Friday because of the Covid pandemic, Brig Bawa’s book, Mashkoh: Kargil As I Saw It, was discussed in a session moderated by Ramesh Vinayak, executive editor, Hindustan Times, with Maj General Amarjit Singh (retd) and Manraj Grewal Sharma, resident editor, Indian Express, in attendance.The author, who commanded the 17 Jat Regiment during the Kargil War and was awarded the Vir Chakra for his gallantry in the Mashkoh Valley in 1999, talked about the strategic and tactical significance of the valley, recounting how his troops surrounded the enemy from three sides and established a firm base. About the book, Maj Gen Amarjit Singh said often military history was written either by those who never fought a war or by soldiers who never experienced warfare. Then there were authors who had actually been at the front to confront the enemy face to face. Manraj Grewal Sharma talked about being fascinated by the book which had tales of bravery, emotions, tragic losses and hard-won victories in the extremely challenging high-altitude terrain of Kargil, where many believed any mission by the Armed Forces was impossible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-military-lit-fest-taking-on-the-enemy-in-mashkoh-valley-during-the-kargil-conflict/story-oCja4bWcGWH8iH6WcFJPTJ.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Lit Fest: China on the road to changing world order||The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) of the Chinese government, a massive global infrastructure development project involving almost 70 nations and organisations indicates a “strategic shift in pivot of geography.” Is India’s neighbour then set for world dominance?Discussions around Chinese expansion and President Xi Jinping’s foreign policy at the fourth edition of the Military Literature Festival on Friday were moderated by Maj Gen Amritpal Singh (retd). The speakers included Defence expert and former diplomat Gurjit Singh, Lt Gen PM Bali and Brig Praveen Badrinath.Lt Gen Bali said the last three decades had seen China’s strategic rise, which spelt a significant shift of the geographical pivot in terms of the world’s economy. International experts feared that China was set on its “conquest” through BRI by gaining control of the host country’s economy. The countries agreeing to BRI have done so after factoring in long term capital gains, especially in maritime projects, but the impact had to be assessed at a later stage, Lt Gen Bali added.During British times China was buffered by Tibet, but now thanks to connectivity and technology the world has flattened, Gurjit Singh said. The Chinese are now building connectivity through railways and ports and making “roads everywhere purely due to its deep pockets,” he added.However, despite its much hyped BRI project, China had failed to maintain its own domestic markets and given severe economic shocks to countries like South Africa, where BRI projects had been initiated, during the coronavirus pandemic. China simply refused to pick up raw material there, the former diplomat added. Chinese economic plans were fraught with danger as these were ‘strategic projects’ that do not abide by timelines, Gurjit Singh warned.Brig Badrinath talked about Chinese perspective of heartland theory. He said smaller countries were falling “prey” to Chinese road because of the BRI corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/china-on-the-road-to-changing-world-order/story-kO89NfueAlbDMu5nUklOUI.html
19-12-2020||Noida||House catches fire in Noida’s Arun Vihar; retired brigadier, wife dead||An 86-year-old retired army brigadier and his 78-year-old wife died due to asphyxiation when their house caught fire in Noida’s Sector 29 on Friday night.The deceased were identified as RP Singh and his wife Malti Singh. According to neighbours, the couple lived alone on the first floor in ward 5A of Arun Vihar. Their son lives in a different sector in Noida while their daughter lives a few houses down.“It was around 8.15pm when we first saw smoke and flames emanating from the house. Several of us rushed to the house but the main door was locked from inside. It took us a while to hammer down the door and get in. Meanwhile, calls were made for the police, fire department and ambulance. Once inside, we saw both of them lying near the main door itself, after which we pulled them out and rushed them to a nearby hospital in our cars,” said Major (retd) Vinod Krishna, a neighbour.A spokesperson for Kailash hospital said that both the husband and wife were brought dead.Neighbours said the house was completely burnt from the inside and several of them pitched in to douse the flames even before the fire tenders reached the spot but the smoke was too thick.“The brigadier was not in prime physical shape. The way they were found, it seems that they tried to reach the main gate but must have lost consciousness due to the smoke. It wasn’t too late but they must have been in their bedroom, probably asleep at the time when the fire first started. It is difficult to say exactly what happened but there were no burn marks on them when they were eventually found,” said Colonel (retd), Shashi Vaid, chairman, Arun Vihar residents’ welfare association.Police officers said they suspect that the fire might have originated due to a short circuit in the house heater, though it is not absolutely certain at the moment.“The bodies were handed over to the family who refused an autopsy due to the age of the couple. But prima facie it seems that the cause of death was suffocation due to smoke inhalation,” said a senior police official.Officials said it took three fire tenders to completely douse the fire.“We got the first call around 8.30pm and teams were immediately dispatched. The house had a lot of flammable items such as books and wooden furniture but we were able to control it from spreading to other houses in half an hour. The cause of the fire is unclear at the moment,” said chief fire officer, Arun Kumar Singh.The bodies were handed over to the family for the last rites, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-at-noida-home-retired-brigadier-wife-die/story-wc41DTokYFku3F2DfwHc5N.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||HC seeks response from NHAI, DDA, Delhi govt after plea says flyover work in Dwarka illegal||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the response of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the Delhi government and other authorities concerned on a plea which has contended that the NHAI is illegally constructing a flyover on road no. 226 in Dwarka’s Sector 22-23 as no permission was taken fell about 980 trees and 1,500 shrubs and neither was any other mandatory clearance obtained for the flyover construction.Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), UTTIPEC (United Traffic & Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) and the contractor on the plea filed by the cooperative group housing societies (CGHS) and residents of sectors 22 and 23, where approximately 50 apartment societies and 12 schools adjoin the road no. 226, which is owned by the DDA.The plea, filed through advocates Anand Varma and Abhishek Prasad, said the construction is being carried without having obtained the necessary permissions/approvals from Delhi government, the DDA and the DPCC. It said that under the garb of execution of the Dwarka Expressway Package 2, the construction is being carried out “for the ulterior and extraneous purpose of providing connectivity to an exhibition and convention centre”.The petition said the “unapproved” construction carried out by the NHAI, to which the other authorities have turned a blind eye, would lead to exponential increase in traffic, air and noise pollution, and also create traffic bottlenecks, increase road safety issues for residents, not to mention the impact wrought by the felling of trees on the residential road.It also claimed that the residents were not consulted before the work began.Varma told the court that from an RTI (right to information) reply given on July 22, they got to know that thre was no record of the road being handed over to the NHAI. He said the housing society also got to know that DDA had given permission to NHAI for execution of civil works -- from NH-8 to Dwarka Link Road, Delhi Gurgaon Link Expressway and from Delhi Haryana Border till Delhi Gurgaon Link Expressway.The plea said a detailed RTI reply on August 4 sought to justify the construction of the flyover by linking it to the extraneous commercial purpose of providing “seamless connectivity to the proposed prestigious India International Convention Centre (IICC) in Sector 25, Dwarka, a project of Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC)”.Verma said the approval conditions by UTTIPEC made it clear that the approval was only of the conceptual drawing and all required statutory clearances were to be obtained be fore work could commence.The matter would be now heard on February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-response-from-nhai-dda-delhi-govt-after-plea-says-flyover-work-in-dwarka-illegal/story-8emlH5Zjbkkh3SBxgP9fMK.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi to use indigenously developed Feluda kit for Covid testing soon||To scale-up testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) further, the Delhi government will deploy the faster gene-editing technology based testing kits developed by the researchers from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). The test named by the researchers as Feluda after the Bengali fictional detective is being marketed by Tata Sons as TataMD Check. An official from the Delhi government confirmed, “As soon as the testing kits are made available on the government e-marketplace (GEM), we will purchase and deploy it.” Also Read: The spread of India’s 10 million Covid-19 cases“Actually Delhi Government is also deploying it simultaneously,” said the director of IGIB Dr Anurag Agarwal in a tweet to counter the claim that the technology developed using public funds was available only in private sector hospitals. Tata Sons had announced in November third week that they were partnering with the Apollo Group of hospitals to launch the tests in 8 metropolitan cities initially. “The kit is manufactured by TATA and available through them as per supply capacity. Also, it is not really being manufactured with public money. The technology was given non-exclusively by CSIR but with commercials attached as per guidelines,” said Agarwal in another tweet. This means, the technology can be transferred to other companies for manufacturing and branding of their own. The kit manufactured by Tata Sons can give out the result of an accurate molecular test in just 45 minutes after the RNA has been extracted from the patient sample. In comparison, the current RT PCR tests take about four to five hours in the lab. Once a swab sample from which RNA is extracted and amplified using a thermocycler. The sample is then tested using a paper strip barcoded with the Cas-9 protein of the Crispr system, which recognises the genetic material of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Once dipped in the processed solution, the strip displays lines that can be interpreted as positive or negative using a mobile phone app available with the Tata Sons kits. The kits can be monitored at every level of transportation and a sensor on the packaging checks that they were stored at the right temperature. Another benefit of the Feluda-based kits is that it uses a commonly available thermocycler rather than a sophisticated RT PCR machine to process the sample. These thermocyclers are available in smaller labs in the city as well as most science institutes, which will help in scaling up testing. The increase in the testing in Delhi since mid-November – when the government decided to conduct up to 100,000 tests a day half of which would be molecular – was mainly due to increased capacity for Delhi samples in central government labs in Delhi as well as the neighbouring Noida and Gurugram along with the mobile laboratories deployed by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-to-use-indigenously-developed-feluda-kit-for-covid-testing-soon/story-YHHI27dXHECbCxfyndQvmM.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||1,418 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate below 2% for 4 days||Delhi on Friday conducted more RT-PCR tests than the alternative and less accurate rapid antigen ones for the second day in a row. There were 88,400 total tests done on Thursday, of which 54.5% or 48,180 tests were conducted using the RT-PCR method.This is the third time when the share of RT-PCR tests has been 50% or more of the total number of tests conducted in the city. On November 30, the city had conducted 52.6% RT-PCR tests, on December 1, 51.8%. The highest share of RT PCR tests was recorded on December 14, when they accounted for 56.6% of the tests, as per the daily data shared by the Delhi government. On Thursday, the number of RT-PCR tests were 54.3% of total tests conducted in the city. The RT-PCR and other molecular tests amplify the genetic material of the Sar-CoV-2 virus to detect the infection, whereas the rapid antigen tests just look for specific proteins in the sample. This is the reason why RT-PCR tests can pick up small amounts of virus in a patient sample. The rapid antigen tests however are cheaper, easily deployed outside laboratories, and give result in fifteen minutes. This is the reason the tests were rolled out in mid-June when Delhi saw its first surge in number of cases when the positivity rate had shot up to almost 37%. On Friday, Delhi recorded 1,418 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as per the health bulletin, while reporting 37 new deaths due to the infection, taking the total death toll to 10,219 so far. The World Health Organisation says that if the positivity rate is over 8%, the scale of the infection spread cannot be captured by the current number of tests. Hence, the rapid antigen tests were used to scale up testing from just 6 to 7 thousand tests a day in mid-June to about 50,000 tests a day by mid-November. After a second meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah then, the government decided to scale up testing to between 100,000 to 120,000 a day, half of which would be performed using RT-PCR method. “Even with the positivity rate on the decline, the government should continue to tests as many people as they can and scale-up testing as much as they can. A high number of tests instil confidence that the transmission is actually low in the community. With fewer tests, the low positivity rate could be because the tests are unable to capture the positive cases. With a higher number of tests, that cannot happen; the positivity rate will be low, because the transmission is low,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive for the infection among the total tested – has been under 5% for sixteen days in a row so far and under 2% for four days. Dr Kant says its fortunate that the infection levels have remained low despite the dip in temperature. However, people must continue to follow all precautions. “We were expecting that with the cold and higher levels of pollution, the number of cases would go up in north India. But that hasn’t happened. One of the reasons, at least in Delhi, could be that a large number of people have already been exposed and have some immunity to the infection. But we cannot say that there wouldn’t be surges in the future as countries in the west are seeing an increase again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rt-pcr-accounts-for-54-of-all-tests-again-city-records-1-418-new-cases/story-45qdS82JsIvMvn4ZAdxR1L.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s day temperature rises marginally, no relief from cold wave||After dealing with four consecutive days of a cold spell, Delhi’s maximum temperature increased to 19.8 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above normal, on Friday. However, the cold wave continued as the minimum temperature was very low on Friday. Delhi’s Ayanagar station recorded 3.5 degrees Celsius, 5 degrees above normal, and Safdarjung station recorded 4.4 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees below normal.On Thursday, the day temperature was 15.2 degrees Celsius, 7 degrees below normal—categorised as a “severe cold day” by India Meteorological Department (IMD). IMD scientists said “cold day” conditions have abated but “cold wave” conditions are likely to continue over Delhi for a day or two. “There is relief from cold day conditions mainly because there was a layer of uplifted fog over parts of Punjab and Haryana which has moved away so the surface is warming up due to sunlight. There is a slight drop in the chill factor of winds blowing from the western Himalayas. But because of clear skies, the cold wave is likely to continue over Delhi. There may be some relief from cold wave around December 21 when another western disturbance is expected,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. According to IMD a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is designated based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees and maximum temperature of 4.5 degrees Celsius, or a temperature of 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal respectively. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 degrees lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures is lower than normal.Minimum temperatures are likely to increase by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the next two or three days and maximum temperatures are likely to increase by 4-5 degrees Celsius in the next three days. “Cold wave to severe cold wave” conditions are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu division, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh on December 19 and decrease thereafter. “Cold day to severe cold day” conditions are likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Jammu division, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, East Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during next 24 hours and decrease thereafter, IMD said in its Friday bulletin. Dense fog is likely in some pockets over Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next two days. Ground frost is also very likely in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during next 2 days. A strong surface wind with a speed of 10-20 kmph is likely to blow over northwest India for the next two days, according to IMD. Delhi recorded “poor” air quality on Friday with an air quality index reading of 281. “Moisture may increase and there may be some clouding on Saturday because of which air pollution levels may increase marginally but they will hover around ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category. Further deterioration is expected in air quality from December 22 due to change in wind direction and speed,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, air quality division, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-day-temperature-rises-marginally-no-relief-from-cold-wave/story-VFGBSPVgbArrfp1zEeDbRO.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia alleges BJP using old news clips to malign Delhi govt schools||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying that the party’s leaders in Uttar Pradesh have still not spoken to him in detail about an open debate. He also called out some social media posts, saying BJP leaders have used edited images of old news clips to show the “plight” of government schools in the Capital.Sisodia’s comments were aimed at social media posts by state minister Sidharth Nath Singh, who had shared news clips on Thursday saying, “Before participating in a debate, correct the problems in Delhi schools Mr Manish Sisodia. This is Mr Arvind Kejriwal’s second term as a chief minister.”Sisodia said in a video press briefing on Friday, “Instead of running away from the open debate challenge, commit to the time and location of the debate in Lucknow for December 22. (Delhi CM) Arvind Kejriwal’s education model is based on truth and honesty. It cannot be challenged through falsehood and lies.”“There will be an open debate on the Yogi [Adityanath] model versus the Kejriwal model of education in Lucknow on December 22. It will be a healthy and meaningful debate for our democracy with crores of children of UP and the country benefiting from it. The UP minister should name ten schools improved by them in the last four years. I will share a list of a thousand schools in Delhi,” Sisodia said.A day after Aam Aadmi Party chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the party would contest the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Sisodia and other AAP leaders locked horns with Singh and Uttar Pradesh’s basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi on issues ranging from Covid-19 management to education system.Responding to the allegations, Singh said, “It took the Delhi government four years to change the face of the schools, which I have tweeted. They must understand that we have 1.58 lakh government schools in Uttar Pradesh, as compared to Delhi’s 1,000+ schools.”On the issue of the debate, Singh said, “Let Manish Sisodia answer the series of questions I have asked in my press conference like the total number of Covid-19 tests they have done. You cannot compare Delhi’s 1.75 crore population with UP’s 23 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-alleges-bjp-using-old-news-clips-to-malign-delhi-govt-schools/story-aA36eJ68q2vmFDwOqt55aP.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||‘MCD scam’ bigger than CWG one, says Kejriwal in Assembly||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday trained guns at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging a Rs 2,500 crore scam in the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD), dubbing it “bigger than the CWG scam”. The Delhi Assembly, too, passed a resolution demanding a CBI probe in the matter.The BJP – which rules all three municipal corporations – dismissed the allegations as “baseless”. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that he shall resign if Kejriwal and other Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders can prove their claims. He demanded an apology from the AAP, if they failed to do so.“The BJP’s Rs 2,500 crore scam in MCD is the biggest so far in Delhi – bigger than the Commonwealth Games scam during Congress’ time. With the money, one could have built hospitals with 7,500 beds or 12,500 Mohalla clinics… This was the money that was to be utilised for paying salaries and arrears of sanitation workers. Had this money not been lost in the scam, the sanitation workers, healthcare workers and other municipal employees, who risked their lives in Covid-19 management, would have received their salaries in time,” said Kejriwal in the Assembly on Friday – the second day of a special session.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said: “Arvind Kejriwal is trying to divert attention from the inefficiencies and failures of the Aam Aadmi Party government by dragging issues such as Commonwealth Games which have already been probed by several agencies.”The first day — Thursday — had witnessed heated debates and discussions on the ongoing farmer’s protests against three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September.On Friday, the discussions continued to be focussed on allegations of misappropriation of funds to the tune of around Rs 2,400 crore – related to proposed waivers on payments concerning rent for office space between the south Delhi and north Delhi civic bodies, which operate from the same building in central Delhi. It comes at a time when mayors of the three MCDs are protesting outside Kejriwal’s residence demanding Rs 13,000 crore which, they claim, the Delhi government owes to the MCDs. The Delhi government has dismissed the claims.The House also witnessed some drama on Friday, with some AAP leaders displaying a huge poster alleging scam in the MCD inside the premises of the Assembly.Kejriwal on Friday said in the Assembly, “The Delhi government is saving every single penny in all its projects. It has recently constructed a flyover worth Rs 325 crore in Rs 200 crore. With all the savings, it is providing facilities to the people of Delhi — such as free electricity, water, quality education, health care, and free bus rides for women. The BJP-led MCD, on the other hand, ended up spending Rs 730 crore on a flyover which was supposed to cost Rs 187 crore.Kejriwal was referring to the Rani Jhansi flyover which was conceptualised in 1998 and completed in 2018 by the north Delhi municipal corporation. “When AAP leaders like Raghav Chadha and Atishi went to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant governor and demand a CBI probe into the matter, they were detained by the police… The Central government, on the other hand, was quick enough to order CBI raids in my office, (health and home minister) Satyendar Jain’s office,” said Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the AAP.He further said, “Now the MCDs are claiming that we owe them Rs 13,000 crores. The claim has been dismissed even by the high court and Supreme Court. It seems like they are done spending Rs 2,500 crore and they only want more… It has become a widely-accepted system in the BJP that the councillors will get five years to do corruption, taking turns… BJP’s 15-year black era in MCD is soon going to end, I sincerely hope that two crore people of Delhi will end this black era in the upcoming (municipal) elections (in 2022).”The motion demanding CBI probe was led by the AAP’s Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj. While all AAP MLAs in the 70 member House voted in favour, eight BJP MLAs refrained from casting votes. Bhardwaj later said that it “exposes the BJP’s hypocrisy” – responding to which BJP’s Bidhuri said that such a demand did not require any approval of the House in the first place. In the Assembly, Bidhuri and BJP MLA from Rohini, Vijender Gupta, said that they are open to probe by any agency.BJP MLA Bidhuri said in a statement: “Commissioner of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation constituted a committee of six officers in October and sought a report. This committee submitted its report in December and said that the allegations of any scandal are absolutely untrue… Also, when there has been no transaction, where does the AAP see any room for a scam? The allegations regarding the Rs 2,500 crore so-called scam are completely baseless. I challenge Kejriwal and leaders of the AAP to prove the allegations. If they succeed, I will resign, if this allegation proves to be false, then apology must come from the people who are making these unwarranted allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcd-scam-bigger-than-cwg-one-says-kejriwal-in-assembly/story-8fCI8TQnWqo3H8WvlrZsCL.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||500 metres of busy Ring Road now sports a gleaming cycle track, walkway with LED lights||The rubber-coated cycle track with blinking LED lights, and a separate pedestrian walkway, along a 500m stretch of the busy Ring Road in south Delhi is hard to miss these days. The effort is a part of the public works department (PWD)’s plan for beautification of roads on a pilot basis. The PWD has created a 2.5m-wide rubber-coated cycle track and a separate pedestrian path along a 500m stretch of the Ring Road, from Nehru Nagar to Sriniwaspuri. They have also installed benches in the open space on the roadside near bus stops along with decorative streetlights. The pedestrian pathway is about three metres wide and has been paved with interlocking tiles.The PWD officials said the whole beautification drive is part of the Delhi government’s bigger project to redevelop and redesign Delhi roads to meet European standards. “A 3km stretch between Ashram and Moolchand on the Ring Road has been chosen for a pilot exercise involving redesigning of road and creating cycling and pedestrian facilities. The work was started over a month ago, and till now, we have laid down a synthetic cycle track over a 500m stretch. The work is still ongoing. In the first phase, we will start similar works on two more road stretches in east Delhi,” a PWD official, who wished not to be named, said.The official said the other two stretches where such exercises will be taken up in the first phase include a 3km stretch of Vikas Marg --between Laxmi Nagar and Karkardooma --and the other will be 2km stretch of Narwana Road, near Mother Dairy in east Delhi. “After developing these stretches on a pilot basis, we will further take up six more roads for redesigning and redevelopment in the second phase. All these roadworks will be the part of the government’s bigger project to redesign 540km length of road in the city by 2023,” the official quoted above said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this week had announced that the process of appointing a consultant for redesigning 540km Delhi roads, to match those in European cities, has been completed and a detailed project report will be readied by February 2021.On the 500m stretch that was recently developed, the PWD has installed decorative streetlights having tricoloured illumination. To ensure that motorists, especially two-wheeler riders, do not ride on the newly developed cycle track and pathway, the PWD has put in bollards at the entry and exit points of the track. A Delhi government official said PWD minister Satyendar Jain had also inspected the newly developed stretch earlier this week to review the progress.The PWD said the redevelopment will not only remove traffic bottlenecks but also create cycle lanes, wide footpaths, parking for rickshaws, open spaces for the public, and have in place attractive street furniture for pedestrians and public transport users.The redesign has already earned positive reviews from the publics.“Earlier, the footpath was broken and it was occupied either by two-wheelers or vendors, but now the stretch has got a new life. One can walk freely or ride a bicycle. More stretches should be redeveloped along similar lines,” Neelesh Rana, a resident of Nehru Nagar and a regular cyclist, said.Anuj Malhotra, knowledge partner, Union home ministry, who has helped different agencies in various pedestrianisation projects, also welcomed the initiative and said similar facilities should be developed on more road stretches so that cycling can be promoted. “This is a wonderful initiative by the PWD. With such dedicated cycle tracks and pathways, cyclists and pedestrians will feel safe. The government should also focus on repairing the existing footpaths and cycle tracks. The government should make efforts to integrate new cycle tracks with the existing ones to create a seamless network for non-motorised transport,” Malhotra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/500-metres-of-busy-ring-road-now-sports-a-gleaming-cycle-track-walkway-with-led-lights/story-Gw2VT5ARdbLwrxJ1ysPIbO.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Three women councillors on hunger strike admitted to hospital||Three women councillors, including a former mayor, who were on a hunger strike since Thursday, were admitted to Hindu Rao hospital on Friday after their health deteriorated. The three councillors were sitting on the fast, along with the mayors of north, east and south corporations, outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Flagstaff Road to demand the release of Rs13,000 crore allegedly due to the municipal corporations from the Delhi government. The mayors and nearly 30 councillors of the three municipalities have been camping outside the CM’s residence since December 7. According to civic functionaries, former south corporation mayor Sunita Kangra, chairperson of the health committee in east corporation Kanchan Maheshwari and deputy chairperson of south zone ward committee Maya Bisht were admitted to the hospital after their blood sugar and blood pressure levels fell.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, said, “They were immediately taken to Hindu Rao Hospital in three ambulances. We are staging a sit-in for the past 12 days and an indefinite hunger strike since Thursday demanding the release of dues amounting to Rs13,000 crore to all three corporations. There has been no response from the government yet.” Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, south corporation, said they have been braving the extreme cold and making do without basic amenities, but the CM has turned a blind eye towards the issue. “The councillors are on a hunger strike and their health is deteriorating. Three women councillors were admitted to the hospital today. Instead of showing callousness, the Delhi chief minister should ask government officials to ensure the release of dues without further delay,” she said.The AAP did not respond to calls and messages sent to them for a reaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-women-councillors-on-hunger-strike-admitted-to-hospital/story-QDTA9e73WJUWVcp0lYhgYM.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Govt floats tender for real-time passenger information of DTC, cluster buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has issued a tender concerning a real-time passenger information system which will enable commuters to access information on bus routes, estimated arrival times, fare, location of nearest buses which they wish to board, availability of seats and best options for interchange on their mobile phones.The tender document titled “engagement of vendor to design, develop, implement, operate and maintain real-time passenger information system for DTC buses” – which HT has seen – is broadly divided into three categories focussing on a mobile application for commuters, a separate mobile app for DTC staff, and an interface to help crunch passenger usage statistics.The DTC aims at implementing the system in 18 weeks, from the date a work order is issued to the chosen vendor.The system will initially be for all DTC buses, but the vendor entrusted with the job is expected to integrate the routes operating under the cluster bus fleet too, the document said.While DTC currently has 3,702 buses in its fleet, the cluster fleet has 3,080. All of them have GPS devices fitted and locations are monitored in control rooms. “The system aims at further breaking down information on multiple parameters and making it available to commuters on their phones,” said a senior official in DTC.The application meant for commuters is supposed to help with route information, live tracking of buses on maps designed for the app, estimated time of arrival of buses in the concerned bus stand, ticket fare, availability of seats and interchange options – from the criss-cross of bus routes between the commuters point of origin and destination – on parameters such as minimum time and minimum cost, said the document.The application for DTC staff is supposed to help them with assigning routes, management of bus timings, monitoring routes, trip durations, registering real-time information on occupancy in each bus and preparing consolidated reports on daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis, the document said.The interface on passenger usage statistics will deal with data such as origin, destination, date, time, and passenger profiles. Passenger profile information may include name, age, gender, mobile number, email address, residential area, place of work, the document said. The data is supposed to help the government on ascertaining which locations witness the most footfall, at what time, which routes witness the most footfall and at which hours. It is supposed to help in the management of bus routes, the DTC official said.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot had mentioned about real-time information system on November 22 when the Delhi Cabinet, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, had given approval for induction of 1,250 low-floor buses in the DTC fleet.“Such interfaces come under the domain of intelligent transport system. Such a system is capable of helping people plan their travels, which has been a problem when it comes to the bus system in Delhi. Such systems increase reliability of the transport network and scale up efficiency. Many developed cities across Europe, America and Asia have such systems in place,” said PK Sarkar, an expert with the intelligent transport system committee at the International Organisation for Standardisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-floats-tender-for-real-time-passenger-information-of-dtc-cluster-buses/story-2CZyGCN3xUY6DfxA8CKFZK.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||If govt can’t find a solution, we will plough our way to one, warns Bharatiya Kisan Union at UP Gate||Exhorting farmers to be a part of the next “kisan kranti (farmers’ revolution)”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait warned that if the central government cannot find a solution to the deadlock over the three new farm laws, then the farmers will be forced to “plough their way to a solution”. “Six rounds of talks with the central government have yielded no solution. The government should either find a “hal (solution)” or we will have to resort to a “hal kranti (plough our way to a revolution/change)”. Such a revolution would go right through the heart of Delhi itself,” said Tikait, who is also BKU’s national spokesperson, at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border, where hundreds of farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for the past 23 days. Also Read| ‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams OppositionAddressing the gathering of farmers, Tikait urged farmers and all kisan unions across the country to “unite and join” the ongoing protests at the four border points of Delhi – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla. “Every farmer should now leave their homes and, carrying farming tools, join us in our protest. I also ask all farmer unions , both big and small, to come here (the Delhi borders with their flags and banners. We will welcome them,” said Tikait. The farmer leader also thanked the Supreme Court for terming their protests “peaceful” and for asking the government “why in the past eight days have there been no talks with farmers over contentious issues”. “I have learnt that the representatives of the government will be holding 700 meetings over the farm laws. One such meeting is in Meerut on Friday. Why is the government holding such talks in cities and towns and not meeting farmers in their villages? Farmers are protesting at the Delhi borders. Why is the government not coming here?” said Tikait. Also Read: MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyApart from Singhu and Tikri borders, where thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping for the past 23 days, blocking vehicular movement, farmers from Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at UP Gate and Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) for just as many days, unmindful of the cold wave sweeping through the NCR. The number of tents at Ghazipur border has increased and nearly all of them have been covered with tarpaulin sheets to stop the cold draughts. The elderly farmers have been advised to stay in the tents or tractor trolleys to avoid falling ill. Also Read| The farm laws: How not to do reformsWhile the gathering at three borders remained intact, even increasing during the weekends, the situation at the Chilla border has kept fluctuating in the past fortnight. On Friday, the number of protesting farmers at Chilla border was fewer than 100, compared to Thursday when 200 to 300 farmers had remained present and had a brief standoff with the security personnel, while making a bid to proceed towards Delhi. At Ghazipur and Chilla borders, unlike SInghu and Tikri, protesters have only blocked the carriageways going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad and Noida. The traffic is being diverted to the alternative border points to avoid inconvenience to motorists commuting between Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-govt-can-t-find-a-solution-we-will-plough-our-way-to-one-warns-bharatiya-kisan-union-at-up-gate/story-O86r2PNr9eDbSoa2ujRwNP.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Two minors killed in Sagarpur factory fire||Two brothers — aged five and six years — were killed after a slippers manufacturing unit in south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur caught fire on Friday afternoon. The children lived with their parents in the manufacturing unit on the ground floor of the three-storey building. Police said that the incident took place when the parents of the children were out for some work. The mother of the children had allegedly left the house after locking the gate from outside, the police and fire departments officials said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call at around 3pm regarding a blaze in a slippers manufacturing factory in P-block in Sagarpur.“Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. It was a small fire, but there was a lot of smoke because of the presence of rubber materials. The blaze was doused immediately. By the time our rescue team could reach, the two children had suffered burns and been rescued by the locals and taken to a hospital, where they were declared brought dead. They died of suffocation,” said Garg, adding that the fire may have been caused due to a short circuit. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said that nearly a dozen people, who lived in the upper floors, were safely rescued by the local police and locals of the area. He said that the police had roped in a team from the forensic science laboratory (FSL) to inspect the spot and ascertain the exact cause of the fire.Fire officials said that the children’s father was a worker at the factory and made rubber and polymer slippers. The family had shifted to the building on rent on December 1.The police said they were trying to find out if the person running the factory had proper permits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-minors-killed-in-sagarpur-factory-fire/story-GQO3okoQe3ZXFZxPt2OuyJ.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||Chief financial officer of Zenica Cars arrested||The Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing on Friday said it has arrested the chief finance officer of Zenica Cars India Pvt Ltd, a firm involved in the dealership of high-end cars, for allegedly duping banks to the tune of Rs300 crore by forging the company’s balance sheets. This is the third arrest in this case that was registered in 2018, a legal action that was followed up by the police arresting the company’s directors, father-son duo Rashpal Singh Todd and Mandhir Singh Todd, in September that year. The Todds, who are British citizens of Indian origin, were arrested from the IGI Airport in Delhi just as they were preparing to board a flight to the United Kingdom, allegedly on the pretext of attending a relative’s wedding there.The latest arrest, of the firm’s chief finance officer Vaibhav Sharma, took place on Thursday, said OP Mishra, joint commissioner of EOW. Sharma, however, denied that he was arrested. “I received anticipatory bail from the Delhi High Court on Thursday. So, I couldn’t have been arrested,” said Sharma, refusing to comment on the allegations. But Mishra said that the anticipatory bail only saved Sharma from going to jail. “He was technically and formally arrested and then let off,” said Mishra. Ajay Verma, a criminal lawyer at Delhi high court, said that an arrest after an anticipatory bail is a mere formality and the accused is released after furnishing a bond. Sharing the background of the case, Mishra said that in 2007, the Todds had approached the Bahadurshah Zafar Marg branch of HDFC Bank for financial assistance. “They had been availing term loan, cash credit facility and bank guarantee since 2013,” said the officer. Till March 2018, the firm was operating as per the law, but they began defaulting after that, said the officer. In June 2018, during an inspection, the HDFC Bank found that the balance sheets had been manipulated to dupe the bank of Rs102 crore, Mishra added. He said that other banks too had been duped in a similar fashion, taking the total cheated amount to Rs300 crore. The alleged fraud also involved selling demo cars without no-objection certificates and misappropriating loan amounts. Detailing Sharma’s role, Mishra said that he had forged the statement of a bank and also showed that the company was suffering losses for four years although their balance sheets showed profits. The Todd father-son duo have already been chargesheeted in the case. The Zenica group claims to have established India’s first and largest Audi dealership in NCR and have showrooms of high-end cars across Delhi and Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chief-financial-officer-of-zenica-cars-arrested/story-cHI35lbTs2y7TkLUtWxE5I.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 551 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department has reported 551 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday in Pune district`. Four deaths have also been reported in 24 hours in the district, taking the Covid-related death toll to 7,702. The district now has 3.65 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.41 lakh have recovered. A total of 16,921 active cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 126 new cases taking its final count to 85,982. One death was reported on Friday, taking the death toll to 2,036, according to the state health department. Pune city, on Thursday, reported 313 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its total count to 1,87,621; three deaths put the death toll at 4,371. PCMC reported 112 new cases, taking its final count to 92,049 with no deaths reported on Friday. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,260. The department reported that 4,467 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 17.78 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.17%. Also, 3,994 new cases in the state were reported on Tuesday taking the total to 18.88 lakh. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Currently, 5,03,886 people are in home quarantine and 4,168 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-551-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-in-24-hours/story-UJlmEObjNlukZaAFm7a4CO.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Over 60% 108 ambulance calls made for Covid in the past nine months||As per the information given by the Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS), of the 7 lakh calls made for the 108 ambulances, over 60% or 4.22 lakh of the calls were made for Covid-19 while training calls were made for non-Covid requirements. MEMS also reported that over 214 of its own staff members were infected during these nine months with Covid and five of their doctors were also reported dead due to the virus infection.As per the data shared by MEMS, 7,00,179 calls were made for 108 ambulance services of which 4,22,166 were for Covid, while 2,78,013 were for non-Covid needs. The agency also said that the average response time for ambulances were about 17:51 minutes for urban areas and 23.12 minutes for rural locations, for the same period. With respect to the most affected districts in the state due to Covid, Pune reported maximum cases in any district in the country. At least 46,584 108 calls were made of which 19,510 were made for Covid purposes and 27,074 for non-Covid reasons. In Mumbai, 46,249 calls were made of which 33,381 were made for Covid reasons and 12,868 for non-Covid purposes. Similarly, in Nagpur, of 29,624, over 12,000 were made for Covid and 17k for non-Covid.Dr Dnyaneshwar Shelke, chief operating officer of MEMS- Dial 108, said, “Usually we get a lot of calls for on-road emergencies, but due to no traffic we did not get those calls. However, the non-Covid calls were replaced with Covid calls. We had to work double as we also received regular medical calls like strokes, pregnancy-related and other emergencies. We operated with 937 ambulances during the entire Covid period and 96% per cent ambulances were up across the state and only 4% were left for maintenance and repairs. We took care of 4,000 emergencies in the state on a daily basis. We did attend to all the calls, but it could be possible that due to the sheer number of calls, we could have been slightly late in some places but the response time for most of this period remained the same as it has been even during the non-Covid period for the same months.”“Due to the less traffic, it worked to our advantage by reducing travel time. However, in some cases, if there were more cases from one area then we did face a slight delay as we had to get the ambulance from another area. We also integrated ambulances from private agencies which were mostly used for asymptomatic Covid patients,” he said. The 108 ambulances had come under fire during the months of July to September when maximum cases were being reported and the service could not reach the patients on time or lacked basic facilities, including oxygen cylinders or cardiac ambulances. Dr Sanjay Dabhade from Jan Aarogya Manch, a public health activist, said, “I can tell from my experience as when I tested for Covid I did call for the ambulance service but when it did not turn up on time and seeing that my condition worsened, my family had to drive me to the hospital in our private vehicle. There have been so many instances when an ambulance did not come on time and people could not reach the hospital on time and it some cases also died for lack of timely treatment. In some cases, even if ambulances did arrive, it did not have basic facilities like a doctor or an oxygen cylinder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/over-60-108-ambulance-calls-made-for-covid-in-the-past-nine-months/story-gpsno7vmpPaMRKBxwjL6WP.html
19-12-2020||Pune||FYJC admission third round completes, 61,359 seats vacant in Pune region||The third round of First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions ended on December 18 and 45,671 students have completed their admissions. Of the 12,461 available seats in the third round, 4,633 students completed their admissions and 61,359 seats are vacant across the streams in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad region. From December 20, the special round of FYJC admissions will start. For this year’s Class 11 admissions, 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. The total intake of seats this year is 1,07,030 in Pune region. At least 41,021 students have completed the admission process in the second round and 66,009 seats are vacant. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) since September 9 and it resumed from November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fyjc-admission-third-round-completes-61-359-seats-vacant-in-pune-region/story-M3E1QjulzRxjxhNcDoMJrJ.html
19-12-2020||Pune||College seats are solely based on marks and cut-offs: Meena Shendkar||With the admission process for First Year Junior College (FYJC) or Class 11 going on in the state, 1,07,030 seats are available for the academic year at 304 junior colleges spread across Pune division, including Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad. The admissions were halted due to the Maratha reservation case being heard by the Supreme Court, before it resumed from November 26. Post three rounds of admissions, a special round started from December 20. Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune and incharge of admission process, gives details about the process this year. How is the FYJC admission process being conducted in Pune division during the unprecedented Covid period? We are following the safety precautions as per the guidelines given by the state and central governments for the admission process. We completed the first round and had to stop on September 9 because of Maratha reservation issue. Admissions resumed from November 26 and the second and third rounds were conducted smoothly despite the Covid-19 pandemic. The admission percentage will increase when the students’ marks and college cut-off lists will match. Students are waiting to get into prominent colleges, but their marks are less than cut-offs. As students are waiting to take the final step, we have to wait and watch. The main reason behind low admission numbers even after the third round is because though seats are available students are waiting for their preferred colleges. I have requested parents to look at your child’s marks, cut-offs and distance from house before confirming admission. There is a need to maintain balance between students’ marks and college cut-off to confirm admission. What will be the next step for students who have not yet completed their admissions even after all the rounds? Students have been given choice of colleges as per marks and cut-offs during the three rounds of admission. Going forward, in the first special round, only those non-admitted students who have given their “consent” for special round will be allowed to process their admission. Those who have not given consent in the earlier rounds will be given chance only in the next special rounds. The first special round of admission process will start on December 20. Parents need to understand that most of the prominent colleges in Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad have already surrendered their management quota seats to us. So, those admissions will also happen from the centralised admission process only. Hence, parents should not waste time in waiting for prominent college admission seats. Challenges faced this year because of the Covid outbreak. The entire admission process, from registration of colleges to student admission, was online, unlike the pre-Covid situation. I made it clear to colleges and students that in-person meet posed spread of infection, so a dedicated email was sent to students to highlight the issue. We started an online grievance address cell. I have replied to more than 5,000 emails of students and parents regarding admission related queries. Earlier, there were 46 guidance centres to help students in the admission process. We verified all Secondary School Certificate (SSC) board students at the school level itself, a process earlier done by guidance centres. I took eight online webinars for around 1,100 school principals in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. This step helped to speed up the admission process through online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-should-understand-that-students-will-get-college-seats-as-per-marks-and-cut-offs-only-meena-shendkar/story-OQYrlh1Qs3foHEADmqO7lI.html
19-12-2020||Pune||5,600 startups from Pune part of Centre’s Startup India initiative: MCCIA||The incubation and startups committee of the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) said on Friday that Pune has more than 5,600 startups registered with the Startup India initiative of the central government. These are part of 20,000 registered startups that Maharashtra has of the total 1.10 lakh in the country, according to the committee survey. Vishwas Mahajan, head of the committee, shared the data during a virtual meeting of startup ecosystem stakeholders in the city on Friday. The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has launched a monthly interaction series for stakeholders in the startup ecosystem in the city. The committee will be the voice of startup customers, Mahajan said during the interaction. MCCIA committee aims to synergise the strengths of incubators and provide a platform for networking amongst themselves as well as other stakeholders in the city. Mahajan said, “We had recently undertaken a study in which it was revealed that more than 5,600 startups recognised by the government of India under the Startup India initiative are from Pune. There will be more startups functioning and operating from Pune, but not registered with the government. We are trying to bring together all these startups along with other stakeholders in the startup ecosystem like accelerators and incubators.” “There are a few examples of unicorns and other startups who have made it to international headlines. However, we as a city are punching much below our potential,” Mahajan said. MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta said, “Close collaboration between stakeholders is necessary for an ecosystem to become successful. The objective of the initiative is to give startups access to customers. Pune has the capacity to become global centre of innovation and MCCIA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-600-startups-from-pune-registered-with-the-central-government-s-startup-india-initiative-mccia-committee/story-gz3SABXkyWhD33JWKCi0sL.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Pets banned at NIBM forest parks||The Pune forest department has launched a strict crackdown on morning visitors bringing pets to the forest area of NIBM in Pune. District forest officer Rahul Patil said, “Pets are a threat to the natural biodiversity of forests. We will be dealing with pet owners very strictly, wherein they will be fined and criminal offences will be lodged against them if they bring pets for morning walks or any other activity in the NIBM forest.” Patil, however, made it clear that morning walkers were free to continue with their physical exercise in the forest. “Pets like dogs have been banned completely from the forests as per the law and any violation will invite strictest action and even an FIR,” he reiterated. Earlier, the forest department took strict action against pet owners who brought pets to Vetal tekdi. A police official attached to the city commissionerate was bitten by an unchained Alsatian on November 29 inside the NIBM forest premises. NIBM citizen’s watch committee member Daljeet Goraya said, “We demand strict action against unchained dogs being let loose inside the NIBM forest as small children, elders, patients and general walkers are threatened by their aggression. There is a need to protect the lives of the citizens and the forest department is doing a good job banning pets strictly as per the law.” Meanwhile, pet lovers have termed the action as a violation of animal rights. Sameer Jadhav, who till recently used to bring his pet to Vetal tekdi for a morning walk, said, “The forest department is acting without reason. Pets are not harmful. Denying pets their space in a forest is a violation of pet rights.” Rohini Sharma, another pet lover at NIBM, said, “We have been taking stroll in the NIBM forest for the last several years. The problem is a few pet owners are leaving unchained dogs inside the forest. Action must be taken against such type of pet owners, but chained pets must be allowed as per the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pets-banned-at-nibm-forest-parks/story-wXNQdVlfuFrnTxlwrHVHmM.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Civic chief to head estimate panel for plans above ₹25 cr||Pune municipal commissioner has decided to remain president of estimate committee president for works above Rs25 crore. The move has been taken as many projects submitted in the past had inflated estimates. These estimates later inflated the total project cost. According to civic officials, the basic estimate of recent projects like 24x7 water project and Katraj-Kondhwa road were inflated which later shot up the total project and tender costs.Hence, elected members requested the municipal commissioner to remain the president of estimate committee for big projects. Earlier, department heads and additional municipal commissioners used to handle this work.The estimate committee’s role is important as it decides the projected cost of a plan by considering the present and future prices of each component before executing or floating tender. Usually the tender participants quote their amount on the basis of estimated cost.Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the order and it was decided that executive engineers would remain president of projects estimated between Rs10 lakh and Rs50 lakh, city engineer for plans between Rs1 and 3 crore, additional municipal commissioner for projects worth between Rs3 crore and Rs25 crore and municipal commissioner for projects above Rs25 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/municipal-commissioner-to-head-estimate-panel-for-plans-above-rs25-cr/story-OeBK6kJ8wLHrdT0y7ZMeIO.html
19-12-2020||Pune||Sports university to begin with three subjects, 50 students||The Maharashtra state sports university announced to be ready to open in the 2021-22 academic year on Thursday, will start with three subjects initially and enrol no more than 50 students. State sports commissioner Omprakash Bakoria, speaking on Friday, said, “We will first start three courses, sports technology, sports medicine and sports training, and will enroll 50 students for the same. We will prepare a proposal for the vice- chancellor’s post. The state government will hire the vice-chancellor and after that, national and international experts will be hired for setting the agenda in a phased manner.” Maharashtra’s first sports university will be set up at Balewadi in Pune. The university will be a one- of-its-kind and aims to be regarded as a centre of sports excellence in the country. The state government has decided to upgrade the existing sports complex at Balewadi and a special budgetary allocation of Rs 500 crore has been made for the purpose. A total of 213 posts have been sanctioned for the new university||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sports-university-to-begin-with-three-subjects-50-students/story-AP3d1oMpBAL4G1YH0U9MZM.html
19-12-2020||Pune||PMC to purchase 50 CNG buses at Rs13 crore||Instead of hiring minibuses, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to purchase CNG buses for plying at crowded areas. PMC standing committee approved Rs13 crore to purchase 50 buses.PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “PMC had announced the scheme to travel by Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses at Rs10 for the whole day. Due to Covid-19, the scheme could not be launched. As per the previous plan, it was decided to hire buses, but now we will purchase buses to run the scheme.”Rasne said, “The Rs 10 fare for whole day was announced to bring down the use of private vehicles, mainly in crowded and market areas. The plan was to start from April 1, 2020, but Covid situation put the brakes on the scheme. Now a scheme is launched at nine routes where passengers can travel 5 km in Rs5 in city areas.”The standing committee approved to transfer Rs25 crore for PMPML, of which Rs13 crore would be utilised for purchasing 50 buses. PMC would do the procurement and hand over the buses to the public transport utility for operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-purchase-50-cng-buses-at-rs13-crore/story-K2ucNRZZeGd5YE8vQRNn5J.html
