20-12-2020||Delhi||Woman murdered over Rs 2,500 in Kotla Mubarakpur||A 32-year-old woman was killed at an under-construction site in Kotla Mubarakpur on Sunday. Police said the murder happened over a tiff she had with a man, to whom she had lent Rs 2500 and had been asking him to return the money. While the woman was killed on December 11, her decomposed body was discovered six days later on Thursday, said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). The suspect, Ajay, was arrested after the police’s local enquiry revealed that he was the last person seen with the woman, said Thakur. The victim, Kajal, was a widow who lived with her sister in Kotla Mubarakpur and worked odd jobs. A few months ago, she had lent R2,500 to a local man named Ajay who is a labourer. Police have identified Ajay and Kajal only by their first names. “For the past few days, she was repeatedly asking Ajay to return her money. But Ajay didn’t have money to return and was going on seeking an extension for the deadline,” said another police officer who didn’t want to be identified. Police said Ajay decided kill her instead of returning the money. “On Thursday, he called the woman to an under-construction site in the same neighborhood on the pretext of returning the money. There, he strangled her to death and then crushed her face with a stone in a bid to hide her identity,” the officer said. He then covered her face with a cloth and fled the spot. The body lay there undetected and decomposing for six days, said the officer. When the body was finally discovered on Sunday, the investigators found no documents to identify the woman. Local enquiry, however, helped ascertain her identity after which the police began checking for people who may have seen anyone with her. That finally helped the police zero down on Ajay and arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-murdered-over-rs-2-500-in-kotla-mubarakpur/story-8f8fPu2izp5Mv2iClpDlWI.html
20-12-2020||City||Greater Mohali authority gives preference to women, elderly for residential plots at Eco City-2||Greater Mohali Area Development Authority has launched a housing scheme at Eco City-2 in New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), and is giving preference to senior citizens and women for allotment of residential plots. The last date to apply for the 289 plots is January 14. The scheme brochure is already on sale for ₹100 at leading banks and single-window service counters at GMADA/PUDA Bhawan in Sector 62, Mohali. “The allotment will be done through draw of lots. The first draw will be conducted for senior citizens (above the age of 60), and then for women. If any plot still remains, another draw will be held for general category,” said GMADA additional chief administrator Rajesh Dhiman.“We have ensured that the plots are in close proximity to Medicity, where senior citizens can get immediate medical assistance,” said another senior official. The site is situated on a 200-foot-wide road and is also well-connected to the PGIMER, Panjab University and the international airport.How to apply and make paymentsThe complete form along with earnest money and ₹1,000 non-refundable application fee is to be submitted as a demand draft in favour of the estate officer, GMADA, payable at the stations mentioned in the brochure, at any of the branches of the banks associated in the scheme on or before January 14, 2021. People can also apply online by visiting gmada.gov.in and make online payment too. While 10% of the reserve price is to be deposited as earnest money along with the application, 15% of the payment has to be done within 30 days of issuance of the letter of intent (LoI) along with extra 2% cancer cess. Applicants can get 5% rebate on the remaining 75% if they make lumpsum payment within 60 days from the date of issuance of the LoI. Otherwise, the payment can be made in six half-yearly equated instalments along with interest at the rate of 9% compounded annually per annum. The first instalment will become due after six months from the date of issuance of the LoI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-mohali-authority-gives-preference-to-women-elderly-for-residential-plots-at-eco-city-2/story-oHdjl3VzTbWtmNlnqEcMJO.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Mahagun Moderne residents protest against AOA, demands election||NOIDA: A group of residents of Mahagun Moderne housing society in Sector 78 on Sunday protested against the apartment owners association (AOA), demanding fresh elections to form a new executive body. However, AOA office bearers alleged that the protest is backed by the developer who does not want to hand over the maintenance of the society.Protesters shouting slogans against AOA carried out a march in the society, demanding immediate action from the Noida authority. “For the past three years, no election has taken place in our society. We want democratically elected AOA that looks after the maintenance in the society. We are not satisfied with the maintenance by the current AOA. We hope the authority will look into this issue,” said Himanshu Shekhar Singh, a resident of society.The residents alleged that the existing AOA office bearers are “hand in glove” with the developer and not practising transparency in their conduct. “There is no transparency in keeping the accounts of our society. And if we dare to question, then AOA office bearers use foul language and misbehave,” said Indrani Mukherjee, another resident.However, AOA refuted all the allegations. “We have fought against the developer and won a case for the welfare of the society. In compliance with Allahabad high court’s order on November 18, 2019, the Noida authority ordered the developer to hand over maintenance to AOA and Rs 20 crore interest-free maintenance security (IFMS). A handful of residents want to stop that ongoing process to benefit developer. The majority of residents are with us. And we are ready for elections once the handover process is over,” said Sandeep Chauhan, president of AOA of Mahagun Moderne. “We will file a defamation case against those, who are throwing mud on us,” said Chauhan.Amit Jain, promoter of Mahagun, said that they are not supporting any of the side. “We could not hand over the maintenance because of issues in AOA. But we will take steps to implement the Noida authority’s order on handing over the maintenance as per rules,” said The Noida authority CEO, Ritu Maheshwari, said, “Once the case is decided by the authority, then it is closed from our side.”The developer, Mahagun, had started offering possession to buyers in 2018. An AOA was elected in 2018 for this society, which had 2,700 flats spread over an area of 25 acres. However, maintenance has not been handed over yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-mahagun-moderne-residents-protest-against-aoa-demands-election/story-aa8KqwVjazkdRbQXLAtQ9N.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||13-year-old gang raped by four in Greater Kailash||A 13-year-old girl was gang-raped by four people, including her minor friend, in the servants’ quarters of a building in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash on Saturday, the Delhi Police said on Sunday, after nabbing all the suspects. The victim is physically out of danger and is being counselled, the police said. The girl, who lives in a slum in south Delhi, had been working as a domestic help in one of the houses in Greater Kailash for the past four months, said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). The minor boy, who is 17-year-old, had briefly worked with the victim before quitting around a month ago. During their work together, they had become friends and were known to each other, the DCP said. On Saturday evening, the boy called the victim to meet him in the servants’ quarters of a house in Greater Kailash. “Three men, Shivam, Hari Shankar and Mangesh, were already present there when the girl reached the place. They all offered the girl something to drink, after which she fell unconscious,” said the DCP quoting the survivor. In the early hours of Sunday, when she regained consciousness, she got to know that the minor boy and three others had gang raped her. She returned home and narrated the incident to her mother, upon which a call to the police control room (PCR) was made. The police then sent the victim for a medical examination, the report of which is awaited.A case of gang rape, wrongful confinement and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered at the Greater Kailash police station. “We arrested the three adult suspects and the victim’s minor friend was apprehended from the locality soon after receiving the complaint,” the officer said. While two of the adult suspects belong to the same village as the minor suspect, the third hails from Maharashtra. The officer said that they are questioning all the nabbed men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/13-year-old-gang-raped-by-four-in-greater-kailash/story-u2tisCGB0WTI9PuLRbPquN.html
20-12-2020||Bhopal||Two transporters booked for illegally selling ration of 20,000 BPL families||Two owners of a transportation company were booked for selling food grains allocated for 20,000 Below Poverty Line (BPL) families under Public distribution System and Pradhanmantri Gareeb Kalyan Ann Yojna in a market in Gwalior, said police. An FIR was registered against Munna Lal Agrawal and Rahul Agrawal under section 407 (criminal breach of trust by carriers) of the India Penal Code and under section 3/7 of the Essential Commodities Act (selling essential commodities without permission of authorities) in Gwalior, said Pankaj Tyagi, town inspector Jhansi Road police station. No arrest has been made so far. The irregularity came to light in a report of food civil supplies and consumer protection (FCS&CP) department. “The extra ration has been allocated for BPL families due to lockdown which was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The transporters had taken food grains from the warehouses of the department but hadn’t delivered to the ration shops,” said Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, principal secretary, FCS & CP. “The ration shopkeepers, who have to generate receipts online after delivery of the food grains, hadn’t been generating the receipts since April. The department officers inquired in the matter and found out that the shopkeepers didn’t receive the food grains. Department’s additional director Harendra Sing held an inquiry in the matter and it was revealed that the transporters had sold the ration of poor people in the local market on December 17,” he added. Also read: ‘Maybe in January’ - Harsh Vardhan on first Covid-19 shotGwalior, Superintendent of Police Amit Sanghi said, “About 7,000 quintals of wheat, rice, pulses, sugar salt and other items worth Rs 3.07 crore have allocated for about 1 lakh poor people was illegally sold in the market from April to November. The FIR has been registered against the transporters. We are trying to nab them. We have also written to the district collector to invoke the National Security Act against them”. District collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh said, “I have asked the police to share all the details of the case and the report of FCS&CP. The decision of invoking NSA will be taken after the inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/two-transporters-booked-for-illegally-selling-ration-of-20-000-bpl-families/story-ZzOiUaLFsuJuv97rA66mPL.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mayor inaugurates community centre in Manimajra||City mayor Raj Bala Malik on Sunday inaugurated a new community centre at Indira Colony in Manimajra on Sunday.Giving details, Malik said the centre had a built-up area of 8,400 sq ft with a plot area of 18,787 sq ft, including parking area of 3,200 sq ft and cost of Rs 1.67 crore. The ground floor had a bridal room, office, hall, kitchen, pantry, caretaker’s room, and toilets for men and women. The first floor had toilets, gymnasium, another bridal room, library and three rooms.The mayor also inaugurated a new road in Manimajra, a stretch of 100 feet, in which Rs 1.40 crore had been invested. Another road in the area built with paver blocks at a cost of Rs 10 lakh, was inaugurated by Malik at Darshani Bagh,with a water supply pipeline, which cost Rs 30 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mayor-inaugurates-community-centre-in-manimajra/story-Ff1Qy3ve8NjZsbDEaHfwLL.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Three held for duping over 450 people on pretext of govt jobs||Noida: Three people, including two contractual clerks with the primary education office in Greater Noida, were nabbed by the Noida police for allegedly duping more than 450 people on the pretext of helping them get government jobs.The suspects have been identified as Brajesh Kumar Verma, Mahesh Patel and Rajveer. Patel and Rajveer were clerks with the additional Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) office in Dankaur, the police said.According to the police, the scam started in 2007 when Verma registered a fake NGO in Prayagraj. Over the years he opened seven offices in as many districts of the state, including one in Gautam Budh Nagar, they said.Verma is a science graduate who would run an optician shop in Rae Bareilly and also fought 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the police said, adding that he duped unemployed people of Rs 25-30 lakh for the election cost.“In October this year, he opened a training centre in Sector 22 to make women self-reliant. He obtained a fake letter from the state government using which he would contact government schools where he would pretend to organize training seminars for low-level administration jobs, investigation officers, beauticians, and tailors, among others,” said Luv Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order), GB Nagar.Verma would offer fake certificates and joining letters to the victims and collect various amounts as security money.“He would then tell the victims that they were at adhoc positions. A few months later, he would change base and use a different name in a different city,” said Kumar.Police officials suspect that he has duped at least 100 people in Noida so far, around 50 in Ghaziabad and more than 300 in other districts. The suspect was planning a new centre in Delhi in January but had been denied permission because of Covid restrictions, the officials said.The police said that by using his luxury office in Sector 22, he was on his way to obtain a Rs 25 lakh fund from NABARD in January on pretext of opening a farmer’s club and Haat bazaar. An inspection of the site had already been done by government officials.“He would also get demand letters from government schools and then share this with the state government. He was trying for a Rs 1 crore fund from the state welfare board as well,” said the joint CP.The officials said that he has already gone to jail in 2011 and 2013 in Mainpuri and Fatehpur districts, respectively. A probe is underway to identify how he was able to carry on with the scam even after being arrested twice, they said.The police said that at least five other people, some of them principals of government schools, are involved in the racket, and efforts are on to arrest them.Rajveer’s wife had also been appointed as a coordinating officer to bring in candidates but police said that she was unaware of the scam while Rajveer and Patel were both bringing in victims.The suspects were booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Several sets of fake certificates, documents, phones, and Rs 41,500 were recovered from them, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-three-held-for-duping-over-450-people-on-pretext-of-govt-jobs/story-fqmRAgwlvh54x6vqXx3n9L.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Temporary relief from cold wave||Noida: As the city continues to shiver for the fifth day in row due to cold wave, the weather department has predicted that the minimum temperature will spike slightly on Monday providing temporary relief.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while the maximum temperature will hover around 21 degrees Celsius for the week, the minimum temperature may rise by two to three degrees on Monday. However, the mercury will start falling again with icy cold winds, leading to another spell of cold wave and cold day from Wednesday, IMD said. “The wind directions have temporarily changed due to the western disturbance from north-westerly to westerly and south-westerly. This has led to slight rise in the mercury. The minimum temperatures will rise till Tuesday, but temperatures will start falling from Wednesday again and hover around 4 degrees Celsius returning the cold waves,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.He said that the sky will be clear from Tuesday, leading to better sunlight and warmer day or higher day time temperatures.“The cold wave conditions will return from Wednesday onwards. However, the cold day condition will not persist unlike this week as the maximum temperatures will be around the season’s average due to clear sky,” added Srivastava.On Sunday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 6 degrees Celsius, against 5.1 degrees Celsius a day earlier. While the maximum temperature was recorded at 21.6 degrees Celsius, against 21.1 a day earlier.Meanwhile, the average minimum for NCR, based on the Safadarjung observatory, was recorded at 3.4 degrees Celsius, against 3.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. On Monday, the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 6 degrees and 22 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/temporary-relief-from-cold-wave/story-TIQPROFf4JSCCeMVyKgNgO.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad slips again, enters ‘very poor’ zone||Noida: The air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad slipped to ‘very-poor’ levels again on Sunday due to unfavourable weather conditions. The three cities’ air had been oscillating around ‘poor’ levels since December 14. According to the weather analysts, the wind speed dropped and humidity spiked on Sunday, leading to better hold of the pollutants thereby spiking the pollution levels. “The wind speed on Sunday was around 12-13 kmph, slightly lower than past few days due to the western disturbance. The wind speed will drop further from December 22 onwards,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday was 333 against 301 a day earlier and 288 on Friday. Greater Noida’s AQI was 346 against 292 on Saturday and 297 on Friday. The AQI of Ghaziabad also worsened from poor to very poor category on Sunday. Its AQI was 346 against 295 on Saturday and 304 on Friday. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The fine particles or PM2.5 levels also spiked and are currently two to three times higher than the standards. On Sunday, PM2.5 for past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 169.36 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 156.41 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 197.80 µg/m³ against 149.72 a day earlier, while the same for Ghaziabad also increased to 204.18 µg/m³ against 162.03 µg/m³ on Saturday. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI is likely to worsen further due to poor ventilation factors. “The overall air quality is at the lower end of the ‘Very Poor’ category. Surface-level winds are moderate and west south-westerly. The cold day conditions are forecasted to intensify and surface winds are likely to slow down. So the current better dispersion conditions are likely to decrease. Hence, AQI is forecasted to deteriorate to middle end of Very Poor category on 21st December, and further deteriorate to the higher end of Very Poor on 22nd Dec and further deteriorate by 23rd Dec,” said the SAFAR statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-slips-again-enters-very-poor-zone/story-YZYE4qtfVu2DO2HBLeabiJ.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Three Madhya Pradesh Police personnel among five arrested in Noida over robbery of service pistol||Noida: Noida Police arrested three policemen from Madhya Pradesh claiming that they had extorted people under investigation. The alleged extortion was discovered when one of the suspect policemen lost his licensed firearm and the Noida Police were called to investigate.The policemen -- two sub-inspectors Rashid Parvez Khan and Pankaj Sahu and a constable -- were part of the MP cybercell department. The name of a fourth member of the team was not disclosed as police did not consider him a suspect. On December 18, Khan had his gun snatched when five unidentified men scuffled with the team in Noida sector 18.When Noida Police investigated the case, they discovered that the cyber police team were in Noida on a case and were extorting the suspects in that case.“An eyewitness had video recorded the final moments of the robbery and shared it with us. We were able to note the licence plate of the getaway vehicle and traced it to a Delhi-based woman. Her husband was a friend of the man the MP police was investigating,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The MP Police team arrived in Noida on December 15 to investigate a ponzi scheme case. They suspects in the case were brothers Suryabhan and Shashikant Yadav, who were residents of Sector 12 and worked from Sector 62, police said.“The case was filed by a man named Chandraketu Dubey in Jabalpur. He claimed to have had lost around ₹2.5 lakh to the duo. During the probe, MP Police had frozen a bank account associated with the brothers with ₹58 lakh in it,” said Gautam Budh Nagar joint commissioner of police, law and order, Luv Kumar.On December 16, the MP Police team allegedly visited Suryabhan at his office and took him for questioning in an SUV and roamed around in Delhi. In a public park in Mahipalpur, the three policemen allegedly started extorting him.“Suryabhan transferred ₹1.7 lakh into a Jabalpur account after threats from the police. Over the next two days, he borrowed ₹3 lakh in cash and handed it over to the three. They also had him transfer bitcoins worth ₹24 lakh in Chandraketu’s account which were then transferred to constable Khan’s account,” said the DCP.Police said that on December 18, the team allegedly came to a bank to released Shashikant’s account apparently to withdra more money.“Suryabhan had shared his ordeal with the Delhi-based friend who then decided to take matters into his own hands. Along with four accomplices, they reached sector 18 in his wife’s car and confronted the officers. During the scuffle, the fled with S-I Khan’s gun,” said the joint CP. This forced S-I Khan to approach the Noida Police.Noida Police said there had been inconsistencies in the statements of the visiting policemen and the video helped them put the pieces together.The three policemen, and brothers Shashikant and Suryabhan were arrested on December 19 from near the sector 18 metro station, said police. They were booked under sections 395 (punishment for dacoity), 384 (punishment for extortion), 120b (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Police said that the persons who robbed the pistol were yet to be apprehended. They said they had informed the MP Police of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-madhya-pradesh-police-personnel-among-five-arrested-in-noida-over-robbery-of-service-pistol/story-tX111fSEJC7zg4HjlR01xL.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Lit Fest: ‘Govt lacked political will to resolve Khalistan issue’||The rise of militancy in Punjab and its tragic fallout in the assassination of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi and the anti-Sikh riots have important lessons. All critical decisions of governments should be addressed politically and not by force, said panellists discussing the book, The Khalistan Conspiracy by former RAW officer GBS Sidhu at the concluding day of the Military Literature Festival on Sunday.In a session moderated by GS Aujla, former Indian Police Service officer, Sidhu spoke to panellists MPS Aulakh, former director general of police and Jagtar Singh, journalist.Sidhu, who played a key role in the inclusion of Sikkim into the Indian Territory, recalled the rise of militancy in Punjab and abroad, especially in Canada and other European countries, where Sikhs migrated during the 1970s.He also touched upon the efforts of the then Union government to resolve the problem.To this, Aujla said , the ‘issue’ had not been addressed at the political level at that time and was a great lesson in how political will was lacking in that period to sort out matters.Aulakh, who had held prominent positions in the Intelligence Bureau at that time illustrated a series of events of that period.Speaking on the occasion, Jagtar Singh said the Indian government should have released papers related to that period for a clearer picture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/military-lit-fest-govt-lacked-political-will-to-resolve-khalistan-issue/story-Lwaf2xaQQ4K1v0kDJX0LcN.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Hospitals with over 100 beds to be made Covid-19 vaccination centres||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decided to make all the government and private hospitals – having more than 100 beds – the centres for the different phases of Covid-19 vaccination in the district. GB Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that the decision was taken in the meeting held on Saturday with the office bearers of Noida chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). “It is mandatory for the hospitals to have three separate rooms for the vaccination purpose. While the first one will be the waiting room, the second and third rooms will be for vaccination and post-immunization assessment,” he said. Health officials said that about 21,500 doctors and other medical staff will get Covid-19 vaccines in the first phase of the immunisation drive in the district. Ohri further said that there will be separate entry and exit points at all the vaccination centres. “The health department will keep the name, address and mobile number of every person, who’ll get the shots in the first phase,” he said. The CMO further said that the district will have 13 cold storage points where vaccines can be stored, besides a vaccine depot at his office. “Following the instructions by the district administration, the health department has identified 73 centres where the vaccination will take place. We have already prepared a list of 21,543 doctors and other medical staff, who will be inoculated in the first phase. It will be followed by vaccination of employees of the authorities, armed forces, mediapersons and police personnel in the second place. In the third and last phase, people above the age of 50 years will get the shot. However, we’ll begin the registration process for the second and third phases of vaccination, once getting the detailed guidelines in this connection from the government,” he said. Ohri also said that besides district’s Covid-19 integrated call centre at Sector 59, a team of doctors will be deployed at every primary health centre (PHC) and community health centre (CHC) to monitor the vaccination process. “We’ll put life support ambulances at all these spots to tackle any emergency situation,” he said. Dr NK Sharma, president of the Noida Chapter of IMA, said that the association “has asked all its members to provide full support to the Covid-9 immunisation drive in the district”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-hospitals-with-over-100-beds-to-be-made-covid-19-vaccination-centres/story-BfSWUyfaDtQ2cKZfMcmoGP.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Mutual funds can help fund your retirement||When it comes to mutual funds, two things stop people: Either they are not planning for their retirement, or they prefer to invest in fixed interest instruments that promise capital protection, though the earnings may be relatively low compared to financial tools like mutual funds that are inherently volatile. Now, caution is always a good thing, but unless you make adequate investments in the present — despite the risk — your retirement is likely to be a financial mess. So let’s address the how. A lot depends on your investment objective. What is the corpus you want to create? What is your tolerance for risk? And, crucially, how many years are left till your retirement? Experts suggest the following: Pick a figure: Unless you have decided your retirement corpus, hitting on the right mutual fund is not possible. It’s called having a financial goal. And you can have more than one. Another way of looking at this is to think of the milestones you want to achieve, like retiring at 40 or an making an emergency fund for contingencies. Adhil Shetty, Chief Executive Officer, BankBazaar, an online marketplace for financial products, puts this in perspective and said, “Investing is not about putting funds in a bucket and forgetting about it. The entire point of investing is to ensure you have funds for your life goals. So you need to plan your investments just like your life goals and give them enough time to grow.” Judge your appetite: All investment involves risk. Choose among mutual funds investing in stocks, debts, government securities, or commodities markets depending on your risk appetite. A way to judge the risk level of a mutual fund is to check how frequently its returns change every year. Mutual funds with large variation in returns are deemed more risky owing to their fluctuating performance. Higher risk means increased volatility of returns. Know the expense ratio: Asset management companies charge money to run mutual funds. A percentage of the asset’s value goes towards the payment of fees and operational expenses of such companies. Expense ratio refers to the per unit cost incurred for managing a mutual fund scheme. It’s important that you invest in mutual funds with lower expense ratios said Sahil Arora, director (Investments), Paisabazaar.com, a virtual debt syndication service. “As the operating expenses of a fund are met from the assets managed by it, a lower expense ratio would mean that most of your money would remain invested in the fund,” he said. The ideal expense ratio is somewhere between 0.5 per cent and 0.75 per cent. An expense ratio more than 1.5 per cent is considered high. In some mutual funds like debt funds, which have limited chances of giving high returns it pays better to keep the expense ratio low. Avoid high turnover rates: Did you know that the turnover rate of an MF portfolio matters? Turnover ratio refers to the percentage of the portfolio bought and sold every year. Kaustubh Belapurkar, director (Portfolio Specialist), Morningstar India, an investment research and management services firm said, “You can find the portfolio turnover ratio in the monthly factsheet and the annual report. A higher number indicates significant changes are being made in the portfolio, which could indicate an inconsistent investment process or change in investment strategy.” There is no ideal turnover ratio for an MF. However, if a mutual fund is turning over at a rate between 20 per cent and 30 per cent, you might want to pay closer attention to how the fund is being managed. Diversity always pays: Do not invest all your earnings in one mutual fund alone. If you are unsure of how the stock market works, investing in diverse mutual funds helps. Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra.com, a financial services marketplace said, “A well-diversified portfolio includes a dash of equity, debt funds as well as cash equivalents. Never put all eggs in one basket.” What’s more, the market value of your assets matters. A greater fund size, i.e Assets under Management or the total market value of the assets managed under the mutual fund depicts more trust by investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mutual-funds-can-help-fund-your-retirement/story-yeiNJC83ffn9pbUOmblvBP.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||DGCA gets stricter with isolation norms for air crew||Taking more precautions to fight Covid-19 pandemic, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has come up with specific rules for Covid-positive air crew with no symptoms or crew who are mildly and highly symptomatic.While DGCA has reduced the isolation period for positive air crew with no symptoms from 14 to 10 days, highly symptomatic crew will be examined by DGCA after complete clinical recovery and will have to undergo special medical examination at one of the Indian Air Force (IAF) boarding centres, with a cure certificate.In its last circular issued on June 22, DGCA, without getting into details, had stated that risk assessment for crew will be done by respective airline doctors and testing of the crew will be done by individual airline doctors who will decide on the isolation period required for each crew member. In the circular dated December 18, DGCA stated asymptomatic pilots will undergo home isolation for 10 days, and on completion of this period, the crew can be declared fit for unrestricted flying, provided their clinical parameters are normal. In case of positive mildly symptomatic air crew, the period will be extended by three more days. These crew members will be discharged only if they do not have fever for the three days after the initial 10 days since the onset of symptoms. However, the ones in isolation for more than 14 days will be examined by DGCA-empanelled class-1 examiner who will provide a cure certificate. They will also require opinion of a specialist concerned. Once such crew are declared fit to fly by the examiner, they will be allowed to fly again..Positive moderately/ severely symptomatic air crew will have to undergo special medical examination at one of the IAF boarding centres and will require a cure certificate. The circular read, “Such pilots can be considered for unrestricted flying provided their clinical examination and laboratory investigations reveal no finding that can cause a functional deficit. Once declared ‘fit for flying’ at the IAF boarding centre, the air crew can commence flying only after DGCA medical assessment is issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dgca-gets-stricter-with-isolation-norms-for-air-crew/story-T0mZIFY1nxcLNaG93IpsaM.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Special round on December 24, 1.85 lakh seats vacant||The Maharashtra education department will declare the special merit list for admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) in the city at 11am on December 24. Every student who wishes to participate in the round has to give consent in the portal which would ensure that students who have secured admissions elsewhere are not allotted seats again. According to the data shared by the department, after the third admission round which concluded on Friday, nearly 1.85 lakh seats remain vacant in colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) which will be available in the special admission round. This includes nearly 37,000 seats from various quotas such as minority, management and in-house quotas which remained vacant after the three admission rounds and were surrendered. In the special round, students who were restricted to participate in the earlier rounds will also be allowed to participate. This includes students who had got the college of their first preference but failed to take admission there. Students who are allotted colleges under the special round can secure their admissions by December 26. The education department has said that it will declare the further admission schedule as per the requirement and government approval after the special round. The department has also said that it would start bifocal admissions soon. Meanwhile, junior colleges which have completed more than 75% admissions can start their online classes. Colleges, however, said they were hoping for some clarity on the academic calendar. “Since the year has begun so late, we are hoping to get some clarity on how to conduct exams, whether there will be further syllabus reduction, etc” said a principal of a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-special-round-on-december-24-1-85-lakh-seats-vacant/story-Ft0YemJB8uSgvhidoEJNIL.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad Police launches awareness programme on criminal law||Faridabad Police on Sunday launched a programme called ‘Police ki Pathshala’, which aims to change the perception of the youth about the police. The police said they want to connect with youngsters to increase their knowledge and awareness about criminal laws and the impact of pressing issues such as cyber crime and drug abuse. It is a structured programme to build a productive rapport with the youth, save them from self-destructive behaviour and help them in realising their potential, said the police. A group of 100 students will be enrolled for the programme in one batch and they will be counselled about new career opportunities generated by technological changes and the policies and programmes of the government. OP Singh, Faridabad commissioner of police, said that the programme is scheduled daily between 10am to 11am for 3,000 people, who would be enrolled from Monday onwards. “Case studies of incidental offenders of hurt and affray cases registered in 2020 will be discussed. Participants will be taught anger management through exercise and self-awareness sessions. Also their trainings will be conducted at police stations,” he said. The programme is for students to help them find their strength through online aptitude tests and plan their career accordingly, said the police. The police said a leadership training program, which is a part of the plan, will help the participants to develop core competency like documentation, networking and project delivery that they need to carry on with their voluntary work. Singh said this programme will help aspiring sportspersons and cultural artists to steer clear of doping and unfair practices. “The slum dwellers and poor people will be taught how to avoid being plundered by spurious financers. We will involve all village sarpanches to motivate them to integrate youth development activities in panchayat-led village development programmes,” he said. The programme will also encourage people for voluntary compliance to law and will sensitise them about the hazards of breaking laws, officials said. Sessions will be held at police stations, police lines, village chaupal and auditoriums .The police have also identified strategic partners for programme implementation. The workshop will be rolled out from Monday for 100 people at a time. Girls will be particularly encouraged to take part . The police said station house officers will be chief hosts of the programme in their respective areas. Assistant commissioner of police ( headquarters ) will assist them with course content and resource persons. “The programme will have social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Snapchat and Instagram. It will be live-streamed,” said Singh. The one hour programme will have a 20-minute ice-breaking session, 40 minutes of talk for 40 people and sports tournaments and cultural events for players and artists. Successful and famous people will be invited to inspire the participants by sharing their life experiences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-police-launches-awareness-programme-on-criminal-law/story-4GR60dD35Txhi2Q3sV3SQP.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers hold tribute meeting for protestors who died during course of agitation||Farmers protesting along the Delhi-Jaipur national highway against the new farm laws paid homage to their fellow protesters, who have died during the agitation until now. A tribute meeting was held on Sunday, during which farmers remembered the sacrifices of their counterparts, observed silence for two minutes and took a vow to continue their agitation against the laws. Farmers from states such as Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat have been protesting at Jaisinghpura-Khera (near Shahajahanpur) on the Delhi-Jaipur highway since the past eight days after the Rewari Police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi. Farmers across the country have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws. They fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and put an end to the minimum support price (MSP) they receive on important crops Sanjay Madhav, the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that the tribute meeting was held in remembrance of 29 farmers who have died during the course of agitation. “During this movement, 29 farmers have died across the country. Today, we paid tribute to them and took a pledge to continue our movement until the laws are repealed,” said Madhav. Blaming the Central government for the deaths, the protesting farmers said that they had been compelled to protest on the streets due to the anti-farmer laws. “The protesting farmers who have died until now are martyrs for us. It is unfortunate that they are no longer with us. They died due to accidents, diseases and the freezing cold while participating in the farmers’ movement,” said the union of farmer leaders, adding that the sacrifices of the farmers will not go in vain. On Sunday, three different contingents of supporters joined the protest. These included members of Bhim Army, Bawal Khap Panchayat, Rajasthan Jat Mahasabha and Rajasthan Teachers Association (Shekhawat). Members of these organisations have joined the ongoing agitation at the protest site. Ranjit Singh Raju, coordinator of Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, one of the farmers body under the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said that a decision had been taken to keep Haryana toll free between December 25 and 27. “We remember the sacrifices of the protesting farmers who have died so far. We hold the government responsible for these deaths. The government says that the laws were made for farmers but farmers were not consulted before doing so. Why were these anti-farmer laws made? Today, we are on the streets to protest against the three laws and we hold the government responsible for this,” said Raju.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-hold-tribute-meeting-for-protestors-who-died-during-course-of-agitation/story-4ocnkt5GbgRXyWBrqtOLpK.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP proposes to raise penalties for violators of building norms||To curb violations of building norms by property owners, the department of town and country planning(DTCP) has proposed to increase the penalties manifold to ensure strong deterrence. In a proposal submitted by DTCP, Gurugram, to its headquarters in Chandigarh, the department has also called for increasing the penalty for home owners, who misuse their premises for commercial purposes. The letter written by department proposes that penalty for misusing residential premises for commercial purposes should be raised from ₹630 per square metres to ₹6,778 per square metres (sq m). It has also proposed that the bank guarantee furnished by the owner for a period of one year should be raised from ₹1,260 per sq m to ₹13,557 sq m. DTCP officials said earlier there were no provisions for penalising home owners, who made additions and alterations or indulged in excess coverage and zoning violations in plotted colonies after obtaining the occupancy certificate(OC). Officials could have only demanded a restoration of the violations.RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said that the department has now proposed that apart from removing violations, they propose to impose penalty at the rate of ₹1,260 per sq m on plot area. The bank guarantee, which has to be furnished for a year, has been proposed at ₹1,260 per sq m on plot area. The department has also proposed that shop owners in commercial complexes, who encroach common areas, there shall be a deterrent penalty of ₹1,260 per sq m.“The purpose of these measures is to ensure that property owners, who engage in repeated violations, such as operating guest houses and building beyond permissible limits, are deterred” said RS Bhath, district town planner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-proposes-to-raise-penalties-for-violators-of-building-norms/story-cMjoNtgZbqx4NwPzx1DpkJ.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram sees warmer days as cold wave conditions abate||Following the recent cold wave, which saw temperatures in the city plunge to as low as four degrees Celsius (minimum) and 13.1 degrees Celsius (maximum), the city is now seeing warmer days. On Sunday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature stood at six degrees Celsius. These readings are the highest in over two weeks. According to the India Meteorological Department(IMD), however, a western disturbance is expected to pass over north India on December 22, which may cause isolated rainfall in some parts, bringing back cold wave conditions to the plains.“Cold wave conditions have abated in most parts of northwest India. There is clear sunshine, which is able to warm the surface. The layer of fog has moved away. We are expecting a western disturbance to impact the region around December 22, when moisture will increase and dense fog is likely to envelope the entire region. Cold wave conditions might return,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre at IMD.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram, shallow to moderate episodes of fog and mist during the early morning hours are expected to persist until at least December 26. Officials said this was due to a high level of humidity, which has set in after the passage of a previous western disturbance about 10 days ago. Under the influence of cold winds from the snow-laden Himalayas, which are sweeping across the plains, this moisture leads to foggy conditions, which dissipate later in the day, under the influence of clear skies. Gurugram recorded relative humidity at 94% on Sunday evening.Air quality in the city, meanwhile, remained in the “poor” category of the air quality index (AQI) bulletin for the fifth consecutive day, recording 262 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality index(AQI). “Despite being in the middle of winter, when pollution levels typically become severe, we are feeling the influence of strong northwestern winds, which keep pollutants from gathering. If it rains this week, the AQI may even come down to the upper end of the ‘moderate’ category,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-sees-warmer-days-as-cold-wave-conditions-abate/story-yJSxCgHoXz0nfxJBoxB3JM.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||For the first time since September, district sees two consecutive zero fatality days in Gurugram; less than 1,000 cases reported in the last week||In the seven days from December 14, Gurugram recorded less than 1,000 new cases of Covid-19, as against 2,099 the week earlier.This is the lowest seven-day aggregate of new infections in at least four months. Gurugram has also reported no new Covid-19 related deaths over two days, a first since September. Before these two days, Gurugram’s last zero-fatality day was October 18.Officials said the trend indicated a significant slowdown in the transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, among the community. “We are now in a similar situation as in September. We are seeing fewer deaths, fewer cases requiring intensive care, and the positivity rate is also improving day-by-day. It’s hard to pinpoint the precise reason behind this slowdown, but it is plausible that a large number of people have already been exposed to the virus and have acquired immunity while being asymptomatic,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram, but adding that it would take a serosurvey to establish that.As per the last serosurvey in October, nearly 26 percent of Gurugram’s urban population had developed antibodies against Covid-19 (up from 14 percent in August). In the district’s rural blocks, the seropositivity increased from 6 percent to 10 percent between August and October. “Now it may be one in every three or two people, perhaps, who have been exposed. The seropositivity would have certainly gone up, but only a proper survey can help us determine whether herd immunity is responsible for the deceleration in new cases,” Sharma said. The district’s weekly test-positivity rate, meanwhile, dropped to 3.5 percent in the week ending December 20 (as against 7 percent the week prior), while the number of deaths also reduced, from 12 deaths to seven deaths. The district over the past week tested 27,155 new samples for Covid-19, of which 4002 tests were conducted on Sunday. Over 90 percent of all daily tests are being conducted via the gold-standard RT-PCR method, while the remaining are rapid antigen tests.The total number of active patients in the district stands at 1512 (down from 2,250 a week ago). These comprise about 4 percent of Gurugram’s total Covid-19 caseload (55766 infections) so far, indicating a recovery rate just over 96 percent. Of the active cases, 1365 are currently under home isolation, while 143 are in hospitals. Another four active patients are under observation at district Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/for-the-first-time-since-september-district-sees-two-consecutive-zero-fatality-days-in-gurugram-less-than-1-000-cases-reported-in-the-last-week/story-MkPkCS12yJUdvtmmOKoeZO.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||Health minister’s progress satisfactory: doctors||Gurugram health minister Anil Vij is recovering well from Covid-19, said doctors on Sunday. Vij, 67, had been admitted to the ICU at Medanta Hospital on December 15 with Covid-19 induced pneumonia. He had initially been admitted to PGIMS Rohtak on December 12, but was later transferred.As per a statement released to the press by Dr A K Dubey, the medical superintendent at Medanta Hospital, the health minister’s blood reports showed consistent improvements, while his oxygen requirement has also been reducing. On Sunday, he was examined by a group of doctors, including district chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav, senior director of internal medicine at Medanta Dr Sushila Kataria and senior director of respiratory and sleep medicine Dr Anand Jaiswal.The minister is under observation in the intensive care unit and continues to make steady progress, said Dubey. Vij’s blood pressure, kidney and liver function also continue to be normal.A slew of political leaders have been treated at Medanta for Covid-19 over the past few months, including home minister Amit Shah, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and former chief minister OP Chautala. BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari and Congress leader Ahmed Patel were also admitted there, but succumbed to the illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-minister-s-progress-satisfactory-doctors/story-wAiD8dhOenURV6HcQDyvhP.html
20-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG issues over 400 notices for violations related to Grap measures||The civil defence team of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has issued more than 400 notices over the last one month for violations related to Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) rules, said officials on Sunday.On November 15, the MCG formed civil defence teams to increase surveillance on Grap violations. It is the first time that the civic body has used civil defence teams for this purpose.Initially, the teams were made up of around 70 volunteers. Over the last two weeks, the number of volunteers in the teams has increased to 600 and so has the issuance of notices.“Overall, more than 400 notices have been issued by us. Most of them have been issued over the last two weeks following the increase in the number of volunteers and after a more stringent policy was adopted,” said Mohit Sharma, chief warden, civil defence teams, MCG.Sharma further said that there has been a change in the pattern of surveillance, which has also led to higher enforcement.“Earlier, we were mainly focusing on looking out for Grap violations at construction sites. Now, we are also focussing on spotting Grap violations at eateries, where the practice of burning wood or coal is common,” said Sharma.In the notices, civil defence teams attach the photo of the violation as evidence and register the name and address details of the offender. The same is then uploaded on the MCG app, and enforcement wing officials on the ground are alerted about the offence.Based on the notices, enforcement wing officials visit the site of violation at random, to spot repeat offences and accordingly issue fines.“The notices serve as a formal warning from the administration that a repeat offence will lead to the issuance of fines and even an FIR. We have observed that, in most cases, after the issuance of notices, the offender does not commit a repeat offence as he or she is wary of the consequences,” said Chahat Sanghvi, consultant, MCG commissioner office.Sanghvi explained that the notices are the first line of action against Grap violations.“The MCG has been actively trying to encourage the participation of citizens in the fight against air pollution. We realised that the entire operation should be a collective responsibility and not be solely carried out by a single agency. Hence, the MCG has formed civil defence teams, who have been given formal training by the civic body officials for greater supervision of Grap violations,” said Sanghvi.The MCG increased its Grap enforcement this month after it realised that there has been a 58% drop in issuance of Grap-related fines.As per official MCG data, between October 15 and December 1 this year, the MCG had issued only 267 fines for Grap violations. In the same time period last year, the civic bod had issued 643 fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-issues-over-400-notices-for-violations-related-to-grap-measures/story-yVwzXre8egy1VvM4IGuFyK.html
20-12-2020||City||Gurugram police launches drive to prevent accidents due to foggy weather||The police launched an awareness drive on Sunday to reduce the number of road accidents due to poor visibility as a result of fog. Police personnel from all police stations have been deployed on a 33km stretch on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, starting from the defunct Sirhaul toll plaza to Bilaspur toll plaza as a part of the drive, said the police. As per the police, precautions have been taken to ensure that no trucks are stationed on the highway that can lead to accidents.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that many a time, truck drivers park on the roadside near dhabas on the expressway. This leads to accidents as vehicles plying at a high speed cannot make out parked vehicles from a distance and collide with them. “The stretch has witnessed about 160 fatal accidents in the last three years. It is regularly used by motorists coming from and going towards Delhi and Jaipur on NH-8. The lack of street lights makes the stretch prone to accidents and crimes,” he said. Rao said they have urged drivers to turn lights to low beam during fog as it is easier for others to see them.High beams are less effective during foggy weather conditions. The stretch is also notorious for carjacking cases. According to police data, half a dozen carjacking cases have been reported on the stretch in the last ten months. Most of the accidents on the stretch leave vehicles damaged beyond repair. With winter setting in, foggy weather is likely to increase the chances of accidents, said the police.Rajesh Kumar, a daily commuter, said, “While the motor vehicles still have effective headlights, it is the cyclists and pedestrians who suffer the most in the absence of proper street lights on this stretch.” Patrolling vehicles have visited dhabas and told owers not to allow trucks to park on the service lanes. “If any truck is found parked near dhabas, the owners will be penalised,” said Rao. The police said they are requesting commuters to keep a good distance between moving vehicles and have requested civil agencies to paint lines on the road as a guide when the visibility is extremely poor. People were also instructed to avoid using mobile phones and music systems while driving. Rao said the drivers will be asked not to overtake on the highway and to be careful while changing lanes. Sarika Panda Bhatt, road safety expert, said that visibility is the key to avoid road accidents in foggy weather. Improving visibility of vehicles and infrastructure through retro-reflective tape, street lights, markings, cat-eye installation, etc. is very important in the current situation, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-police-launches-drive-to-prevent-accidents-due-to-foggy-weather/story-Yyn0TZNHTOBKBErC3HhMjN.html
20-12-2020||City||Khanna police celebrates veterans’ day||The Khanna police celebrated veterans’ day on Sunday and honoured them for their services. Senior superintendent of police Gursharandeep Singh Grewal listened to the veterans’ grievances and assured them that they would be resolved. The SSP also asked the veterans for suggestions to make the police force more effective. The veterans and police personnel observed two-minutes of silence to honour the fallen veterans. Retired superintendent of police Satnam Singh, who is the president of Punjab Police Pensioners’ Association, Khanna, shared his experiences with the young police officers and also gave suggestions to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-police-celebrates-veterans-day/story-UJHH2JOLn3EhOS5ZEs1RDI.html
20-12-2020||City||Hero MotoCorp donates first-responder vehicle to Jagraon health authorities||Hero MotoCorp donated a custom-built first-responder vehicle (FRV), 500 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, and 5,000 masks to the civil hospital, Jagraon. The key of the FRV was handed over to Dr Pradeep Mahindra, senior medical officer, Jagraon. Charanjit Singh Sohal, senior superintendent of police, and Narinder Singh Dhaliwal, sub-divisional magistrate, Jagraon, were also present. The vehicle will help reach out to patients in rural and remote areas. It is equipped with a full stretcher with a foldable hood mounted on the side, essential medical equipment such as a detachable first-aid kit, oxygen cylinder; fire extinguisher, and other safety features such as LED flasher lights, foldable beacon light, emergency wireless public announcement system and siren. “We are providing FRVs to frontline health personnel in different states to assist patients in rural and remote areas. These have all necessary medical equipment that offers urgent assistance to patients who are needed to be taken to the hospital,” said Vijay Sethi, CSR head, Hero MotoCorp. The company has handed over 49 FRVs to government authorities in various states, including Haryana, Rajasthan, UP, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Jammu, and Himachal Pradesh to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hero-motocorp-donates-first-responder-vehicle-to-jagraon-health-authorities/story-a07JbduXYBC40abapbkluK.html
20-12-2020||City||Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament: Patiala, Amritsar register win on Day 3||Patiala Colts HRCF registered its first victory in the league match after defeating Malwa Heroes by seven wickets on the grounds of Hara Cricket Club here on Sunday. This was the second match in which Malwa Heroes faced defeat. Patiala Colts HRCF got two crucial points by defeating Malwa Heroes, which may keep them going in the tournament. Malwa Heroes and decided to bat first on a flat batting wicket. Tegbir Hara scored 22 runs in 26 balls and Harjot Singh 24 runs in 28 balls. Other batsmen lost wickets against some tight bowling by Patiala and were all out for 81 in 18.5 overs. For Patiala, spinner Emanjot Singh exhibited tremendous bowling talent and claimed 4 for 17 in his four-over spell. Gurwinder Bhullar claimed 2 for 9. Prince Balwant Rai sent two batsmen to the pavilion for 12 runs. In response, Patiala Colts HRCF achieved the target in 14.1 overs for the loss of 3 wickets. Opener Vishwapartap Singh and Ekampreet Singh, in partnership, scored 46 runs for the first wicket. Mandeep Bawa with 17 not out finished the job for the team. Malwa Heroes spinner Harjot claimed two wickets for 11 runs. Amanjot Singh of Patiala Colts HRCF was declared man of the match. Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar defeats Mohali Legends In the second match held at GRD Academy ground, Amandeep Cricket club, Amritsar beat Mohali Legends by 48 runs and gained 2 points. Mohali Legends won the toss and decided to field first. A second-wicket partnership of 50 runs between Rohan Marwaha (39 runs in 29 balls) and Abhishek Sagar (60 runs in 40 balls), proved to be instrumental and the team ended with 154 for 7 wickets in 20 overs. For Mohali Legends, bowler Saurav Dhaliwal claimed 2 wickets for 33 runs. In response, Mohali Legends started well with a partnership of 25 runs for the first wicket between Sachin Sohal and Subeer Hayer, but thereafter lost wickets at regular intervals and were all out for 106 runs in 18.5 overs. Only Kuwarjeet Singh showed some resistance by getting 43 runs of 26 balls studded with 2 sixes and 1 four. For Amandeep Academy, Amritsar, Ranji player left-arm spinner Vinay Choudhary claimed 5 wickets for 10 runs in 3.5 overs. He was ably supported by Rohit Gulati with 3 for 27 runs. Vinay Choudhary was adjudged the man of the match. For both the winning teams, spin bowlers played a key role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trident-cup-t20-cricket-tournament-patiala-amritsar-register-win-on-day-3/story-Qzrquo3sDfrYQ3CsUR5yZJ.html
20-12-2020||City||Accused held two days after youth’s death due to stabbing on Diwali||Two days after a 22-year-old man died due to stab injuries inflicted on Diwali night, police on Sunday arrested his neighbour for the crime.The accused, Rohit Kumar of New Madhopuri, had allegedly stabbed the victim, Monu, while he was bursting firecrackers outside the factory that he lived in on November 14.Monu had suffered stab injuries in the stomach, chest and arms and had died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, after fighting for life for over a month.Following his death, his family had refused to cremate the body until the accused was arrested.In his complaint to the police, Monu’s father Dinesh Kumar had said Monu was bursting firecrackers outside the factory when their neighbour, Rohit, started hurling abuses at him. “After a spat, Rohit left the spot, only to return with a knife. He stabbed Monu in the stomach, chest and arms with the knife and fled,” Dinesh had alleged.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO, Daresi police station, said the murder accused had been arrested and will be presented in court on Monday. He is facing a case of murder after Monu’s demise on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-held-two-days-after-youth-s-death-due-to-stabbing-on-diwali/story-ODYbL6LPllxdtBoiY4CrvO.html
20-12-2020||Jaipur||Congress gets 36 local body chiefs out of 50 in Rajasthan||Congress leaders got elected as chairpersons in 36 of 50 municipal bodies in Rajasthan for which poll results were declared on Sunday. The BJP succeeded in electing 12 local body chiefs and independents two. In Alwar, the Congress formed their boards in two councils, while the BJP bagged four. It was a clean sweep for the Congress in five districts. The Congress won on two seats in Baran, 8 in Bharatpur, 3 in Dausa, 2 in Dholpur and 3 in Karauli. In the capital, Jaipur, the Congress won nine councils out of 10. In Jodhpur, Sawai Madhopur and Kota, it was one each for the BJP and the Congress. In Sri Ganganagar, both BJP and Congress won four councils. In Sirohi, BJP won the only council.  Also read: ‘Maybe in January’: Harsh Vardhan on first Covid-19 shotAfter the results, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted, “Today after the end of the election of for chairman in Rajasthan’s 50 municipal bodies, the Congress party managed to get control of boards and BJP was reduced to only 12 boards. Thanks once again to all Congress workers and leaders for this expected result.”State BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said that ahead of local body elections, the delimitation of seats was done by the Congress on the lines of religion and caste which suited them. “The Congress also misused government machinery to form their boards in majority.” On December 12, the Congress had defeated the BJP in the elections to 50 urban local bodies in 12 districts of the state.The results come a few days after the BJP performed better than Congress in rural local body elections in 21 of the state’s 33 districts.Results for urban local bodies show that independents will be kingmakers in the formation of boards in most districts.Of 1,775 municipal wards, results were declared for 1,774 on December 12; the Congress bagged 619, independents 597, BJP 547.The voting to elect representatives of 1,775 wards in 50 municipal bodies was held on December 11. Amid Covid-19 restrictions in the state, 79.90 per cent voter turnout was recorded.The highest turnout, 90.32 per cent, was recorded at Bharatpur Nagar municipal body. The lowest turnout, 64.39 per cent, was recorded at Sawai Madhopur Nagar Parishad. Out of 14,35,000 voters in 12 districts, 11,46,000 voted.The Congress had suffered a setback in the Rajasthan rural body elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-gets-36-local-body-chiefs-out-of-50-in-rajasthan/story-BLyBP2VEWPnddmWUrhl5QL.html
20-12-2020||City||55-year-old cyclist stumbles to avoid getting hit by vehicle, dies||A 55-year-old man died in a freak mishap after his head hit an iron grille in an attempt to avoid getting hit by an unidentified vehicle on the Ludhiana-Amritsar national highway near Subhash Nagar crossing.The deceased, Inderjit Singh, lived in Grewal Colony, Tibba Road.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh of Tibba police station said Inderjit had cycled to Subhash Nagar crossing to pick up his daughter, who was returning from work. While crossing the road, he saw a vehicle take a sharp turn to avoid collision with a stray animal. As the vehicle approached him, Inderjit ran backwards and lost balance, hitting his head on the iron grille installed on the roadside.In the meantime, a truck also overturned in a bid to avoid running over Inderjit.The victim’s daughter saw the accident and informed her family, who rushed him to the hospital. But, he was declared brought dead.The Tibba police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-cyclist-stumbles-to-avoid-getting-hit-by-vehicle-dies/story-u5vlrg3OEz5RFmBG6h6HKI.html
20-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Retired co-operative society secretary booked for embezzling ₹12.57 lakh||A retired secretary of the Butahari Co-operative Agriculture Multipurpose Society has been booked for embezzling Rs 12.57 lakh during his tenure. The accused has been identified as Jagdev Singh of Butahari village. In his complaint to the police on December 3, Sangram Singh, assistant registrar of the society, said Jagdev had retired on April 30, 2019. Thereafter, during an audit of records, it was found that Jagdev had not made entries of fertilisers bought and distributed among farmers since April 1, 2018.On investigating the matter, the society found that by skipping entries, Jagdev had embezzled Rs 12.57 lakh, and filed a police complaint.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Bheesham Dev, who is investigating the case, said a manhunt had been launched to arrest the accused, who has been booked under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-retired-co-operative-society-secretary-booked-for-embezzling-12-57-lakh/story-mbMwuk9goNk2YuFquRhrLN.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway diverts, short terminates trains due to farmers’ protest in Punjab||The Western Railway on Sunday informed passengers in a tweet that it is diverting, short terminating and short originating trains due to the ongoing farmers’ protests in Punjab.“Due to Kisan agitation in Punjab, train movement has been affected and hence, few trains have been diverted and certain trains have been short terminated & accordingly short originated. Passengers are requested to kindly take note,” the tweet from Western Railway said.Due to Kisan agitation in Punjab, train movement has been affected and hence, few trains have been diverted and certain trains have been short terminated & accordingly short originated.Passengers are requested to kindly take note. @RailMinIndia @drmbct pic.twitter.com/0IwCpAhW5TAccording to the revised schedule, the Mumbai Central-Amritsar (Train No 02903) special train will be diverted via Tarn Taran instead of being diverted via Jandiala. The Amritsar-Mumbai Central (Train No 02904) will also be diverted via Tarn Taran instead of Jandiala.The Bandra Terminus-Amrtisar train (Train No 02925) will also be diverted via Tarn Taran instead of Jandiala, the statement released by Western Railways said.The statement also shared that the Bandra Terminus-Amritsar train (Train No 09025) will short-terminate at Chandigarh and will remain partially cancelled from Amritsar to Chandigarh. The Amritsar - Bandra Terminus train (Train No 09026) will short-originate from Chandigarh and will remain partially cancelled from Chandigarh to Amritsar.The farmers stir near Delhi has entered its 25th day with protesters asking the Centre to repeal the farm laws passed by Parliament in the monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-diverts-short-terminates-trains-due-to-farmers-protest-in-punjab/story-68jZy2YfcMOLsF3lP8vGHP.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹2lakh in cash, jewellery stolen from Chandigarh’s Sec 3 house||Thieves broke into the locked house of a retired school principal in Sector 3 and stole Rs 2 lakh in cash and jewellery, police have said.In her police complaint, Joginder Kaur said when she returned home from her daughter’s residence, where she stayed most of the time, she found a window broken and the house ransacked with ₹2lakh in cash and jewellery, including two gold chains, ring and bracelet missing.A case of theft has been registered at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2lakh-in-cash-jewellery-stolen-from-chandigarh-s-sec-3-house/story-T6T4nMJ0fw3MaEfDqvauOO.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Jewellery, cash gone, bride-to-be faints as fire destroys shanties in Chandigarh||The joyous songs being sung at a wedding sangeet ceremony changed to cries of terror as a fire broke out in Colony Number 4 in Industrial Area, gutting six shanties, even as the 24-year-old bride to be fainted after seeing her home and trousseau destroyed.Rupali, 24, was celebrating her impending nuptials with her family when people sounded an alarm at about 3 pm. Soon, however, she lost consciousness after she saw her home, with her wedding dress, jewellery and money, in flames and had to be taken to hospital.The fire department was informed about the blaze at about 3.29 pm and it took four fire tenders two hours to put it out. ‘How will my daughter get married now?’“Nothing is left. I don’t know how my daughter will get married,” said Rupali’s mother Kalawati as she sifted through the ashes to collect remnants of the jewellery, which had melted into lumps.“My family was about to apply mehndi on my hands when we saw our jhuggi on fire. I barely managed to rush out,” said Rupali, who was later released from hospital.The wedding guests too escaped and the family managed to pull out the gas cylinders right on time from the hut. Everything else was destroyed, said Rupali’s brother-in-law Rahul, who runs a makeshift tea stall.Rupali and Kalawati make quilts in winter and husk mesh for water coolers in summer, supplementing their income by selling sugarcane juice.“The fire engulfed my shop, but we could not control it and called the fire department,” said Zulfikar Khan (41), who also makes quilts and runs a small shop near the government toilets.“The quilts which my customers had left for mending, with cotton and other material, were also destroyed,” said Khan.Chandigarh police, however, stepped up immediately to help the victims, providing food for a 100 persons and even making arrangements with help from the UT administration to accommodate Rupali’s family and their wedding guests at a raen basera (night shelter).Gurmukh Singh, deputy superintendent of police (East), said,“We have provided food to families whose huts were destroyed. For Rupali’s family we made arrangements for night stay but they preferred to move to homes of relatives in Ram Darbar.”Arrangements were also made for other families in night shelters. They were also given blankets by a few non-profit organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jewellery-cash-gone-bride-to-be-faints-as-fire-destroys-shanties-in-chandigarh/story-78cJjaCtf08EWRbKkmgScJ.html
20-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Riding gets bumpy on Sherpur Chowk slip road||Bumpy rides have become a daily hassle for commuters due to the poor condition of the slip road alongside the Panipat-Jalandhar National Highway-44. The road starting from Sherpur Chowk has been in a state of disrepair for a long time, forcing commuters to take sharp turns to avoid running into the potholes and dilapidated patches. The situation gets worse during peak hours as a number of vehicles get stuck in potholes, leading to traffic snarls.To top it all, parking of commercial vehicles, including trucks and auto-rickshaws, adds to the chaos. SPS Hospital’s public relations officer Lakhvir Singh Namdhari said that a number of times, they have brought the problem to the notice of the authorities, but to no avail.“The broken road is also leading to a number of accidents,” said Namdhari.In July last year, two persons were killed after a tipper container had fallen on them on the slip road. An industrialist Avneesh Aggrawal said, “The situation gets worse during rains and commuters, unaware of the pothole, get stuck in it.”Another industrialist Paramvir Singh Bhogal also raised a similar concern. He said, “The sections of the road are so badly engineered that every drive is a death-defying endeavour. Instead of being penalised for being directly or indirectly complicit in the hazardous state of the highway project, it is unimaginable that the highway authorities are being allowed to further fleece the hapless citizens by increasing toll rates.”On being asked about the poor condition of the slip road, NHAI project director Virendra Kumar said the matter had come to their notice and corrective measures were being taken. Member of Punjab Road Safety Council, Rahul Verma, said a meeting between Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and NHAI authorities was scheduled for December 24 to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-riding-gets-bumpy-on-sherpur-chowk-slip-road/story-qTVlbxwTlCjyJVrj9IBFLM.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Political failures should not result in loss of soldiers’ lives: Shashi Tharoor||Congress MP and former international diplomat Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that political failures should not result in the loss of lives of soldiers.In conversation with Maj Gen Ashok Mehta (retd) at the fourth edition of Military Literature Festival, Tharoor said: “Military is there to save the country from its enemies. It can be used in emergency situations, but the domain of the two (politics and army) should be kept firmly apart.”Tharoor, who has also served as a minister of state for external affairs, said if politicians do their job well, lives of soldiers will not be put to needless risk. “Many situations on our borders need to be resolved through diplomacy and trade itself is an aspect of diplomatic relationship,” he said.Tharoor also touched upon the ongoing debate on Hindi as the national language. He said that the move, being pushed by the ruling party, will run into resistance from those who feel themselves at disadvantage if any language is taking over their own language.“Hindi may win the hearts and tongues of a majority population, but it should never be imposed upon the unwilling. It will divide the country. We should understand the complexity and diversity of languages in our country and realise that this diversity is our strength. Let languages evolve and people will use them when they need to use them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/political-failures-should-not-result-in-loss-of-soldiers-lives-shashi-tharoor/story-mqt6ZDmpzpqRMJXO9Pr9SL.html
20-12-2020||City||Mohali DC tests positive for Covid||Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan is among 35 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. Dayalan shared the information on various social media groups. He also requested all those who have come in contact with him in the past four to five days to isolate themselves and get tested. Meanwhile, three patients succumbed to the virus, taking the district’s toll to 328. Among the 35 fresh cases, 29 were reported from Mohali city alone. The district’s total has reached 17,498, of which 1,803 remain active. As many as 15,367 patients have recovered, including 157 discharged on Sunday.29 cases in Chandigarh, lowest since August 1Chandigarh, on the other hand, reported 29 fresh cases, lowest since August 1. However, even the testing numbers have gone down in the past 24 hours as only 530 samples were tested against 1,205 on Saturday, when 65 people had tested positive.Meanwhile, two men, aged 50 and 54, from Manimajra and Dadumajra, respectively, died, taking the toll to 308.Of 19,073 people who have contracted the virus so far, 18,328 have recovered, including 84 discharged on Sunday. With this, only 437 cases remain active.No death in Panchkula for past two daysIn Panchkula, the infection tally rose to 9,714 with 37 new cases. No death was reported for second consecutive day.There are 288 active cases in the district, as 9,288 patients have been cured and 138 have died.  As many as 1,317 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. Among the fresh cases, 27 surfaced in urban pockets of Panchkula city alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-dc-tests-positive-for-covid/story-KmOu0FJb49qgHDbPlOzd4K.html
20-12-2020||City||One side of Pakhowal RUB to be ready in three months, says Ashu||Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday said one side of the upcoming rail under bridge (RUB) on Pakhowal Road will be opened for traffic in the next three months. Accompanied by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and municipal commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Ashu visited the construction site on Sunday and issued directions to the officials concerned.The construction of a rail overbridge (ROB) and two rail under bridges (RUB’s) on Pakhowal Road have been a long-pending demand of the residents. This joint project is worth around Rs 120 crore and will provide a much-needed respite from traffic congestion to residents.The ROB will be 839.83 metres long and will be constructed from Sidhwan Canal side towards Hero Bakery side, along Pakhowal Road over the existing railway track, the RUB1 will be 458.20 metres long (from Hero Bakery side towards Sidhwan Canal side, along Pakhowal Road under existing railway track), whereas the RUB 2 will be 1018.46 metres long (from Ishmeet Road towards Rotary Club Road and Ferozepur Road and Ishmeet Road towards Pakhowal Road).Ashu directed the municipal commissioner to hold a meeting with the railway authorities to ensure that the project is not delayed.LIT to restart mechanical sweepingMeanwhile, Ashu informed that mechanical sweeping will be started in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Rishi Nagar, Rajguru Nagar and Sant Ishar Singh Nagar areas of the city.As a pilot project, the LIT is introducing mechanical sweeping from Rishi Nagar area and later, it will be launched in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Rajguru Nagar and Sant Ishar Singh Nagar areas of the city. The minister said he will personally monitor the progress of the project and no lapse will be tolerated.After inaugurating a static compactor in Rishi Nagar, Ashu said the tenders to install static compactors will be floated next week and the project will be implemented shortly. Static compactors help segregate wet and dry waste and then compress it for effective management.Stating that he was committed to making the city garbage-free, he urged the residents to assist the civic body in this cause.Ashu said for better and effective management of solid waste, a total of 40 static compactors were being installed in different parts of the city, of which work for 18 compactors was already underway. On this occasion, he also announced that a green belt will be constructed at the site where the garbage dump near the Government Polytechnic College in Rishi Nagar existed once. He said the area had been cleaned and now the garbage collected from the area will be brought directly to the static compactor instead of the dump.Earlier, he also inaugurated an open-air gym in Rishi Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-side-of-pakhowal-rub-to-be-ready-in-three-months-says-ashu/story-WFPFU1iZT7T00qVstpEgtK.html
20-12-2020||City||Cabinet minister launches campaign to motivate Ludhiana residents to adopt a healthy lifestyle||Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday launched ‘Fitify’, a social media campaign, to motivate residents to adopt a healthy lifestyle.Ashu said that amid the busy schedule, people often forget to focus on their health and so the campaign that was launched at Sidhwan Canal Waterfront aims to encourage them to follow a fitness regime for a healthy and long life. Various activities including cycling, zumba, bhangra, yoga, games, magic show were the highlight of the event. He said more such activities will be organised at the waterfront in the coming days and soon, such events will become a weekly feature.The event was attended by Ashu, his wife and MC councillor Mamta Ashu, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, MCL commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, councillors Hari Singh Brar, Dilraj Singh, Rashi Hemraj Aggarwal, senior Congress leader Baljinder Singh Sandhu, among others.The campaign was declared the most lively and unique event of Ludhiana as residents participated in large numbers and also appreciated the government and administration for taking the initiative and setting up the Sidhwan Canal Waterfront.Ashu said that it is a matter of great pride that a large number of residents, accompanied by their children, visited the Sidhwan Canal Waterfront and enjoyed it. He added that the second phase of this project, starting from Pakhowal Road till Gill Road would also start shortly as the detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-minister-launches-campaign-to-motivate-ludhiana-residents-to-adopt-a-healthy-lifestyle/story-IGRKt24ra6R9zyEQhdZ67O.html
20-12-2020||Kolkata||‘No more ‘Ma, Mati, Manush’, TMC is a family party now’: Amit Shah||In the concluding leg of his two-day tour of West Bengal, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) ‘Ma, Mati aur Manush’ slogan is non-existent now and it is limited to being a family party today. “Mamata Banerjee started with ‘Ma, Mati aur Manush’ slogan. But this slogan is not to be seen anywhere today because of appeasement policy and dictatorship. TMC is limited to being a family party today,” Shah said at a press conference here.“Instead of being concerned about the 10 crore people of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee is concerned about making her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) the chief minister of West Bengal,” he added.The Union Home Minister further stated that there are three dangerous trends that have been set in West Bengal-- complete politicisation of administration, complete criminalisation of politics and institutionalisation of corruption.Shah further said: “I want to make an earnest request to the people of West Bengal to join forces with BJP’s ‘Aar noi anyay’ (no more injustice) campaign and support Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”“It is BJP’s commitment to give a good administration to the people of West Bengal and it will not back down at any time,” he added.Shah, while speaking on the farm sector in West Bengal, said, “The money due to the farmers of West Bengal given by the central government should be given to them by the state government.”“According to the 2016-17 figures published by NABARD, in terms of the monthly average income of farmers, West Bengal is at the 24th position amongst the 29 states,” he added.He further said: “West Bengal is the most well-endowed state in the country in terms of its freshwater sources. But irrigation is limited to 55 per cent of the area. It can be further increased.”Shah attacked the TMC government for not passing on the benefits of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana to the common people in West Bengal.“In the health sector under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, a Rs 5 lakh cover is provided to every poor person in the country. But in West Bengal, this facility has been barred. Is this the way to advocate a federal structure of the constitution?” he said.On Saturday, over 10 MLAs in Bengal apart from former minister Suvendu Adhikari joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in the presence of Amit Shah. An MP and a former MP also joined the BJP.Shah’s much-anticipated visit to the state began on Saturday.West Bengal is scheduled to go for assembly polls in mid-2021. The dates have not been announced yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-more-ma-mati-manush-tmc-is-a-family-party-now-amit-shah/story-2eL2t1nXYZN7FDUrCzkiAP.html
20-12-2020||Bangalore||‘May extend issue-based support to BJP but no merger’: HD Kumaraswamy||Former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy on Sunday said that Janata Dal (Secular) may extend issue-based support to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the coming days in public interest.The JD (S) leader said that his party is a party of Kannadigas with self-esteem and it “will never think of political merger.”In a series of tweets, he also attacked the Congress party, with which JDS formed the Karnataka government in 2018.“The Janata Dal (S), which is a party of Kannadigas with self-esteem, will never think of political merger. The party, which is a strong voice of the people, will never display such stupidity. At the most we may extend issue-based support to the BJP if need be in the coming days in public interest. There is no importance for any imaginary reports on a political merger,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.Attacking the Congress party, Kumaraswamy tweeted, “the Congress high command, which had ridiculed us as BJP’s B team before the Assembly polls, actually came to our doorsteps after the polls and extended an invitation to form a coalition government with it.”“We would not have formed the government with the Congress if we’re to be BJP’s B team. There is no tacit understanding with the BJP as alleged by the Congress. Only an issue-based understanding is possible,” he added.Kumaraswamy asserted that JD (S) took many welfare measures and the situation of committing suicide by merging itself with the other party has not come.“People trust the JD (S) which took up welfare measures like a waiver of farm loans and Badavara Bandhu besides conducting itself as per the aspirations of former prime minister H. D. Deve Gowda known for disciplined administration,” he tweeted.“I want to clarify that for such a party like the JD (S), the situation of committing suicide by merging itself with other party has not come. I don’t foresee such a situation gripping us in future too,” he added.To keep BJP out of power, Congres and JD (S) had joined hand with others to form government with Kumaraswamy as Chief Minister after no party got a clear majority in the 2018 assembly polls.After Lok Sabha Elections 2019, internal differences cropped up and the rebellion by some MLAs led to collapse of the coalition government last year. Since then, both Congress and JD(S) leaders have been blaming each other for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/may-extend-issue-based-support-to-bjp-but-no-merger-hd-kumaraswamy/story-GAMiWlsjymPw8K9XJwVbNK.html
20-12-2020||Pune||SPPU students can now also study ‘out of course’ subject||Pune: Soon, students at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will be able to study any subject apart from their chosen course, under a new “school system” introduced from this academic year. As per the new system, a student who wants to learn any subject from any department can opt for it and use that department’s library, laboratory and other facilities. “Along with the student’s course s/he is studying for, they can now learn another subject from any other department which is useful for their career. Accordingly, their timetable will also be scheduled to accommodate the new subject. The school system facility is available at several centralised universities in the country and the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) had instructed us to start this at the SPPU. Accordingly, we decided to start it and over the last month preparations to start were initiated. Under this, a total of 18 ‘schools’ will be started under 52 departments and study centres at the SPPU. For each school, a director will be appointed,” said SPPU pro-vice- chancellor NS Umrani. “It is an important decision taken by the SPPU for upgradation in education. Faculty with same motive of studying and research will benefit and also tying up with international universities with a school system in place will be more useful for us,” said Umrani. Students have welcomed the decision. Pooja Rathod, a final-year Bachelor of Science student said, “While studying the subjects in our syllabus I always wanted to study about computers, which is part of another course. The school system will benefit our career plans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-students-can-now-also-study-out-of-course-subject/story-BH6eBlz2Br8FdsXRxuVLyI.html
20-12-2020||Lucknow||‘People rejected by the nation are now misleading farmers’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that politicians who have been rejected by the people are misleading farmers regarding the newly passed agricultural laws.Adityanath was addressing attendees at a Kisan Sammelan Sabha in Ayodhya. The event was a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat programme and was targeted at bringing reforms to the agricultural sector in Uttar Pradesh.“Politicians who have been rejected by the people are trying to spoil the atmosphere inside the country by misleading the farmer brothers. But Indians are aware and will ignore their efforts. The unwavering loyalty and faith of the people of the country lies with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.The chief minister also assured farmers that the system of minimum support prices (MSP) will not be affected due to the newly passed bills. He reiterated that mandis under the jurisdiction of the government will work simultaneously with other centres which will also facilitate the selling of yields.Adityanath said, “Mandi system will not end. Mandis will do their work and if the farmers get more price of their grain anywhere else in the country, they can take their produce and sell it there. No tax will be levied on it.”The Uttar Pradesh chief minister also pointed out that the bills have been brought not only to reform the agricultural sector but also generate employment for the youth.Farmers’ groups who have been protesting against the farm laws at Singhu in Delhi-Haryana border are yet to accept the government’s proposal and continue to be concerned about MSPs. They also fear that the government’s new rules will allow multinational companies to enter the agricultural sector and make profits.The protests against these laws have been going on for more than 3 weeks. Farmers’ groups have been staging peaceful demonstrations against the government’s new rules at Singhu borders and across other checkpoints across Delhi’s borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/people-rejected-by-the-nation-are-now-misleading-farmers-yogi-adityanath/story-i6eGX6jaBqWztgO60ycjTI.html
20-12-2020||City||Warder among six booked after 27gm opium, mobilephone found in Ambala jail||Police on Saturday booked six people, including the warder, after authorities found around 27gm opium and a mobilephone at the Central Jail in Ambala.The authorities said the conspiracy involves a jail warder, four prisoners and a relative of an inmate. Those booked include warder Purshottam, Gurdeep alias Deepa, Amit alias Babu, Devender and his brother Gurjinder and Iqbal Ahmed, as per the FIR registered on the complaint of deputy superintendent of jail Rakesh Kumar. The issue came to light after a scuffle between prisoners Gurdeep alias Deepa of Mahesh Nagar in Ambala Cantt and Amit alias Babu of Valmiki Nagar in Ambala city was reported to the authorities on Saturday evening. Later, when both of them were interrogated by the jail officials, Amit confessed that another prisoner Devender had used his mobilephone to call his brother Gurjinder and planned to bring the contraband through an employee/official inside the jail. Amit said the drug was brought in but he didn’t get his share.Kumar, in his complaint, said Devender wrote his brother’s number to another inmate Iqbal Ahmed, who also negotiated the money with warder Purshottam. The opium was recovered from Gurdeep’s possession. “A white-colored Samsung mobile phone was also recovered from Amit. During questioning, Iqbal confessed that the consignment was received through the warder on Thursday at 3:45pm. This was also proved when the CCTV footage at the block was checked,” Kumar told the police. A case under Sctions 120-b of the Indian Penal Code, 18 of the NDPS Act and 42 of the Prisons Act has been registered at Baldev Nagar police station. Investigating officer Surender Kumar said no one has been arrested yet. However, as per the process, the prisoners will be brought on production remand by the police for the crime. In the past too, several mobile phones and SIM cards have been recovered from the jail barracks by the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/warden-among-six-booked-after-27gm-opium-mobilephone-found-in-ambala-jail/story-Q4Qe1opLjMeCgCoSVOADiP.html
20-12-2020||City||Jal Adhikar rally: Khattar says agitating farmers should also demand construction of Satluj-Yamuna Link||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday asked farmers protesting against the agriculture laws to include construction of Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) in Punjab as one of their demands during talks with the Union government.While addressing ‘Jal Adhikar rally’ at Mahendergarh’s Narnaul, Khattar said the water table in many parts of the state has gone down and Punjab chief minister has failed to implement the Supreme Court’s direction to hold talks with him to solve the SYL issue.“It is very painful that Punjab has not been giving Haryana’s share of water. The farmers of southern Haryana had been waiting for water for the last many years but after the formation of our government, we provided water in all the canals in the region. Now, our government is planning to start a micro irrigation scheme in southern Haryana so that water can reach every field. In a democracy, we abide by the constitution and Punjab should provide water through SYL to Haryana at the earliest,” the CM added.He said the farmers are being misled by false information on the minimum support price, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) and farming agreement after the three laws were brought by the Centre to bring reform in the agriculture sector.“If the MSP and mandis system is abolished, I will resign from the post of chief minister. I want to assure Haryana farmers that neither will the MSP be put on hold nor will it be revoked. Now, the farmers can sell their produce in the open market, if he gets more price than the MSP and vice versa. In the previous UPA government, a committee headed by former CM Hooda in 2010 had recommended to make new changes in the APMC Act and now they are opposing the same,” he added.Khattar said his government has made 88 out of 104 mandis in the state online and every year Haryana has to suffer a loss of Rs 700 crore due to wastage of food grains.Union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh asked Haryana CM and state party chief OP Dhankar to hold such rallies in Sirsa and Kurukshetra districts, where the farmers are protesting more against farm laws. “The people of Bagar (southern Haryana) are with the BJP. CM sahab, Dhankar sahab you need to hold such rallies in other parts of the state to apprise farmers about the three farm laws,” he added.Meanwhile, a man was taken into custody after he showed black flags to Khattar during his rally. However, he was released later.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal, former education minister Ram Bilash Sharma, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh and other senior BJP leaders were present at the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jal-adhikar-rally-khattar-says-agitating-farmers-should-also-demand-construction-of-satluj-yamuna-link/story-0stI9x2LNMEVcRW85VSEmK.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Anil Vij still in ICU, making steady progress: Hospital authorities||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij, who has been undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Medanta hospital in Gurugram, is better and making steady progress, the hospital said in a bulletin. Dr AK Dubey, medical superintendent of Medanta, said though the home minister is still in the ICU on oxygen support, his oxygen requirement has reduced and he has no fever. The blood reports of Vij, 67, are also showing an improving trend, he said. “Overall, the doctors are satisfied with his progress,” an official spokesperson of Haryana government, quoting the medical bulletin, said.On Saturday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had gone to the hospital to meet and enquire about the home minister’s health. The doctors examined Vij on Sunday and Dr Anand Jaiswal, senior director, respiratory and sleep medicine, Medanta, also joined the team of doctors on Sunday, Dr Dubey said. Vij had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5 after which he was admitted to a government hospital at Ambala. However, he was shifted to Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) and from there he was further referred to Medanta hospital in Gurugram due to infection in his lungs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anil-vij-still-in-icu-making-steady-progress-hospital-authorities/story-kwbuEKJSH0vERbRbdz5vGK.html
20-12-2020||Dehradun||After nearly a decade, Uttarakhand STF arrests notorious criminal||Uttarakhand Police’s Special Task Force (STF) has arrested a notorious criminal wanted for over nine years for allegedly abducting and looting the general manager of a famous 5-star hotel chain, said police on Sunday. The accused, identified as one Gurmeet Singh hailing from Uttar Pradesh, with a reward of Rs 5,000 from US Nagar police, was nabbed from Nanakmatta area of US Nagar district on Saturday night after receiving a tip-off from informers. Singh wad on the run and had also gone into hiding in Nepal to evade the arrest. Brajbhushan Gururani, sub-inspector, STF who was among the police team which arrested Singh, said, “He was wanted by the Rudrapur police station in US Nagar district for the last nine years in an abduction and loot case in which they abducted the GM of a city-based 5-star hotel at gunpoint with his gang members and looted him off his car and Rs 50,000 cash.” “After the incident, he fled to Nepal with the victim’s car while his two acquaintances were arrested by the police. In Nepal too, he had been booked in a case and was lodged in jail. Since the crime, he has been hiding in Nepal on several occasions to evade arrest,” said Gururani. Also read: Bengal’s next CM won’t be an ‘outsider’, says Amit ShahOn his arrest from a hotel on Saturday night in Nanakmatta area, the police officer said that the STF had received a tip-off about him hiding in the hotel while planning to commit a big crime in state’s Kumaon region. “After getting the input, an STF team was covertly sent to Meerut to confirm the development in which it was found that he had left for US Nagar from there few days ago with his gang members to commit a big crime. Based on the information, we zeroed in on him with the help of the local police and arrested him,” said Gururani. “He was presented before the local court which later sent him to jail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/after-nearly-a-decade-uttarakhand-stf-arrests-notorious-criminal/story-cV7xJGGp6TUFCKi9JPUJYI.html
20-12-2020||Pune||PMC to invite bids again for Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project||PUNE: Following the Centre’s go-ahead to scrap the previous tendering for Mula-Mutha river pollution abatement project, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has initiated fresh tendering process. The re-tendering may further delay the long-pending project executed with the help of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Mula-Mutha river abatement project officer Jagdish Khanore said, “Both the central government and JICA gave its nod to scrap the previous tendering process which was inflated. The ministry of jalshakti has now agreed to execute the new tendering process and approve consultants. Jalshakti will also frame the terms and conditions. With the Centre’s approval, we have placed the proposal before the PMC standing committee for information.” According to Khanore, as the earlier tendering was carried out in 2016-17, there will be only one fresh tender that will take into account the cost factor. The previous tender was divided into various parts. PMC had requested the Centre to scarp the earlier tender citing inflated cost as the extra fund had to be borne by the civic body. The project Mula-Mutha river is one of the 302 polluted river stretches of the country identified by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The major reasons for pollution of Mula-Mutha are discharge of untreated domestic waste water into the river due to inadequate sewerage system (including pumping stations) and sewage treatment capacity in the town, as well as open defecation on riverbanks. A loan agreement was signed on January 13, 2016 with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for pollution abatement of Mula-Mutha by January 2022. Under the agreement, the government of Japan committed to provide a soft loan of 19.064 billion Yen (about Rs 1,000 crore) to India for the project at an interest rate of 0.30% per annum. The major components proposed under the project include construction of 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs), which will result in a creation of an additional treatment capacity of 396 million litres per day (MLD) over the existing treatment capacity of 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 km of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations. Once the project is completed by January 2022, the total STP capacity available in Pune will be 873 MLD, which will be sufficient to cater to sewage generation for 2027. The project also includes installation of a system for centralised monitoring of functioning of STPs, construction of 24 units of community toilet facilities in slum and fringe areas, public participation and awareness programme, GIS mapping of sewerage facilities for better asset management. The proposal Augmentation of existing sewage treatment capacity by adding new 11 sewage treatment plants (STPs) to cover sewage generation up to 2027 New STPs to be designed for better effluent quality with 10 mg/L BOD (biological oxygen demand) and 10 mg/L TSS (total suspended solids) along with nitrogen and phosphorus removal Augmentation of exiting four intermediate pumping stations For collection of untapped sewage – laying of 113.6 km of sewers with house connection and laterals Installation of centralised SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) for STPs and IPS (intermediate pumping station) to monitor flow and effluent water quality Implementation of GIS/MIS system for management of assets created under the project Construction of 24 community toilets in slum areas to check open defecation along the riverbanks Institution development and capacity building Facilitation of public awareness programmes Main objectivesTo improve water quality and river ecology as well as stoppage of pollution of river Mula-Mutha To intercept, divert and treat domestic sewage generated discharging in the river To tackle the non-point sources of pollution to improve the hygienic condition of city and surrounding areas and aesthetics of river front Institutional strengthening, capacity building, public awareness for sustainability of projects||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-invite-bids-again-for-mula-mutha-river-rejuvenation-project/story-7KzJn0TUg0visEncUmhnZL.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar: Transgenders display their creative genius||More than 80 transgenders from Mumbai, Pune and Thane participated in a fashion show for the third gender in Ulhasnagar on Friday evening.The show also had several other cultural events along with felicitation of those transgenders who helped people during the pandemic. The show titled Equality was organised by a local NGO, Vanya Foundation, that claimed to spread joy among the people who had a tough time surviving the pandemic.Gigs, fashion show, dance performances and singing talents were showcased by the people of this community. The secretary of Vanya Foundation, Rekha Thakur, said, “The community has faced so many issues that are unheard and not solved by any authority in the city during the pandemic. Those who had savings helped the others to survive. The show was held to give some peace to these people who have so much talent.”Third genders are mostly dependent on begging or money they earn from people on any auspicious occasion. Their earnings are affected while no one supported them for food. Veena Kene, 28, a Vitthalwadi resident said, “For nine months, we suffered due to lack of food or money. No one thought about our wellbeing. We heard about the show and decided to give it a go. It was good to forget our worries for some time.”She added that they have realised that their traditional means of earning will no longer be fruitful. “Through the event, we also explored new means of earnings by meeting people from different fields,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-transgenders-display-their-creative-genius/story-vE1WrzBQddNEm2B9j2uflO.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||List of 16K prepared for Covid vaccine phase 1 in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has drawn up a plan for the first phase of Covid vaccinations in the city. A list of more than 16,000 healthcare and frontline workers who will be the first to receive the vaccine has been prepared. Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar, on Saturday, held a task force meeting to review the preparations for the Covid vaccination. The task force includes civic officials, medical professionals, WHO representatives and district vaccinators amongst others.The Covid vaccine centres will have a waiting room, vaccination room and an independent inspection room. Each squad will consist of four vaccination officers and one vaccinator. A hundred people will be vaccinated at each centre daily. All institutions have been asked to provide for the required space.The NMMC health officers have received training for the drive on December 17 while the personnel will be given the training on December 22.Bangar, said, “The vaccination process may not yet have started but we have undertaken pre-planning to be ready for it once the vaccines arrive. In the first phase, 4,490 personnel from NMMC’s 42 health centres and 12,431 personnel from 904 private medical institutions have been registered for the Covid vaccine.“Once the drive begins, those who have been registered will be informed of their place and date of vaccination on their registered mobile number. Once they are vaccinated, the certificate too will be sent on their phone. Those vaccinated will have to continue to wash their hands or use santisers, wear masks and maintain social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/list-of-16k-prepared-for-covid-vaccine-phase-1-in-navi-mumbai/story-RzqVbkN0YLl1q62zfsaIvJ.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||NYE nears, Navi Mumbai police step up their vigil||Navi Mumbai police have upped their vigil on the farmhouses in Panvel and its peripheries for the New Year celebrations. Many celebrities from Mumbai own farmhouses in this part of the city and come to celebrate New Year here.The Navi Mumbai police commissioner has warned people not to bring narcotics, firearms or any banned substance to the farmhouses, otherwise strict action will be taken.The farmhouses in Panvel had hit the headlines during Diwali in 2012 when four real estate agents were murdered at Patil farmhouse at Shiewale village by one of their colleagues. They had come to discuss some property-related issues at that farmhouse, and four of them were found murdered.Shivraj Patil, deputy commissioner of police (zone 2) said, “Taking past incidents into consideration, we will ensure heavy bandobast around the farmhouses during the New Year celebrations. No one will be allowed to carry firearms to the farmhouses. Our officials will be stationed in those areas from the evening of December 31 till the next morning.“Separate teams will be formed for patrolling and they will also conduct surprise visits in the farmhouses. If we find anyone violating the norms, he or she will be arrested on the spot.”According to Patil, there are around 200 farmhouses in that region that are scattered in the jurisdictions of Panvel, Panvel Taluka, Taloja and Uran police station.“We have also instructed the senior inspectors of these four police stations to call the owners or the managers of the farmhouses and explain the norms in detail. They are now in the process of doing it. Earlier this week, we also appealed through local media to the farmhouse owners not to violate the Covid-19 norms,” he said.Bipin Kumar Singh, police commissioner of Navi Mumbai, said, “We have no issues if people from other places come and celebrate at the farmhouses. But they should not violate norms. As far as the other rules of New Year celebrations are concerned, we will follow the guidelines issued by the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nye-nears-navi-mumbai-police-step-up-their-vigil/story-z6tDEOSyjDrlqneqIDDaeP.html
20-12-2020||Dehradun||‘Government of zero work’: Manish Sisodia slams Uttarakhand CM||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accused both Opposition Congress and ruling BJP of looting Uttarakhand during their respective governments in 20 years of the formation of the state. Sisodia attacked both the parties while interacting with media persons during his first visit to Dehradun on Saturday evening. He had reached the state capital on Saturday morning from Haridwar where he had arrived on Friday. During his one-day visit to the capital, he held several events including a townhall session and an interactive session with about 250 principals of different schools across the country. “The condition in which the state is today is because both the Congress and the BJP did nothing for it while in power except for looting it for the last 20 years. They did nothing for the people of Uttarakhand but took turns to dupe them,” said Sisodia. He said, “But now this won’t happen again as the AAP is receiving full support and love from the people of Uttarakhand who want change. We are sure of winning the 2022 elections and work for the development of the state.” Also read: ‘Covid-19 is ‘out of control’ in UK, says British health secretary HancockDuring his media interaction, he attacked the BJP-led government and said, “This government is not of zero tolerance but zero work.” With zero tolerance, his reference was towards CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s claim of zero-tolerance towards corruption. Training his guns at Rawat, Sisodia also challenged him for an open debate. “I challenge him for an open debate where he should name five development works which he undertook in his tenure since 2017. I bet he will fail as he has done nothing,” said Sisodia. Earlier during the day, after arriving in Dehradun, he paid tributes to the statehood activists at Shaheed Sthal at the premises of district court. The BJP and the Congress, however, refuted his allegations and refused to accept it as a challenge. “AAP leaders are day-dreaming by claiming to win the elections. It’s never going to happen as people of Uttarakhand will never forget what their government in Delhi did with them during the lockdown,” said Manveer Singh Chauhan, BJP state media in-charge. “Kejriwal government had left our people at the border by giving false assurances that Uttarakhand buses are waiting to take them home. This is how they treated our people in Delhi and now coming here they are posing themselves as the messiah,” said Chauhan. Meanwhile, the Congress termed it as an “opportunistic” party. “Since 2017 elections, we while being in opposition, have been raising our voice for the people of the state against the government by hitting the streets. This AAP was nowhere to be seen and now when only about more than a year is left for the polls, it has come here thinking people will support them. People of Uttarakhand are not fools, they know who is doing what,” said Garima Dasauni, Congress state spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/government-of-zero-work-manish-sisodia-slams-uttarakhand-cm/story-ALJrnsQSsm78PvAg5zmynN.html
20-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand mulls cancelling final exams of class 9 and 11 in govt school||Uttarakhand education department is mulling cancelling the final exams of class 9 and 11, in government schools, as studies were affected this year due to Covid-19 epidemic. R Meenakshi Sundaram, the secretary for school education in the state said the department is reviewing the progress of online studies in the state and a decision will be taken depending on the outcomes. “Proper studies of both class 9 and 11 were affected this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Online mode of education could not be conducted properly for all the students given the topography of the state and constraints due to that. It would be unfair to the students to test them without teaching them the whole syllabus. We have not taken any final decision yet but the options are being considered,” said Sundaram. He added that private schools can decide on their own whether to conduct the final exams or not. Strictly following the guidelines and norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19, schools in Uttarakhand opened after a gap of over seven months on November 2 for students of class 10 and 12. Schools were re-opened for students of class 10 and class 12 as they have to appear for board examinations. Also Read: Uttarakhand in talks with Madhya Pradesh to bring white tiger to new safari park near CorbettAfter the reopening of schools, over 85 teachers tested positive for Covid-19 in the first week itself. Over 80 teachers tested positive in just four blocks of Pauri Garhwal district. In the third week of October, the Uttarakhand government had allowed and issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed after the reopening of schools. According to the SOP, the school managements were asked to follow conditions like daily sanitisation of school premises before and after classes, arrangements for sanitisers, handwash, thermal screening and first aid among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-mulls-cancelling-final-exams-of-class-9-and-11-in-govt-school/story-2YYmxhhOCgSeuPRZGZRtHK.html
20-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand in talks with Madhya Pradesh to bring white tiger to new safari park near Corbett||The Uttarakhand tourism department is in talks with the Madhya Pradesh (MP) government to bring a white tiger to soon-to-be-built tiger safari park near Corbett Tiger Reserve. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that he is in talks with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to bring a white tiger from Maharaja Martand Singh Judeo White Tiger Safari and Zoo located in Rewa district of the state. Citing plans for the tiger safari park to be built in Corbett Tiger Reserve at a cost of Rs 150 crore, Maharaj said, “I have directed the tourism department officials to chalk out a plan to promote tourism for the new tiger safari park. To make it more attractive and exciting for the tourists, I am in talks with MP CM to bring a white tiger from there to the safari park.” The tourism minister said if the department succeeds in bringing a white tiger, “the popularity of the tiger safari park would increase further.” The wildlife experts, however, claim that the move is just a “political statement” by the tourism minister as shifting a tiger to a new habitat is a lengthy procedure and has to be justified at many levels. Ajay Dubey, Madhya Pradesh based prominent wildlife activist said, “So far it seems that Uttarakhand’s tourism minister’s statement is just a political one.” Also read: ‘Never seen a roadshow like this, people of Bengal want change’ - Amit Shah“Transferring a tiger from one state to another cannot be done by mere talks between ministers. The Central Zoo Authority would be involved in it which would conduct a thorough analysis of whether the climate and environment in the new place would be favourable to the animal or not from the existing one and various other aspects. A comprehensive report is prepared by if before allowing such a move,” said Dubey. He, however, added that shifting a white tiger won’t give a free environment to it in the new safari park. “It is because at present they are in a closed enclosure in Rewa and in Uttarakhand too they would be in another closed enclosure. Also, there are not many white tigers in MP, which might also be a hindrance in shifting one to Uttarakhand,” said Dubey. The tiger safari park, which would be a closed enclosure zoo, was announced a few days ago by state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat during which he had said that it would be built in the Pakhro areas of Corbett Tiger Reserve. He had said that the safari park, “will not just focus on tourism but also spread knowledge about wildlife. It would be made in an area spread over 106 hectares which will be divided into five large enclosures.” Rawat had informed that the state government plans to open the new tiger safari park in November next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-in-talks-with-madhya-pradesh-to-bring-white-tiger-to-new-safari-park-near-corbett/story-q2qQy7nzU7LM66JRdwwjEN.html
20-12-2020||Pune||PMC seeks permission to appoint a consultant to prepare DPR for water scheme||With 23 villages likely to get included in the city very soon and 11 villages already merged, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun the process to execute the water scheme for them. The PMC water department put forward a proposal in front of the standing committee to appoint a consultant at the cost of Rs13 crore to prepare a detailed project report for the water project in these 34 villages. PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “24x7 equal water distributions scheme execution is going on in the old city limit area. Meanwhile, three years ago, 11 villages were added into the city and again 23 villages were in the pipeline. The PMC needs to frame the water pipeline scheme in these newly merged areas which can be synchronized with the existing scheme. By considering the future need, PMC decided to appoint the consultant to prepare the water scheme for all these areas.” Pawaskar said, “Once the villages would be merged in the municipal limit, it’s mandatory to provide drinking water to these areas. We are keeping a plan ready. Though the consultant cost is high at Rs13 crore, it includes many components. They would work on this project for nine years from the appointment. They would do a survey of the existing water system. Then they would need to prepare the Detailed Project Report (DPR). Later, the consultant would need to monitor the work once the project work starts and they would need to work with the PMC for operation and maintenance for the next four years.” According to the water department, a tender has been floated for it and a total of seven parties participated in the tendering process. Among them, the LN Malviya firm was proposed by the administration as it quoted a cheaper fee. The standing committee of the PMC would take a call on this proposal in the meeting scheduled next week. As the PMC has floated a tender for the proposed villages, it is clear that the state government would issue the village merger order anytime soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-seeks-permission-to-appoint-a-consultant-to-prepare-dpr-for-water-scheme/story-MEFPIrNAWKOtx2vZi2SEJK.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Woman booked for duping auditor of Rs 1.4 crore by alleged wrongful diagnosis of liver cancer||The Wanowrie police on Friday booked a woman claiming to be naturopath and Ayurveda doctor for allegedly duping another 58-year-old woman from city to the tune of Rs 1.47 crore by falsely diagnosing her with liver cancer. Within six months since June 2020, the complainant paid Rs 1,47,58,700 through 54 transactions to the doctor for treatment of cancer, according to Police sub inspector Bholenath Ahivale of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case. The 58-year-old complainant works as an auditor at the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts in Pune. In 2017, the accused doctor was practicing naturopathy when the complainant first met her as her friend was taking treatment from her. In October 2019, the complainant had taken treatment from her for another health-issue she was facing. In June, the complainant had started experiencing discomfort while swallowing food and had consulted with the female doctor. The accused told her that her private clinic had shut down and she was now working at a franchise of ayurvedic medicine provider based in Canada. The doctor visited the complainant’s office in Golibar Maidan area and took stock of her health complaints while enquiring about her job, according to the complaint. She asked the woman to send a picture of her navel on WhatsApp which she claimed was sent to Canada for close inspection. After a few days, the woman informed the complainant that she had been diagnosed with liver ascites and that the reports of her conditions had to be kept confidential. The accused also refused to share prescription and insisted on providing the medicines herself after each payment. The complainant made multiple transactions through cash and various online methods too, according to her complaint. One month later, the accused told the woman that she had liver cancer and offered to treat it. After a few days, the doctor told the woman that the treatment had worked but the cancer had spread to her oesophagus and needs further treatment which would require Rs 7 lakh in addition to the money the complainant had already spent.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-booked-for-duping-auditor-of-rs-1-4-crore-by-alleged-wrongful-diagnosis-of-liver-cancer/story-AyrpqXT8TkFL4BhtTyhrQK.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University makes it into top 200 in Clarivate Analytics’ leading innovators list 2020||Derwent and Clarivate Analytics have ranked Chitkara University among the top 200 leading innovators in South and South East Asia in their report on ‘Innovation in South and South East Asia, 2020’.After analysis of over 75,000 inventions across organisations, including government research institutions, academic institutions and corporations, based in nine countries – Brunei Darussalam, India, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam – 235 organisations made the final list of leading innovators.The top innovators and their patents provide insight into current trends and help shaping the future of innovation in these regions. Chitkara University pro-Chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “It gives me immense pleasure to see years of quality research output at Chitkara University getting global recognition. We congratulate our academic, research and development team for churning rigorous, relevant, and consistent patent and IPR output.”Clarivate is a global leader in providing insights and analytics to accelerate the pace of innovation. Derwent provides curated and enriched patent data sources, including the Derwent World Patents Index, Derwent Global Patent Data, the Derwent Patent Citation Index and the Derwent Chemical Patent Index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-makes-it-into-top-200-in-clarivate-analytics-leading-innovators-list-2020/story-ZhXlXH8iKVD0JPKq1scw8H.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Elderly woman robbed by domestic helper of four days||An elderly woman was sedated and robbed by the domestic helper who gave her tea under the pretext of giving her a massage. The woman is suspected to have mixed a sedative with the water that she gave the 60-year-old woman to drink. She entered the room under the pretext of giving the woman’s limbs an oil-massage. The woman fell asleep at 11am, suspected due to the sedative, and woke up at 2pm.The woman was missing ornaments on her person and found the storage cabinets in her bedroom to have been raided, according to the police.“She had worked in the house only for four days. She wore a mask throughout the time she spent in the house so the complainant does not know how she looks. They had not taken the name, phone number, address or any identification from the woman. A 70-year-old woman, who lives in their neighbourhood, had recommended her. Even she is not able to provide proper information,” said senior police inspector Sardar Patil of Kondhwa police station.The missing valuables include gold and diamond jewellery, silverware, jewellery receipts, key to a bank locker, and Rs 50,000 cash. A case under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station. Assistant police inspector Chetan More of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.This is the second such incident within eight days in the city. On December 12, the police had arrested four men who held an elderly couple at knife-point and robbed them of valuables worth Rs 11 lakh.One of the four used to provide care for the couple and had quit the job around one year ago. The four were arrested two days after the theft.The care-giving agency which had provided the arrested man’s services to the couple had come under the scanner and were found involved in multiple such cases, according to the arresting officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/elderly-woman-robbed-by-domestic-helper-of-four-days/story-0M3hbdCXzIPlst5Em9ewGP.html
20-12-2020||Pune||PMC escalates action against hotels for not following Covid norms||Ahead of New Year celebrations, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has escalated action against hotels, restaurants and malls for not following Covid norms. Since November 24, until December 18 the civic body has collected over Rs 1.78 lakh from over 1,668 establishments. The PMC has formed special squads to keep a check on such establishments where the Covid-19 norms are not being followed. Across the 15 wards, the PMC has penalized hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shops and other establishments and even issued notices when found that the patrons were not following the Covid-19 norms including social distancing and wearing masks. The Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward collected the maximum amount of fines from such establishments of Rs 30,500.PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “These squads included policemen and also the civic staff. We had formed these to keep a check on such establishments where these norms are not being followed. We have asked our squad to take action more promptly which is not specifically for New Year but on a regular basis.” The civic body had initiated action against those who do not wear masks and do not follow social distancing norms and also against spitting. Any offender found not wearing masks in public places is penalized Rs 500 per offence. Wearing masks has been highly recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With the upcoming New Year season, it is expected that a large number of people would crowd hotels and restaurants like Diwali which may lead to a high surge in the number of cases in the city. Currently, Pune city has 5,102 active Covid-19 cases and has reported a total of 1.75 lakh cases and 4,572 deaths due to the infection as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-escalates-action-against-hotels-for-not-following-covid-norms/story-mPG29Iu3qBvXUFoEYmJPPP.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 667 fresh Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department reported 667 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday and eight deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.66 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.41 lakh have recovered, 7,710 have been reported dead and 17,213 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 342 new cases taking the total count to 1,87,963 and one death which took the death toll to 4,372, while PCMC reported 153 new cases taking the final count to 92,202 and four deaths took the death toll to 1,264. Pune rural reported 172 new cases taking the final count to 86,154 and three deaths which took the death toll to 2,039 according to the state health department.The department reported that 3,119 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 17.81 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.14%. Also, 3,940 new cases in the state were reported on Tuesday taking the total to over 18.92 lakh.In addition, 74 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 49,771. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Out of 1,20,59,235 laboratory samples, 18,92,707 have been tested positive (15.7%) for COVID19 until today. Currently 5,00,360 people are in home quarantine and 4,020 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-667-fresh-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-in-24-hours/story-UQdPzFisCvljGcfzAVNeAK.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Percentage of vaccinated kids in Pune falls from 81% to 58% in four years||According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) Pune district, the percentage of vaccinated kids in the district has fallen from 81 per cent in 2015-16 to 58.1 per cent in 2019-20 which is a drop of 22.9 per cent. The data was interpreted based on the information from either the vaccination card of the child or the way their mother’s recalled the vaccination of the kids.The data also showed that for most of the ailments including polio, BCG, DPT, measles, Hepatitis B and rotavirus, the percentage of kids covered under various vaccination programs has fallen down. The percentage of kids aged 12-23 months who received vaccination in public health facilities went up by 10 per cent in the same period. The data for vaccination of kids aged between 12-23 months who were vaccinated based on information from the vaccination card alone was 95.4 per cent in the year 2015-16 went down to 79.2 per cent in the year 2019-20. Pune district health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar said, “I have not gone through the survey data yet but I can say that it is not so low. We were supposed to cover at least 8 per cent of the kids every month which we could not this year due to the pandemic. However, we are just behind by 2-3 per cent. We were supposed to vaccinate about 67 per cent of the kids until November end but we have covered only 64 per cent which we are hoping to cover the gap in this month.”Dr Abhijit More, public health activist and AAP leader in the city said, “I have not seen the report yet but I have heard about this. If it is true then it is very alarming. Vaccination needs to take place at the right time otherwise it is not effective. This is also reflective of the situation that the community outreach program has not worked effectively. The unresolved issues of Asha workers over the years could have caused this. The Auxiliary Nurses Midwives (ANM) working in primary health centres in rural areas are responsible for community awareness and because of most of the work allocated to the Asha workers who are now overburdened, this awareness program must have been hampered. Low vaccination rates among kids means a weaker future generation.”The survey showed that only 66.2 per cent of the kids aged 12-23 months were vaccinated in the year 2019-20 which was about 86.3 per cent were vaccinated in the year 2015-16. In the case of Diphtheria, Tetanus & Pertussis (DPT) vaccine, about 92.8 per cent of the kids were vaccinated in the year 2015-16 which came down to 68 per cent in the year 2015-16. Only 67.7 per cent were vaccinated with first doses of measles in the year 2019-20 which was 98.1 per cent in the year 2015-16. In the year 2019-20, a total of 79 per cent of the kids aged 12-23 months were vaccinated with hepatitis B vaccine which went down to 61.3 per cent in the year 2019-20.The survey also showed that more kids got vaccinated in public health facilities in the past four years while in private health facilities the number of kids getting vaccinated went down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/percentage-of-vaccinated-kids-in-pune-falls-from-81-to-58-in-four-years/story-W5l5lW3cveIeomk3UxqyKM.html
20-12-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC seeks Covid-19 proof plan to secure Prayagraj during Magh Mela||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) informed the Allahabad high court that four Covid-19 vaccines are in the clinical trial stage and if found safe, will be examined by the subject expert committee (SEC) for approvals to use.The court was also told that a precise date and time for the approval of any vaccine cannot be given at this stage.The DCGI apprised the bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar of the progress in Covid-19 vaccine trials, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on the spread of Covid-19 in the state.Covaxin by Bharat Biotech, ZyCoV-D by Zydus Cadila, Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in partnership with the Serum Institute of India and Russian vaccine Sputnik V in partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs are undergoing advance stage clinical trials in India. Also Read: Malaysia to sign deal for AstraZeneca vaccineThe bench noted that nothing short of turning the city of Prayagraj into a fortress may be required for preventing further spread of the disease.“Prima facie, we are of the opinion that unless the entire city is turned into a fortress and entry into the city is absolutely banned in the month of Magh except for those with a negative RT-PCR test result, who again undergo antigen testing at the border of the city with further RT-PCR testing and complete tracking, we cannot save the people of the city from getting infected by Covid-19,” the justices noted.Also Read: With worst Covid-19 woes behind, FMCG sector optimistic about 2021On the risk of the spread of Covid-19 during the upcoming Magh Mela, the court observed, “The court desires to have a more comprehensive guideline which would ensure that people entering the city of Prayagraj during the Mela are in no manner bringing in the infection of Covid-19.”The bench directed the state government counsel to file a comprehensive guideline keeping in mind court’s observations. January 7, 2021, was fixed as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-seeks-covid-19-proof-plan-to-secure-prayagraj-during-magh-mela/story-6s7xe28icz9zBuT7bYMyEK.html
20-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan crime branch nabs 5 drug smugglers with opium worth Rs 2 crores||With the arrest of five persons from Rajsamand district, the crime branch of Rajasthan police busted an intrastate drugs smuggling racket and recovered 20 kilograms of opium worth Rs two crores from the dashboard of the car of the accused.Inspector general of police (IGP), crime branch (police headquarters) Vijay Kumar Singh said that the headquarters team received a tip-off that some smugglers were about to transport a consignment of opium from Chittorgarh to Pali and Jodhpur.“Acting on the tip-off, a team of crime branch along with the local police did barricading on Chittorgarh- Marwar road near Gangapur village of Bhilwara district where a suspected car was stopped for checking and two accused identified as Jetharam (38) resident of Dewasiyon ki Dhani and Narayan Lal Gurjar (48) resident of Piplaj, district Pali, were detained,” said Singh.They confessed that they along with three others accused, identified as Bhanwar Lal Pareek, Bhagwan Lal Teli and Jamna Lal Gurjar, had purchased 20 kg opium and crossed Rajsamand district a little while ago. The IGP added that the Deogarh police of Rajsamand district was informed and the three accused were intercepted at a police barricading at the KamliGhat Circle area. The accused had hidden the 20 kg opium in the dashboards of their cars in 10 different packets.Also Read: Vigilance operation reveals corruption and laxity in police work in RajasthanLal told police that he used to buy opium from villages of Chittorgarh and sell it at higher prices in different districts of western Rajasthan.“Lal himself escorted the vehicle carrying the opium and also used to keep a large number of receipts of medicines to dupe investigators,” the crime branch IGP said.Crime branch is trying to trace more members of the drugs smuggling racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-crime-branch-nabs-5-drug-smugglers-with-opium-worth-rs-2-crores/story-wPdgOKqyg906FpUtP7hyVJ.html
20-12-2020||Patna||Bihar aims to be beggar-free by 2021 by turning vagabonds into vendors, artists||Bihar is proving the old adage-- Beggars can’t be choosers—wrong by giving them a choice of a respectable profession and a shot at a dignified induction into the mainstream of the society, while ridding the state of the scourge at the same time, said an official. Under a Bhikshavritti Niwaran Yojna or a scheme to rid beggars of the habit, being run by the State Society for Ultra Poor and Some Welfare, SAKSHAM, Beggars, under this programme, are being asked if they want to become entrepreneurs or publicity managers for government programmes.The programme, with twin objectives of eliminating begging and rehabilitating beggars, has so far managed to give financial support to 18 beggars for starting their own business. At a function held at the SAKSHAM office in Patna, each of the 18 beggars was given a cheque of Rs 10,000.They have also been provided Aadhar cards and regular bank accounts.“Some of them want to start selling vegetables while others want to sell other items,” said a SAKSHAM official. He added that the agency has set a target to provide financial support to 100 beggars in Patna.It’s the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment which is running this Bhikshavritti Nivaran Yojna in 10 cities of the country and Patna has been made a part of this. The other cities covered under this project are Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Lucknow, Indore, Nagpur, Hyderabad and Bengaluru.SAKSHAM, a part of Bihar’s social welfare department, is the implementing agency of this project.“This project is, in fact, a replication of Mukhyamantri Bhikshavritti Nivaran Yojna started by the state government in 2008-9. It was intended to protect and promote the rights of beggars and to ensure their care and development through socio-economic policies,” Dayanidhan Pandey, the SAKSHAM director, said before adding that the Union government had adopted the same project and extended it to other states.The rehabilitation of beggars also includes a choice to return home to their families. Others may stay at the government care institutions and learn skills for setting up their own small business or get trained as salesperson.This project has been running in 12 districts of the state including in Patna, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Purnia, Gaya, Nalanda, Rohtas, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Saran, Araria and in Vaishali..Ashok Chaudhary, the social welfare minister, said, there’s a plan to make Patna beggar-free by March 2021.“Beggars are being identified and being motivated to stop asking for alms and instead start their own work,” he said.Also Read: It took only a 4 hour vehicle-checking drive to arrest 65 criminals in BiharOver 2200 beggars have been identified in the state capital. SAKSHAM official Randhir Kumar said that many do not want to leave begging.“In fact, they have become so used to this kind of living that they don’t want to stop it. Recently we tried to identify their interests and passions to give them the opportunity to pursue it. Some were found to be interested in singing while many others have acting abilities,” he said.The agency says the multiple talents found among the beggars can be used for creating awareness among the poor about government welfare programmes.“They may do street plays and motivate others to avail the facilities provided to them by the government,” Kumar added.For the male beggars, there are seven rehabilitation centres known as Seva Kutirs and six short stay homes, known as Shanti Kutirs, in the state.“Patna also has Basera, the day and night shelter with a kitchen. The government has decided to start Baseras in all districts of the state. In the first phase, 25 such facilities are to be created at the government-run Buniyaad Kendras in different districts,” said a government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-aims-to-be-beggar-free-by-2021-by-making-vagabonds-vendors-and-artists/story-cTOD7dgHZALElCsCPk3vJI.html
20-12-2020||Patna||It took only a 4 hour vehicle-checking drive to arrest 65 criminals in Bihar||A special drive by Bihar police has resulted in the arrest of 65 criminals during a four-hour long vehicle checking drive carried out across the state’s 38 districts. The apprehended criminals include many absconding for a long time among others wanted by the police.The special drive was launched to check the rise in cases of kidnapping, loot, dacoity and other criminal activities in the state, according to police officials.67 looted or stolen vehicles were seized during the drive while six firearms and nine live cartridges were recovered from the possession of arrested persons. Police teams also recovered 3,570 litres of illegal liquor, 159 kg contraband and Rs 92,000 cash from their possession, according to a press release issued by Bihar police headquarters in Patna.In a related operation, Patna police detained six suspected Maoists from a hotel in a posh locality under Gandhi Maidan police station area and recovered firearms from their possession. Two SUVs, parked outside the hotel were also seized.Also Read: Court takes cognisance of offence of sedition against Sharjeel Imam In another incident, Patna police recovered the body of a missing youth, identified as Bobby, a resident of Morcha road under Chowk police station area in Patna city. Missing since December 13, the youth’s body was found in a ditch located in Mahuli under bypass police station area. Police have detained two persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/it-took-only-a-4-hour-vehicle-checking-drive-to-arrest-65-criminals-in-bihar/story-60lAuNtXu51F6oT35skeJM.html
20-12-2020||Jaipur||Vigilance operation reveals corruption and laxity in police work in Rajasthan||An internal vigilance operation by Rajasthan police has revealed corruption and laxity within the ranks, with policemen at several police stations found either responding late to complaints or not entertaining it at all. Several policemen were also found to be taking bribes at traffic barricades and allowing liquor sales to go beyond mandated hours.Several instances of inefficient policing and corruption was noted during decoy operations conducted on Saturday by the vigilance teams from the state police headquarters across 16 districts. The operation, carried out on the nights of December 17 and 18 not only revealed negligence in carrying out duty but also connivance with liquor vends and the sand mafia at several places. “In Nagaur’s Padu Kalan police station, when the decoy team called to report a robbery via phone, there was a lack of prompt response and readiness among the cops of the station. In Udaipur’s Surajpole police station area, a constable took a written report from the complainant at the spot but did not register an FIR,” said Additional director general of police (ADGP), vigilance, Biju George Joseph. Similarly, on a complaint pertaining to a missing girl at Taleda police station in Bundi, the duty officer and the police officer asked a variety of questions but finally told the complainant to contact another police station instead. On the brighter side, three police stations responded satisfactorily and registered FIRs for alleged robbery and bike theft incidents at Bedu and Ratangarh police stations in Churu and at Fagi police station in Jaipur Rural. In Ganganagar city, it was found that liquor was being sold freely in several places, including Hanumangarh Road, Shiv Chowk, Suratgarh Bypass, Mira Chowk and Kotwali police station area.Also Read: Rajasthan HC seeks state govt’s reply on work in prisons In Jhunjhunu’s Udaipurwati police station area and in Nagaur police station area, of Nagaur district, a number of vehicles were found transporting illegal river sand in absence of any police intervention. The ADGP vigilance said that policemen along with members from the transport and sales tax department were found taking illegal money by stopping vehicles at Mawal border near Gujarat in Sirohi district. Similarly, in Jodhpur city, 30 policemen were found involved in illegal collections at various places. He said action would be taken against all of them and added that a policeman had been suspended by the Jodhpur police commissioner. Vigilance teams also conducted operations in Churu, Bikaner, Uncha Nagla of Bharatpur, Jaipur Rural’s Dudu, Ajmer’s Bandar Sindri, Kota city and Udaipur city to find out about traffic policing on the highway. However, no illegal activity was found, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/vigilance-operation-reveals-corruption-and-laxity-in-police-work-in-rajasthan/story-YxCry9haxkE1YWiZyfnGNM.html
20-12-2020||Lucknow||UP CM wants timelines for Covid vaccination met, but challenges remain||The Uttar Pradesh government has stepped up preparations for Covid-19 vaccination drive, however, registration of all healthcare workers, to be vaccinated in the first phase, and development of additional storage capacity in select districts, remain major challenges for authorities.As of now about 605,000 of 780,000 healthcare workers have got themselves registered at the CoWIN portal, a digital platform set up by the Union government for real-time monitoring of Covid vaccine delivery. Healthcare workers employed with the private sector are lagging behind with less than 90% having registered so far.Officials aware of the developments said, private health facilities in nearly 14 districts have not come forward with details for registration of all their healthcare workers on the CoWIN portal.“Yes, the scenario is bad in 14 districts including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Kanpur Nagar, Meerut, Ballia, Maharajganj, Moradabad, Chandauli, Badaun, Farrukhabad and Sambhal. Less than 90% workers of private facilities have filled up the registration details in these districts against 99% workers in government facilities. This may be because private hospitals may not be willing to show a certain category of workers as their staff,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity. Principal secretary, medical and health, Alok Kumar, however, said all efforts were being made to ensure that most of the healthcare workers fill up the form for vaccination. “We have asked chief medical officers (CMOs) to make all out efforts to get all healthcare workers registered on the portal. We are keeping the option for registration on the portal open to get more coverage and preparations are afoot for vaccination of 8 lakh health care workers,” said Kumar. Uttar Pradesh has 5,235 government healthcare facilities, while the number of facilities in the private sector is about 21,280. Workers in 5,180 government facilities have completed the registration along with staff in 19,170 private facilities. The state has about 783,000 registered healthcare workers including 546,500 with the government centres and 237,000 with the private sector. A programme to train more than 1 lakh vaccinators has been launched and about 35,000 Covid vaccination centres are being set up in the state, said an official. He added that each team of vaccinators is expected to vaccinate 100 persons per day.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath govt coins MYK mantra to counter opposition before 2022 pollsAdditional funds of about Rs 4 crore have been made available for installing additional cold chain storage capacity in the state for about 2.5 lakh litres of vaccine. Construction or renovation work has been completed only in 26 districts so far, with another 25 districts likely to finish work by December 20.Most other districts are expected to complete the capacity installation by December 31, while Bareilly and Mirzapur are likely to complete it by January 20 and January 10, respectively. Amethi and Sitapur are among the districts, where the work on vaccine storage has not even begun. Also Read: Mayawati again seeks withdrawal of new farm lawsThe Union government is providing refrigerators and deep freezers to store the vaccine and 4.5 crore syringes have been allocated to the state for the purpose. About 1,040 deep freezers have been allotted against the requirement of 1,240. There is also a shortfall of vaccine carriers with an allotment of about 26,800 carriers against the demand for 115,635, said an official. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that all timelines for the vaccination drive must be met and arrangements for the safe storage of vaccines and maintenance of the cold chain should be fool proof. He added that a police constable and a home guard will be deployed with every vaccination team. The Covid 19 vaccination drive is likely to be a major challenge for India’s most populous state and its experience of immunization programmes for polio and other diseases is likely to help. A state steering committee, headed by the chief secretary, has been coordinating with various departments and task forces headed by district magistrates in every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-wants-timelines-for-covid-vaccination-met-but-challenges-remain/story-a8piZ9xo8CfNJ6UWuH8EfJ.html
20-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC polls: BJP releases 25-point manifesto||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has come up with a 25-point manifesto promising entry of Panchkula into the smart cities list, making the city free of stray animals, multi-level parkings and many others.The manifesto was released by Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta along with mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal, district president Ajay Sharma and other leaders at their party office in Sector 2 here.The first point mentioned in the manifesto is that the party will “try to get Panchkula on the list of smart cities.” Next, the party promises an iconic tower in Sector 5 as a symbol of the city. Also, it assures that “very soon, the city will be made free from the menace of stray dog and stray cattle.” This promise, which has been highlighted in red, is a long pending one.Cattle-free status still unachievedAfter missing at least three deadlines, the Panchkula authorities had set the 2020 New Year goal to attain a stray-cattle free status. However, residents continue to suffer due to stray cattle menace, which causes traffic chaos and accidents.Even repeated “strict instructions” by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta have had no impact, as the contractors continue to miss deadlines of readying the dog-pound and cow-shelter at Sudarshanpur village.The pound and shelter was proposed in 2018, but is not ready yet.Setting up of a solid waste management plant in Jhuriwala is another major promise. Also a long pending project, it was allotted by the MC in 2019, but residents living across the Ghaggar river had protested against it.To solve the problem of parking, the party has proposed multi-level parkings in sectors. Speeding up development works, improving the conditions of parks, installing gym equipment in parks, bettering the street lights, and construction of new and better roads which connect Chandigarh to Panchkula are some of the other promises.Health and education are listed as points 19 and 20 on the manifesto, wherein the party proposes medi-city and education hub in the district.The party also promises, making Panchkula a slum-free place and plans construction of over 7,000 flats.Further, it promises upgrading of the railway station, which falls in Panchkula, and upgrading fire stations, better rain-water harvesting, activity centres in all sectors, cleanliness of drainage system in sectors 2, 4, 12 and 12A, an e-library is Sector 5, cleanliness of roads, and clean toilets in markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-polls-bjp-releases-25-point-manifesto/story-tfZRP77WVXlgA5izfVGWLJ.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Career advancement scheme: Teacher promotions commence at Panjab University amid PUTA protest||The interviews of teachers for promotion under the career advancement scheme (CAS) have begun at Panjab University (PU) on Saturday amid protests by the members of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA).PUTA has been protesting on campus for the last 30 days demanding that the pending interviews of the teachers be immediately fixed by the varsity. PU in an official communique on Saturday said that vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar had assured that the process of CAS interviews will be expedited and completed shortly.“The CAS process has been initiated as per the observation made by the apex higher education regulator, University Grants Commission, asking the universities to take steps to complete all pending promotion cases at the earliest,” stated the official communique.The university has also appealed to PUTA that they should pose trust in the administration to maintain a harmonious and cordial environment on campus. “Needless to mention that such conduct of PUTA may affect the image and perception of the university adversely,” PU said.Clearing their stand, however, PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar has said that they will continue to protest unless all the cases are not cleared. PUTA is also likely to meet on Sunday to decide their future strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/career-advancement-scheme-teacher-promotions-commence-at-panjab-university-amid-puta-protest/story-pJLvP33Ih5BG8qHPLcvDIJ.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival: ‘Cinema most influential medium to convey feelings to people’||The panellists at the fourth Military Literature Festival on Saturday highlighted the role of Bollywood in raising the patriotic zeal among citizens.The panellists for the session “Bollywood and shaping the nation” included film critic Shubhra Gupta, renowned artists Major Bikramjeet Kanwarpal and professor Makarnand R Paranjape, who is the director of IIAS, Shimla.Professor Paranjape said the cinema bears a close relationship to what is happening in society as it works as a mirror. Major Kanwarpal said that despite several factors including stereotypes, cinema was beyond control and it had been continuously influencing people.Film critic Shubhra Gupta said that the filmmakers were people like them who got their ideas from the daily happenings. She also said that people from outside the country had been trying to get a foothold in India as far as cinema was concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/military-literature-festival-cinema-most-influential-medium-to-convey-feelings-to-people/story-VTD6xHTKu8lm7Dd9ViDB9O.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival: ‘India should shed hesitation and embrace QUAD to tame China’||Underlining military manoeuvres and challenges from China, security and foreign experts at the Military Literature Festival (MLF) on Saturday suggested that India must shed hesitation and adopt a more aggressive approach by embracing quadrilateral security dialogue or QUAD to tame the dragon.Former Chief of Naval Staff Sunil Lanba (retd) was among the panelists discussing “The QUAD: The emerging Indo-Pacific naval alliance”. Lanba explained the genesis of QUAD as a club of four nations comprising India, US, Japan and Australia.“Forged in wake of coordination amongst these four democracies during the 2004 tsunami, the ambitious grouping went into limbo owing to Australia’s reluctance to antagonise China then. It’s prominence in 2017 has been a response to China’s assertiveness in the region,” he explained.Former ambassador Shyam Saran revealed that it was the US which in fact had wanted to play down the group’s significance because it did not want to lose out on China and Russia’s support for pushing the Iran Nuclear Deal.Vice-admiral Pradeep Chauhan said China considered India as one of its target of military assertion, a challenge our establishment had so far not been familiar and comfortable dealing with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/military-literature-festival-india-should-shed-hesitation-and-embrace-quad-to-tame-china/story-3a2q33dkArI2Igq1SV8Z8L.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||4th International Folklore Festival kicks off at Chandigarh University||The fourth International Folklore Festival commenced at Chandigarh University (CU) on Saturday, which was inaugurated by Kazakhstan’s ambassador to India Alimbayev Yerlan, Punjabi singer and actor Dr Satinder Sartaj and Dr Baljit Singh Sekhon, joint secretary of the Association of Indian Universities.More than 1,000 participants from 40 countries will present their traditional and folk dances during the three-day cultural extravaganza. While inaugurating the festival, Sartaj said, “The folk of any country depicts its rich culture and heritage, and such festivals unite the whole world on a single platform. Music and dance are two forms of art that promote universal harmony across the world.”Kazakhstan ambassador said, “It is a commendable job done by Chandigarh University to organise the festival virtually and it will help in making strong cultural ties with India.”Satnam Singh Sandhu, chancellor, CU, said, “The main motive of the event is to safeguard the cultural heritage of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4th-international-folklore-festival-kicks-off-at-chandigarh-university/story-Vdi7ZEUWq2cDV0ZNoHCU1J.html
20-12-2020||Jaipur||NDA’s Rajasthan ally plans march to Delhi in support of farmers||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party’s Hanuman Beniwal, an ally of the NDA from Rajasthan, on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation. He said that the party will launch a march towards Delhi on December 26 in support of farmers.“Immediately after completing local panchayat elections on December 12 we launched a march for Shahjahanpur and had given an ultimatum to the Centre. Today, the deadline has ended after which my party has decided that we will launch a march towards Delhi on December 26 in which two lakhs farmers will participate,” Beniwal said.A BJP spokesperson said that the RLP is supporting the protesting farmers to gain political mileage. “The RLP had initially supported the farm laws and now taking a U-turn to gain political mileage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/nda-s-rajasthan-ally-plans-march-to-delhi-in-support-of-farmers/story-qcZQ5y3f67Eh6u8GwaEulO.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Sun out, but Delhi shivers at 3.9°C||Cold wave conditions persisted in the Capital as Delhi recorded the season’s lowest temperature on Saturday although abundant sunshine during the day lent some respite, weather scientists said. Safdarjung Observatory, taken as representative for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of only 3.9 degrees Celsius, the lowest seen in the winter months so far and four notches below normal, according to India Meteorological Department. Mercury dipped to 3.3°C and 3.4°C at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar stations, respectively, as icy winds from snow-laden western Himalayas continued to sweep the city, IMD said.However, ‘cold day’ conditions -- when temperatures are lower than a specified threshold -- abated on Saturday, with Safdarjung recording a maximum temperature of 21.8°C, one degree below normal. “Cold wave conditions are likely to persist over Delhi for a few days. Cold day conditions have abated in most parts of northwest India which means there is clear sunshine, which is able to warm the surface. The layer of fog has moved away. We are expecting a western disturbance to impact the region around December 22, when moisture will increase and dense fog is likely in the entire region. There may be cold wave conditions also,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre. A cold day is recorded when minimum temperature is under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees C below normal. A “severe” cold day is seen when the minimum temperature is under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees C below normal. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal. IMD has forecast that there is likely to be a gradual rise in maximum temperatures by 2-3 degrees C in the next two days, but minimum temperatures could drop 2-4 degrees C during the same period over central and east India. Cold wave/ severe cold wave conditions may persist in some places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh; at isolated places over Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Gangetic West Bengal during next three days and decline thereafter, the IMD’s bulletin stated. Cold day/severe cold day conditions are also likely at a few places such as Uttarakhand, eastern and western Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh during next 48 hours. Cold day conditions are likely to recede from these regions from December 21, it added.Delhi’s air quality remained in the “poor” category, with average air quality index (AQI) standing at 290 on Saturday. “Air pollution levels may begin rising from December 21 because wind speed is likely to reduce and dense fog is likely to impact the entire northwestern region,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sun-out-but-delhi-shivers-at-3-9-c/story-TuHJt8SgL49dJJMymGHzdN.html
20-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC seeks state govt’s reply on work in prisons||Taking note of a report that prisons in Rajasthan were allocating work to inmates based on their caste, the Rajasthan High Court has sought the government’s response and called for a complete overhaul of the “archaic” rule book.The division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha, while hearing the petition filed by Manoj Yadav, directed additional advocate general Farzand Ali to apprise the court regarding the proposed steps for complete overhauling of the Prison Manual and to ensure that the prisoners are not forced to indulge in menial jobs like cleaning toilets, etc, merely on the basis of their caste and also that no under trial prisoner is forced to perform such jobs in the prison.In the interest of justice, the court urged the state government to consider installation of mechanized/automated cleaning facilities in all the prisons.“We have come across a very disturbing report regarding the existence of a caste-based work assignment system in the prisons in Rajasthan. The report is based on a research paper of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI). The researcher of the CHRI interviewed various prisoners (since released) from prisons in Rajasthan and a shocking finding came out that till date the archaic Prison Manual, which was a gift of the British Rule, is prevalent in the prison system of the State,” said the judges in their order.The order came following detailed reporting in The Wire, which also used resources from CHRI. According to the news website’s report, the arrangement was clear – those at the bottom of the caste pyramid did the cleaning work; while those in higher cases handled kitchen or legal documentation department. “And the rich and influential did nothing;they only threw their weight around. These arrangements had nothing to do with the crime that one was arrested for or his conduct in prison. “Sab kuch jaati ke aadhar par tha (It was all based on caste),” said the report, a part of which was cited in the order,The court fixed ‪February 2 as the next date for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-hc-seeks-state-govt-s-reply-on-work-in-prisons/story-ah0jrEY8AzHOU3G8ZRRsnO.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Process set in motion to dismiss an SP, 2 DSPs convicted in criminal cases, Punjab govt tells HC||The Punjab government has initiated the process to dismiss three senior officers, including a superintendent of police (SP) and two deputy superintendents of police (DSPs), who were convicted in criminal cases.In a report submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the state government said a total of 103 cops, including three SPs, two DSPs, two inspectors, eight assistant sub-inspectors, 13 head constables and 75 constables, have been convicted in criminal cases. The officers against whom dismissal proceedings were initiated are Paramdeep Singh Sandhu (SP-rank) and DSPs Gurcharan Singh and Hardev Singh. Sandhu, posted as additional inspector general (AIG security), was booked in 2011 in a graft case and convicted in 2018. Gurcharan Singh, posted with the 3rd Indian Reserve Battalion, Ludhiana, was convicted by a trial court in 2016 in a graft case registered in 2012. Approval is being sought from the competent authority in his case. Hardev Singh, who is lodged in Central Jail Amritsar, was booked in 2004 for extortion and criminal intimidation and convicted in February this year. Approval is also sought from the competent authority in his case.Two more convicted cops are Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal who was booked for illegal detention in 1995 and convicted in 2013 and Harpreet Singh (DSP) who was booked in a kidnap case in 1995 and convicted in 2005 and These officers are currently in service.Details were sought on the petition of a Moga resident, Surjit Singh, who had approached the court challenging his dismissal order passed by the the district police chief. Surjit told the court that the dismissal order was passed even as the criminal case against him was pending adjudication. He termed the move discriminatory, as a large number of police officers facing criminal cases are still in service. The details submitted in October also revealed that at least 1,326 police officers/officials are facing criminal cases. On the court’s query on rationale in re-instating/allowing the continuance of such officers in service despite conviction, the affidavit submitted by additional chief secretary (home) Anurag Aggarwal says neither there is any provision of the Constitution nor any rules provide that in case of conviction in a criminal matter a government employee has to be necessarily dismissed from service. It is for the authorities concerned to decide in each case the quantum of punishment to be imposed on the convicted employee, keeping in view the gravity of offence which led to their conviction. The dismissal of a government employee cannot be automatic merely on registration of a criminal case against them, Aggarwal argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/process-initiated-to-dismiss-an-sp-2-dsps-convicted-in-criminal-cases-punjab-govt-tells-high-court/story-36gjBN9xQ5C6EfUVcpzV9O.html
20-12-2020||City||Farmer unions away in Delhi, dismantling of Bathinda thermal plant picks pace without any resistance||Disassembling work at the now defunct Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP), Bathinda, has picked momentum without resistance from any group with the farmers’ agitation against the Central government’s agriculture laws taking the centerstage since October. Backed by various farmer rights associations, the GNDTP employees union had been opposing dismantling of the facility. Various associations had staged dharnas disallowing the work after Mumbai-based firm HR Commercial Private Limited won competitive bidding to dismantle the plant’s infrastructure in September. These unions were demanding that the state government revoke its decision and restart the 46-year-old coal-based plant. DP Garg, who holds the additional charge of GNDTP chief engineer, said the firm is continuing with its work for over a month now. “After completing the bidding formalities, the Mumbai-based private firm was issued sale order on October 8. Initially, the unions had expressed reservation but now the work is going on smoothly. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has asked the firm to complete the work within 18 months,” said Garg.The PSPCL had got Rs 164 crore from the firm against a reserve price of Rs 132 crore in the e-bidding. The state government is pitching for construction of one of the three ‘bulk drug parks’ being set up by the Centre where companies relocating from China will be invited to set up shops. In October, the Bathinda municipal corporation (MC) decided to keep nearly 1,200-acre land of the defunct plant out of its jurisdiction for the proposed pharma industrial project.The four mega cooling towers of the power facility have been declared monuments and will not be brought down. Only civil structures, including chimneys and machinery used in power generation besides cables and pipes, will be disposed of.The plant was shut down in 2018 in view of the Central Electricity Agency (CEA) guidelines to retire non-viable thermal power plants that have exceeded a life span of 25 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-unions-away-in-delhi-dismantling-of-bathinda-thermal-plant-picks-pace-without-any-resistance/story-BrIcnshcFMhtqNSAoOWl5J.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Researchers come up with natural solution to prevent red ants from attacking Olive Ridley turtle nests in Maharashtra||A first-of-its-kind study in India, researchers have tried to combat the problem of red army ants predating on Olive Ridley turtle eggs and hatchlings, and have found natural control measures to protect nesting sites for further conservation of the species. During the 2018-19 turtle nesting period along Maharashtra’s west coast, local turtle conservationist Suhas Toraskar at Wayangani Beach in Vengurla, Sindhudurg, was startled to discover predating ants on protected hatchling sites. The nesting period saw more than 75% nests infested with red ants, which caused four of seven nests with over 500 eggs (one nest has around 125 eggs on average) to be completely devoured, resulting in an extremely low hatchling survival rate. Owing to a lack of any detailed study, conservationists were left clueless on how to protect these species and reached out to the forest department for help. Funded by the Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation –an autonomous body that assists the state mangrove cell (under the forest department) in coastal marine conservation through research projects – Anuja Vartak from the department of biodiversity, MES Abasaheb Garware College, Pune, under the supervision of Sumedha Korgaonkar, research scholar, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, commenced a study from December 2019 to understand the feeding, foraging and predatory behaviour of this ant species during the nesting season and find a solution to prevent predation. “This is the first time that any study from the Indian subcontinent has identified ant species responsible for predatory behaviour affecting turtles. It has provided a roadmap for species conservation for the west coast and across India,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) and executive director, Mangrove Foundation. Researchers identified that changes in weather pattern have led to a shift in turtle nesting months, followed by the ant attack. “After assessing turtle nesting data of the past 20 years, a prominent shift in the peak nesting season was identified along Maharashtra. The nest and its incubation period had shifted to the summer months of March-April instead of January-February, most likely owing to the impacts of climate change,” said Korgaonkar, adding that coincidentally, the predation of protected and relocated nests increased at Wayangani. Though natural predators such as golden jackals, birds, feral dogs etc. are known to predate on emerging sea turtle hatchlings, hatcheries can be protected by building sheds, protective cover or relocating the nests. “However, in this case, the attacks were happening through the sand as these insects would already demolish nests by the time a hatchery could be excavated,” said Korgaonkar. After collecting samples, researchers with help from expert Dr Himender Bharti, identified the ant species as Dorylus orientalis (commonly called blind ant or red ant). It is native to the Indian subcontinent and known to be an agricultural pest that attacks potato and groundnut crops. “In this case, the nesting site did not have these crops but our survey with locals revealed that these ants were present in these areas for over three decades, which meant they were an ecological indicator,” said Vartak. Meanwhile, the research team’s investigation also revealed that beach managers were using chemical insecticide (phorate powder) a few metres away from nests. “This was harmful to the ecosystem as well as dangerous for the developing turtle embryos,” added Korgaonkar. Finally, researchers came up with a natural solution using neem (Azadirachta indica) powder as an eco-friendly control measure by identifying ant tunnels along nesting beaches. By maintaining a safe distance from the nest, protective layers were carved out sprayed with neem powder. “We found the solution was 100% effective with not a single case of predation or destruction of eggs during the 2019-20 season at Wayangani Beach. However, the solution is not locally available and a more native eco-friendly measure is being sought under the next phase of the study,” said Korgaonkar. The Mangrove Foundation said methods suggested would be implemented wherever such predation was observed along the state coastline. “The problem of red ants predating on turtle eggs has been documented at some sites along the Maharashtra coast and this short study shows us that there are some simple biological control methods which can be employed to deal with this problem. Thus in the future, such measures will be used to counter these problems,” said Manas Manjrekar, deputy director, Mangrove Foundation. Though the second phase for the research work – identifying a locally available natural solution for the problem – was delayed due to Covid-19, researchers will recommence the study during the 2020-21 nesting season. “Our research has been the first evidence of red ant predation on sea turtles reported from India. Being a vulnerable species, such behavioural research has assumed top priority for conservationists worldwide, furthering the effectiveness of conservation management,” said Vartak, adding, “Once the study resumes we hope to develop a low-cost, locally available natural solution to prevent ant attacks on the vulnerable hatchlings.” Among the smallest of the world’s sea turtles Named for the greenish colour of its skin and shell, Olive Ridley sea turtles are found in warm tropical currents of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. Along with the Kemp’s Ridley, they are known to be among the smallest of the sea turtles globally. They are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and classified as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List and travel thousands of kilometres in the ocean, with only the females returning to their original nesting sites within a minimum of two years to lay eggs. After a 45-65 day incubation period, juvenile turtles break the eggshell, dig through the sand, and crawl to the sea. While females return to their place of birth, males never return to land. Female turtles use geomagnetic imprinting (navigating to their geographic area of origin using magnetic field) and olfactory (relating to the sense of smell) cues to find their natal areas. According to the mangrove cell, only two-fifths of all Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings made their way to the sea in Maharashtra in 2019-20 with 12,149 hatchlings survived from 27,254 eggs during the period, accounting for a survival rate of 44.5%. In 2018-19, the survival rate was 54.4% with 12,601 hatchlings that made it to sea from 23,131 eggs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/researchers-come-up-with-natural-solution-to-prevent-red-ants-from-attacking-olive-ridley-turtle-nests-in-maharashtra/story-VLP2tWIjnjUz1dhvuEU4pM.html
20-12-2020||City||Haryana BJP leaders protesting over SYL face farmers’ wrath||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders protesting in support of the farm laws and demanding Haryana’s share of water from Punjab through the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, faced the farmers’ wrath on Saturday, with the latter accusing the saffron party of trying to divide farmers of the two states.In Fatehabad, farmers uprooted a tent put up by the party workers for their day-long hunger strike. BJP district chief Baldev Groha and other party leaders were present when the farmers showed them black flags, raised slogans and uprooted the tent. They left the venue under tight police security.In Karnal, soon after the BJP leaders assembled at their venue in Sector-12 to participate in the strike, a group of farmers took out a protest march against them. After a high-voltage drama, lasting more than an hour, police managed to convince them to move near the mini-secretariat for their dharna.Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia’s son Chand Bhatia also faced a blockade by farmers when he was going to attend a programme in Assandh town. He was allowed to pass only after he “apologised” to the agitators, who claimed that his MP father had not raised their concerns in Parliament.At Dadri, farmers entered at the park where the BJP workers protesting, with the help of a ladder which they used to climb down from an adjacent building. Raising slogans, the farmers disrupted the saffron party’s protest.Satpal Kaushik, a farmer leader from Karnal, said, “These protests by the BJP are aimed at creating a rift between farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who are jointly leading the agitation against the three black laws passed by the Centre.”Hisar MP skips protestThe state BJP had announced to hold demonstrations in all district headquarters. Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, whose father and former Union minister Birender Singh had extended support to farmers on Friday, skipped the protest on Saturday. Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal, Fatehabad MLA Duda Ram and Ratia MLA Laxman Napa also did not join the protest.In Bhiwani, the protest was led by state agriculture minister JP Dalal while Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar observed the strike in Jhajjar. Dalal said, “Farmers from Southern Haryana have been waiting for SYL water for many years. The Haryana farmers should list this issue before the union water and resources minister Gajendra Singh, along with their other demands regarding three farm laws. We are hoping that the farmers and government will find an amicable solution in the seventh round of meeting,” he added.On the Fatehabad tent uprooting incident, BJP state chief OP Dhankar said farmers cannot be behind such activities, it may have been carried out by miscreants.In a video message, Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry of the Congress hit out at the BJP for trying to divide farmers of Punjab and Haryana. “The BJP can do one thing, and that is to create a division among farmers. But the farmers have seen their real face. I want to ask the Haryana agriculture minister why did his party fail to take a single step to bring the SYL water to Haryana despite being in power for six years? The minister should ask his government to send water in the Hansi-Butana canal so that farmers of southern Haryana can benefit,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-bjp-leaders-protesting-over-syl-face-farmers-wrath/story-gAgsgYVz34SxpCO8Xnc2oO.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,970 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 1,892,707||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 3,970 new Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths, taking the tally to 1,892,707, and toll to 48,648. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is 2.57%. A total of 1,781,841 patients have recovered so far, of which, 3,119 patients recovered on Saturday. The recovery rate in the state is 94.14%. Maharashtra presently has 61,095 active Covid-19 cases. Of the 74 deaths, 33 were in the past 48 hours, 15 were in the past week and 26 were in the period before last week. According to the daily analysis of Covid-19 cases by Maharashtra’s Medical Education and Drugs Department as of Saturday morning 10 am, the state has the highest number of cumulative Covid-19 cases in the country.So far, Maharashtra has conducted 12,059,235 Covid tests, of which 62,611 were in the past 24 hours. The positivity rate in the state is 15.69%. Positivity rate is calculated as the number of cases corresponding to the tests done so far. The area under jurisdiction of Pune district contributes the highest number of active cases in the state at 17,213, followed by Thane district at 10,599, then Mumbai, at 7,725, and Nagpur district at 4,376 active infections. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid task force formed by the Maharashtra government, told HT earlier this week, “There are some characteristics peculiar to Maharashtra that led to a higher number of cases and deaths in the state. These is high population density in urban parts of the state such as Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, higher mobility, and greater instances of comorbidities in the population such as hypertension, diabetes, due to lifestyles. Having said this, Maharashtra has managed to bring down its CFR, and growth rate of cases in the state. We have also not seen the surge we expected post Diwali, which is a good sign.” While on December 1, Maharashtra reported 4,930 fresh cases, on December 2 it reported 5,600 cases. One week later, on December 7, Maharashtra reported 3,075cases, on December 8, it reported 4,026 cases. By mid- December, on December 15, Maharashtra reported 3,442 cases. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance office,r said, “The figures showED that the situation in the state is improving. Despite this, we have kept up efforts such as actively testing maximum number of suspected cases, identifying ‘super-spreaders’ among frontliners, traders, vendors, who work closely with the community, to check the spread of the infection.”When asked about Maharashtra having the highest number of cases in the country, Dr Awate said, “Maharashtra had a large number of cases in the beginning of the outbreak, so we are carrying that baggage forward, when being compared to other states. However, it is not just with Covid-19 infection numbers, but also swine flu, dengue numbers in the past decade, Maharashtra has had higher cases. This is because the state has sharp surveillance, and we are very alert. We also do not hide any numbers or facts.” Mumbai on Saturday recorded 632 infections and 10 deaths, taking the tally to 286,264 and toll to 10,980. Among the municipal corporations around Mumbai, Thane Municipal Corporation recorded 109 cases and 2 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 54,951, and toll to 1,195; Navi Mumbai recorded 88 cases and 2 deaths, taking the tally to 52,396 and toll to 1,059; Kalyan-Dombivili Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 113 cases and one death, taking the tally to 59,516 and toll to 979; Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation recorded 47 new cases and no new deaths, taking the tally to 26,352 and toll to 638; Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation recorded 26 new cases and no new deaths, taking the tally to 30,044 and toll is at 587. Pune Municipal Corporation on Saturday recorded 172 cases and 3 deaths, taking the tally to 86,154 and toll to 2,039. Nagpur Municipal Corporation recorded 344 new cases on Saturday, and one new death due to Covid-19, taking the tally to 108,019 and toll to 2,476||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-970-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-1-892-707/story-B7ulwMeKx3M7qrqv9it9iI.html
20-12-2020||City||3 friends die after police van hits their car in Karnal||Three persons were killed after a police vehicle rammed into their car on the Assandh-Kaithal road near Mardanheri village of Karnal district on late Friday night. The two cops in the police vehicle also sustained injuries and were admitted to a private hospital. They were identified as driver Ved Prakash and Sumit Kumar.The deceased have been identified as Prayag, 20, Kartik, 26, of Safidon town of Jind district, and Sawindar Singh, 32, of Deora village of Kaithal. As per information, Sawindar was to get married on December 25 and the trio was returning from Kaithal after wedding shopping when the fateful incident took place. The occupants of the police vehicle, meanwhile, were on their way to receive the new Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan, who had recently been transferred from Kaithal.Cops associated with the investigation said that a tractor-trailer that was ahead of the police van had applied brakes suddenly, prompting the van driver to swerve in order to avoid a collision with it. However, the van ended up hitting a car coming from the opposite direction, killing the three friends.On getting information, a police team rushed to the spot and took the victims to the hospital. Assandh police station in-charge Jagbir Singh said the bodies have been handed over to family members after post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-friends-die-after-police-van-hits-their-car-in-karnal/story-ChqdcqH4Id8xijlFTK9OlI.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hafed exploring rice, mustard export opportunities to Africa||The Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (Hafed) is exploring opportunities to export rice and mustard oil to Malawi and other African countries. Hafed managing director, DK Behera said this after a meeting with Malawi’s High Commissioner to India, George Mkondiwa on Saturday. An official spokesperson said the High Commissioner assured that mutual cooperation between Malawi and Hafed for the export of rice and mustard oil would be materialised in near future. During the meeting, a wide range of issues including procurement of food grains, processing, marketing of various consumer products were discussed. Behera said that the High Commissioner also asked Hafed to explore a possibility of rice and mustard oil export to other African countries as the production cost of Hafed consumer products seems to be on the lower side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hafed-exploring-rice-mustard-export-opportunities-to-africa/story-iH7GBz7mWSISQhZUOC19WO.html
20-12-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking news||Balbir Singh Sidhu has first and last word on home turf “Let our health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who is also the local MLA, speak first,” said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, interrupting education minister Vijay Inder Singla, who was managing the stage at the launch of the second phase of the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme in Mohali on Friday. Singla had just invited state Congress president Sunil Jakhar to address the gathering when the chief minister chose to give Sidhu a chance to speak first at the function at the government school at Behlolpur village. Capt Amarinder Singh agreed to Sidhu’s request to upgrade the school to senior secondary level and name it after 1971 war martyr and Vir Chakra awardee Captain Ami Singh. A sum of Rs 25 lakh will also be given to the Government Senior Secondary School for Girls at Sohana. Panchkula DCP’s noble deed wins praise Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa believes in leading by example. The other day, he helped save the life of an accident victim. Handa was leaving work for lunch when he came across a youngster who had met with an accident and was bleeding. The DCP provided him first aid and rushed him to hospital in his vehicle. The officer’s noble deed is winning him appreciation. In defence of the defence minister’s address The inaugural function of 4th edition of the Military Literature Festival, which is being held virtually this time in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, witnessed a technical glitch at a crucial point when defence minister Rajnath Singh was about to begin his address. When Rajnath Singh started to speak, the technical team did not unmute him and after a few seconds the connection went off. Later in the evening, the organisers sent a press release with Rajnath Singh’s speech. PU security guards to rescue of campus strays Security guards at Panjab University have been feeding stray dogs ever since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The initiative was taken after the campus was closed and the shops shut, leaving no source of food for the stray dogs. The guards are supported by students of PU’s centre for social work. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-d3XcfUqi5RzUDT6lP7pNJM.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man held with countrymade weapon||Sunny, alias Galiya, 29, of Sector 25, Chandigarh, was arrested with a countrymade weapon and live cartridge following a tip-off near the Sector 25/38 light point. He was produced in court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody. He told police that he is into property dealing and bought the weapon for ₹3,000 from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for his safety following a brawl in 2016. A case has been registered under the Arms Act.Vehicles damaged in DadumajraVehicles were damaged and stones were pelted on the house of a local BJP leader in Dadumajra. The incident that was reported on Friday night was recorded on CCTV installed nearby. The accused, however, fled after the vandalism. Narinder Chaudhary who lives near Valmiki Mandir in Dadumajra alleged that at about midnight on Friday, three to four youths deflated his vehicle. The accused damaged two more vehicles parked nearby.Three men arrested for gamblingPolice recovered ₹13,471 after arresting three men for gambling in different parts of the city. They have been identified as Sita Ram, who was arrested in Sector 26; Rakesh Kumar, who was gambling near the community centre in Manimajra; and Mohit, who was held at Ram Darbar. Cases were registered under the Gambling Act.Two held with illicit liquor Two men were arrested for carrying illicit liquor in Chandigarh. Deepak Kumar of Raipur Khurd was held following recovery of 30 quarters of countrymade liquor from his possession near EWS Colony, Mauli Jagran. Pankaj Kumar of Phase 2, Ram Darbar, was arrested with 58 bottles of illicit rum at Hallomajra. They were booked under the Excise Act and released on bail. In another case, Vivek Sharma of Sector 43 was arrested for public drinking near the Sector 42/43 chowk.Drug supplier held with 20 vials in MohaliA Mataur resident was arrested by the special task force, Ropar range, after he was found carrying 20 vials of drugs without any prescription at a naka near the Lakhnaur light point in Mohali. Identified as Gurinder Singh, 26, he was on a bike, which has been impounded. STF officials said he was on his way to Landran to supply the drugs to his customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-held-with-countrymade-weapon/story-FHvRp98axLTLOEfgItSnZN.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Vij feeling better: Hospital||Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Medanta hospital in Gurugram, is feeling “better” and he “rested well” on Saturday, the hospital said. In a media bulletin, Dr A K Dubey, medical superintendent, Medanta hospital, informed that Vij has been talking to the members of the medical team.“Though he is still in the ICU on High Flow Nasal Cannula on oxygen support, doctors are satisfied with his response to the treatment.“His vital parameters are stable and he continues to be monitored round the clock, Dubey said.Vij (67) tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5. Initially, he was admitted to the civil hospital at Ambala and later, shifted to the PGIMS-Rohtak, before being hospitalised at Medanta. On Saturday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar visited him in the hospital to enquire about his well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-minister-vij-feeling-better-hospital/story-kcjTmUbrBXpcz72vJ6JxNO.html
20-12-2020||City||Syed Mushtaq Ali T20: Manpreet Gony dons bowling coach hat for Punjab team||Manpreet Gony will always be remembered for his stupendous bowling show in the inaugural Indian Premier League (IPL) in 2008 playing for Chennai Super Kings which eventually led to his India debut. The lanky speedster who bid goodbye to international cricket in 2019 is now ready to don the hat of a bowling coach with his state Punjab senior team. While the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) has announced Munish Bali as the head coach, Gony has been named as the bowling coach for the season. Gony, who recently got back from Sri Lanka after playing for Colombo Kings franchisee in the Lanka Premier League (LPL), is fine-tuning the fast bowlers at the ongoing state camp at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium.A meeting of the PCA senior selection committee was held on December 16 during which appointments of coaching and supporting staff for senior men’s upcoming season were made. “It’s a new role for me. I worked with young Punjab fast bowlers three months ago during a camp. I’m looking forward to using my experience with the boys and helping my state during matches. We have some exciting talent in the team. It would be interesting to see them shine,” said 36-year-old Gony, who has played 61 first-class matches and bagged 196 wickets. He has played for T20 Global Canada League and Qatar T10 League.The senior selection committee includes chairman Arun Sharma, Chandan Madan, Love Abhilish, Sameer Mehra and Balbir Singh. The meeting was also attended by Puneet Bali, PCA secretary, and Surjit Rai, PCA joint secretary. It was also decided that Gaurav Sharma will be appointed as the physiotherapist, Sachin Kalra as the physical trainer (on call for camps), Avinash as ball thrower and Girish Bhanot as manager-cum-coordinator, Jitender Billa as fitness trainer, Rahul as masseur and Amit Kumar as video analyst.As many as 32 probables are attending a preparatory camp at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. Punjab will travel to Bengaluru for their Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy matches. The team leaves on January 1.Speaking on the appointments, Puneet Bali said, “PCA has faith in the appointed coaching and supporting staff. Practice matches are being conducted during the ongoing preparatory camp. We are waiting for BCCI approval for Yuvraj Singh and Barinder Sran to represent Punjab again. All eyes will be on the tournament in Ludhiana next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-manpreet-gony-dons-bowling-coach-hat-for-punjab-team/story-lHTFKwzxx4oaAC9hvWQDfM.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Sonia Gandhi’s letter to Uddhav Thackeray brings unease between Congress-NCP to the fore||A day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to fulfil promises made to socially backward classes, the unease between Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) was visible even as the Congress insisted that Gandhi’s letter should be seen as dialogue and not confrontation. On the other hand, Congress on Saturday launched an attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), accusing the party of working against the interests of backward classes. Significantly, the three ruling partners, Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, have decided to contest elections to gram panchayats in January separately, although Thackeray had earlier announced that the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will contest all local polls together as a coalition. The letter from Gandhi, which made the fissures in MVA visible, came at a time when there is unease in the Congress over the way the government is being run. Most Congress leaders in the state think that the government is being run by Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, and that Congress doesn’t have any scope to decide policies of the government.Congress leaders in the past have expressed unhappiness over the lack of funds provided to local bodies controlled by the Congress. More recently, energy minister Nitin Raut’s proposal to provide relief to consumers on inflated electricity bills was shot down by the finance department headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar as the state’s financial condition was precarious to allow to let go of ₹60,000 crore in pending bills. A senior Congress leader said, “For the past few months, our ministers such as Ashok Chavan and Vijay Vadettiwar have publicly expressed unhappiness over funding of certain schemes or plans or even local bodies where our party is in power.” He added, “It is no coincidence that the state finance department is headed by NCP’s Ajit Pawar.”NCP minister and spokesperson Nawab Malik said the letter could be the outcome of a lack of communication within the party or differences between its leaders in the state. “The functioning of various programmes and schemes of the government is interrupted due to the pandemic and lockdown, which has adversely affected state’s revenue. Its two senior ministers in the government know it. Besides, the tribal development department is headed by a Congress minister. The party’s leaders should have asked the minister what is the reality,” said Malik.State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday dismissed the opposition’s criticism that Gandhi’s letter indicated that all was not well with the government and it is dysfunctional. Thorat, the revenue minister in the Sena-led MVA government, said that the letter was a dialogue and not a sign of resentment. He also said the Congress would consider the opinion of Ajit Pawar, who is NCP representative in MVA’s coordination committee, and not Malik’s. While Thackeray has not reacted to the letter yet, Sena has welcomed the same and said that the points in the CMP (common minimum programme) will be implemented gradually in the coming year of the government.Thorat said, “Congress’s stand has always been in favour of the upliftment of the poor and deprived sections of the society and Gandhi’s letter was part of a dialogue on how welfare measures can be taken. There is no resentment,’’ he said. ‘’A CMP for the welfare of different sections of the society is the agenda of the MVA and Uddhav Thackeray is working in that direction. Some issues might have gone on the back-burner due to the pandemic. But the government is slowly getting back on track and focusing on the CMP,’’ Thorat added.Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut denied that there is any “pressure politics” by the Congress on the MVA government as the media is speculating. Speaking to reporters on Saturday in Mumbai, Raut said, “If the Congress party has brought forward an agenda, which is in the interest of people of Maharashtra and the state, then it should be welcomed. There are no pressure politics.”Meanwhile, the MVA allies, who tasted electoral success in the recently held legislative council elections, are not going to contest the upcoming elections of 14,234 gram pachayats in an alliance. Thackeray had said that the three parties will contest all local body elections in an alliance, but on Saturday, the Sena boss told party functionaries that the party will put candidates in almost all the gram panchayats and asked them to win maximum gram panchayats. A similar stand to bag most gram panchayat seats was taken by Thorat, while NCP state president Jayant Patil said the party never gives ticket to candidates, indicating that there will be no alliance.The gram panchayat elections are slated for January 15, and all the four political parties are gearing up for the local polls to see their individual strength and acceptability after the shift in the political dynamic that happened in November 2019 with the formation of MVA. Of the over 28,000 gram panchayats, elections to 14,234 of them in 34 districts were announced by the State Election Commission last week.The gram panchayat elections are not fought on party symbol but by forming a panel at the local level.“We are going to ensure that Congress controls most number of gram panchayat and we are confident that the Congress will get big success at the gram panchayat level,” Thorat said in a statement. Patil, meanwhile, said, “No party, and particularly NCP, does not contest gram panchayat on a party ticket and therefore parties contesting gram panchayat polls does not arise.” Thackeray has been holding meeting with party functionaries for the past three days over the preparation for the polls. He met with Sena district presidents and directed them to win maximum number of gram panchayats. At a meeting with deputy leaders and sampark pramukhs of the party held on Saturday at his official resident Varsha, Thackeray told them to take the work carried out by the Uddhav Thackeray-led government to the people in villages. A senior functionary, who was present in the meeting said, “Uddhav ji has said that the party will put up candidates on mostly all 14,000 odd gram panchayat. His instructions to all district president and contact heads was to convey work done by government during Nisarg cyclone and other natural calamities that struck the state. He has directed us to win maximum gram panchayats.”Meanwhile, addressing a press conference in Nagpur, state energy minister and chairman of AICC SC cell,, Nitin Raut insisted that the Congress president’s letter was indication of the party’s social agenda. He said Gandhi’s “revolutionary letter” will act as the guiding factor for the welfare of SC/ST communities and other backward classes under the CMP of the ruling alliance in the state. Raut trained guns at the BJP government in the Centres and the previous state government and said, “BJP governments in state and at the Centre have been conspiring to deny chances to backward classes in jobs and self employment.” He further added, “The road to progress of SC/ST and backward classes was hindered by the BJP. When the Dalit and backward classes became IAS and IFS officers, and came at par with them, they disliked it. When they became business-owners they did not like it. The Central government conducted direct recruitment of officers at joint secretary level. You will not find one person from backward classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sonia-gandhi-s-letter-to-uddhav-thackeray-brings-unease-between-congress-ncp-to-the-fore/story-DckQMSyitCggqsGo8Drq3L.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway to approach offices to “encourage” staff to travel on Mumbai’s AC local trains||After receiving a poor response from passengers on its newly-launched air-conditioned (AC) local services, the Central Railway (CR) has decided to approach offices, whose employees are permitted to travel on trains, to encourage their staffers to undertake the journey on the new locals, with an aim to increase the passenger footfall. It is a rare step for the railways, as it never had to popularise its suburban train services owing to the high demand. CR in its appeal will inform office-goers that AC train journeys will cut travel time and cost lesser as compared to cabs.On Thursday, CR had introduced 10 AC train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan station on the slow line. The new services operate from Monday to Saturday. However, the services received poor response as only around 50 passengers travelled on AC locals on the first three days. On Saturday until 8pm, only seven passengers had travelled by the AC locals.“We will use different methods to increase passengers on AC local trains. The journey between CSMT and Kalyan is affordable and time-saving as compared to that by road. We are confident that passengers will increase in the coming days,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.While the fare of a one-way journey between CSMT and Kalyan by a cab costs around ₹1,482, the monthly season pass of the AC local between the two locations is ₹2,135. The journey by train takes 90 minutes, as opposed to 150 minutes by cab. Passenger associations believe that the railways will witness a rise in commuters travelling in AC locals after trains are made available for all citizens. The association has also asked CR to change the timings of the trains, operate AC locals as additional services and increase their frequency. “Mumbaiites have witnessed a lot of difficulties during road travel in the past eight months. There will definitely be an increase in the number of AC train passengers after locals restart for all citizens. The timings of the trains will have to be changed according to peak hours. AC trains should be operated as additional services,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.“We are taking feedback from passengers and changes will be made after it is completed,” said a senior CR official.Currently, around 5 lakh passengers travel on CR’s mainline every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-approach-offices-to-encourage-staff-to-travel-on-mumbai-s-ac-local-trains/story-jerr6anABTLdk5FH9A2sMK.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival: Experts call for focus on developing strategically important technologies||There is no wisdom in developing all technologies indigenously and India should prioritise what is strategically important and focus on it was the general consensus of defence and industry experts during a virtual discussion at Military Literature Festival on Saturday. Moderated by MV Kotwal, member of L&T board, the panel comprised MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Brig Suresh Gangadharan, Harpal Singh from the corporate sector and journalists Rahul Bedi and Vishnu Som.Chandrasekhar said that we cannot let the current structure of lab-led development continue and it has to be a much more vibrant ecosystem of ideas. Brig Gangadharan advocated standardisation and scalability of defence inventory and called for seamless integration of military, R&D, academia, and industry.Harpal Singh put forth the citizen’s perspective on national security while Rahul Bedi opined that multiplicity of policies and agencies in defence manufacture leads to a lot of confusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/military-literature-festival-experts-call-for-focus-on-developing-strategically-important-technologies/story-faY0LeL8D2PABvIWiNMmxM.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||Ashok Jagtap appointed new Mumbai Congress chief||The Congress leadership on Saturday appointed Ashok Jagtap as Mumbai Congress president and Charan Singh Sapra as working president. Jagtap succeeded veteran leader Eknath Gaikwad, who was handling the party unit as its acting president after Milind Deora quit as the city unit chief, following the party’s defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.With elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) 14 months away, the city unit of the party had to have a chief as it had been without a full-time president for more than a year. Jagtap, who is known as Bhai Jagtap in political circles, is a trade union leader-turned politician and former legislator, while Sapra began with the party as a student leader. Jagtap is also known as a Maratha community leaderHK Patil, the party’s in-charge in Maharashtra, had recently held discussions with city and state leaders on selecting the new city unit chief to revive the party organisation ahead of the 2022 Mumbai civic polls. Earlier this week, all key Mumbai Congress leaders were summoned to Delhi by the Congress’s top brass to discuss the issue. The party also employed technology to get feedback from functionaries in the city to appoint the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee chief. A name for the next chief was sought through an interactive voice response call with its functionaries. Besides the feedback from around 450 Congress functionaries via a call, other inputs were also sought from various quarters before the decision was finalised, senior Congress functionaries said.A senior party leader said the leadership decided to appoint a Marathi face as its Mumbai unit head. The party leadership has also tried to accommodate different factions within the party by appointing their leaders in key positions. Mohammad Arif Naseem Khan, a former minister, will head the campaign committee, while Amarjit Singh Manhans will head the coordination committee. Suresh Shetty has been appointed head of manifesto and publication committee. Khan, Manhans and Shetty were aspirants for the city unit chief’s post. Jagtap was not available for his reaction. Sapra said: “Our priority is to rejuvenate the party’s organisation in Mumbai and ensure the party wins the upcoming Mumbai civic polls.”Mumbai-based political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the appointment of Jagtap could be a fresh start for the party, which has had a bad run, with respect to its city chief, in the past few years. “Bhai Jagtap has solid grass-root level contacts, a strong organisational background and good understanding of city politics as he was a trade unionist. A reason for his selection could be because he is not seen attached to any factions within the city Congress outfit. It is a good start for Congress and Jagtap,” he said.However, Jagtap’s trade unionist background could be a hindrance for him to connect with the corporate class in Mumbai. “Since the time of SK Patil to Murli Deora to Gurudas Kamat to Milind Deora, all Mumbai Congress bosses had excellent relations with the Mumbai Inc. It will have to be seen how Jagtap can manage to connect with corporates, since he was always on the other side divide, given his background,” Jondhale added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ashok-jagtap-appointed-new-mumbai-congress-chief/story-T2daVWYrTFiWqYpLnraCuM.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana relaxes limit on gatherings, allows 200 people for indoor events, 500 for outdoors||The Haryana government on Saturday relaxed the limit on gatherings, allowing a maximum of 200 persons in closed spaces and 500 persons in open spaces.Until now, the state government had been allowing not more than 50 persons for indoor events and 100 persons for outdoors in six national capital region districts -Gurugram, Rewari, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonepat and Hisar. For the remaining districts, the gathering had been limited to 100 persons for indoor functions and 200 persons for the outdoor, in an order issued in November. As per a fresh order issued by the state disaster management authority late Saturday evening, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons (i.e. 200 persons in the hall capacity of 400) in closed spaces. In open spaces, gatherings will be allowed with the ceiling of 500 persons with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser, the order said. The government has also directed that the organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, and political functions and other gatherings shall take prior permission of district magistrates. The district magistrates will issue permissions after seeking the necessary no-objection certificate from the departments concerned, including the police. The deputy commissioners will also constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing these directions. They have been asked to ensure extensive checking and action against the violators as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-relaxes-limit-on-gatherings-allows-200-people-for-indoor-events-500-for-outdoors/story-8Yb93KR8OhAu1E4MrjWuYK.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Active count of Covid cases drops below 500 in Chandigarh||For the first time since August 4, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh dropped below 500, even as the total crossed 19,000 on Saturday.The number stands at 494, which is 2.6% of 19,044 people who have tested positive since the first infection was reported on March 18.In comparison, the number of active cases is 1,928 in Mohali, which is as high as 11% of the total reported in the district so far. In Panchkula, the figure is comparable to Chandigarh’s, at 306 (3.2%).Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 65 new cases on Saturday besides the death of a 57-year-old man from Sector 44, which took the toll to 306 (1.6%). As many as 18,244 (95.8%) patients have recovered. Mohali reported three deaths and 60 new cases while 146 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of 17,463 people who have tested positive so far, 15,210 (87.1%) have recovered and 325 (1.9%) have died.In Panchkula, 34 people tested positive, taking the total to 9,677. While 9,233 (95.4%) patients have been cured, 138 (1.4%) have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/active-count-of-covid-cases-drops-drop-below-500-in-chandigarh/story-9toLvssgLRWD0dA0MQTzZL.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayoral election to be held on January 8||Chandigarh will get a new mayor on January 8, as the UT administration on Saturday notified the date for the election.This will be the last mayoral election of the current House of the municipal corporation, which will complete its five-year term at the end of 2021.The mayor holds one-year term and is elected every year from among the elected representatives. The post is open for candidates from the general category, unlike last time when it was reserved for female candidates. The new mayor will replace incumbent Raj Bala Malik.There are a total of 27 votes, of which 26 are elected councillors. One vote is of the city MP, who is an ex-officio member. With only 14 votes to win the election, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is placed comfortably with 20 councillors in the House. The Congress has five and Shiromani Akali Dal has one councillor. Along with mayor, the elections of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor will also be held. Nominated councillor Ajay Dutta will preside over it.Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said the candidate will be announced in the first week of January after consultations with the party’s higher forum. Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla, who is the leader of opposition, said the party will contest on all three seats. “We have 20 days to hold meetings and strategise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayoral-election-to-be-held-on-january-8/story-DyPan9YFTNe1odiEf35mXK.html
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER gives patients right to seek second opinion||A patient has the right to seek a second opinion from an appropriate clinician of their choice, for which the hospital has to provide all records and information available with the treating doctor, an updated charter adopted by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, states. A charter of patients’ rights and responsibilities is to be observed by the institute, according to communication from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. It will be the hospital’s responsibility to provide adequate relevant information about nature, cause of illness, proposed investigations, expected results of treatment, possible complications and expected costs, states the communication.Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said the updated charter puts focus on the patient’s rights to have knowledge about all the available treatment options.“It is about empowering patients in the ambit of ethics that the medical professional has to follow. They must have knowledge about the nature of disease and expected results of treatment. It is a patient’s right to ask necessary and appropriate questions regarding illness and we are emphasising on it,” he said. The patient will also have the right to access a copy of the case papers, patient records, investigation reports, and detailed bill, and also to choose alternative treatment if options are available.Other rights and responsibilitiesThe hospital will also ensure the presence of another woman during the physical examination of a woman patient by a male practitioner.“There will be no discrimination in treatment based upon his or her illness or conditions including HIV status or other health condition, religion, ethnicity, gender (including transgender), age, sexual orientation, linguistic or geographical/social origins,” the charter further states. The patient’s responsibilities, on the other hand, will include providing all health-related information, cooperating with doctors during examination and treatment, following all instructions, paying hospital’s agreed fees on time, respecting the dignity of doctors and other hospital staff, and never resorting to violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-gives-patients-right-to-seek-second-opinion/story-LMUVQkhBOjrV1J1HFeDDdP.html
20-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: South Korean national among four arrested under anti-conversion law||Four persons, including a foreign national, were arrested Saturday for allegedly pressurising two families in Greater Noida for religious conversion. According to the police, the four suspects had allegedly been visiting the two families for the last six months and supporting them financially, and recently, had started pressuring them for conversion. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer Surajpur police station, said that the prime accused, Mu Cu Lee, 50, belongs to Seoul in South Korea and is allegedly involved in missionary activities in Greater Noida. “The woman had been visiting India for some years and getting people to convert after luring them with financial benefits. She is associated with some missionary organisation. She had already converted three – Seema, 25, a resident of Chapartala in Prayagraj and Sandhya, 24, Koraon in Prayagraj. She had also coaxed a man, Umesh Kumar, 30, who worked as Lee’s driver, for religious conversion,” he said. The three have are also accused in the case and have been arrested.Tripathi said that while Lee lived in a high-rise society in Sector Beta 2 area, the three lived in a rented accommodation in Malakpur village in Surajpur. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that Lee had allegedly identified two Indian families in Surajpur Kasba for this purpose. “She was providing rations and other assistance to the two families, since they were poor. She was also asking them to visit Church on Sundays,” he said. Locals said that the four persons had allegedly reached the victims’ house at 11 am in a car on Saturday. They allegedly held two of the family members and started chanting some verses from religious scripture, the victims said. “The suspects also told the victims to remove idols of their religion from their houses. This led to a heated argument and some locals gathered at the spot,” the victims alleged to the police. A police team reached the spot after getting a call from a local. “When we questioned the victims, they admitted that the suspects were pressuring them for conversion. We then arrested the four suspects,” they said. Police have registered a case against the four under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code and also under Section 3/5(1) of newly enacted the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. The four suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-south-korean-national-among-four-arrested-under-anti-conversion-law/story-SXRfjdEdBRucuOEw2x3unL.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Roof of loft collapses in Vishnu Garden; 4 killed||Four people, including three women, were killed and at least two others were injured — one of them critically — after the roof of a loft constructed on the ground floor of a three-storey building collapsed in west Delhi’s Vishnu Garden near Khyala on Saturday morning.South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) officials said the factory was running illegally and the licence inspector has been suspended. The SDMC in its statement said that the factory building is 20-25 year old and located in the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation’s (DSIIDC) governed redevelopment area.“The department raised discrepancies when the building where incident took place, had applied for factory license. Their application for factory license was on hold and it was running illegally,” SDMC said in the statement.The SDMC said that a loft that was made inside the room by laying red stones upon the iron angles was laden heavily with materials. “Due to the massive weight of the materials stored on the loft, the iron angles bent and the whole materials fell upon people sitting in the room,” the south corporation said.Police said all six people killed or injured were migrant workers had just began their work, when the roof caved in around 9.30am due to the overload of hundreds of kilos of raw and manufactured iron materials that were stuffed in 80-100 plastic sacks.A case of death by negligence was registered at the Khyala police station and the factory owner, Mahender Pal,35, who also owns the building, has been arrested, said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Subodh Kumar Goswami.Delhi fire services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call about the house collapse in RZ-block in Vishnu Garden. Four fire tenders, along with rescue teams, were dispatched. Teams of national disaster response force (NDRF), Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA), civil defence and CATS ambulances also rushed to the mishap spot.“Six people, who were trapped under the debris, were rescued with the help of locals and rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where four of them were declared brought dead. It’s a 60 square yard factory building, which was also being used for storing metal items,” said Garg.The victims were identified as Guddi,45, China Devi,36, Twinkle,25, and Ramesh,35. The two injured were Ravi,20, and Guddu Kumar,18. Additional DCP Goswami said that the concerned sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) was informed for further legal proceedings.A senior fire officer who was leading the rescue operation said that since the factory building was in a narrow lane, the fire tenders could not reach there. He said that the building only had one entry and exit and it was partially blocked because of the metal items and debris.“There were five big and small lathe machines just on the ground floor. Prime facie, it appears that they all were functioning. The shacking of the machines and the overload of metal items may have led to the roof collapse. No fire safety arrangements were found in the building,” he said.Workers and locals became the first responderAs the mishap took place, around 20 people, including a dozen workers working on the building’s first floor and locals, rushed to save the lives of the six trapped workers. The collapse of hundreds of kilos of debris led to a power cut and created a cloud of dust, rendering the first responders blind for at least a couple of minutes.“The entire area was dark and we were not able to see anything. Since we did not hear anyone’s scream from inside, our first impression that everyone was dead. But as we began our rescue , we found Ravi lying near lathe machine, crying in pain and asking for help. He was not able to move his body because of fractures in his back,” said Raju Singh, a local resident.Another resident, Deepak Yadav, said that it took almost half an hour to rescue the trapped workers, despite 20 people worked together and removing the debris. “By the time the rescue teams reached, we had already rescued four people from the debris. The faces of two women were crushed beyond identification,” added Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-killed-after-roof-of-loft-collapses-in-vishnu-garden-building/story-kg1Jtop3mYrEeJlnv2b6QP.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Court takes cognisance of offence of sedition against Sharjeel Imam||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognizance of a supplementary charge sheet filed against JNU student Sharjeel Imam in connection to a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC at Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University (AMU).Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) near Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) in December last year.Imam is being probed for his alleged inflammatory speech at Jamia on December 13 and subsequently on January 16 at AMU, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat took cognizance of the offence for sedition (124A), promoting religious enmity (153A), 153B (assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (circulation of certain statement, rumours etc) of the Indian Penal Code against Imam while noting that sanction has been granted by the Delhi government under the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).On July 29, a city court had taken cognizance under charges of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and other charges under the IPC. However, the judge had deferred the cognizance on the section 124A/153A/153B/505 IPC for the want of requisite sanction.On Saturday, the police, through Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad, filed the supplementary charge sheet mentioning the permission granted by the Delhi government for Imam’s prosecution under sedition and promoting religious enmity.Following this, the court said, “The requisite sanction under section 196 CrPC in the form of supplementary charge­sheet has been filed. I have perused the supplementary charge ­sheet. In view of the same, I take cognizance for commission of offence under Section 124A/153A/153B/505 IPC”.The city police’s crime branch had filed the charge sheet in the Patiala House Court on July 27 against Imam in the case registered against him on January 25.The charge sheet has been filed under several relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act including sedition, promoting enmity between groups, and spreading rumors, etc.“In the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA), he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’, thereby disrupting normal life. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he also openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” police had said.In this case Imam has been charged for delivering the ‘inflammatory and seditious’ speech. The officer said that in this same case, police later added sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Imam. Citing the charges against Imam, police had said that the charge sheet filed had mentioned, “In the grab of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA), he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’, thereby disrupting normal life.“He also openly defied the constitution and called it a fascist document. Also, in the name of opposing CAA he also openly propagated blocking North-East states with the rest of the country,” a police officer had said.Imam was allegedly involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges.Separate cases have also been registered against him in Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-takes-cognisance-of-offence-of-sedition-against-sharjeel-imam/story-Amj6l8LL2sHJngUNIza7TN.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi records lowest number of Covid-19 cases in 117 days||Delhi on Saturday conducted more than 87,000 tests, and reported 1,139 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — the lowest in 117 days, since 1,061 cases were reported on August 24. With fewer new cases, Delhi saw its positivity rate drop to 1.30% on Saturday – the second lowest since the government started providing daily data on number of tests and cases since early April. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive among the total tested – has remained below 2% for the fifth day in a row. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is in control if the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for two weeks. In Delhi, it has been 5% or less for 18 days now. This is the first time that Delhi has seen the positivity rate remaining below the 5% threshold for an extended period of time. Previously, it had remained below 6% for 17 days between September-end and mid-October. With fewer new cases and higher number of recoveries, the number of active cases or those with current infection has reduced to 10,358 as on Saturday, lowest since August 10. At its peak, Delhi saw 44,456 concurrent infections in mid-November. Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi has overcome third wave, says KejriwalOn Saturday, the city also reported 32 deaths due to the infection, taking the total toll to 10,251 so far. The seven-day case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – was 2.58% on Saturday. In comparison, Delhi’s 7-day average CFR was 1.55% on November 18 when the city reported the highest number of deaths 1 131. “The declining number of cases and positivity rate is a good sign. With a huge proportion of people having been infected in the city, especially during the surge last month, it seems unlikely that Delhi would see a surge in cases again. Some infections may continue to be reported from pockets where people have been left unexposed. A spike in Delhi is only possible if the virus mutates, if a lot of susceptible people migrate into the city, or years later when there are a substantial number of children who are unexposed to the virus,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. Also Read: India bans Covid-19 rapid antigen test kits by Korean company for 7 daysHe said, even on a national level a surge is unlikely as the infection has already spread even to rural areas. “The virus may just disappear just like its predecessor SARS,” he said. SARS is caused by a similar virus from the coronavirus family that caused an outbreak in 2002-03 that infected about 8,000 people and killed 774 globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-the-lowest-number-of-cases-in-117-days/story-w0SeUdvN6KzRsM0tsiifTN.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi has overcome third wave, says Kejriwal||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi seems to have overcome the third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said that from a peak of around 8,600 fresh cases on a single day, the national Capital’s Covid-19 situation seems to have “significantly” improved, with only 1,133 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. He also claimed that each and every Covid-19 test conducted in Delhi is genuine and that no “fraud” was done, as reported in some other states.“There was a time in November when for every 100 persons tested for Covid-19, over 15 used to test positive. The positivity rate back then was 15.26%. Today, the positivity rate has come down to 1.3%. This is probably the lowest in the country. In today’s health bulletin, which will be released shortly, the total tests done in the past 24 hours were 87,000,” he said.According to Saturday’s bulletin, the positivity rate in Delhi has remained below 2% for the fifth consecutive day. Kejriwal further said there was a time when Delhi had 45,000 active Covid-19 cases, which came down to almost 12,000 on Saturday. The recovery rate of the city is nearly 96.5%. On November 19, Delhi had recorded the highest number of fatalities with 131 deaths in a single day. On Saturday, the number of Covid-19 deaths in a single day was 36.Also Read: Delhi records the lowest number of cases in 117 days“In Delhi, testing was most important for us to fight Covid-19. I am proud of our doctors, officers and other corona warriors who have helped us increase the city’s testing numbers. Till August 20, Delhi used to conduct about 20,000 Covid-19 tests every day. When the second wave came, we increased this to 60,000 tests per day in just about 10 days. When the third wave came, we increased this to 90,000 tests per day. We tested and isolated people, which has been our main Covid-19 management strategy,” Kejriwal said.On December 16, Delhi, for the first time, conducted 90,354 tests for Covid-19 in a single day - the most the city has ever seen. Delhi saw its first wave in June, the second in September and the third in November. The chief minister said the current daily figure of about 90,000 tests per day in the city is not only the highest in the country, but is also one of the highest across the world.“Today, Delhi is conducting 4,500 tests per million of population every day. Uttar Pradesh is testing only 670 people per million daily. Gujarat is testing 850 people per million every day. In the USA, 4,300 tests per million are being conducted every day. England is testing more than Delhi, though, with 4,800 tests per million,” Kejriwal said.Also Read| Covid-19: WHO was warned lives were at risk over yanked report on ItalyHe reiterated that the national Capital was the first in the world to introduce the home isolation system, which reduced the load on the city’s hospitals manifold. He cited the example of New York City, how despite having only around 5,600 new cases per day, it had patients lying in hospital corridors for want of treatment. Kejriwal said that even when Delhi had 8,600 cases on a single day, the city had over 7,000 beds vacant for Covid-19 patients. He also recalled how the city was the first to start plasma therapy which helped keep the number of deaths low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-has-overcome-third-wave-kejriwal-on-covid-19-in-capital/story-M6u0vzFMmsirQwrRwuPnSK.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||‘Special’ langar menu, ardaas, paath on martyrdom day at Singhu border||December 19, the martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth guru of the Sikhs, marked an early start to the day at Singhu border on Saturday, with the morning ardaas (prayer) and a paath (religious readings), followed by the day-long agitation, in between which a special langar was served. The protestors, majority of them Sikhs, also paid a visit to a memorial of Guru Teg Bahadur, located right next to the protest site, where many of the farmers have been camping since the first day of the protest.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Ludhiana said, on Saturday the songs they usually play in the mornings and evenings on loudspeakers were replaced by bhajan and paath. “It is Guru Teg Bahadur’s martyrdom day. Unlike every day, we started our movement with ardaas and paath and in the evening too, a paath was organised specially for the day. The activities throughout the day remained more religious on Saturday than other days,” the farmer leader said.On their next move, Lakhowal said that all farmer leaders are scheduled to meet on Sunday to chalk out strategy further and plan on how to proceed with their demands of getting all three new farm laws repealed.Also Read: PM Modi stresses on India’s economic potential, defends new farm lawsThroughout Saturday, the loudspeakers at the border mostly echoed religious teachings or bhajans. The main stage also, most of the time, remained occupied by those talking about Guru Teg Bahadur’s valour and inspiring the participants of the agitation to not lose patience and stay united until “justice is served”.In the afternoon, langars had a special menu. Maan Singh, a worker at a gurdwara management in Delhi that is running one of the biggest community kitchens at Singhu border, said they served prasad in the morning followed by breakfast. “Since the day started early on Saturday, our kitchen also had to start functioning early. We are serving tea round the clock. On the occasion of the shahid diwas (martyrdom day), we had matar-paneer and sarso ka saag with makki ki roti for lunch. Since this is langar, we do not call it a special meal but today’s menu was a little different than usual,” said Singh, who is managing the biggest langar at the border.He said that on Saturday, the gathering was bigger than other days. “Every day, we serve at least 70,000 to 80,000 meals at our langars. On Saturday, as it was a special occasion, we were expecting a larger turnout. By night, at least one lakh to 1.25 lakh meals will be served here,” he added. The count includes four to five rounds of meals a day, including breakfasts, lunch, dinners and sweet dishes.The site also witnessed a swell in gathering on Saturday as more people visited the border to add their voice to the farmers’ demands. Many said they had come in solidarity while some were here to eat the prasad (religious offering) at the langars (community kitchen).Also Read: Next round of talks with farmers could be held in the next 2-3 days, says Haryana CM after meeting TomarRatanveer Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar, said he had come to visit the protest site on the occasion of Guru Teg Bahadur’s martyrdom day. “We’re here to support the cause for which the farmers have gathered at the doorstep of Delhi. Their demands need to be met. We stand in solidarity with the farmers,” said 28-year-old Singh, who was visiting Singhu border for the third time on Saturday. Chetan Singh, a student of B.Com from the Delhi University, who visited the Singhu Border on Saturday, said this was his first time there. “We had food at the langar. It is one of the best meals I’ve had. No country can run without the support of its farmers,” he said.A group of visually impaired supporters from Punjab also arrived at Singhu border on Saturday to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. Farmer leader Lakhowal said they’re overwhelmed by the support of the differently-abled people and that such voices will only strengthen their fight for a better future for the farmers of the country. The day also saw a blood donation camp at Singhu border. Many farmers and visitors donated blood that the organisers said will be used for the treatment of thalassemia and cancer.Also Read: Farmers uproot BJP workers’ tent in Fatehabad for fast backing farm lawsOne of the organisers, not authorised to speak to the media, said the blood donation camp was from 10 am till 3pm. “The turnout was good. Till afternoon, we received 36 units of blood. We will set up more such camps here as well as at other border areas where farmers are camping,” the organiser said, asking to not be named.Senior police officers said that as the farmers; agitation entered 23rd day on Saturday, it overall remained peaceful. Jitendra Kumar Meena, additional deputy commissioner of police, said nothing untoward was reported. “We maintained sufficient deployment. The situation is being monitored regularly,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-langar-menu-ardaas-paath-on-martyrdom-day-at-singhu-border/story-ODEraH1ZNvx7VTXy6HXpLO.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Take legal recourse, AAP’s Durgesh Pathak tells BJP on MCD funds||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Saturday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporation should take legal recourse if they feel that the Delhi government actually owes them money. “If the BJP thinks that our government has any dues left with the MCD, they should take the court’s route. Instead of putting banners across the city and staging fake protests, they should opt for more lawful means to get the money from the AAP government,” he said on Saturday. “But, they are not doing it because in reality, they are merely playing politics. The AAP government has no dues left with the MCD. I want to tell every teacher, doctor, sanitation worker, or any other employee who works with the MCD that this is the actual truth,” Pathak said. He also took a dig at the Congress for not “saying a word” on the issue raised by the AAP with regard to the alleged Rs 2,400 crore scam where the north municipal corporation waived off the sum for the south civic body over rent of office occupancy at the Civic Centre — the MCD headquarters. “As per some news reports, a municipality school teacher has written a letter to the President of India and has appealed that either his salary be paid immediately or he should be allowed to die by suicide. During these Covid-19 times, they have not been paid their salary for the last 4-5 months. This has worsened their already bad situation. There are high court orders for everyone to see, and none of them mention that the AAP government has any dues left with the MCD,” he said. Hitting back, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP should know that the case related to MCDs funds is still in the Delhi high court. “AAP’s Pathak should not try to confuse the matter by showing court orders of a different case pertaining to demand of salary by employees. There is no scam in North MCD and we once again challenge the Delhi government to immediately order a CBI inquiry into this wild allegation of the Rs 2,400 crore scam. Chief minister Kejriwal should be prepared to resign if the allegation falls flat,” he said. Abhishek Dutt, vice-president of Delhi Congress and leader of Congress in south corporation said, “We have demanded a forensic audit of the BJP-ruled Municipal Corporations of Delhi by a sitting Delhi high court judge. Despite having several sources of income, the MCDs are perennially short of funds under the BJP rule and the AAP government in Delhi is only contributing to the mess, by either delaying or not paying the money they owe to the corporations. If the audit is held, then accountability can be fixed for the reasons of the disappearance/leakage of the funds.”He further said “The three mayors and Kejriwal were playing out a “pre-conceived drama” to divert people’s attention from the farmers’ dharna on the Delhi borders and mismanagement of the Covid pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/take-legal-recourse-pathak-tells-bjp-on-mcd-funds/story-KHpUwYHJ3AZjMUqgxBg8JI.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||After 13 days, mayors call off protest outside CM residence||Thirteen days after they started camping in front of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Flagstaff Road residence, the mayors and councillors of all three BJP-led municipal corporations called off their sit-in protest on Saturday, following a Delhi high court order.The Delhi Police had served the protesting mayors a notice to vacate the venue citing the court order. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, along with Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, and other senior leaders visited the mayors and councillors at the protest site on Saturday. The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Delhi police to shift protesters outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house stating that the protest gives an incorrect signal that the prohibitory orders of the Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA), in view of Covid-19 spread, are not being followed.“You have to shift them (protesters). The district magistrate has to pass an order. Otherwise, an incorrect signal will go,” Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva had told the police on Friday after a plea by the Civil Lines Residents Association contended that the protest was causing an inconvenience as agitators were blocking the road.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, who was undergoing treatment at the protest site, said that they have been served notice by the Delhi police to vacate the protest venue. “We are law abiding citizens. We will follow the court’s order and leave the venue. But our protest will continue in a different form. We will now take this battle to each ward,” said Jai Prakash. On Saturday, the health of several councillors deteriorated during the third day of their indefinite hunger strike. South corporation mayor Anamika Singh was admitted to Hindu Rao hospital after her condition deteriorated. Her condition is said to be stable right now. Earlier in the day, speaking to the media after meeting those sitting on protest, Puri said, “These people have been sitting on protest for the past 13 days not for themselves, but for the employees of municipal corporations. They have raised the issue about problems faced by employees, especially during the pandemic, as the corporations are unable to pay salaries. Instead of helping them, the government is not releasing Rs 13,000 crore. The CM didn’t even come and speak to them. There can be change of heart and I hope he (Kejriwal) understands the gravity of the situation and finds a solution to the problem.”Even though the sit-in outside the CM’s residence was called off, the BJP said that the protest for funds will continue. From December 25, birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the BJP is planning a door-to-door campaign to tell people about how the government was not paying Rs 13,000 crore. “It is unfortunate that he couldn’t take out time to even meet the mayors to find a solution to the problem. Today, Delhi has seen the real face of the CM, who is insensitive to the problems of the people. The CM is not letting the municipal corporations work,” said Gupta. The mayors have been protesting outside the CM’s residence to press for the immediate release of Rs 13,000 crore which they claim the Delhi government owes the municipal corporations. They say that the corporations have not been able to pay salaries to its employees for the past two-three months due to the financial crunch. Nirmal Jain, mayor of East corporation, said, “We might not sit outside the CM’s house, but our protest will continue. We will now take it to the people and tell them about how the Delhi government is not letting us work. We will tell them about the plight of our employees, whom we are not able to pay for the past two-three months.”Reacting to the allegations, senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said, “BJP leaders who are sitting outside the residence of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal are doing drama. For the last 13 days, the BJP-ruled MCD is not working because these leaders are sitting outside the residence of chief minister. In the last 15 years, the BJP has completely ruined the MCD. Garbage is piled up everywhere because the MCDs do not perform their duty....To distract the attention of the citizens of Delhi from the Rs 2,400 crore scam done by the BJP, they are doing this drama.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-13-days-mayors-call-off-protest-from-outside-cm-s-residence/story-8gnlhKTGHcLzFCLAyALv8J.html
20-12-2020||Pune||AISSMS engg students win at national contest||A team of engineering students representing Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and from AISSMS College of Engineering Pune, got first rank at the national-level Anveshan 2019-20 competition in engineering and technology category. The team presented a model named as “Automated Railway Crossing with Auto Train Speed Control and Live Tracking Technology”. The model focused on automatic railway crossings depending on the train speed and will help reduce accidents on tracks. The students namely Anurag Lambor (BE, electrical engineering) and Gaurav Dudhe (TE, civil engineering) participated in the competition at undergraduate level. Earlier the Avishkar Research Convention 2019-20 was organised at different colleges across Nashik, Ahmednagar and Pune. For the preliminary round, more than 6,000 entries were received of which 2,500 were selected. The AISSMS team of Lambhor and Dudhe won at both university and national levels. Their project was awarded first rank in the best innovation award among Pure Science, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, Engineering and Technology, Medicine and Pharmacy ideas. The team was awarded by Nehru Science Centre and National Centre for Science Communicators and was selected for West Zone Anveshan - the Student Research Convention jointly organised by Association of Indian Universities, New Delhi and Department of Student’ Development, University of Mumbai at Mumbai University, Kalina Campus on February 19-20 this year. The team AISSMS COE Pune represented Maharashtra State and SPPU under the category of UG - Engineering and Technology against UG , PG, PPG and PhD level teams from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh ad Maharashtra states. Lambhor said, “With the use of this technology which we have shown in our project, it will activate spikes once the shutters at the railway crossing being closed and will not allow people to cross the tracks. Every year hundreds of people die in such mishaps while crossing the tracks and so we focused on this major subject. Also, for bike riders crossing the tracks, in our system it will puncture the wheels of the rider once they start crossing the track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/engineering-students-representing-sppu-win-first-prize-at-national-contest/story-UiccwXwgPTXfrPTaY9CyNN.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Mercury set to dip in Pune||The city’s day temperature is likely to reduce to 28 degrees Celsius in the next few days, according to the weather department. On Saturday, the day temperature was reported to be around 28.7 degrees Celsius and was 13 degrees Celsius.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the normal night temperature for the city on Saturday was expected to be 10.9 degree Celsius.“There will be a slight rise in night temperature in the coming few days. The day temperature will rise up to 31 degrees Celsius during this time,” said IMD officials.As per IMD, cooler winds have returned to the city and state. The lowest minimum temperature in the state on Saturday was reported to be at Gondia at 8.5 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature recorded at Gondia on Friday was 13 degrees Celsius. Slight fall in minimum temperatures by one to two degrees Celsius over Maharashtra till Sunday evening is forecasted by IMD. Thereafter, the Met department has predicted a gradual rise of minimum temperature across the state by two to three degrees Celsius. The day temperature across Maharashtra has also seen a gradual decrease. On Saturday, the highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at 34 degrees Celsius. Whereas on Friday, the highest maximum temperature in the state was at Ratnagiri at 35 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mercury-set-to-dip-in-pune/story-SBcelvXY3ZOSnF9pzGRK9M.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Maharashtra sees 174 leopard deaths in 2020||After a leopard in Solapur was shot dead by a sharp shooter, the number of deaths of big cats in Maharashtra this year has gone up to 174, 60% more than the figure registered in 2019 that saw 110 leopard deaths, according to the state forest department (wildlife) authorities. On December 18, a leopard that had killed at least eight people and injured others in Beed, Aurangabad and Solapur forest divisions since November 15 was shot dead by the state forest department after 10-day chase involving choppers and sharp shooters. The highest number of wild cat deaths was recorded in Nashik with 70 leopard deaths, followed by 27 in Pune and 26 in Kolhapur districts respectively.Out of 174 leopard deaths till December 2020, 85 died natural deaths, 64 accident-related, 18 cases of poaching while seven animals died because of electrocution. The forest department in its report mentioned that leopard deaths due to road and train accidents had doubled from last year. Seventeen leopards died in road and train accidents in 2019 compared with 34 for 2020. Similarly, 25 leopards drowned in 2020 as compared to 10 last year.The forest department report states that loss of human life due to leopard attacks has gone up three times. Twenty-three people died in attacks in 2019 while 35 died in 2020. A total of 37 leopards were rescued in 2020. Taking the man-animal conflict into consideration, the state wildlife board in November decided to set up a committee to assess the damage to humans in most vulnerable spots involving leopard population especially in rural Maharashtra. A study group is scheduled to be formed under the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (wildlife) to address the issue in a holistic manner aimed at mitigating the evolving situationMaharashtra has seen 35 deaths due to leopard attacks till December which is the highest in a decade, the forest department stated in its report.Vidya Athreya, a scientist at Wildlife Conservation Society - India, said, “It is important for the forest department to take proactive measures to check leopard deaths. Earlier the man-animal conflict in Junnar and Mumbai was intense, but later reduced considerably. The conflict reduction model of Mumbai and Junnar needs to be replicated in other sensitive areas of Maharashtra. We need to have over bridges or underpasses at places where leopards cross to make a safe passage so that casualties can be avoided.”Jayarame Gowda, deputy conservator of forests (Junnar division) said, “Junnar, Shirur and Ambegaon terrain is the leopard belt of the state and its territory is expanding as most of the geographical spread is sugarcane belt area. Sugarcane cultivation has increased thrice over the past and it is a favourable habitat for leopards. It is a congenial atmosphere and there is no disturbance once the animal goes deep inside a cane field. Sheep and goat population is equally good in the area where leopards get enough prey. Deaths are increasing due to accidents either through road accidents, drowning and territorial fights.” The story of big catsLeopard population across India is between 12,000 and 14,000 as per the 2016 census,According to Phase IV tiger estimation exercise in 2020, 669 leopards have been recorded in Maharashtra.According to the state forest department, 173 leopard deaths were officially reported till November85 leopards died of natural causes64 died in roads accident 18 fell prey to poaching7 died of electrocutionMaharashtra sees 35 deaths due to leopard attacks in 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-forest-dept-records-174-leopard-deaths-this-year/story-oarcoUfkqZEzUbzTF97iyJ.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Leopard rescued from 70ft deep well in Ballalwadi||A 1.5 years old male leopard was rescued from a 70-foot well in Ballalwadi located in Junnar sub-division of Pune district by Maharashtra forest department and Wildlife SOS on Saturday. The animal is under medical observation. A farmer heard frantic roars of an animal echoing from a well near a field in the early hours of the morning. He found the leopard struggling to stay afloat in waist-deep water. The forest department and Wildlife SOS team were alerted and a three-member team rescued the leopard.“Sometimes leopards enter village chasing stray dogs, and with shrubs covering the well, they fall in the well,” said Ajit Shinde, range forest officer, Ballalwadi.Crowd control measures were implemented by the team to manage onlookers as a trap cage was lowered into the well and, after a few attempts, the leopard entered the cage and was rescued.“After being carefully loaded onto the back of the Wildlife SOS rescue vehicle, the leopard was transferred to the Leopard Rescue Centre for medical examination. The animal is exhausted from the ordeal and will be kept under observation for a few days till he is deemed fit for release,” said Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/leopard-rescued-from-70ft-deep-well-in-ballalwadi/story-4YEFn3a0KxoqqETnMe0tqN.html
20-12-2020||Pune||Prithviraj Sathe is Congress national secretary||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress committee general secretary Prithviraj Sathe has been selected by Congress president Sonia Gandhi as the secretary of All India Congress Committee. Sathe, who studied in Pune, has also been given charge of Assam ahead of the assembly elections there. Sathe, a Fergusson College alumnus, started his political career in 1992 through National Students Union of India (NSUI). He later worked as the secretary of All India Youth Congress. He was a member of Rahul Gandhi’s core group in the 2007 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. As national coordinator of the Youth Congress, he had taken the initiative to train party workers. As the general secretary of state Congress, he was involved in the day-to-day work of the national party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prithviraj-sathe-is-congress-national-secretary/story-yHVhJ2wab1jg47pfpzLBPK.html
20-12-2020||Pune||SOPs like phone sex, masks fail to attract clients in Budhwar peth red-light area||Unlike other sectors and businesses that are limping back to normalcy following relaxation of lockdown restrictions, those working at Budhwar peth as a commercial sex worker (CSW) still await customers. Despite opting for new adaptive measures like phone sex, masks and gloves as the job involves physical contact, customers are hesitant to visit fearing risk of the infection.Located at the heart of Pune, Budhwar peth offers a contrasting picture with areas like Laxmi road, Tulshibaug and Mandai overcrowded with shoppers while the narrow bylanes where the CSWs run business wear a deserted look. One of the oldest and largest red-light areas in the state, Budhwar peth houses around 3,000 sex workers earning their livelihood at the 700 small and big brothels. Though CSWs were permitted to reopen their business in June, measures like phone sex and other standard operating procedures (SOPs) have failed to attract customers, said Tejaswi Sevekari, executive director of Pune-based NGO Saheli. With no new customer visits and only regulars trickling back, survival for these workers has become difficult. “It is unpredictable as to when the business will again pick up,” said Sevekari, whose NGO has been working for CSWs for more than two decades. In November, the Maharashtra government decided to provide financial help of Rs 15,000 to each registered commercial sex worker for a period of three months from October to December 2020. However, in the absence of bank account, transfer of funds has not happened for some. “I don’t have any paper or bank account. Hence, I have not received any state aid,” said a CSW, who has been in the business for over 10 years after coming to the city from Hindi heartland. In existence since the Peshwa era, most CSWs in the red-light area of Budhwar peth have mostly migrated from West Bengal, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. “When the lockdown restrictions were lifted, we thought the worst is over. But the number of clients visiting us is very low as per our expectations,” she said. “The CSWs opted for online measures, but with limited success. The women are not trained to do that and are also afraid of losing their confidentiality” said Sevekari. The major reason for few footfall, apart from the obvious crippling fear of contracting Covid-19, is the fact that majority of clientele are struggling as they belong to the class worst hit by the lockdown, according to the NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sops-like-phone-sex-masks-fail-to-attract-clients-in-budhwar-peth-red-light-area/story-4erdaBPh1WEY5dRnRacFhJ.html
20-12-2020||Mumbai||5-time MP Mohan Rawale was known for Parel brand of Shiv Sena politics, says Raut||Five-time Shiv Sena parliamentarian Mohan Rawale passed away in Goa on Saturday morning following a cardiac arrest. He was 72. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray condoled Rawale’s demise. A statement issued by his office on Saturday evening read, “The demise of Mohan Rawale, who represented Mumbaikars in the Parliament for a long time, came as a shock. He had a connect with the common man because of his nature and style of working. The entire Shiv Sena family shares the grief of his family. May God give peace to his soul. A heartfelt tribute to former MP (Member of Parliament) Mohan Rawale.” Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson and MP Sanjay Raut also paid his tributes to Rawale. Raut said that Rawale had represented the ‘Parel brand’ of the party’s identity, referring to the politics followed by leaders coming from the middle class mill workers’ family from the Marathi community-dominated central Mumbai. The Parel-Lalbaug area has been considered the Sena stronghold for decades. “Mohan Rawale passed away at 4am in Goa. I used to regularly tell him to cut down on his work due to his ill health. Mohan was a Shiv Sainik of ‘Parel brand’. Despite being a five-time MP, he was very accessible; anybody on the street could stop him to speak about their issues. Mohan’s passing is really shocking for all of us. The new generation of Shiv Sena leaders must learn from him,” Raut said. Raut also recalled Rawale’s contributions since the party’s inception and said he was beaten up and jailed by the police during agitations and had “spilled his blood” for the party. “This son of a mill worker had alone disrupted the proceedings of the Parliament once. Mohan had continuously worked for the party and was the face of the common man in the Sena,” Raut said. Rawale was briefly expelled from the Sena in 2013 after an outburst against the leadership, alleging it was being run by middlemen. The old guard of the party, including Rawale and former CM Manohar Joshi, had developed problems after the change of leadership in the party during Bal Thackeray’s final days and after his death. He had attacked party chief Uddhav Thackeray’s personal assistant Milind Narvekar for allegedly creating a divide between the leadership and the workers. Also Read: Apologise or face ₹100-crore defamation suit, Thane MLA Pratap Sarnaik tells BJP’s Kirit Somaiya Rawale was elected to Lok Sabha in 1991, 1996, 1998, 1999 and 2004 from South Central Mumbai constituency, largely dominated by textile mill workers. He had also served as the president of Sena’s youth wing Bharatiya Vidyarthi Sena from 1979-1984 and had worked closely with Sena supremo the late Bal Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-time-mp-mohan-rawale-was-known-for-parel-brand-of-shiv-sena-politics-says-raut/story-7i35humZTbLszV3D6oTcvJ.html
20-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC rebel makes U-turn, swear allegiance to Mamata Banerjee||Trinamool Congress legislator Jitendra Tiwari, who had resigned from the party, made a U-turn on Friday. Tiwari, a TMC MLA from Pandabeshwar, had resigned from the party after accusing the top leadership of depriving Asansol city and not allowing central funds to flow in. On Friday, however, Tiwari met Aroop Biswas, a State minister and a senior TMC leader, in the latter’s office in south Kolkata and said that he would remain with the TMC and would ask for forgiveness from TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. On Friday afternoon, Banerjee had sent a strong message to party rebels in a meeting with the party’s top leadership. She had branded the TMC leaders, who were deserting the party, as baggage. Also Read: Amit Shah in Kolkata for a 2-day visit: All you need to know“There was some misunderstanding. I accept my fault. I never wanted to hurt didi (Mamata Banerjee). I will never leave didi. Did I ever say that I don’t obey her? I am withdrawing my statement of resigning from the party,” Tiwari said after meeting Biswas. Tiwari’s U-turn came after senior BJP leaders, including Union minister Babul Supriyo, expressed their reservations against Tiwari joining the BJP. Even though Tiwari had never said that he was going to join the BJP, there were widespread speculations that he might join the BJP with a few other former TMC leaders. “There can be some misunderstanding within a family. Tiwari is with the TMC,” said Biswas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/2-tmc-rebels-make-u-turn-swear-allegiance-to-mamata-banerjee/story-HeUK7HV7CsLNWcZrtQC8sM.html
20-12-2020||Delhi||Punjab farmers got 30% higher crop price than their Bihar counterparts due to MSP, says new study||The farmers in Punjab’s regulated agriculture markets got 30% more price for their produce than their counterparts in unregulated and partially regulated mandis in Bihar and Odisha in 2018-19, revealed a new study that termed minimum support price (MSP) as the only risk-management instrument for cultivators. The study was conducted by the University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India through surveys and research in collaboration with local research institutes to understand the dynamics of agriculture trading systems in the three states. It comes at a time when the farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other states are protesting against the central government’s three farm laws, demanding they be scrapped. In Punjab, 90% of the farm produce is traded in markets regulated under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act by licensed commission agents. Bihar abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and traders and private players can buy produce directly from the farmers. Odisha has both the market system and farm gate procurement. Shoumitro Chatterjee, co-author of the study, said in a tweet, “We found that the price gap between open market sales and public procurement was a significant 30% and deregulation of markets, as in Bihar, had helped traders, more than farmers as their access to farm produce improved.” “The erstwhile APMC markets (now unregulated) in Bihar still remain the main produce selling venues that have a dilapidated infrastructure. On the other hand, the Punjab markets have better infrastructure and are within the reach of farmers,” he tweeted, clearly showing that private sector investment has not helped build agriculture infrastructure in Bihar on the expected lines. The study said that only 5% and 11% mostly big farmers in Bihar and Odisha sell their produce to government agencies whereas in Punjab even the small and marginal farmers benefit from government procurement. Nearly 80% Bihar and Odisha farmers are small and marginal, according to the agriculture ministry data. “Inadequate procurement centres, delay in start of procurement and payments are the reasons most farmers in Bihar and Odisha prefer to sell their produce to the private players,” the study conducted in seven districts of the three states found. Despite these constraints, the farmers prefer selling to government agencies because of the assured MSP. In Bihar, the farmers told the surveyors that they would like to sell maize, the flagship crop, to government because of the MSP but there are not enough procurement centres, it added. ‘Govt insurance scheme has poor penetration’ “The study clearly shows that the MSP is the only risk management instrument available to the farmers as crop insurance scheme of the government has poor acceptability and penetration,” Chatterjee said in a tweet. Crop insurance was availed by less than 7% farmers in Bihar and Odisha while it was even less than 1% in Punjab. The reason for this is a cumbersome process to get claims and low insurance value of the produce. Unlike Punjab, the farmer-trader relationship was weak in Bihar and Odisha where due to the absence of the mandi system the growers seldom sell their produce to the same dealer every year, it was revealed. Contrary to the popular perception, there is transparency in the farmer payment system in Punjab due to online disbursement of money. The commission agents or arhtiyas can pay only up to Rs 10,000 in cash and the rest has to be transferred to the farmer’s bank account. The government transfers commission of agents directly into their bank accounts, as per the Central government’s mandi system reforms in 2018. In Bihar and Odisha, there is no such transparency as unregulated small traders have replaced the licensed ones. “In Odisha, there were instances of cartelisation, collusion during the sale of chilly and farmers were forced to sell at lower prices,” the study said. Former Union agriculture secretary Siraj Hussain said, ““It is a comprehensive study which summaries the ground reality. It clearly outlined that marketing challenges are more pronounced in Bihar where commission charged by middlemen for several crops in informal markets are much higher than in the regulated markets in Punjab and Odisha.” ‘Assured market needed for crop diversification’ The study also underlined that as MSP could be a hindrance in the way of crop diversification as it provides price assurance for a given crop, with the farmers growing too much of wheat and paddy in Punjab and Haryana despite a high demand for cereals and pulses. But diversification cannot be achieved through legal reforms as it requires several coordinated public investments on the ground, Chatterjee said. R Ramakumar, a professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said if the government wants the farmers to diversify crops through the three laws, it would weaken the MSP system. “The government needs to sit with the farmers and assure them of compensation for the income loss due to diversification. This can be done through higher MSP for crop or through cash,” he said. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the mandi system was well established and working well for decades. “For crop diversification, the farmers need assured market to sell their produce. The area under basmati (not covered under the MSP regime) saw a massive jump last year, but got reduced this time because the prices dropped. Though the government has declared MSP for 23 crops, there is no assured procurement for most,” he said. Admitting the state was short of regulated markets, an official of the Odisha food and civil supplies department said they are continuously upgrading facilities so that more small and marginal farmers can sell their paddy under the MSP system. Bihar agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh said findings of the study are far from ground reality. “What is the basis of such findings? They (researchers) do not know the system. The MSP of paddy is Rs 1,868 per quintal and it is transferred directly to the farmers’ accounts. You cannot deposit less than the MSP in their account,” said Singh. (With inputs from bureaus in Patna, Chandigarh and Bhubaneswar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/punjab-farmer-got-30-higher-crop-price-than-bihar-counterpart-due-to-msp-says-new-study/story-xPs9iRXRR7NiDnII32QjyL.html
