21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Lounge bar’s owner, staffers booked for flouting hookah ban in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police have booked the management of Grapho lounge bar in Sector 7 for flouting the hookah ban. This is fourth such incident of violation reported at clubs in Sectors 7 and 26 in the past one week. Police have booked the lounge bar’s owner, Jatin of Karnal, besides employees Akash Nagpal of Sector 2, Panchkula, Vikas of Maloya and Sandeep Kumar of Madiwala town in Manimajra. The case was registered after a police patrolling team searched the club and found hookah was being served to the customers. It was in violation of orders issued by the Chandigarh district magistrate in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-26 police station. On December 19, the management of The Burning Tables in Sector 26 and The Reef in Sector 7 were booked for the same offence. Another case was registered against the owner and six employees of Terminal 7 in Sector 7 on December 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lounge-bar-s-owner-staffers-booked-for-flouting-hookah-ban-in-chandigarh/story-n4FacieNiWcvR7utPkyCVN.html
21-12-2020||City||Speeding truck mows down two factory workers on bike in Ludhiana||A speeding truck claimed the lives of two young factory workers in a hit-and-run accident near Ganpati Chowk, Dhandhari, on Sunday night.The victims, Ankush Bharti, 27, of Jamalpur, and Navjot Singh, 19, of Lohara, Giaspura, worked in the same factory at Phase 6, Focal Point, along with Navjot’s father. Ankush hailed from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh and was living in Ludhiana with his brother in a rented accommodation at Jamalpur.“The youths were on night duty from 8pm on Sunday. Around 9.40pm, they left the factory on a motorcycle to get something from the nearby market. While Ankush was riding the motorcycle, Navjot was sitting on the pillion seat. As they reached near Ganpati Chowk, a speeding truck hit their two-wheeler head on and dragged the duo for at least 50 metres, before speeding off,” said ASI Dharampal Sharma from Focal Point police station.The collision killed Navjot on the spot, while Ankush died on the way to the hospital. The ASI said they had booked the unidentified truck driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the driver.The bodies were handed over to the families following autopsies at the civil hospital. While Navjot was cremated on Monday, Ankush’s family took his body to Kangra.Only brother of two sistersNavjot Singh was the only son of his parents, who also have two daughters, Ramanjot Kaur, 14, and Arshdeep Kaur, 10, students of Classes 9 and 5, respectively.His father, Jagtar Singh, said they had recently renovated their house and built separate rooms for their three children. “The children were busy decorating their rooms before a prayer ceremony, but fate played a cruel joke on us,” said Jagtar. DEADLY DECEMBERDecember 16: A 35-year-old hosiery worker and his nephew were run over by a speeding private bus near Partap ChowkDecember 13: Two men lost their lives in two separate road mishaps in Machhiwara and RaikotDecember 11: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) deputed at the NRI police station in Jagraon died after an unidentified vehicle hit him near Barnala Chowk in RaikotDecember 10: A 19-year-old woman died and her father suffered severe injuries after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle in SahnewalDecember 9: A seven-month-old boy was killed while his parents were critically injured after a speeding Hyundai i10 car hit their auto-rickshaw near Bharat Nagar Chowk. The auto driver also suffered injuries in the mishapDecember 6: A speeding truck crushed a man and his wife to death at a bridge over Sutlej river near Ladhowal. The victims were going to Nawanshahr on their motorcycle to visit their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-truck-mows-down-two-factory-workers-on-bike-in-ludhiana/story-1DoxKd8zN6CtynMybPzIiM.html
21-12-2020||City||woman shot at point blank range||New Delhi: Delhi police have arrested a 23-year-old-man who had allegedly shot a woman at point-blank range, injuring her severely, after she turned down his marriage proposal on Friday in Mohan Garden near Dwarka. The woman was shot inside her house in front of her family members. Police said the man is married and has two children, and had been pestering the woman to marry him after they came in contact on social media, about ten months ago. Police have identified the arrested man as Karan Singh, a resident of Sonepat in Haryana who used to work as a financer. Police have also arrested one of his friends who had accompanied him when Singh shot at the woman. The associate was identified as 22-year-old Praveen Singh from Panipat, a school dropout who worked in a private company. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said they received information at Mohan Garden police station on Friday reporting that a 23-year-old woman, who worked as a beautician at a parlour, had been shot at by two men who barged into her house and opened fire at her in front of the other family members. Meena said when a police team reached the spot they found that the woman had sustained one bullet injury in her abdomen and had been taken to a nearby private hospital. The woman’s family members told police that one of the men who tried to kill her was Karan Singh, who had been forcing her to marry him for long time. He had shot her at point-blank range but the woman had survived the bullet injury and is at present under treatment at the hospital, the DCP said. A case of attempt to murder was registered and search for Karan Singh was started. Meena said, as local enquiry revealed that the two men had come to the woman’s house on a bike, CCTV footages from the spot were checked to track the two-wheeler. “During investigation, we found that the bike used by the duo was stolen and had a fake number plate. Following hours of technical surveillance and local enquiry, our team got a tip off that Singh would come to Goyla Village area with his accomplice who was also involved in shooting. On this, a trap was laid and both of them were arrested on Saturday,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-shot-at-point-blank-range/story-61AFK8RW5iF0mkBu2WUdsM.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Help pours in for Chandigarh bride’s wedding after fire destroys her home||She lost consciousness in shock after seeing her home, trousseau and her family’s belongings destroyed in a blaze that ripped through a tenement in Industrial Area’s Colony number 4 a day before her wedding, but good Samaritans in the city saw to it that Rupali could tie the knot on Monday at the Sector 29 community centre. Family members who could not figure out last night if they should go ahead with the wedding after their home was among six shanties gutted in a fire, were extended help from all quarters. Saris and silver ankletsA trader in Sector 20 turned up in the morning with saris, salwar kameez sets and silver anklets for the bride and bottles of water and beverages for the wedding. A retired deputy superintendent of Chandigarh police handed over a cheque of Rs 21,000 as shagun to her. The welfare arm of Allengers, a company making medical systems, donated Rs 1 lakh.“Till late last night we did not know whether the wedding could be organised, but help came from all quarters,” said Rahul, the bride’s brother-in-law, who runs a makeshift tea stall.Of the Rs 1 lakh contributed by Allengers Care Foundation, which works to uplift and support underprivileged sections of societies, Rs 50,000 was given in cash for wedding expenses and Rs 50,000 credited to Rupali’s account, Rahul added. “The trader and his wife who brought the saris wanted to ensure Rupali does not go empty handed to her new home. Retired deputy superintendent of Chandigarh police, Ashwani Kumar, handed over cheque of Rs 21,000 as shagun to her.” Mayor Raj Bala Malik and MC commissioner KK Yadav gave Rs 10,000 each to the bride while area councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali gifted Rs 5,000.No expenses for venueMalik also said that community centre charges would be waived for Rupali’s wedding. “It’s because of people’s blessings that my daughter could get married. It had taken us a lot of efforts to find a match for her,” said Kalawati, mother of the bride. The mayor and Devshali also distributed dry rations to the families who lost their shanties. Vishvas Foundation had earlier donated blankets to all families whose homes were destroyed in Sunday’s fire and police organised meals for them. Rupali and Kalawati make quilts in winter and husk mesh for water coolers in summer, supplementing their income by selling sugarcane juice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/help-pours-in-for-chandigarh-bride-s-wedding-after-fire-destroys-her-home/story-kMVRr4FNyFGnFTYbB5SA0K.html
21-12-2020||City||Being forced into flesh trade by father, Ludhiana woman consumes poison near DC’s office||Minutes after she filed a complaint against her father for forcing her into flesh trade, a 25-year-old woman consumed poison near the office of the deputy commissioner at the mini-secretariat on Monday afternoon. Onlookers raised the alarm after the woman collapsed after consuming something she was already carrying in her hand. Police quickly rushed her to a hospital, where her condition is stated to be stable. The woman’s mother told the police that her husband wanted to push her into prostitution for money, following which she left him and started living separately with her daughter.She raised her daughter alone and got her married. But, her daughter returned to her due to dowry harassment by her in-laws.“On finding out that my daughter is living with me, my husband started pressuring her as well to join prostitution. We changed multiple rented accommodations to evade him, but he manages to trace us every time,” the woman alleged.“We have filed several complaints to the police, however no action was taken. On Monday, we came to the office of commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal to file a complaint against my husband. The police chief assured us of action. But, minutes after coming out of his office, my daughter consumed a poisonous substance near the deputy commissioner’s office and collapsed,” she added.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Division Number 5 police station, said the woman’s condition was stable and they will take appropriate action after recording her statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/being-forced-into-flesh-trade-by-father-ludhiana-woman-consumes-poison-near-dc-s-office/story-M8JoXPbXaV5JMkmzXMjcqI.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||HC disposes RWA plea over protest outside CM’s residence||The Delhi high court on Monday disposed of a plea by the Civil Lines residents’ welfare association (RWA), which sought removal of protesters from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, after the city police assured the court that it will ensure that the standing and judicial orders prohibiting protests in residential areas would be complied with in the future.Advocate Gautam Narayan, appearing for the Delhi Police, told justice Sanjeev Sachdeva that the mayors and councillors of the municipal corporations, who had been protesting outside the CM’s residence since December 7, have ended their agitation.The mayors of the three municipal corporations had been protesting outside Kejriwal’s residence seeking the release of funds and clearance of alleged pending dues to the civic bodies.During the brief hearing, Narayan told the court that the protesters called off the agitation after being informed of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) direction, prohibiting gatherings till December 31, the agency’s own standing order barring protests in residential areas and a similar 2017 order of the Delhi high court.The high court on December 18 had observed that if the DDMA has prohibited political and other gatherings in the city till December 31 due to Covid-19, then the protesters outside Kejriwal’s residence ought to be evicted.The high court had said it expected the police to take appropriate steps to implement the direction of the DDMA and also the provisions of Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code, which is in place in the area where the chief minister’s residence is located.The RWA had contended that the protest has been permitted in a residential area and roads barricaded, in violation of the high court’s 2017 direction, to restrict dharnas in residential areas and to keep the roads clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-disposes-rwa-plea-over-protest-outside-cm-s-residence/story-EQ5K9idcv3z7HPBCiiwIGL.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers protesting at Haryana border start relay hunger strike||Farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Jaisinghpur Khera in protest against the new farm laws started a relay hunger strike on Monday in a step aimed at further intensifying the ongoing agitation.A group of 11 representatives from different farmer groups at the site are sitting on a 24-hour-long hunger strike to highlight their demands seeking a roll-back of the three new farm laws. Farmers from states such as Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat have been protesting at Jaisinghpura Khera (near Shahajahanpur) on the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past nine days after the Rewari Police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi. National vice president of All India Kisan Sabha and former CPI(M) MLA Amra Ram, who was among the 11 people on hunger strike, said that the relay hunger strike would continue till the government revokes the three laws. “The union of farmers has taken the decision of holding this relay hunger strike at every protest site. At every blockade, 11 people will be on a hunger strike for 24 hours. Today, 11 protestors including me started our fast that will be broken tomorrow, when the next set of 11 people start their fast,” said Ram. He said the agitation was intensifying with each passing day. “Our caravan of farmers is covering a stretch of over three kilometres now. We will not relent till the government takes back the laws,” said Ram. Addressing a press conference at the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Monday, farmer leaders criticised the BJP-led Central government for furthering the interests of corporates and prioritising foreign investments in agriculture. They said the new farm laws had put the lives and livelihood of nearly 70 crore people who survived on agriculture at stake. “The three new farm laws will remove government control from the farming market. Corporates and big businessmen will start free storage facilities and entice farmers into entering in contracts with them. This will increase the debt burden on the farmers and further weaken the food security,” stated the Samyukt Kisan Morcha through a statement.Sanjay Madhav, the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that with the movement intensifying, farmers will be skipping a meal on December 23. The day is celebrated as Kisan Diwas (farmers’ day) every year. Madhav said that farmers across the country were also planning to bang plates during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat session scheduled on December 27. BJP Haryana spokesperson Raman Malik said that criticism of the laws being pro-corporate was flawed. “There are clauses to ensure that the farmers are not short-changed. Land of the farmers stays sacrosanct in every situation. Farmers are only liable to the advances that they receive, whereas a heavier liability rests with the corporates,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-protesting-at-haryana-border-start-relay-hunger-strike/story-ZhwIFHMdmsnDVTGL8mgiWL.html
21-12-2020||City||Covid blues: Double whammy for Ludhiana kite traders as prices rise, sales dive||The ripples of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with the farmers’ agitation, are being felt in the city’s kites business as well. Even as kite flying is expected to pick up in Ludhiana in the run up to Lohri, the prices of kites and strings are noticing an uptick of 15-20%. Apart from low supply due to the pandemic, high transportation cost, as the transporters have to take a detour on their way from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab due to the farmers protest at Delhi borders, is also contributing to the price rise. This is double whammy for traders, as Gurpreet Singh, a shopkeeper in Daresi, explains: “While the demand for kites has anyway dropped due to financial constraints caused by the Covid outbreak, the higher prices will elicit an even poorer response ahead of Lohri.” According to traders dealing in kites, their stocks were supplied from Tulsipur and Rampur in Uttar Pradesh. But due to the farmers protesting at Delhi borders, transporters were forced to take alternative routes, which was making transport costlier and ultimately reflecting in the cost of kites.Bittu, a shopkeeper in Model Town market, says the demand for kites was at an all-time low. “As kite business is seasonal, we normally offer the products from December 1. But, this time we opened the shops in the mid of December. Yet, customers were few and far between,” he adds.Another shopkeeper in Daresi area, Gaurav says, “Even the supply of wood, used to make kites, has been hit. Bigger kites are manufactured in Punjab itself, but the wood used for them is not available nowadays. Any wood available is being supplied at higher rates, which is showing up as 15-20% spike in kite prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-blues-double-whammy-for-ludhiana-kite-traders-as-prices-rise-sales-dive/story-CjxNj2sGvdEywpVqwN6UBL.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Baltana man, 40, dies in Lalru motorcycle mishap||A 40-year-old pillion rider on a motorcycle was killed and his friend escaped uninjured after an unidentified vehicle hit them near Gholu Majra here in Mohali district on Monday, police said. Rukan Singh of Baltana in Zirakpur fell and died on the spot from head injuries when the vehicle hit the motorcycle from the rear. Investigating officer Onkar Singh said a case had been registered against the driver of the vehicle, who remained unidentified.The body was handed over to relatives after autopsy. Rukan Singh was working in a private firm and is survived by his wife and two minor children. Accident victim succumbs to injuriesMeanwhile, Kailash of Sector 41 in Chandigarh, who was hit by an unidentified vehicle on Saturday near the Sector 52 water works, succumbed to his injuries on Sunday at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16..A case was registered under sections 279, 337 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 36 police station on the complaint of Rakesh Kumar of Togan village in Mohali that the driver of an unidentified vehicle sped away after hitting Kailash’s Activa .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baltana-man-40-dies-in-lalru-motorcycle-mishap/story-kuuro70T5JkFDIUyP2K4aK.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC rejects bail plea of developer jailed for not completing projects in Gurugram, Manesar||The Delhi high court dismissed the bail plea of Sunil Kumar Dahiya, ex-director and promoter of Vigneshwara Developers Pvt Ltd and Vigneshwara Developwell Pvt Ltd, stating that there is a danger of “flight risk” if he is released on bail and there is the likelihood of him “absconding”.Justice Suresh Kait, while rejecting the bail plea of Dahiya — an accused in four cases registered by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police for failure his to complete construction of projects in Gurugram and Manesar on account of financial constraints — said that the accused, being a rich and influential person, is also likely to tamper with the evidence.It also noted that both Dahiya’s father and brother have been declared proclaimed offenders (PO).“…there is a danger of flight risk, if the petitioner is released on bail, as his father and brother were declared proclaimed offenders and Section 174A of IPC was added against them. There is every likelihood of the petitioner (Dahiya) absconding, he, being a highly influential and rich person, also likely to tamper with the evidence once he is released on bail,” the court said in a judgment of December 14.Dahiya was arrested by the police on October 30, 2014, and has not been released on bail since. Charges are yet to be framed in the four FIRs against him. The cases were registered against him on the complaints of associations of homebuyers.Dahiya’s counsel, senior advocate N Hariharan, had contended that while construction of the Manesar project is at an advanced stage, construction in Gurugram could not commence since the zoning plan for the same was approved by the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) only in August 2014, shortly before Dahiya was arrested in October 2014, when all operations came to a halt.He had contended that after his clients’ efforts, a scheme was approved by the company court for settlement. He said that while the scheme was approved by 80% of the homebuyers, the associations have been opposing this.However, the counsel for the complainants had said that the accused, in connivance with his accomplices, had allegedly hatched a fraudulent payment module and entered into sham agreements. They submitted that by way of those sham agreements, Dahiya parked the properties of the investors along with his accomplices, including his shell companies.They also said that he entered into a lease agreement, sale agreement and buyback agreement (in his favour) on the same date, concerning the same bartered property with different persons, further displaying the value of the bartered properties lesser than the actual market value. The counsels also said that the accused failed to allot the units to homebuyers.The complainants also said that while the project at Manesar is only 40-50% complete.The court, in a judgment on December 14, said that Dahiya had no intention in implementing the settlement scheme reached with the homebuyers as he did not appear before the division bench in the Company Court. The judge also said that he had not deposited Rs 2.60 crore, as per the settlement order passed in January this year.“Therefore, considering the conduct of the petitioner (Dahiya) of having the audacity to sell of the properties, while being behind the bars and under the custody of the authorities concerned, and properties were fraudulently bartered from the members of the complainants by showing them dream project which was nothing but a mirage. It is not unlikely that the petitioner would dispose of the unsold properties in a fraudulent manner upon being released on bail as in the past and leave the associations bereft of their rights to make good of the unsold properties,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-developer-jailed-for-not-completing-projects-in-gurugram-manesar/story-Sj5Z2MD6RvzxpokD0O3XII.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Only 2% cases remain active in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported 55 fresh cases of Covid-19 besides two deaths, while 101 patients were discharged after recovering from the disease. Those who died have been identified as a 70-year-old man from Khuda Lahora and a 62-year-old woman from Sector 51. The UT has recorded 19,128 cases so far, of which only 389 (2%) remain active. While 18,429 (96.4%) patients have recovered, 310 (1.6%) have died.Mohali reported 74 new cases while 160 patients were discharged on Monday.In a respite, no death was reported after five days. The district has seen a spike in fatalities this month, with 49 people succumbing in the first three weeks, up from 42 throughout November.Of the 17,572 people tested so far, 15,527 (88.4%) have recovered and 328 (1.8%) have died, leaving 1,717 (9.8%) active cases.Panchkula reported a casualty after a gap of two days while 21 people tested positive. With the death of an 86-year-old man from Sector 4, the district’s toll has reached 139 (1.4%). As many as 9,735 have contracted the virus so far, of whom 9,317 (95.7%) have been cured and 279 (2.9%) are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-2-cases-remain-active-in-chandigarh/story-hlNa6LhVrFt42GuGOUJlOJ.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Luksar jail inmates to start quarterly magazine from January||Noida: A group of inmates have planned to launch a quarterly magazine from the Luksar jail premises from January. The 48-page magazine will be managed, edited, printed and circulated entirely from inside the campus by the inmates. They also shared the cover page of the magazine – Salakhon ki Siyahi – on Monday. There are about 2,800 under-trial and convicted inmates in the jail, out of which 50 persons will work on this magazine. “Some of the inmates are literate and they know basic reporting and editing skills. The jail administration conducts various activities for them from time to time, which need to be documented and communicated. The inmates will report for the magazine and edit and make pages. Initially we will publish 100 copies and will increase circulation depending on the feedback and demand,” said jail superintendent Vipin Mishra.Officials too will write articles for the magazine. Primarily, the magazine will be for the inmates and for the jail library, as well as for official purposes. Anand Kumar, director general of prisons, Uttar Pradesh, inspected the prison premises on Monday during a visit. He also inspected the community radio programme running from the jail. “The jail should be a correctional home and not a place for punishment. There is an effort to sensitise the inmates to leave a life of crime and lead a normal life once they are out. We are also imparting different skills to the inmates so that they become employable. In UP, inmates of various prisons made a total of 27 lakh masks for the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, which is appreciated,” he said in the jail’s radio programme.As of now, authorities at the Luksar prison have suspended meetings between inmates and their families due to the pandemic. The DG said that as the situation is returning to normalcy, the government may resume letting them meet each other from February-March, 2021.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police (law and order), Gautam Budh Nagar was also present and appreciated the inmates’ efforts. On Monday, some NGO workers too visited the jail and provided woollen clothes to the inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/luksar-jail-inmates-to-start-quarterly-magazine-from-january/story-RvkhcueaApzJ7dDGH2i3NO.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid positivity rate lowest in 6 months||The weekly Covid-19 positivity rate in Chandigarh has seen a sudden drop to 5.2%, which according to health department officials is the lowest in six months.Positivity rate is the number of people found positive among every 100 sampled, and points to the extent of infection spread among the population being tested. However, the rate is still more than double the national average of 2.3%, and puts Chandigarh among the top five States and Union Territories. Kerala tops positivity rate at 9%, followed by Ladakh (7.3%), Nagaland (7.2%), Goa (6.8%) and Chandigarh.In the recent weeks, there has also been a dip in the number of tests, though the drop in positive cases is much more significant.“The mobility of people has decreased, mostly due to the chilling temperature. Even the footfall of those coming to the city has decreased. Earlier, we used to test 200 to 300 people at important transit stations, such as the railway station and bus stand. Now the number has gone down,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director, Chandigarh health department.In absolute terms, too, infection spread has been curtailed with new cases being reported in the range of 60 to 80, she said, adding that the number of patients visiting outpatient departments has also decreased. “It reflects upon the testing levels, as most patients undergo voluntary testing,” she said, adding that positivity rate will drop further if people adhere to safety precautions. Meanwhile, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Twitter appealed to the citizens to take all precautions and commended doctors for the dip in positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-positivity-rate-lowest-in-6-months/story-jMWDBfYm1a0atjFxQBbrfI.html
21-12-2020||Noida||2020 saw 33% fewer vehicle registrations in Gautam Budh Nagar||Noida: There were fewer vehicle registries in Gautam Budh Nagar this year, as compared to last year. According to the transport department, about 60,000 vehicles were registered this year, as compared to 90,000 last year. Officials said the reason behind this is the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.AK Pandey, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO, administration), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the department 33% fewer vehicles than the previous year. “These include two-wheelers, four-wheelers, autos, goods carriers, etc. The department’s revenue also decreased from Rs 325 crore in 2019 to Rs 216 crore in 2020,” he said.The transport office was closed in April and May due to the lockdown. After restrictions eased, however, though owners have started registering their vehicles, fear of the pandemic and social distancing norms are keeping people away.There are around 7.34 lakh vehicles registered in Gautam Buddha Nagar. The district transport department has 4,50,159 two-wheelers, 2,11,853 four-wheelers (private), 2,210 two-wheelers (commercial), 14,392 cabs, 17,720 good carrier, 18,393 autos, 5,045 e-rickshaws, 3,206 buses, 1,332 school buses, 490 ambulances, 7,291 tractors and 2,730 other vehicles registered with it. Manish Shrivastava, general manager (sales), Ace Honda in Sector 11, said the pandemic did affect sales in the last few months. “We used to sell about 140 cars in a month before the pandemic. This has come down to 100 now. After Navratri got over, however, we did notice an uptick and more people are coming to buy cars,” he said. He added that as the demand has been less due to the pandemic, suppliers have also limited manufacturing accordingly.Explaining the process of registration, Shrivastava said that when a customer makes the payment to buy a vehicle, the dealer gets his/her details such as ID card, photo and other required documents and applies for registration at www.vahan.nic.in using the dealer’s log in. The form is filled, registration amount is paid online and a slip is printed. The dealer then sends the file to the ARTO, which verifies the application and allots a registration number to the vehicle. Since high security registration plates (HSRP) have been made mandatory, dealers apply for it on a separate portal and fix the HSRP on new vehicles. The entire process takes about a week’s time, he added.Anurag Kulshrestha, president of TRAX, an NGO working towards road safety, said that he sees a positive sign in this registration data. “I find that most academic institutions and offices have still not opened their premises to employees or students, and a significant number of people work from home these days. The district saw fewer registrations this time due to this, which is a good sign, as regular working conditions mean more registrations, resulting in more vehicles on road,” he said. He further said that 60,000 registrations despite the pandemic and lockdown also suggest, however, that instead of taking public transport, people are choosing to use private vehicles instead due to health concernsHe added that in the coming days, the number of registrations might increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2020-saw-33-fewer-vehicle-registrations-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-2Xo8aBvlIo4uHqcPxxA6vI.html
21-12-2020||City||Murdered Ludhiana farmer’s body recovered from canal, third accused nabbed||Ten days after a 42-year-old farmer from Tajpur Bet was allegedly murdered by his wife and her two accomplices, police arrested the third accused on Monday.The victim, Lakhvir Singh, was bludgeoned to death in his sleep and dumped in Neelon Canal on December 12. The body was recovered near Behlolpur, around 25km away from Neelon Canal Bridge, on Sunday.His wife, Gurpreet Kaur, and her accomplice, Gurdeep Singh of Kadian Kalan, are already in custody of police. The third accused to be arrested was identified as Gurpreet Singh of Hawaas village. The murder weapon and a muffler used to strangle the victim were also recovered.In his disclosure to the police, Gurpreet Singh said Gurdeep had promised to transfer some of Lakhvir’s properties to his name after his death. Therefore, he helped Gurdeep execute the murder.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 4) Rupinder Kaur Saran said Gurpreet Kaur and Gurdeep were arrested on December 18 and were since in police remand. Their interrogation led to the arrest of Gurpreet Singh. After dumping the victim’s body in Neelon Canal, Gurpeet Kaur had informed his relatives that her husband had gone to Delhi to take part in the farmers’ protest on December 12. But, finding her claims fishy, the victim’s uncle, Malkit Singh, of Durgi village, Doraha, had filed a police complaint.The three accused are facing a case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-murdered-farmer-s-body-recovered-from-canal-third-accused-nabbed/story-cIB5Oh9WYwuR55YiuvlSuJ.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Awareness first, no fine for now, says Chandigarh MC chief ahead of waste segregation launch||As the municipal corporation makes yet another attempt to start door-to-door collection of segregated waste in Chandigarh from Wednesday, it has decided not to impose any fine on defaulters for now.“We will not immediately start imposing fine on people for not segregating wet and dry waste. Initially, our aim is to involve them in the initiative and make them participate of their own volition,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav. “After some time, after assessing the situation and citizens’ participation level, we will decide on imposing fines.” The MC had fixed ₹200 fine for each violation in residential units. In commercial areas, it varies from ₹2,000 to ₹10,000, depending upon the category of the unit.As some resident bodies complained that they came to know about the MC’s plan only through media reports and there was no public notice, Yadav said: “Mass media campaign will start on radio and newspapers to spread awareness. Also, councillors and resident welfare associations will be involved in waste segregation at source.”The MC also plans to conduct workshops for garbage collectors. “Among other things, the distinction between dry and wet waste will be made clearer in these awareness campaigns and workshops,” said the MC chief. Earlier, in a letter to mayor Raj Bala Malik, Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla complained that residents were not aware about the garbage segregation plan and there had been no efforts made by the corporation too.Badnore to flag off new vehiclesAfter failing to make much headway in the past three years, the MC will start door-to-door collection of segregated waste in Sectors 1-30 on Wednesday. Other areas will be covered in a phased manner in the next couple of weeks. This time around, the MC will be using more than 490 twin-bin garbage collection vehicles. While it already has 100 such vehicles, it has purchased 390 more. Of these, 100 have already been received and will be flagged off by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday. These vehicles will then drive around the city creating awareness about the project. From January 1, the MC plans to cover remaining sectors and colonies, while the final phase will be launched in Manimajra on January 7. The new system will take off ahead of the upcoming Swachh Survekshan. The MC’s failure to implement it has been a key reason for the city faring poorly in the rankings in the past couple of years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/awareness-first-no-fine-for-now-says-chandigarh-mc-chief-ahead-of-waste-segregation-launch/story-X6eWrZOduhnUS9tSTt57UL.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Unlike upscale localities, densely populated clusters low on Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The Covid-19 infection is more prevalent in Ghaziabad’s planned upscale localities than the densely populated clusters of the district, showed the data of the district health department. Experts and district officials have attributed the reason behind lower cases in the densely populated areas to “herd immunity” and enhanced surveillance.Even in December so far, posh areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Raj Nagar and Shastri Nagar, among others, have reported more positive cases, while densely populated clusters like Khoda, Loni, Pasonda, Shaheed Nagar, Kaila Bhatta and Dasna have seen reduction in cases. Such localities have small houses which are closely constructed and also have a greater number of occupants as compared to the planned localities. As per the data, for instance, Khoda, which has a population of about 5-6 lakh, has recorded overall 359 Covid-19 cases since March to December 19. However, it received only 16 cases in December. Likewise, Kaila Bhatta, which is another densely populated area with an estimated population of about two lakhs, has 244 cases that include 10 in December. Shaheed Nagar has 34 overall cases with only one case in December so far. The highly populated area of Loni has only 32 cases in December against the overall 734 cases during the period from March to December 19. Dasna, on the other hand, has overall 1,078 cases with only 69 in December so far, showed the data. “The primary reason we can think of is about the precautions taken up by the local population and other measures like effective surveillance and testing taken up by the health department. In Khoda and Loni, we had earlier introduced our ‘sector scheme’ which also helped in controlling outbreak of infection. Otherwise, these areas are such that it would have become difficult for us to control the infection if it had spread,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Unlike the densely populated clusters, the spread of infection is high in upscale localities. Indirapuram recorded 3,209 positive cases, including 382 in first 19 days of December, while Vaishali witnessed 1,544 cases (187 in December). Similarly, Vasundhara has total of 1,528 cases (207 in December), Raj Nagar 2,014 cases (109 in December) and Shashtri Nagar has 2,831 cases (254 in December). Experts said that it is possible that people in densely populated clusters may have acquired “herd immunity”. “People in densely populated clusters, of course, have better immunity. It is also possible that they have acquired some sort of ‘herd immunity’ in which the infection may have come and passed on without giving them symptoms,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The first sero survey which was conducted in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad, in early September indicated that about 22.1% of people whose blood samples were tested were found positive for prevalence of antibodies. Most of the samples in Ghaziabad were primarily collected from areas like Loni, Dasna, Muradnagar and other densely populated clusters, the health officials said. “Densely populated clusters had initially shown high incidence of cases, but over a period of time the cases have declined considerably. It is also due to efforts taken up with increased testing and surveillance. The sero surveillance comes into play in this regard and the prevalence of antibodies may even be high in some populated clusters. So, it may be possible that infection may have come and passed away without giving symptoms,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“In villages too, we don’t have seen a spike in Covid cases,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unlike-upscale-localities-densely-populated-clusters-low-on-covid-19-cases-in-ghaziabad/story-EMFBNKrwm9IjeQgF5qjTfJ.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Noida authority starts waste-to-compost plant to get rid of horticulture waste||In order to get rid of tonnes of horticulture waste such as dry leaves from about 600 city parks and green belts, the Noida authority on Monday started a waste-to-compost plant at its Sector 8 nursery. The plant will service Noida’s all 56 sectors and the compost so produced would be used in the city’s green belts and parks, officials said. The plant is expected to help the authority save at least ₹4 lakh a month on buying compost, the officials said, adding that it will also help reduce such waste reaching the overloaded landfill site.“The authority will use compost from this plant at all city parks, green belts and other green zones. We have directed the horticulture department to prepare a detailed roadmap to make use of compost produced by the plant,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.According to the authority, it will collect two tonnes horticulture waste from 56 sectors and bring it to the Sector 8 plant, where four pits have been constructed. The pits -- each having dimension of 5 feet deep, 5 feet wide and 50 feet in length -- will produce 30kg of compost daily, the officials said. “As per the process, a shredder machine will cut the waste into small pieces and then we will put the same into pits. The waste is put in layers covered by cow dung and water. The process takes a month to produce compost. The cycle will continue to produce regular compost after a month when one cycle will be over,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority.The authority said that the compost that will be produced at the nursery will be adequate to meet the demands of the city parks. “The best part about this plant is that it will reduce the waste that goes to landfill. Besides, we will be able to make sure our parks are not littered with horticulture waste,” said Singh.The officials said that as of now one plant is adequate, and if need be in future then another plant will be made at any other location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-starts-waste-to-compost-plant-to-get-rid-of-horticulture-waste/story-Ak2DV2F2ekHd6pPsSOjHZK.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Yamuna Expressway authority expedites work on ‘Heritage City’||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Monday said it has begun the process to finalise the layout of the proposed ‘Heritage City’ tourist spot at Raya near Mathura. The unique city will spread on 9,000 hectares along the 165-km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida and Agra. “We have already started the process to hire a consultant who will prepare the detailed project report (DPR) as part of finalising the layout. We are discussing the project details with all stakeholders, including the state government,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of the YEIDA.Yeida said interested agencies can submit their bids online by January 8, 2021. The authority will then subsequently scrutinise their papers.“The agency, hopefully, will prepare the DPR in the next 3-4 months. After that, the authority will move ahead towards laying the groundwork,” said Singh.As part of the project, the Yamuna river will be beautified on the lines of Sabarmati and Gomti river front projects and land will be developed as industrial, residential, commercial and mixed-land use in this city. Around 700 hectares will be built to promote the heritage of ancient city of Mathura and other places associated with the Mahabharata. However the exact nature of land in the city will be earmarked only after the DPR is finalised, said officials..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-expressway-authority-expedites-work-on-heritage-city/story-GVfATc8iFMGTn7sWwPEGIN.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Man gets seven years’ imprisonment for raping daughter||GREATER NOIDA: A local Gautam Budh Nagar court has awarded seven years’ imprisonment to a 45-year-old man for raping his daughter in their house more than five years ago. The accused was, however, acquitted of charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act as the victim was found to be adult when the incident took place, said the special public prosecutor. The man was pronounced guilty of rape despite his wife, the complainant in the case, turned hostile in the court. The incident took place on February 15, 2015, and an FIR was lodged against the accused under IPC Section 376(C) and POCSO act at Sector 24 police station in Noida. In the FIR, the victim’s mother, a domestic maid, said that she had gone to work. “I have two daughters aged 16 years and 9 years. My husband sent the younger daughter out on some pretext and locked the door and raped the elder daughter. Neighbours came to her rescue when the younger daughter informed them of her father’s wrongdoing,” the mother had said in the FIR.A charge sheet was filed against the accused on January 6, 2016. The accused claimed he was innocent and told the court that the victim was having an affair and he had warned her not to meet that person. Upset over this, she has lodged a false case against him, the man told the court.During the trial, the complainant turned hostile and said she had lodged a complaint against her husband for misbehaving and molestation, and not rape. But the victim confirmed her statement that she was raped by her father.“Additional District Judge Niranjan Kumar has held the accused guilty under IPC section 376 C and awarded seven years simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5,000. He was, however, acquitted of charges under POCSO act as the victim was found to be adult on the date of incident. The order was delivered on December 17,” JP Bhati, special public prosecutor, said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-gets-seven-years-imprisonment-for-raping-daughter/story-4mTOmXyuSuAMdSdwKEck0N.html
21-12-2020||City||Encroachments by Ludhiana MC staff, kin removed||Taking action against the permanent encroachments spread in around an acre of government land near Rose Garden, the municipal corporation (MC) on Monday demolished around 50 encroachments in the form of houses despite resistance by people. The land was encroached for over three decades by encroachers including MC’s class IV employees and their relatives among others. A heavy police force was deployed to avoid any untoward incident. Municipal town planner SS Bindra and assistant town planners (ATP) from all the four zones of the MC were present at the site. Though the encroachers raised a hue and cry over the sudden demolition which left them without a shelter in this biting cold, the MC officials said that notices were being served to them since last year.A resident Sunil said, “The MC did not serve any notice prior to the anti-encroachment drive and the last notice was served in 2019. As we are living here for over three decades, the civic body should have given us time to vacate the houses and arrange alternative accommodation. It is unfair on MC’s part that some houses have not been demolished as its owners have been given time to vacate.” Assistant town planner MS Bedi said, “There were around 60 houses and most of them have been demolished. Some encroachers had started demolishing the houses by themselves. If they fail to clear the land in a day or two, we will again conduct an anti-encroachment drive in the area. The MC has been serving to the encroachers in the past but they failed to vacate the land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/encroachments-by-ludhiana-mc-staff-kin-removed/story-HoLpwpa9E8xtq5JaJ6yOFN.html
21-12-2020||Noida||City’s wetlands to see waterbird census in January||The Wetlands International (South Asia) and the forest department will begin the annual waterbird census across Noida’s wetlands in January, officials said. Wetlands International said they have already begun enlisting volunteers to cover the three major wetlands – Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur Wetland and Dhanauri Wetland. The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) is an annual count of waterbirds in India and Australia in January. The count not only gives an idea of the birds at the wetland but also the health of the wetland -- a good numbers of waterbirds indicates that it has adequate feeding, resting, roosting and foraging spots.Also expected in the count are migratory birds that arrive from the cold central and north Asian countries by October, and fly back by March and April. The migratory birds expected to be found include the black-tailed godwit, common pochard, river tern, black-bellied tern, greater spotted eagle, spotted redshank and Eurasian curlew.“Migratory birds would have already arrived at the wetlands making it the right time for the census. Seven wetlands across Delhi-NCR will be covered between January 2 and 18, 2021. In Gautamm Buddh Nagar, we will begin with Surajpur on Janaury 2, followed by Dhanauri on January 5 and Okhla on January 17,” said TK Roy, ecologist and conservationist, AWC. Roy said that although the wetlands had healed from human impact during the lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak, it deteriorated soon after the restrictions were lifted. “The picture after the relaxation has not been not very positive. Several wetlands, for example the Najafgarh Jheel in Delhi, suffered human activities like fishing. Also, the migration observed so far was slower this season across northern India. We have our fingers crossed,” said Roy. “We had cleaned the Okhla wetlands and made it more amenable for the birds. Let’s hope for a better turnout this year. We will provide logistic support and all possible help to Wetlands International,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar. The previous edition of the census at Surajpur wetland and Okhla Bird Sanctuary found a drop in the overall population of waterbirds and species diversities. It was also the first time that the census was held at the Dhanauri wetland, which is proposed to be declared a Ramsar site and Sarus sanctuary. The 2020 census recorded 2,092 birds from 39 species in Surajpur (In 2019, it was 3,034 birds from 42 species). At the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, the count was 8,776 birds from 62 species as against 12,212 birds of 63 species in 2019. Dhanauri had 6,227 waterbirds fromm 59 species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/city-s-wetlands-to-see-waterbird-census-in-january/story-y7JVxQXxfTbZ7I9jv2o1BI.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Noida veterans celebrate Vijay Diwas at Shaheed Smarak||Military veterans in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday marked Vijay Diwas at the Shaheed Smarak in Sector 29.Vijay Diwas marks India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 and the liberation of Bangladesh. It is usually marked on December 16, but the celebrations in the district were organised on Monday with Lt. Gen SK Saini, vice chief of the army staff presiding as chief guest.“There was a wreath laying ceremony which was carried out with military precision and tri-service guards and buglers in attendance. The programme started at 10 am and ran for an hour. Next of kin of those who died in the war, civil dignitaries, bureaucrats, school students were also present,” said Cdr (retd), Narinder Mahajan.Shaheed smarak was the only tri-services memorial in the country to honour soldiers killed in action before the National War Memorial was built at India Gate. “The event reminds the families of martyrs that the sacrifices of their loved ones will never be forgotten and that the country will keep on honouring them,” said Mahajan.Organisers said that in light of the pandemic situation, the affair was a solemn one and the banquet which usually follows the ceremony was not held this year.“We had obtained all permissions and only 100 guests were at the event. Social distancing were adhered to and we ensured that the entire areas was thoroughly sanitized and that all guests were wearing maks. All Covid-19 protocols were followed. It was a solemn affair conducted with military precision,” said an organizer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-veterans-celebrate-vijay-diwas-at-shaheed-smarak/story-GHQWYEOFoFxKwh7PWi6qVI.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Farmers supporting farm laws submits memorandum to Union agriculture minister||A five-member delegation of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh that supported the Centre’s new farm laws met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday and submitted a memorandum of demands.The farmers, under the banner of the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti (HMKS), arrived in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram on Sunday and held a rally in support of the new laws. They were going to go to Delhi, but their rally of around 300 tractor trolleys was stopped and the delegation was allowed to go instead. “We met the Union minister and extended our support to the government. We also handed over a memorandum of our demands in which we said that the new laws would end the exploitation by middlemen. We supported the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP), demande that it be hiked and that the farmer should have the right to sell their produce anywhere,” said Satish Kumar, secretary, HMKS The memorandum also said that under the contract farming law, the buyer’s right should be over produce and not the field. “We also submitted some of our issues pertaining to waiver of electricity bill, timely purchase of crop so that we can prepare for the next crop in time and also get our payments in time. We also submitted that cases against farmers for burning of stubble should be taken back,” Kumar said. The pro-farm law rally ended in Indirapuram on late Sunday night and farmers returned to their respective districts. On the other hand, the other group of farmers protesting at the UP Gate against the three farm laws continued their ongoing protest and also initiated a relay fast on Monday in which 11 farmers began a 24-hour fast. “They will complete their fast at 8am the next day, then another set of farmers will arrive and begin their fast. This will continue like that. We also urged all farmers to skip one meal on Kisan Diwas, which falls on December 23. This will strengthen our movement,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) who was part of the batch that began the relay-fast. Kisan Diwas, or National Farmers’ Day, marks the birth anniversary of farmer leader and fifth prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. The BKU led by Rakesh Tikait at the UP Gate had been staging protest since November 28 along with farmers in large numbers who have arrived from Punjab, Uttarakhand and other parts of Uttar Pradesh. They have been demanding rollback of the three farm laws and a new law on MSP. The protesters at UP Gate are also gearing up to beat the winter chill and roped in dozens of tents and “Desi geysers” at the site. The tents, about 18, were erected on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway which is blocked since December 3. Farmers said that the tents will provide them protection from winds and can accommodate 2-8 people. “The ‘Desi geysers’ are in form of metallic cylinder shape with one opening for pouring down cold water while the outlet will give warm water. In between we have opening for filling up coal or wood which will help heat up water. These have come from Jalandhar, Punjab,” said Shamsher Rana, national media co-ordinator of the Tikait led, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-supporting-farm-laws-submits-memorandum-to-union-agriculture-minister/story-LkMrCmchA8HIDjSAAJX1rI.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Annoyed with stoppage of tractor-trolleys in UP, farmers block Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway of NH-9||Ghaziabad: Farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws on Monday briefly blocked an operational Delhi to Ghaziabad carriageway on the National Highway-9 at UP Gate to mark their unhappiness over allegations that their supporters were being stopped from reaching them.Rumours of police blocking farmers at district borders had been doing the rounds for a few days. The Ghaziabad district administration had then said they would speak to their counterparts on the matter and assured they had not stopped their supporters. On Monday, the Ghaziabad district officials were at it again, and managed to get the blockade lifted in 45 minutes.“The issue is that our supporters’ tractor-trolleys were stopped at Pilibhit and Rampur. We have told officials that our fight is with the Centre and not with the state governments of UP or Uttarakhand,” said Rakesh Tikait, leader and spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s) Tikait faction. “After assurance from officials that the matter would be looked into, we allowed traffic through.”Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We have referred their issue to senior officers and the blockade of NH-9 was lifted. To cater to commuters, we had to divert the traffic through Kaushambi.”The protesters at UP-Gate are continuing with blockade of Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway since December 3 while the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway is operational for normal traffic.However, in two previous instances, the protesters had blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway as well.The first instance was on December 8 during the “Bharat Bandh” call when the other side of the NH-9 was blocked from 11am to 3pm while a brief blockade was also made on December 14 when the farmers had given a call for protests at district headquarters.Meanwhile, Tikait on Monday also announced more measures to be taken up at the protest site which has presence of farmers from western UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand.“It has also been decided during the co-ordination committee meeting on Sunday that no loud music will be allowed at the site after midnight. Further, the relay-fast has also been started and farmers have been urged to skip one-time meal on ‘Kisan Diwas’ on December 23. I would also urge our volunteers to ensure that there is no nuisance created with the people of the press,” Tikait said during a briefing at UP-Gate.“The media persons are showing our protest continuously and we know that ‘kalam aur camera pe bandook ka pehra hai (pen and camera are under the scanner of guns)’. Still, they are doing their job and we must thank them. Every volunteer must ensure that no trouble-maker tries to create nuisance here,” he said.Sardar VM Singh, another farmer leader said on Monday morning that it was painful that the tractor-trolleys were getting stopped midway.“If the government wants to hold talks and resolve our pain, so they must not stop farmers and on the other hand they say that we are opening doors for talks. Such things cannot go together. People are coming from a lot of places and when people are coming peacefully, they must not be stopped. Otherwise they will stop there and will hold protest. Our farmer leaders will also meet corporates in Mumbai and urge them to speak to the government to resolve the issues of farmers who are on roads and help them in rollback of farm laws,” he told reporters at UP-Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/annoyed-with-stoppage-of-tractor-trolleys-in-up-farmers-block-delhi-ghaziabad-carriageway-of-nh-9/story-HyrHJRaQFpOyNFQQwOf4wM.html
21-12-2020||City||129 years of basketball celebrated at Ludhiana’s Guru Nanak Stadium||The district basketball association celebrated 129 years of the invention of basketball. The basketball players of Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) assembled in basketball courts in the city’s Guru Nanak Stadium and observed the day with friendly matches. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association (PBA), told players about the origin of the game. The players pledged to never take stamina boosting health supplements for enhancing their performance. Brij Bhushan Goyal, treasurer, LBA, said that when players are caught in dope tests, it not only mars their sporting and job career but also defames their parents and sports bodies. Chief coach Rajinder Singh thanked the management of LBA and PBA for popularising the sport across Punjab. He also informed that many players trained at LBA are drafted in NBA and are playing FIBA matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/129-years-of-basketball-celebrated-at-ludhiana-s-guru-nanak-stadium/story-roMIx1rzv6Ya321Wibmf5N.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Over 600 farmers protest outside authority office, demand higher land compensation||Noida: A group of more than 600 local farmers whose lands were acquired for development protested in front of the Noida authority’s office in Sector 6 on Monday, seeking higher land compensation and residential plots.The group was led by the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad (BKP) which since February has been demanding a hiked land compensation of 64%, 10% residential plots (10% of total land acquired), and Abadi settlement, among others.“We have been demanding residential plots for a very long time with no appropriate response from the authority. Today’s protest was organized to demand for our enhanced compensation,” said Sukhveer Pahalwan, president, BKP.The farmers from about 80 villages blocked the busy Udyog Marg outside the authority office around noon after which diversions were placed on either side of the protest site for commuters. The traffic in the area remained affected till around 4pm when the group was finally dispersed, the police said.“We had information about their movement today. But they were supposed to gather at the Noida stadium and then march to the authority office. Police personnel were deployed at both the sites. But the famers started gathering simultaneously at both the points,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that the gathering was in violation of Covid-19 guidelines and section 144 that is imposed in the district. So, the farmers were detained by the Noida police and nearly 125 of them were brought to the Surajpur police lines from where they were released after two hours, the officials said.“The gathering was unlawful and we will register an FIR against them. We are trying to identify them,” said a senior police official.A case under section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) was also registered against an unidentified man who tried to hurt a police man on duty with his car, the police said. Noida authority officials said that talks regarding the farmers’ concerns are already underway. “We had a meeting regarding these issues a few days back, and all progress updates are being shared with them,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida authority. Meanwhile, some members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), who are camped at the Chilla border against the Centre’s new farm laws for the past three weeks, have gone on one-day hunger strike. “As decided by all organizations protesting against the new farm bills, 11 of our brothers will go on 24-hour hunger strike in different batches. We will continue to protest till the central government listens to our demands and takes appropriate action,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU (Bhanu). The Noida-Delhi carriageway at the Chilla border has been closed since December 11 and the traffic continues to be rerouted via the DND flyway. Another faction of BKU is protesting at the Dalit Prerna Sthal and was on Monday joined by a large delegation of farmers from Bijnore. “Till the government does not take back the three farm laws, our farmer brothers from across the country will continue to join us to show their support,” said Dr SK Giri, national spokesperson, BKU (Lok Shakti).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-over-600-farmers-protest-outside-authority-office-demand-higher-land-compensation/story-QSVVJBlXD4T6BxejlzqZXO.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Health department seeks assistance from government agencies for Covid-19 vaccination||The district health department has sought assistance from eight government departments and agencies regarding the roll-out and implementation of Covid-19 vaccine, along with social mobilisation and awareness. From identification and management of Covid-19 session sites to providing volunteers who will be deployed as vaccination officers, departments have been asked to give their inputs. The timeline, however, has not been decided. The eight departments and agencies include Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and departments of women and child development (WCD), district development and panchayat,Ayush, the police, education and information technology. A Covid-19 vaccine task force meeting was held earlier this week with district administration regarding the matter. Health officials cited that these government departments will be asked to provide inputs regarding the manpower needed only after the total number of session sites are finalised. “A letter has been written to all of these departments seeking their inputs,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “The Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be required in the identification, planning and logistics of the session sites in urban areas. Likewise, for the rural areas, district development and panchayat department has been roped in.”Singh added that the women and child development (WCD) department will be required in supportive supervision and monitoring of vaccination. “These departments will also be providing vaccinating officers 3 and 4 to look after the crowd management at session sites. Only Ayush department alongside the health department will provide vaccinators who will be authorised to give the vaccine injection,” said Singh. Notably, at every session site, there will be five vaccination officers including a vaccinator.On the other hand, the police department will provide the vaccinator officer 1, who will check the registration status of the beneficiary at the entry point of the session site. The information technology department will provide vaccinating officer 2, who will work on the Co-WIN platform for the verification of the documents and uploading the data base. Only registered beneficiaries will be inoculated in the first phase of vaccination that includes health care workers, front-line workers and people above 50 years of age. According to Singh, education department will be required in supporting management of vaccination session as it is likely that some of the session sites will include schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-seeks-assistance-from-government-agencies-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-BfrTVTqJujfNvm49cYVTyN.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||No violations committed at Ghamroj bundh finds probe||A district-level committee, constituted last month by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to probe allegations of unlawful excavation of the Ghamroj bundh, has filed its report before the court stating that no violations were found in the matter. However, the committee has also observed that a portion of the bundh had been damaged and subsequently restored by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). This development follows on the heels of a public interest litigation filed by activist Prem Mohan Gaur, a resident of Hajjipur village on Sohna-Palwal Road, who frequents Ghamroj village and first noticed the bundh being excavated in August, to make space for a rest area that is part of the NHAI’s upcoming toll complex on NH-248A. The bundh is a traditional water harvesting structure that runs for two kilometres along Sohna Road in the revenue estate of Ghamroj village, aiding flood control and groundwater recharge.Gaur’s petition alleged that excavation of the bundh is in contradiction of Sohna’s Master Plan 2031, which states that the structure must be retained in its current state. Tampering with the structural integrity of the bundh — which arrests water run-off from Aravalli hills that skirt around the village — may also pose a risk of flooding in the region and negatively affect groundwater recharge in the area, environmentalists have warned. Taking cognisance of these concerns, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on November 9 constituted a district-level committee to look into the matter and submit a report. The committee, consisting of officials from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board(HSPCB), NHAI, department of town and country planning(DTCP), as well as the forest and irrigation departments, conducted a field inspection on December 7. “After joint inspection of the site, it is submitted that the Ghamroj bundh, where it was damaged by the NHAI, has been restored and that there is no violation on Ghamroj bundh as on today,” states the undated report — a copy of which was obtained by Hindustan Times on Monday. Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB and nodal officer in the matter, said, “As per the NGT’s instructions, we have carried out a site survey and found that a portion of the bundh had indeed been breached. The irrigation department subsequently instructed the NHAI to restore the portion, and this has now been completed. The same has been conveyed to the NGT, who will decide on the further course of action.” Confirming these details, Vikas Mittal, the NHAI’s technical director overseeing the project, said that the NHAI has halted all work on the bundh land. “At present we are only filling up the portion behind the bundh, which is not a forest area but in fact a privately owned land acquired by us. The structure of the bundh has been restored and no further work will be carried out until the NGT is satisfied with the report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-violations-committed-at-ghamroj-bundh-finds-probe/story-jSm4L8w6zFtJOgt7DsCaLM.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Over 25K flower saplings planted along expressway||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has planted over 25,000 flower saplings along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway as part of a mission to make the city greener, officials said on Monday.The MCG, along with the residents’ welfare associations (RWA) of DLF Phase-2 and in collaboration with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), prepared more than 45 flower beds and planted more than 25,000 flower saplings on a 1,200 square metre portion of land between Cyber City and Iffco Chowk, opposite the expressway.The planting of saplings along the expressway is part of the MCG’s Green Gurugram Mission. Under this, the MCG is planning on planting more than 40 varieties of anti-pollution plants and flower saplings across the city. The Green Gurugram Mission commenced on November 29.Flowers such as ice plant, snapdragon, calendula, sweet William, dahlia, daisies, African daisies and flox were planted along the stretch. All saplings were sourced from MCG’s nurseries in sectors 15 and 46.On December 2, following a meeting with the NHAI, MCG and highways officials jointly decided to plant more than a million flower saplings between Iffco Chowk and Sirhaul toll along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway to increase the city’s green cover and check air pollution.After covering this stretch, the MCG and NHAI will plant flowers between Iffco Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk in the next phase, said officials privy to the matter.“The entire plantation exercise took around seven days. First, the land was prepared for the plantation by clearing the green belt area next to the national highway. DLF officials also supported this initiative by providing horticulture-related staff to prepare the land and plant saplings. Plants were provided by the two MCG nurseries and by Sunday, the plantation in most areas was complete. The 1,200 square metre green belt areas are expected to bloom by the end of January and make the city both beautiful and help reduce localised air pollution,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission, MCG.Kumar said that the DLF Phase-2 RWA also organised a camp for its residents, before the plantation drive, and distributed 25,000 saplings to them, free of cost.DLF Phase-2 RWA general secretary, CP Singh, said that this unique initiative of Mission Green Gurugram will bring positive vibes to the community. “We are facing huge challenges in environmental pollution. This project is a big step towards removing dust and cleaning the air around us. Residents of DLF Phase 2 and the RWA will jointly maintain these saplings and help the MCG in its Green Gurugram Mission,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-25k-flower-saplings-planted-along-expressway/story-RZMHP4Kc5S2nWmlJj0FkKK.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Man robbed of his car at gunpoint in Sector 102||Two unidentified men allegedly robbed a 34-year-old businessman of his car at gunpoint in Sector 102 after driving him around for over an hour on Sunday night. The police said the suspects approached the victim while he was standing outside his car and getting some construction material loaded on a truck. The police said the suspects took victim at the gunpoint and snatched his car keys. When he tried to raise an alarm they threatened to kill him. They drove the car towards Dwarka, said the police. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.30pm when the victim, a resident of Rohtak, was getting portable cabins loaded on a truck. He was standing nearly 100 metres away from the truck near his Creta SUV when two unidentified men came towards him after crossing the road. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that two of the suspects alighted from their car and walked up to the victim’s car. One of the suspects pointed a gun at the victim and asked him to hand over the keys. “When he objected, one of them pulled out a pistol and threatened him. One of the suspects then got behind the wheel of his car and drove towards Dwarka Expressway. The other suspect, who had parked car on the other side of the road, followed the victim’s car,” he said. Navin Kumar, the victim, called police control room and informed them about the incident. A team from Rajindra Park police station reached the spot and conducted investigation. The police said they are checking the footage from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the suspects. A case was registered under sections 392 (robbery), 379 B (punishment for snatching) , 34 (common intention ) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) and section 25/54/59 of The Arms Act at Rajindra Park police station on Monday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-robbed-of-his-car-at-gunpoint-in-sector-102/story-RrJpDG3k0q3dJ3OYHNyXAI.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Driving licence, birth and death certificates to be linked with Family ID card||A variety of government services, such as driving licence, vehicle registration and birth and death certificates, are likely to be linked with Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) or Family Id card scheme from January next year, according to district administration officials. Those privy to the matter, however, said that it might take more than a month to link these services as the administration is yet to complete the verification of the existing database of families.Additional deputy commissioner Prashant Panwar, who is also the district nodal officer for PPP scheme, in a statement issued by the administration said, “From January 1, 2021, government services like driving licence, vehicle registration, certificates for birth, death, income and domicile will be linked with the PPP.” Earlier this month, the state administration linked marriage registration with Family ID. Linking birth, death and marriage records would mean automatic update of the family data, as per the government website. Besides, three government schemes, such as disability pension, old age allowance and widow pension, have also been linked with the ID. Under the scheme, an eight-digit ID will be provided to every family residing in Haryana. With the database of the families, automatic self-selection of beneficiaries will be done for receiving benefits under various schemes or services. “Various camps are being held at different locations to update and verify data. In Gurugram, more than three lakh people have already been linked under PPP. The process of data verification for internal use is currently underway. Over 4,000 people are getting registered under PPP every day,” Panwar said.Another official privy to the matter said that linking birth and death certificates with PPP would take another month as the verification of existing data base available with the government is yet to be completed. “The verification process is yet not over. Therefore, the process of linking schemes with PPP has been taking time. The plan was to link marriage, birth and death certificates with the PPP before moving on to driving licence and vehicle registration. To pace up the verification process, government departments have been told to circulate PPP forms.” The directorate of school education has already approached private schools and circulated Family Id card forms to parents. The process has been completed in case of government schools. Likewise, the food supply department has also been approached to verify data base of people registered under Public Distribution System. According to the Panwar’s statement, citizens have to submit Aadhaar number of every family member, a photocopy of the bank passbook and the voter card. “However, voter card is optional now. Those who are covered under any government scheme need to have the bank passbook. The permanent account number(PAN) is also optional,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/driving-licence-birth-and-death-certificates-to-be-linked-with-family-id-card/story-nAWJDncsPTNBu18Q4zFvrM.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Man held for killing wife, passing it off as suicide||A 30-year-old man was arrested two days after he allegedly killed his wife and tried to pass it off as suicide by hanging her body from a ceiling fan in their house in IMT Manesar on Sunday night, said the police. According to the police, they received a complaint from Ranjeet Kumar, brother of the deceased, on Sunday, levelling murder charges against his brother-in-law whose name also happens to be Ranjeet Kumar. According to the police, the husband hails from Madhepura in Bihar. The suspect works as a security guard in Sector 7 of IMT Manesar and had retuned from his village two months ago. The police said he had shifted to his home town during lockdown and returned with his wife in October. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gururgam Police, said that the brother received a call on Saturday that his sister had committed suicide and had been declared dead upon arrival in a private hospital in IMT Manesar. “The brother, who works in Chandigarh, boarded a bus for Gurugram within half-an-hour after hearing the news. When he reached the city, his brother-in-law requested him to cremate the body without waiting for the autopsy report,” he said. Boken said the family received the post-mortem report on Sunday and was shocked to know that Sudha Kumar was strangulated to death and later hanged from a ceiling fan. Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said that the cause of death was asphyxia following ante-mortem strangulation. “The deceased was strangulated and had marks on the neck. She was later hanged to pass it off as a suicide case,” he said. The police said the suspect had a strained relationship with his wife. She was found hanging in her house in Manesar and the suspect had claimed she committed suicide, said the police. However, the woman’s family alleged that she was murdered by the suspect after the investigating officer informed them of the post-mortem report. A case of murder was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman’s brother and an investigation launched, the police said. During questioning, the suspect allegedly admitted to have murdered his wife. He hanged her body from the ceiling fan to make it look like a suicide, police said. The police said the couple was married for five years and has a three-year-old daughter, who lives with her grandparents in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-held-for-killing-wife-passing-it-off-as-suicide/story-prv3xJ0e7cr8dmlPFrfhzO.html
21-12-2020||City||F&CC nod to safety jackets’ purchase, installation of elevators at Ludhiana MC offices||The meeting of the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) was held at the mayor’s camp office near Rose Garden on Monday, wherein the committee deliberated upon 200 resolutions.Most of the resolutions were approved during the meeting including the resolution to purchase 10,000 safety jackets for MC sweepers, sewermen, etc at the cost of Rs 7 lakh, repair of expansion joints of the elevated road (over railway station road) etc, repair of mayor’s official residence near Rose garden among others. The other resolutions included re-carpeting of roads, installation of tubewells, installation of interlocking tiles in different parts of the city.The committee also approved a resolution to install lifts at Zone A and B office of MC. The civic body will also be conducting repairs of its headquarters (Zone A office) near Mata Rani chowk. Currently, a lift has been installed only at the Zone D office while the elderly have to take the staircase in other offices of MC.An agenda of 492 resolutions were tabled during the meeting, but the remaining resolutions could not be taken up in the meeting that continued for three hours. The next meeting of the committee has been scheduled for Wednesday to discuss the remaining agenda items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/f-cc-nod-to-safety-jackets-purchase-installation-of-elevators-at-ludhiana-mc-offices/story-tBCTQHyu4fMnbmjtsnCM5K.html
21-12-2020||City||Fly ash row: PPCB issues show-cause notice to 28 dyeing units for air pollution||With residents of the East constituency raising a hue and cry over flying ash, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has found 28 dyeing units at Tajpur road allegedly burning fuel and failing to deal with the fly ash, that is causing respiratory problems.The inspection was conducted on the directions of Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar, who conducted a meeting regarding the same with officials of the municipal corporation (MC), PPCB and the representatives of the dyeing units at the civic body’s Zone B office on Monday.Talwar said that a warning and show-cause notices have been issued to the owners of the dyeing units to take corrective steps or face action.“Residents living in different areas of the East constituency have been complaining against fly ash coming out of the chimneys of dyeing units. Officials at the Ludhiana Central Jail had also complained that the health of inmates is deteriorating due to the presence of fly ash in the air. While we are working on the National Clean Air Programme to decrease air pollution, these dyeing unit owners continue to put the lives of residents at risk. Residents of these areas are unable to sit out or do any outdoor activity due to flying ash entering their nose and mouth,” said Talwar while adding that if the owners fail to take corrective steps, the PPCB officials will not let these units operate and it will be sealed.2-acre land for dumping ashTalwar said that they are working on a proposal to provide two acres of land to the dyeing industry for dumping flying ash coming out of the machinery near the main dump site of MC at Tajpur road. The dyeing unit owners have been illegally dumping the ash at vacant plots in the nearby areas.He added that dyeing unit owners will have to face protests from area councillor and residents if they do not take corrective steps.“I will also be conducting surprise inspections to keep a check on the working of the dyeing industry,” said Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fly-ash-row-ppcb-issues-show-cause-notice-to-28-dyeing-units-for-air-pollution/story-7w6lE1Jyp3OgxWV9H5GJeP.html
21-12-2020||City||Didn’t let development derail despite economic stress, virus under control: Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur||Three years since he was unexpectedly catapulted to the top job in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, 55, is firmly in the saddle politically. But he faces the uphill task of keeping up a bevy of poll promises, made tougher by an unrelenting Covid-19 rampage that has battered the state’s economy, already weighed down by a surging debt burden of ₹56,000 crore. With his understated, hands-on style of governance, the BJP leader from Mandi, who enters his fourth year at the helm on December 27, has been quick to reset his priorities to blunt the opposition’s charge of below-par performance. In an exclusive in-person interview with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak in Shimla on Sunday, Thakur exuded an air of quiet confidence in his ability to deal with the challenges ahead. Edited excerpts: Overall, it has been a satisfactory performance. The last one year, since March, has been disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic which adversely impacted the state financially and also certain big projects that were in the pipeline. But we didn’t let the health emergency delay or derail initiatives that we had taken at the outset of our term. That has earned us goodwill. There is not a single major issue that the people hold against my government. Since its inception, Himachal Pradesh has seen two parties’ rule by rotation. Every five years, the new government used to begin its term with a spirit of revenge against the last regime by scrapping its decisions and registering cases against its leaders. This trend was going on for long. I put an end to the politics of vendetta. My conviction is that people elect us to work for them; not fix our political opponents. We also launched the Jan Manch scheme in which all ministers, along with officials, hear public grievances at a pre-decided venue on the first Thursday of every month. That provided on-the-spot redressal to people and reduces their footfall in government offices. On the social welfare front, our government reduced the limit for old age pension from 80 to 70 years and expanded the ambit of the Narendra Modi government’s Ayushman Bharat scheme that benefited 22 lakh of state’s 70 lakh population. For those left out, we introduced the Him Care scheme for free treatment. Similarly, as a state version of the Centre’s Ujjwala Scheme that covered 1.5 lakh families, we implemented Grahini Suvidha, covering another 2.86 lakh beneficiaries. Today, Himachal Pradesh is the only the state where each household has a cooking gas facility. During the global investors’ meet in November last year, memoranda of understanding (MoUs) worth ₹96,000 crore were signed. It was the first such initiative to make Himachal an investment destination. Within a month, ground breaking for a Rs 13,000-crore project was held. The Covid-19 crisis came as a setback to the process. Still, projects of Rs 9,000 crore are under implementation. As the pandemic subsides, plans are afoot for the groundbreaking of another ₹10,000-crore projects in two months. The virus has spiked in different states at different times. Here, the infection is peaking now. The spike in two months has coincided with the onset of winter and the wedding season. Indoor social gatherings are a big factor in the spread of infection. Up to 100 positive cases were reported after a wedding. There was casualness in adhering to the government-imposed caps on the number of attendees. So, we had to re-impose restrictions and tighten enforcement. The limit for social gatherings has been restricted to 50. Night curfew is in place in four worst-hit districts of Shimla, Kullu, Kangra and Mandi. As a result, the number of daily cases has dropped from 800 to 300. With 9,000 tests daily, our testing, despite being a small state, is much higher than others. Now that the wedding season is over, the case load has shown a sharp decline from 1,000 to 300 in the past week. We will review the night curfew on December 23. Except coronavirus, the opposition has no other issue. They feel it’s a godsend. Otherwise, they were issueless. This is not a manmade or government-made crisis. This should not be exploited politically. The government expected the opposition to behave responsibly and offer suggestions to deal with the crisis. Unfortunately, that has not happened. I’m amazed at their charge. This year, we had a 10-day monsoon session which, in my 24 years in the Vidhan Sabha, was never for more than five or six days. We had to call off the winter session as both Dharamshala and Shimla (the winter and summer capitals) are reeling under a spike in Covid cases. Also, there’s no constitutional obligation to hold the same. Our budget session, due by March 18, is round the corner. Most Congress leaders had privately conveyed to the government against holding the winter sittings. There is no question of running away from the debate. The blame lies on the Congress that has ruled the state for 50 of 70 years since Independence. When the crisis erupted, government hospitals had only 50 ventilators. Their number today is 700.The reality is that neither the world nor the country nor the state was prepared for such an unprecedented health emergency. Yet, even in a short span, we scaled up health infrastructure and set up four well-equipped makeshift hospitals. We have suffered an economic loss of at least Rs 30,000 crore. The state’s GSDP has shrunk by Rs 4,000 crore. The hardest hit is tourism that has been a big generator of employment and revenue. Industrial, agriculture and horticulture sectors were less impacted. Drug manufacturing at Baddi, one of Asia’s major pharma hubs, went on even during the lockdown. Apple and cherry crops got good market prices this season. Infrastructure projects suffered as the lockdown kept away labour from other states and the construction season got curtailed. The impact is definitely there. We have rejigged our funding priorities for ongoing projects. Implementation of some of them has been slowed but not stopped. We shall try and speed them up next year. Ours is perhaps the only state that has not slashed employee’s dearness allowance. There has been no cut in outlay for social welfare schemes. Rather, some of them have been supplemented. Our government had inherited an outstanding debt of Rs 47,000 crore. We had to borrow more in the last three months as the Centre relaxed the limit. The present debt burden now stands at Rs 56,110 crore. Himachal is one of the few states getting a monthly revenue deficit grant of ₹952 crore. We were expecting a big cut in that. Luckily, we have been spared that. Now, the Centre has given us ₹450 crore special assistance, which is interest-free for 40 years. That is a big relief. Also, there has been only a 10% cut in central taxes. We are pressing for external-aided projects. A Rs 1,892-crore tourism infrastructure project funded by Asian Development Bank is at an advanced stage but it has been on hold. There has also been a pause on the centrally funded national highway projects. We are expecting the finance commission’s green signal on state-specific projects. We are also taking up the setting up of a greenfield international airport at Mandi and expansion of airports at Shimla and Kangra. We have put a full stop on haphazard expansion in education and health sectors, which was the norm in the previous Congress government that opened 60 degree colleges a week before the assembly elections. Hundreds of schools and hospitals were announced and many had a budget provision of only Rs 1 lakh! Instead of numbers, we are focusing on infrastructure and staffing. I have filled up three cabinet vacancies after two-and-a-half years and refrained from making wholesale political appointments to public sector undertakings. The previous Congress regimes used to fill all that within a week of coming to power and spend lavishly. We have succeeded to a considerable extent. A vehicle is the basic necessity for the movement of elected representatives. We can’t tell them to take a horse or cycle in place of car. More than the government, it was an individual case. Soon after the scam surfaced, the government acted swiftly and arrested the health director, that too amid the pandemic. State party president Dr Rajeev Bindal resigned on moral grounds. Had he not done that; the opposition would have kept harping on the issue. That would have hurt us more. I stand for a zero tolerance on corruption. There is a limited scope for government jobs. In the agreements signed with private investors, there is a provision for preference to local work force. I feel there is no need to make it legally binding for private investors, particularly at the start of a project. It may not be practical. The need is to enforce the existing mechanism. To address unemployment, we are focusing on two fronts. One, promoting self-employment ventures under the Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojna that offers loans up to Rs 40 lakh with 25% subsidy. Second, we are pursuing big ticket investments, which have not happened at the scale we had planned due to the Covid situation. We have aggressively bid for one of the three bulk pharma hubs that the Centre will allocate to the states soon. That involves investment of Rs 10,000 crore and can be a game-changer on employment generation. With (Narendra) Modi ji, Amit Shah ji and Nadda ji around, this (factionalism) is a thing of the past. It’s over now. The party organisation is strong. Senior leaders do what the party assigns them. They support and guide us. To do better than what we have done in three years; specifically, in the delivery of social welfare schemes. I’m pushing for the international airport project, crucial to boost tourism. We have also set the target for fast-tracking the four-laning of the stretches from Kiratpur to Manali, Solan to Shimla and Mandi to Pathankot and Mandi to Matour. In politics, you have to be ready for every situation. You may get a big responsibility or a small one or no responsibility at all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/didn-t-let-development-derail-despite-economic-stress-virus-under-control-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur/story-5daStRB7kUZl5YtdkQB8NI.html
21-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Is there secularism in India?’: Mamata Banerjee demands national holiday on Christmas||“Is there secularism in India? I am sorry to say that a typical politics of hatred is going on,” Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday evening, taking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) head-on in a veiled attack. Significantly, she made the statement while greeting Kolkata’s Christian community at the inauguration of the Christmas carnival at Allen Park on Park Street. The carnival will be held amid restrictions because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Why is Christmas not a national holiday? What harm have the Christians done? I made the same demand last year. The BJP government came and changed it… Some people can only divide the country. We celebrate Christmas as a public holiday in our state,” said the chief minister. “Don’t they have any respect for the sentiments of Christians?” she added. Banerjee’s remarks appeared to refer to the BJP government’s decision in 2014 — it came to power that year — to celebrate December 25 as “Good Governance Day”, a move that triggered widespread controversy amidst apprehensions that the holiday will be scrapped. To be sure, Christmas remains a public holiday as per the Centre’s list. “We all respect the Constitution but they have no respect for its values,” Banerjee said. Also read: DDC election results on Tuesday; counting to begin at 9 amReacting to Banerjee’s allegation, BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “It is she who violated secular values by declaring monthly stipend for the Imams of the state’s mosques. A person who makes political statements from administrative meetings everyday has no right to talk about the Constitution.” Reacting to the chief minister’s demand for Christmas to be declared a national holiday, political commentator and columnist Suvashis Maitra said, “Banerjee is right. But the actual meaning of secular governance is not encouraging any or all religions but to keep equal distance from them.” This was not the only attack she unleashed on the BJP on Monday, less than two days after Union home minister Amit Shah welcomed seven MLAs, a TMC Lok Sabha member and three more legislators from other parties into the BJP during his two-day tour of the state. Shah visited Visva Bharati, Bengal’s only Central university that was set up by Rabindranath Tagore in Birbhum district, and also led a massive BJP rally in the heart of Bolpur town on Sunday. Before attending the inauguration of the carnival, the chief minister, while addressing a press conference at the state secretariat, said, “I am going to Birbhum district on December 28 to hold an administrative meeting. On December 29 I will lead a rally that will highlight the culture associated with Rabindranath Tagore and people of the soil will take part in it.” The TMC alleged that people were ferried from several districts by the BJP to make Shah’s rally successful. TMC’s Birbhum district unit president Anubrata Mondal announced that Banerjee will lead a rally at the same spot but only locals will take part. After visiting Visva Bharati, Shah had said, “I am fortunate that I could visit Visva Bharati and pay homage to a great man who had spread India’s culture, philosophy, knowledge and literature around the globe. Both Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who represented the two main lines of nationalist thought at that time, drew inspiration from Tagore.” Asked for her reaction on Shah’s remarks, Banerjee said, “I have to research unionism, pluralism, racism and such issues. Now we are being told that Rabindranath was born in Santiniketan while the fact is that he was born at Jorasanko (in Kolkata). People like Rabindranath Tagore, Netaji Subhas Bose, Mahatma Gandhi, Vivekananda are hailed by people around the world because they held true world views,” said Banerjee. Banerjee also attacked the BJP for questioning the success of her government. “Our social security schemes are benefitting people right from their birth to death. Bengal is going ahead and some people are jealous,” she said at Allen Park. Talking on the same issue at the secretariat, she said, “You can call the BJP a party of cheats. They only spread garbage of lies. It is the Centre that declared Bengal topper in the country in rural road construction. And now the country’s home minister is dishing out lies prepared by his party’s workers. This does not suit you (Shah). Please crosscheck the facts before speaking,” said Banerjee. Also read: Maharashtra orders night curfew for 15 days, quarantine for travellers from abroadReferring to the data on the state’s non-performance that Shah quoted before the media on Sunday, she said, “I will give a specific reply to this tomorrow (Tuesday).” In the evening, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also targeted the state government on various issues, ranging from law and order to non-implementation of the Centre’s social welfare schemes. “The nation is moving in one direction while this state is moving in another. This is a danger for democracy,” said Dhankhar. “I can’t understand from which point of view a representative of the nation’s government is called an “outsider”. People (doing it) should read the Constitution,” said Dhankhar, referring to the TMC’s latest strategy of branding the BJP’s central leaders as outsiders. Dhankhar also lashed out at the police and the administration, saying both were controlled by the ruling party. “It becomes a threat to democracy when the police and the administration start working for a political party. I recently visited Diamond Harbour and the governor was not even shown respect through a guard of honour. Is Diamond Harbour someone’s jagir (kingdom)? I have some sensitive information but I don’t want to create a controversy. I will treat Diamond Harbour as a test case. It is part of West Bengal,” said Dhankhar. Incidentally, BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked in Diamond Harbour on December 10. Diamond Harbour is the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew. The TMC did not react to Dhankhar’s statements till 9 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/is-there-secularism-in-india-mamata-banerjee-demands-national-holiday-on-christmas/story-LmNnkcCQPc95v5HyGoRkXK.html
21-12-2020||City||Sixth schedule for Ladakh: Apex Body of People’s Movement to intensify campaign||The Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM) on Monday decided to reach out to opinion makers in Leh and Kargil districts to press for its demand of getting constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule for Ladakh.Former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the apex body could not initiate desired action but now we feel that the situation is improving. Therefore, we should expedite our campaign and bring all opinion makers from across Ladakh on board.” “We will start holding interactive sessions with all the stakeholders from Leh and Kargil districts,” he added. Chhewang said the pandemic also hampered a second meet of the apex body members with home minister Amit Shah. “We have again contacted the home minister on Monday and expect an invite soon to deliberate upon the issue,” he added. “After conferring UT status to Ladakh, constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule are required and that is why the apex body was formed,” he said. Former BJP unit president of Ladakh and ex-minister Chering Dorjay said, “Soon after Leh hill council polls, home minister Amit Shah had invited a delegation of apex body. However, Thupstan Chhewang had contracted Covid-19 infection. Thereafter, the farmers’ agitation started and the meeting could not be held.” Dorjay said though the BJP has not backtracked from its promise of providing sixth schedule to Ladakh and that home minister Amit Shah was very positive about it, the local leadership appeared reluctant. “We are apprehensive because local leadership of the BJP in Ladakh, including Leh hill council, is not speaking anything about sixth schedule despite the fact that it was a top priority in their election manifesto,” he said. Dorjay also recalled how a delegation headed by Thupstan Chhewang had asked the Leh hill council to bring a resolution on sixth schedule but it remained reluctant. “Now, we expect an invite to meet the home minister in Delhi,” he added. The Apex Body of People’s Movement , an apolitical body, which has former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on lines of north-eastern states. The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations as well as all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers. Thupstan Chhewang, the former BJP MP, had resigned from his post and primary membership of the party in November 2018 for not conferring UT status to Ladakh region and other promises made by the BJP in 2014 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sixth-schedule-for-ladakh-apex-body-of-people-s-movement-to-intensify-campaign/story-PaPopfElvKihWVjXKTAUiM.html
21-12-2020||Patna||For the fourth time, Bihar policemen take oath against alcohol consumption||More than 80,000 police personnel of Bihar on Monday vowed not to drink alcohol and work to ensure successful prohibition in the state.This is the fourth pledge in five years against liquor consumption and working in tandem with liquor smugglers. On April 4, 2016, all police personnel, including home guards, had taken a similar pledge not to consume liquor or allow its sale in the state. In 2019 also, the exercise was repeated on the CM’s directive. Even after this, there is no effect on Bihar policemen. Complaints against police personnel consuming liquor, their involvement in alcohol business is received regularly.Bihar police personnel had taken similar oaths in 2016, 2018 and 2019 to follow the prohibition.Policemen across the state gathered in uniform to take an oath on Monday morning - some at their police stations, others in big open grounds. In capital Patna, Bihar’s police chief SK Singhal administered the oath to several policemen.“I do solemnly swear I will never consume liquor in my lifetime. I shall be liable for stern action if I am ever found involved in any activity involving liquor,” read the oath.Also read: Maharashtra orders night curfew for 15 days, quarantine for travellers from abroadEver since the state went dry closely to five years back, several lakh litres of illicit liquor had been seized while 450 policemen, found either drunk or hand-in-glove with the liquor traders, were suspended. “Of them, 95 cops were dismissed from service after the prohibition law was amended and made quite stringent,” said a senior official in the state home department.In a bid to make the prohibition successful, chief minister Nitish Kumar has made the Station House Officer at each police station accountable for any illegal sale or consumption of liquor. “If liquor is found/seized in any area, be it for sale or consumption, the SHO of that particular station will be suspended and divested of the charge for the next ten years,” an official, adding that 23 police personnel were dismissed from service and pension amount of five retired police officials was deducted for their negligence in connection with the 2016 hooch tragedy in Gopalganj district.In 2020, Bihar police seized 26.91 lakh litres IMFL and country-made liquor while 48,187 people were arrested till November 2020.Earlier, the DGP had issued a letter to all IGs, DIGs, SSPs and the SPs. The CM had issued a directive to this effect during the review meeting on law and order in the state on December 9. The police headquarters has already sent the format of the oath message to the respective police districts, including rail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/for-the-fourth-time-bihar-policemen-take-oath-against-alcohol-consumption/story-zI8hPIQ7ngX4Fvulhj42YI.html
21-12-2020||Lucknow||Manish Sisodia to launch AAP’s ‘UP mission 2022’ in Lucknow on Tuesday||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will be visiting Uttar Pradesh’s capital city, Lucknow, on Tuesday to officially launch the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) campaign for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Sisodia will be the first high-profile AAP leader to visit the state after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in which AAP faced a drubbing in Uttar Pradesh.Ahead of Sisodia’s visit, AAP volunteers on Monday started posting pictures allegedly of dilapidated buildings of UP government schools with hashtag ‘Selfie with Sarkari School’ from across the state. Ever since Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced AAP’s decision to contest the UP assembly polls, there has been a war of words between AAP leaders and BJP ministers on the issue of Kejriwal model versus Yogi Adityanath’s “good governance”, with emphasis on government schools and healthcare sector. Brajesh Kumar Mishra, associate professor of political science, Jai Narayan PG Degree College, said, “The way the BJP government is reacting on the statements of AAP leaders, it points at a strategy to create another centre of opposition among non-BJP parties in Uttar Pradesh and confuse non-BJP voters.” Also read: Maharashtra orders night curfew for 15 days, quarantine for travellers from abroadThe BJP will be more than happy if AAP cuts into opposition’s vote bank, Mishra added. Before the 2022 assembly polls, the AAP will test its political prowess in Uttar Pradesh’s panchayat elections due in March next year. “With nothing to lose, AAP will resort to all sorts of ‘methods’ to gain public attention and remain in news,” said a political commentator not willing to be quoted. AAP’s UP Twitter handle has posted several pictures showing UP schools in poor condition. The tweets were also tagged to the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/manish-sisodia-to-launch-aap-s-up-mission-2022-in-lucknow-on-tuesday/story-VVO5Edf3lAO2sEuoIvfs9O.html
21-12-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to spend additional Rs 8,700 cr on development before assembly polls||The West Bengal government has increased its expenditure on social welfare and development schemes by an additional Rs 8,700 crore, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday afternoon. “The government spent Rs 20,212 crore in 2020-21 on development expenditure apart from the beneficiary schemes. But after witnessing the demand for such schemes at the camps being held for the ‘duware sarkar’ (government at the doorstep) programme, we have decided to release an additional Rs 8,700 crore over the next one month,” Banerjee said at a press conference at the state secretariat. The money, she said, will be allocated to various departments, ranging from panchayat to health.In the last financial year, the total expenditure on beneficiary schemes was Rs 15,000 crore but in the current fiscal it has gone up to Rs 24,255 crore, she said.Banerjee said, “The ‘duware sarkar’ programme, which started on December 1, will continue till January 25. In all, 20,000 camps will be held in four phases. It’s a new model in India and the world.”“Senior bureaucrats, nodal officers and volunteers are working till midnight every day. Because of their hard work, 1.12 crore people have attended 11,056 camps till December 20. This is commendable,” said Banerjee.Also read: Maharashtra orders night curfew for 15 days, quarantine for travellers from abroad“This is a unique project. For example, out of 7.14 lakh applications we received for the Khadya Sathi (food security) programme, 3.18 lakh people have already been included. For the Swasthya Sathi (healthcare programme) 27.13 lakh applications out of 42 lakh applications have been approved,” said the chief minister. Similar work is being done to help people under schemes such as pension for farmers, pension for tribal people and stipend for the handicapped, girl students, sex workers, Anganwadi workers, folk artists and even members of the third gender and the LGBT community. “The volunteers working at these camps will be also given a tiffin allowance of Rs 5,000 each for two months, in addition to a certificate of recognition,” announced the chief minister. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was quick to react. “The chief minister’s announcement made it clear that she treats people only as vote bank. The TMC government does not have a human face. It works only for political benefits,” said Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the BJP state unit. Bhattacharya also questioned the data dished out by the government, saying the statistics on the state’s healthcare scheme do not match with the ground reality one notices at hospitals. “The state’s debt burden now stands at almost Rs 4,90,000 crore. That is something the next government will have to face,” said Bhattacharya, “Duware sarkar will become a global model for its failure,” he quipped. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar too called a press conference and questioned the state government’s refusal to implement Central welfare schemes. “In spite of writing letters to the government asking why are farmers in Bengal being deprived of the annual sum of Rs 8,000 that the Centre gives, the government didn’t reply,” said Dhankhar.“After this, the chief minister wrote to the Union agriculture minister. I was shocked to read it. She wrote that this money should be given to the state government. Why should that be done when the beneficiaries are getting the money directly in their accounts across the country?” said Dhankhar. Incidentally, Banerjee said that on Monday she wrote another letter to the Union agriculture minister making the same request. “The state is the implementing authority for all Central schemes. We will give this money to farmers. Why should the BJP reap political benefits?” she told reporters at the secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-to-spend-additional-rs-8-700-cr-on-development-before-assembly-polls/story-p7Ou6d1eBVk9N0uHJhyTDN.html
21-12-2020||City||Coronavirus claims nine more lives in Himachal||Nine people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the death toll to 873, officials said. The tally of positive cases has reached 52,623 after 294 new cases were reported in the state.Four deaths each were registered in Shimla, two in Kangra while one each have been reported in Hamirpur, Chamba and Una districts. Of the new cases, 44 were recorded in Shimla, 42 each in Hamirpur and Mandi, 40 in Kangra, 34 in Sirmaur, 30 in Chamba, 20 each in Bilaspur and Solan, nine in Kinnaur, seven in Una and six in Kullu district.Also, 594 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 46,817. There are 4,886 active cases in the state. As many as 6,82,152 tests have been conducted in Himachal till date.With 9,691 cases, Shimla remains the worst-hit district followed by Mandi where 9,139 people have tested positive till date. As many as 7,245 cases have been reported in Kangra, 6,083 in Solan, 4,281 in Kullu, 3,084 in Sirmaur, 2,707 in Bilaspur, 2,574 in Una, 2,695 in Chamba 2,651 in Hamirpur, 1,273 in Kinnaur and 1,200 in Lahaul-Spiti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-claims-six-more-lives-in-himachal/story-zUDqc42nHqFGH152VsXchN.html
21-12-2020||City||Himachal panchayat polls to be held in three phases in January||The Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) elections in Himachal Pradesh will be held in three phases next month, as per an announcement of the state election commission on Monday. The polls to the PRIs will be held on January 17, 19 and 21.The voting for gram panchayat pradhans, ward members, vice pradhans, block development committee members and zila parishads will be held from 8 am to 4 pm on the polling days. The nomination papers maybe filed from 11 am to 3 pm from December 31 to January 2.The scrutiny will be held on January 4 and the nominations maybe withdrawn from 10 am to 3 pm on January 6.According to the notification issued by election commission secretary Surjit Singh Rathore, the counting of votes for ward members, ‘up-pradhan’ and ‘pradhan’ of gram panchayat will be conducted soon after completion of voting. However, the counting of votes for members of the panchayat samiti and zila parishad will be conducted on January 22 at the block development headquarters.According to the election schedule announced by the state election commission, representatives of three-tier Panchayati Raj Institutions in Keylong block of Lahaul Spiti district and zila parishad in Kaza block will be elected on June 21. Elections will also be held on June 21 in the Karajan and Soyal of Najgar development block of Kullu district and Jakhan and Namahog panchayats of Ani. Panchayat and BDC elections in Pangi of Chamba district will also be held on June 21.Elections for ward member, block development committees, zila parishad will be held in Shimla district as per the schedule announced on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-panchayat-polls-to-be-held-in-three-phases-in-january/story-JVKgIG2ukLPTyY1rcFb48M.html
21-12-2020||City||BJP, Congress draw strategies for panchayat polls in Himachal||Even as the state election commission notified polls for 3,615 gram panchayats across the 12 districts, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Opposition have begun drawing strategies.Though the polls are held without using party symbols, political parties view control over gram panchayats as building blocks to consolidate their power. Both the Congress and BJP are attaching much significance to elections as the polls will be an indicator of the public’s mood, particularly in the rural areas of the state.The state election commission has already announced the schedule for elections to urban local bodies. The BJP had begun preparing for the panchayat elections way in advance but a section of Congress leaders had demanded that the state government postpone the elections in the wake of surge in Covid cases.Addressing a virtual meeting with party leaders, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap had said, “Our aim is to emerge victorious in all elections from the panchayat to the parliament.”BJP’s newly appointed state party affairs in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna held virtual meetings with officer bearers at the block level to ensure the right selection of candidates for gram panchayats. The party’s co-incharge Sanjay Tandon also held discussions with the party office bearers at the block level.Khanna had said, “All MPs and MLAs will ensure one day a week is dedicated to party workers. They will also boost the morale of all workers. Leaders and party workers should coordinate smoothly.”The Congress has also already held a series of meetings with party workers and office bearers. State party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore has directed all district presidents of the party to support candidates aligned with the Congress.He has directed office bearers to keep a tab on the BJP’s activities and remain vigilant about electoral malpractices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-congress-draw-strategies-for-panchayat-polls-in-himachal/story-vYIpBFnf946Be6GUdxVSgJ.html
21-12-2020||City||Two Haryana residents arrested with 337gm heroin in Himachal’s Mandi district||Himachal Pradesh Police on Monday arrested two Haryana residents with 337gm heroin in Mandi district.Superintendent of police (SP) Shalini Agnihotri said the accused were travelling in a car to Mandi from Ambala when they were stopped for checking near Nagchala on the national highway in the morning. The police officials got suspicious as the car was without a number plate and was being driven rashly, she said, adding that nothing suspicious was found inside the vehicle but the behaviour of the passengers and driver was strange.The SP said officials from the nearby electricity department office were called as witnesses and the duo was searched after which 337gm heroin was recovered from the driver’s possession. “On preliminary inquiry, it was found that the accused have been supplying big shipments of heroin along the national highway in Mandi, Bilaspur and Kullu districts. The financial aspects of the case are also under investigation,” the SP said, adding that this is the biggest recovery of heroin in the state so far. A case under the NDPS Act was registeredSince September 1, Balh police station has seized approximately 512gm heroin and 10kg charas. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has applauded the police officials involved in the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-haryana-residents-arrested-with-337gm-heroin-in-mandi-district/story-pN6KslyIuxxTb9fMrDSA5O.html
21-12-2020||City||Harassed for new car, Ludhiana woman ends life; husband, in-laws booked||Police booked a man and three members of his family after his wife allegedly died by suicide in Chaunta village on Monday.While police suspect the woman hanged herself, her family is alleging that she was strangled to death by her husband and in-laws. The deceased’s father, who lives in Brahmapuri of Phillaur, told the police that his daughter got married in 2017 and had a two-year-old son.Lately, her in-laws had been harassing her to buy them a new car. On Sunday night, his daughter called him over the phone to complain that her husband and in-laws were torturing her for the car and would kill her, following which he had assured to pick her up on Monday morning.But the next day, his son-in-law called to inform her that his daughter had hanged herself to death. He rushed to Chaunta village to find her body lying on the bed and sounded the police.ASI Kamaljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said as per preliminary investigation, the woman appeared to have hanged herself. But, they were awaiting the autopsy report to establish the exact cause of death.Meanwhile, the deceased’s husband, father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in-law have been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made yet. The ASI added that the deceased’s two-year-old son had told the police that his father was beating up his mother on Sunday night and she was crying profusely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harassed-for-new-car-ludhiana-woman-ends-life-husband-in-laws-booked/story-LKcefJNl3RGSzY11x1vJWM.html
21-12-2020||City||Frost in plains, lower hills of Himachal likely to damage crops||Crops in plains and lower hills of the state are very likely to be destroyed as State’s Meteorological Department has issued a yellow warning of ground frost conditions during morning at isolated places of Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Kangra districts for December 22.Director, State’s Meteorological Department Manmohan Singh has advised the people to stay updated as frost is very likely to have a negative impact on their crops in these districts. He also said that weather is very likely to remain dry throughout the state till December 27, however, cold wave will continue throughout the state.Weather was mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours, minimum temperatures dropped by two to three degrees while maximum temperatures dropped by one to two degrees in the state.Minimum temperature in State’s capital Shimla on Monday was 8.1°C while prominent tourist destinations Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded 2.4°C, 3.2°C, 7.7°C and 7.2°C minimum temperatures respectively.Minimum temperature in Una is 4°C, 3.5°C in Solan, 4°C in Bilaspur, 3.8°C in Hamirpur, 6.9°C in Nahan, 1.1°C in Mandi and 0.8°C in Kalpa, district Kinnaur.Keylong, headquarters of tribal district Lahaul and Spiti is coldest place in the state at minus 7.4°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/frost-in-plains-lower-hills-of-himachal-likely-to-damage-crops/story-9ngRyWojDTKhrPhgYmPpMP.html
21-12-2020||City||J&K Congress questions BJP’s review petition on Roshni land scam||The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) on Monday asked the BJP government what prompted it to file a review petition before the Jammu and Kashmir high court in the Roshni land scam case. “Was it fear of more exposure of its leaders in the Roshni and other land deals, which has forced the government to approach the high court for review of the judgment or the genuine concern for poor and common man,” JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said in a statement.The review petition will come up for hearing before the division bench of the high court on Tuesday. Questioning the government for its failure, all these years, to place the entire facts and circumstances before the court, when the matter was being examined, JKPCC has asked as to why the government failed to bring those aspects before the court earlier.“The government was silent about the matter and the BJP leaders and ministers were misleading the public for elections but they have now gone into hibernation after names of several senior leaders of their party surfaced among beneficiaries,” Sharma said. The names of ruling party leaders didn’t make headlines but more skeletons from the cupboard shall appear, with passage of time, if in-depth and independent investigations are held into controversial land deals of senior BJP leaders, he added. Seeking stern action against all those who illegally manipulated the benefits under Roshni or any other laws, Sharma said, “The tirade against land encroachers and land grabbers must be vigorously pursued but those who are genuine people like small farmers, landless people and others should be taken care of,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-congress-questions-bjp-s-review-petition-on-roshni-land-scam/story-36rnXvRM5KMciAoRnGnbUK.html
21-12-2020||Dehradun||10-year-old girl raped and murdered in Haridwar, body found in almirah||Uttarakhand police on Monday arrested a youth for allegedly raping and murdering a ten-year-old girl in Haridwar district on Sunday late evening, said police. The girl was found missing since 3 pm after she had gone out to play near her house. After an intense search by the police, her body was found in a neighbouring apartment, said police. Superintendent of City Police, Haridwar, Kamlesh Upadhyay said that the minor girl was found missing from her home at Rishikul Colony on Sunday evening after which her parents informed the police and a search operation was carried out. “After an intense search operation, the police found the body of the girl tied with ropes in an almirah of a three-storey house which the main accused and his accomplice had rented as an accommodation. After the post-mortem report, a case has been registered against the two. The main accused, Ramteerth Yadav, resident of Rishikul Colony, has been arrested while the other accused, Rajeev, is absconding. To nab him, a police team has been formed,” said Upadhyay. Station house officer (SHO) City Police Station Amarjeet Singh said the accused had lured the minor girl on the pretext of playing with toys after which they took her to their room and committed the heinous act. Both the accused also tried to mislead the police and the victim’s family members by joining in the search operation for the missing girl. When the search was done at their rooms, the body of the minor girl was found with injuries on her body. Also read: India suspends UK flights till December 31 over new variant of Covid-19Singh said a case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder ), 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO). Shocked by the incident, the angry locals torched a two-wheeler near the house from where the body of the minor girl was recovered, demanding hanging of the two accused. Several social organisations representatives also arrived at the crime scene and paid homage to the deceased minor girl. Local MLA Swami Yaitshwaranand also arrived at the spot and consoled the family members of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/10-year-old-girl-raped-and-murdered-in-haridwar-body-found-in-almirah/story-1pGWprzQFDOT5u33qqJIIO.html
21-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government to impose Diwali-like restrictions on New Year’s Eve||To ensure containment of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Rajasthan government has decided to impose Diwali -ike restrictions on New Year’s Eve.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to people to celebrate New Year’s Eve at home and avoid bursting firecrackers or gathering outside. After chairing a meeting to review preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Monday, the chief minister tweeted, “Keeping public health paramount, the state government had taken strict decision during the Diwali festival and now similar decision has been taken for New Year.” Also Read: Congress gets 36 local body chiefs out of 50 in Rajasthan“People should celebrate New Year with family in their house, avoid overcrowding and do not burst fire crackers. It is necessary for the health of oneself and others. Rajasthan will strictly follow the directions issued by Supreme Court for all the states regarding corona,” he tweeted. In the meeting, the chief minister directed state officials to complete preparations for vaccination and said that the maximum number of centres should be identified for vaccination. He also asked the officials to ensure a proper coordination from state to block level. The state government had banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers to protect the health of Covid-19 patients, as well as to protect the public from the poisonous smoke emanating from the firecrackers. The state government has also announced a penalty of Rs2,000 on anyone found violating the order. The new strain of novel coronavirus emerging in the UK is a matter of great concern. GoI must take prompt action, prepare a contingency plan to contain the same & also immediately ban all flights from the UK & other European countries.1/A senior official said during Diwali, neither was Section 144 imposed not was there night curfew, which is there in force currently. Meanwhile, Gehlot has urged the government of India to ban flights from European countries. “The new strain of novel coronavirus emerging in the UK is a matter of great concern. The government of India must take prompt action, prepare a contingency plan to contain the same and also immediately ban all flights from the UK and other European countries,” he tweeted. “When coronavirus had started spreading, we were late in banning international flights, which had led to a drastic spike in cases,” he said. In another tweet, he stated, “India needs both a preparedness plan as well as steps to restrict any movement from the affected country or countries. Our medical experts must be ready with a treatment plan in case of any outbreak of the new strain of virus. Health protocols must be adhered to even more strictly,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-government-to-impose-diwali-like-restrictions-on-new-year-s-eve/story-fQisaKMO7D1BcxVoZ4mTXL.html
21-12-2020||Pune||“Army of Robin hoods” distribute blankets as mercury dips in Pune||With the mercury dropping in Pune, availing warmth is now a luxury for those who can’t afford it. An army of good Samaritans have taken it upon themselves to distribute blankets to fight the cold weather. ‘Robins’ from the Robin Hood Army, a volunteer-based zero funds organization distributed a total of 60 blankets on Sunday in Kondhwa and around 175 in Jejuri. “Today we had around 60 blankets to donate which came from two donors. This was just for the Kondhwa region. Today, we also had a successful drive in Jejuri, 65 kilometres from Pune, where we have given about 200 grocery kits and 175 blankets” said Umme Sutarwala, volunteer coordinator for the Wanowrie chapter, who has been with RHA for almost four years now. The organisation prefers to accept donations in kind rather than cash like ration, blankets, and their “happiness pack” which contains 12 kilograms of rice, five kilograms of dal, two kilograms of sugar, one kilogram of salt, and two litres of oil. This has been the updated plan of action. The basic motive of RHA was to serve hot fresh meals to people but because of Covid-19 they had to adapt as the demand for action was on the rise during the pandemic. “We have our regular drives every Sunday where we have food for around 150-200 people from various restaurants and donors. This weekend we had blankets since it is winter and not everyone can afford winter clothing,” added Sutarwala. The Robin Hood Army was started in 2014 by Harvard graduate Neel Ghose along with three other counterparts in New Delhi. In about six years, they have grown into an organization with over 75,000 robins working tirelessly in 200+ cities all over India and abroad. “As long as we have generous donors, money is not that big of an issue, especially in Pune. We keep getting calls from donors who want to give more. So it is not an issue. We do have to scout for donors to start with but once they are set up, it becomes smooth sailing.” explained Darshan Narang, a resident of Kondhwa, who has been volunteering with RHA for 3 years. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the RHA volunteers were feeding hundreds on regular basis. The volunteers picked up surplus food from restaurants, caterings at weddings, and housewarming parties. “The major reason RHA can work so smoothly is there are no monetary donations involved. We have people who come of their own will and all our volunteers are extremely dedicated to make the globe hunger-free. Mixing in money in this system can attract people with ill-intentions and will corrupt the system put in place,” added Sutarwala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/army-of-robin-hoods-distribute-blankets-as-mercury-dips-in-pune/story-6APQDqu0o6PLv97ymD0miL.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Vikhe Patil students discover six preliminary asteroids||Two students from the Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Lohegaon, have claimed the discovery of six preliminary asteroids as part of a global campaign run by the Kalam Centre Asteroid Search Campaign, organised by the Kalam Centre, New Delhi, in association with International Astronomical Search Collaboration (IASC). The campaign was run from November 9 to December 3, 2020, as part of a Nasa citizen science project, conducted by Hardin Simmons University, USA. Under this programme IASC and the Kalam Centre, deployed a unique platform which gave selected participants an opportunity to discover near-Earth objects and main-belt asteroids. Participants were selected through a rigorous screening process and a worldwide event organised from November 9 to December 3. Only 22 participants were shortlisted and selected across the globe. These were later trained to analyse data and spot potential asteroids close to Earth. At the end of the campaign, these young minds discovered 27 preliminary asteroids. A total of 10 teams participated in the campaign. Arya Pulate and Sherya Wahgmare of Vikhe Patil, were from team SLV III, and discovered six preliminary asteroids. “Selected participants were provided highly specialised training in order to operate the advanced astronomical software, Astrometrica. This software is used to analyse images from the ‘Pan Starrs’ (The Panoramic Survey Telescope and Rapid Response System) telescope, located in Hawaii, USA. It uses a 1.8 m (60 inch) telescope to survey the sky to look for asteroids, comets and near-Earth Objects (NEO).” said Ashok Vikhe Patil chairman of the Dr Vikhe Patil Foundation. Srijan Pal Singh, former advisor (Technology and Policy) to Dr Kalam and founder, Kalam Centre, congratulated the students and said, “These discoveries are crucial contributions in our knowledge of cosmos. Knowing the asteroids around and mapping them is an important element in our bid to understand and monitor these flying rocks around our planet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vikhe-patil-students-discover-six-preliminary-asteroids/story-m6Tx3gK53ayInbD7abuSBP.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Two-year-old with 60 per cent burns discharged after rare recovery||In a rare case of total recovery, a 2-year-old baby boy who was 60 per cent burnt is saved successfully by doctors at a city hospital. The boy has now been discharged after 45 days of recovery with minor scars of plastic surgery which doctors believe would fade away as he grows. Aman Seth (name changed) accidentally dragged the hot water vessel over himself on October 12. When this incident happened at Aman’s home, his parents immediately brought him to Noble hospital. Under a critical condition, he was admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU). He had a severe burn totalling 60 per cent of his body area. Of the total 60 per cent burns, doctors said that Aman was suffering from a 20 per cent third-degree burn. The third-degree burn is a severe burn that often leads to the destruction of the entire skin. This burn goes to the innermost layer of the skin making the burn site look white. The child also faced severe water loss as most of the skin barrier was lost. This led to low blood pressure and reduced blood supply to major organs of the body. However, within the first few hours of admission into the PICU, the child was stabilised. Explaining the treatment process, Dr Abhishek Ghosh, a cosmetic surgeon from Noble hospital said, “In this, initially we cleaned the skin by removing foreign debris, infection, and other residual material. Collagen dressing which helps wound healing was done. For the third-degree burns, we performed tangential excision of the burnt skin followed by the skin grafting procedure. It is a surgical procedure that involves removing skin from one area of the body and transplanting it to any other area of the body. Once the patient was stable, we shifted the patient from PICU to the general ward.” Treating the young boy with a 20 per cent third-degree burns was a challenging task for doctors. Dr Shreegopal Bhandari, a paediatrician from Noble Hospital, said, “Around 60 per cent burns for small kids becomes an intense injury because the body surface area of kids is less when compared with adults. In the cases where a child is suffering from 60 per cent burn, the mortality is also very high. According to medical journals, the mortality rate in a child below five years, where there is a major component of third-degree burns is as high as 60 per cent. Keeping the infections away was a challenging task as a large area of the skin was lost and the skin is the major protective barrier against infection. These cases are very challenging from the anaesthesia point of view too and need highly skilled anaesthetics. We ensured that dressing is done properly and the child does not catch any infection.” After satisfactory wound healing, the child was discharged. Doctors mentioned that he would be able to live a normal life now. “We are happy that our child is completely recovered. When the accident happened, seeing the condition of our child we had lost all our hopes. But doctors counselled us and ensured that the child would recover. We followed all the instructions given by the doctors and we are so happy that our child is back to normal routine now,” said his parents. Dr Minakshi Nalbale- Bhosale, paediatric surgeon from Sassoon Hospital said, “Managing a young child with third-degree burns is a challenging task. Proper ICU care, optimal fluid resuscitation and infection control are critical in managing such cases, which are often associated with high morbidity and or mortality. Primary prevention of such injuries by parental education is the need of the hour. Children should always be kept away from sources of fire or hot water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-year-old-with-60-per-cent-burns-discharged-after-rare-recovery/story-ADRvQjv9s8a9VKfW3Sow9M.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Pune reports 638 fresh cases, seven deaths on Sunday||The state health department, on Sunday, reported 638 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven Covid-related deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.66 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.41 lakh have recovered. The Covid death toll in the district stands at, 7,717; 17,593 active cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 200 new cases taking the final count to 86,354. One death was reported on Sunday, taking the death toll to 2,040, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 339 new cases, taking its total count to 1,88,302. Six Covid-related deaths took the death toll to 4,378. PCMC reported 99 new cases, taking its final count to 92,301. No deaths were reported on Sunday, keeping the death toll at 1,264. The department reported that 2,064 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to 17.83 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.06%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Currently, 5,02,362 people are in home quarantine and 3,730 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-638-fresh-cases-seven-deaths-on-sunday/story-Q1mhrsBfAJoDNU78M9YoIM.html
21-12-2020||Pune||State govt extends hospital room price caps, private hospitals unhappy||The state government of Maharashtra has extended its notification to cap price on beds reserved for Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. The notification has been in place since May 21 wherein the state government had capped the prices for oxygen beds and ICU beds for Covid-19 patients across all private hospitals in the state. Keeping the view, the current pandemic situation still persistent in the state, the government has extended the notification up to February 2021. The notification issued on December 15 states that the state government is satisfied that Maharashtra is threatened with the spread of Covid-l9 epidemic already declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organization and accordingly in the exercise of the powers conferred as per the enabling provisions of various acts including the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, 2003 and the Maharashtra Essential service Maintenance (Amendment) Act, 2011 or MESMA. Since the state of Maharashtra is still grappling with Covid-l9 epidemic, the government of Maharashtra has decided to extend operations of the notification issued on May 21. The notification had priced the cap on hospital facilities including oxygen beds and ICU beds. Despite a fall in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state government’s extension on price capping is not fair, allege private hospitals. Dr Sanjay Patil, hospital board chairman, IMA said, “The private hospitals were facing a huge loss during the peak of the pandemic and the notification was in place only for three months. Now with this extension, private hospitals are not happy. This means that the losses would continue further. The number of Covid-19 patients has gone down but the maintenance cost due to Covid-19 remains the same. The sanitation and separate ICU beds mean that the staff needs to be separate and the entire infrastructure and manpower is divided which means more incurring cost but less profit. The government must allow private hospitals to charge as per their management decisions since people now have the choice to opt between government hospitals or private hospitals.” Dr H K Sale, executive director, Noble Hospitals said, “The non-Covid-19 patients are still not convinced to return for the non-emergency operations like hip or joint replacement surgeries. Extending price capping on Covid-19 beds means extending the losses which we have been incurring for months now.” Pune district has about 2,411 Covid-19 patients in hospital isolation of the 8,857 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-govt-extends-hospital-room-price-caps-private-hospitals-unhappy/story-y8VvZIByKlQ89DU0gPFglJ.html
21-12-2020||City||Fraudster posing as army officer dupes Ludhiana man of ₹1.04 lakh||A city resident fell prey to online fraud and lost Rs 1.04 lakh to a man posing as an army officer offering to sell his motorcycle.Following a complaint by the victim, Karan Kumar of Gurdev Nagar, police have identified the accused as Jatinder Kumar of Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh, and Raghwindra Dwedi of Ganeshganj, Madhya Pradesh.Karan said he was researching used motorcycles for sale on online marketplace OLX. On choosing one, he contacted the seller, who introduced himself as an army official deputed at Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi. After the deal was fixed for Rs 1.04 lakh, Karan transferred the payment to the seller through Paytm.However, the latter neither delivered the motorcycle nor returned the money. Eventually, he stopped responding to phone calls as well.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused, who will be arrested soon.The ADCP appealed to people to exercise caution while making online purchases and transferring money to individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fraudster-posing-as-army-officer-dupes-ludhiana-man-of-1-04-lakh/story-HyZOXiBqv9MKrMgLow02fN.html
21-12-2020||City||National Conference assails ED action against Farooq Abdullah, terms it political vendetta||Senior National Conference leaders Monday assailed the attachment of properties of Farooq Abdullah and described the action as a political vendetta aimed at weakening the political party.“The action speaks volumes about the desperation in the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] rank and file in the face of the National Conference further consolidating its roots in Jammu and Kashmir,” senior National Conference leaders said in a joint statement issued from Sher-e-Kashmir Bhavan, adding that such coercive tactics would not deter the party.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah’s properties worth over Rs11 crore attached in JKCA“The timing of the unfortunate action at the conclusion of the District Development Council election makes it all the more murkier and raises questions on the intent of the BJP, which has now mastered making use of agencies for furthering its political agendas,” the joint statement said, adding that the entire cadre of National Conference is with Abdullah “in these testing times”. “The National Conference has always braved challenges with courage and fortitude and this time also the cadre is determined to brave the situation unitedly,” the statement maintained.National Conference leaders expressed solidarity with Abdullah, saying the BJP will “fail in its machinations of maligning opponents and settling political scores by stooping too low”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-conference-assails-ed-action-against-farooq-abdullah-terms-it-political-vendetta/story-thVrKKahCmJyfl9vHQEPpN.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Planning is important for merging areas into PMC limits||Though the Congress party is part of the coalition ruling the state, the Maha Vikas Aghadi, the party is demanding a fool-proof plan for the 23 merged village’s development, along with financial support. Aba Bagul, Congress Party leader in the corporation, said, “The PMC’s financial condition is not a sound one.”“We cannot provide basic facilities to 11 merged villages even after three years. The state government should have a foolproof plan for the development of the 23 villages. They should give funds to acquire land for development. “Water is the major issue, so the government sanction an extra water quota for these villages. “Otherwise, 23 villages will turn into a congested Dhankawadi-like area,” he pointed out. Equal attention to the development of 23 villages Prithviraj Sutar, Shiv Sena party leader in the PMC, said, “The state government should have financial support and manpower to develop the 23 merged villages. “There should be a proper plan. Due to lack of development funds, we are not able to provide basic infrastructure to the 11 prior merged villages. We should not overlook the development of Pune city. “We should give equal attention and facilities to Pune city and the 23 merged villages.” He added, “The state of public amenities in 23 villages merged in 1997, including Kharadi, Ambegaon and Dhanori, has remained unsatisfactory even after all these years. Many of the localities don’t even have basic infrastructure.” Now, the NCP, which is part of MVA government, is taking it further. Political observers feel NCP is keen to merge these areas ahead of the 2022 civic elections, given that most of these parts are dominated by the NCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/planning-is-important-for-merging-areas-into-pmc-limits/story-6hMCxBAcerhxweeNI5DmcJ.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Planning, finance key to merger success for PMC||Part 1 - The Pune Municipal Corporation is now the largest corporation in Maharashtra in terms of area covered. The merger of 34 fringe areas, 23 of which were finalised this month, puts PMC in a tough spot in terms of ensuring sustainable development. In this four-part series, HT investigates who is to benefit from the merger and how; exposing challenges faced and revealing expectations of Pune’s new residentsThe state government’s nod for the merger of 23 areas (villages), surrounding Pune city, may have initiated the process of further expansion of the city’s limits. However, the decision may leave the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with an additional burden in terms of resources, that the civic body may find hard to deal with; especially when it is grappling with a shortage of revenue in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The latest decision, after Urban Development minister Eknath Shinde cleared the merger proposal, is part of a 2014 notification issued by the state government, to merge 34 fringe areas into the PMC. Accordingly, the state facilitated the merger of 11 areas into the PMC on October 27, 2017. The decision was taken after a court intervention. A citizen’s action committee approached the high court over a delay, to which the government said the 23 areas will be included within the PMC by October 2020. While citizens from most of these areas want to be part of the PMC, fast becoming a “smart city” under the Centre’s scheme, the civic body is expressing concern over a lack funds. Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary, Urban Development, Maharashtra, said that “not much budget has been provided” to the PMC despite the go ahead for the merger. Despite repeated phone calls and text messages, Pathak gave that brief response via SMS. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “The corporation has already many problems we have to concentrate on. The State government has asked the corporation to submit a response on what will happen after the merger of the 23 villages. We have already sent our response to the state government.” While Kumar was not specific about the contents of the response, other civic officials say the decision may put a burden on the PMC, already grappling with lack of basic amenities in the 11 areas merged in 2017. In 2017, the PMC had estimated it would require ₹5,741 crore for the development of the 34 areas, including the 11 have already been merged. The civic body officials say the estimate has now increased to ₹9,000 crore as of 2020. Sanjeev Kumar Patil, Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) said, “Wagholi is the highest populated village of the 23 merged. Wagholi population has expanded rapidly with large real estate projects coming up in this eastern suburb of the city. “Despite being located on the highway, the area lacks basic amenities like road, water, garbage disposal, and drainage. “The local body has failed to provide facilities to citizens. We want accountability and responsibility from government machinery,” said Patil. Sonali Kulkarni, another resident from Sus, a suburb on the west, said, the area has large projects where people working in IT firms live. “However, Sus does not even have proper drainage or tar roads, which makes vastlt inferior to neighbouring Hinjewadi, where the roads are much better. At least Sus’ inclusion in the PMC will facilitate its development,” said Kulkarni, an IT engineer. Girish Bapat, BJP’s member ofparliament (MP) from Pune, who was guardian minister during the Fadnavis government era, submitted an affidavit in court, which stated: “ State government should give funds so that PMC can make time bound program for the development of 23 merged villages. In these villages, there is less revenue generation and more expenditure. It will adversely affect existing city’s development. Government should give grants to five years in instalments to the development of these villages.” Expansion of Pune city After the merger of these 23 areas, Pune will emerge as one of the biggest municipal corporations in Maharashtra, covering an area of 516.18 sqkm kms, which is more than the Mumbai municipal corporation’s 437.71 sq km. There is an addition of 2.78 lakh of population to the existing 35 lakh population of Pune city, as per the 2011 census. Over the last 23 years, Pune has expanded thrice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/planning-finance-key-to-merger-success-for-pmc/story-YuhBDRcvytEvOrpwLFun8I.html
21-12-2020||Pune||‘PMC has asked state for funds to devp villages at time of merger announcement’||Twenty-three villages will now be merged into the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Already, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the civic body is facing a financial crunch. How will it go about providing infrastructure to these new areas?It was decided three years ago, that 34 villages would be merged into the city. Eleven villages came earlier, and now 23 more will be merged. It is true that we would require huge investment in these areas to create basic infrastructure like roads, water lines, sewage, and electricity, in the first stage. Later, we would need to provide basic amenities like health facilities, gardens and playgrounds. We have requested the state government, at the time of approving the merger, to provide the PMC with funds.Villages which were merged earlier, still do not have enough infrastructure? In this scenario, what will be the impact on the development of these new villages being merged into the PMC?We have requested the state government to assign funds to the PMC at the time of the meger. It is true, infrastructure lags the development plans. We are trying to improve the infrastructure in these periphery areas. The budget, will allocate funds to each area.The 24x 7 water scheme is being implemented in the city. Complaints have come in, across party lines, that it’s going on at a snail’s pace?It is true that the work is behind schedule… due to various reasons. The administration’s whole focus was on the Covid-19 pandemic. It was a completely different challenge. Despite the pandemic, the administration ensured that other development works have not been affected. Some works are behind scheduled but have not stopped.The 24x7 project has currently seen the city being dug-up for laying of cables and ducts for other service lines. The contractor has not erected ducts anywhere.It is true that the water pipeline laying work is without ducts. We are discussing why this has happened. There are some technical problems with ducts along with the water pipeline. But, the administration is looking at how to move ahead.What is the vaccination plan for the Covid-19 vaccine?Central and state governments are planning the vaccinations. PMC will be prepared for the a vaccination drive. The PMC health department has already drawn up a list of medical practitioners and front-line warriors to get vaccinated in the first stage. Training is on for medical practitioners about the vaccination programme. Once the detailed guidelines came from the government, we will follow it.The city has faced a series of health crises in the recent past - swine flu, dengue, and now Covid-19. Are we pro-actively prepared to handle such situations?Covid-19 has given us many lessons. The PMC is preparing a new health policy which would address short-term, as well as long-term solutions. It is in the pipeline so cannot share details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-has-asked-state-for-funds-to-devp-villages-at-time-of-merger-announcement/story-WfmO8yfq1wjOAkLRpEemUP.html
21-12-2020||Pune||New proposal for Purandar airport likely to be submitted by Jan-end: Sanjay Jagtap||The civic administration is working to submit a detailed proposal for the new site for the Purandar international airport and by January 2021, it is likely to be submitted to the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.Recently, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and local MLA Sanjay Jagtap met the defence minister regarding the Purandar airport and suggested a new site for the airport. Jagtap said, “With the defence authorities involved in the project, they are conducting various studies for it. Soon, a proposal will be submitted to the defence minister. However, since various agencies are involved and studies are going on, I would not able to disclose details about the new site. The new site is in Purandar taluka and by January end, everything about the project will be clear.”Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, said, “As instructed by the central government, Maharashtra Airport Development Company is preparing a report for same. They will submit it to the government. I am not aware if it has been submitted or not.”On December 8, Pawar met the defence minister and tweeted, “Met defence minister Rajnath Singh, defence secretary and civil aviation secretary in New Delhi to discuss the proposed international airport at Purandar. Maharashtra government has proposed to set up a new international airport in order to reduce the heavy air traffic load at Pune international airport. I insisted on the need to expedite the work of the airport.”Besides Jagtap and former Air chief marshal (Retd) Bhushan Gokhale were also present for this meeting on Tuesday.Jagtap, who was present for the meeting, said, “Defence minister instructed the administration to submit the comparative studies for both the existing site and the proposed site. As directed by the minister, authorities are working on it.”BackgroundThe existing site for the airport had been chosen in 2016 by the then Devendra Fadnavis government as the previously selected area in Khed tehsil of Pune district received opposition from locals. After shifting the site to Purandar, the Fadnavis government expedited the process for all necessary approvals and the state government, the Centre, defence and environment ministry issued permissions. However, with new site being considered, state government will have to seek permissions from the air force, civil aviation and environment ministry, which may consume further time. As per the existing plan, 2,832 hectares of land has been reserved for the Purandar airport, which would be named as the Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje Pune International Airport. A total of seven villages were getting affected due to existing site and farmers from these villages Pargaon, Rajewadi, Munjewadi, Vanpuri, Kumbalvalan, Ekhatpur and Udachi Wadi were opposing the land acquisition process.Total land acquisition cost is expected to be Rs4000 crore for the existing site. If the new site gets approved, land acquisition cost is likely to reduce. TIMELINE October 2016- Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis announced the setting up of the greenfield airport at Purandar 2017- Farmers oppose land acquisition for the airport Oct 2020- Ajit Pawar asks administration to explore another site for proposed international airport by considering opposition from farmers December 2020- NCP leader Sharad Pawar and local MLA Sanjay Jagtap meet the defence minister Rajnath Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/new-proposal-for-purandar-airport-likely-to-be-submitted-by-jan-end-sanjay-jagtap/story-mskL2iNSazoz5B89F9TS1K.html
21-12-2020||City||Kundli-Singhu border: 65-year-old farmer allegedly consumes poison||A 65-year-old farmer allegedly consumed poison on Monday morning at Kundli-Singhu border, where farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws for the past three weeks.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said he consumed sulphas tablets.“He was rushed to Civil Hospital in Sonepat, from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. We are looking into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kundli-singhu-border-65-year-old-farmer-allegedly-consumes-poison/story-nuLeOrUDELQbwb6kwohB4L.html
21-12-2020||Pune||To increase goat, sheep meat production, state launches scheme||The state government has launched the Balasaheb Thackeray agribusiness and rural transformation project to increase the number of goat and sheep with lower income groups. The department has launched the scheme in order to provide poor people in rural areas an opportunity to get income as meat from goat and sheep are high in demand and their prices are sky rocketing across Maharashtra.There is constant demand for goat and sheep meat in Maharashtra and all over India, and hence, the price of goat meat reached Rs600 to Rs700 per kg recently. The meat prices remain constant and are not prone to much fluctuation like poultry or any other agricultural product.Additional commissioner of animal husbandry department DD Parkale, said, “Our department has launched the Balasaheb Thackeray agribusiness and rural transformation project to increase goat and sheep numbers. Main intention behind the scheme is to provide assured income for the rural lower income group people.”Parkale said, “There is constant demand for goat and sheep meat and the prices remain steady all over the year. Considering this, the department decided to increase sheep and goat numbers with lower income groups. State and region level committees have been formed for it. Animal husbandry department will provide all the support to the farmers and goat producers. We are even forming farmers’ produce companies which would tie up with buyers. It will help conduct business directly with buyers.”Vijay Kamble, president of mutton association from Kolhapur, said, “Demand for mutton remains constant. We are facing the problem of goat produce. Sometimes we even procure goats from other states. If the production is increased, it will help keep the prices constant, otherwise mutton prices would increase in the future.”Ahilya Devi, a mutton shop owner from Pune, said, “Demand for mutton will increase in the future as there is shortage of goats every year. We need to travel up to 100kms every week to procure goats.”Chance at revenue- Goat meat price -Rs600 to Rs700 per kg in most of the cities. Maharashtra ranks second in goat meat production after West Bengal. In sheep meat production, Maharashtra comes in at the 10th markAs per the 20th animal census- Number of goats in Maharashtra -106.04 lakh- Number of sheep in Maharashtra- 26.80 lakhAs per 2018-19 report meat production in the stateGoat meat production in Maharashtra- 124.78 thousand metric tonneSheep meat production in Maharashtra- 12.76 thousand metric tonneMaharashtra ranks 6th number in the country for the total number of goats after Rajasthan, West Bengal, UP, Bihar, MPIn terms of sheep numbers, Maharashtra is at 7th rank after Telagana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Jammu and Kashmir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/to-increase-goat-sheep-meat-production-state-launches-scheme/story-Lmd1hcL76BAsilDnHMKWeI.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Suspend air travel from UK: Arvind Kejriwal urges Centre over new Covid-19 strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged the central government to immediately ban all flights from the United Kingdom after a new strain of the coronavirus was detected and which has been spreading rapidly in the country. “New mutation of corona virus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately,“ Kejriwal said in a tweet.While the Centre is yet to announce any travel ban or suspension of flights between India and UK, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan assured that the government is alert and there is no need for panic about the discovery of the new strain of coronavirus, news agency ANI reported. The health ministry’s Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) convened an urgent meeting on Monday to discuss the issue.Travel ban from England is being implemented by many countries across the world and also being mulled upon by many others following the detection of the new mutation of the coronavirus. The BBC reported that European nations including Ireland, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium have started implementing a travel ban from the UK.While British health officials and prime minister Boris Johnson have said that there is no sufficient evidence to suggest that the new strain is more deadly, the new variant has transmitted more rapidly. Following this rapid spread, a new layer of tier 4 restrictions have been announced in the UK and also leeway given for Christmas celebrations have been scrapped. Also, the officials said that there is no sufficient evidence to suggest that the new strain of the virus would impact the efficiency of vaccines being administered currently for Covid-19.The Covid-19 vaccination program has been ongoing for almost two weeks now with close to 400 vaccination centres operating in the UK. The UK is currently reviewing Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine for which it has placed a pre-order of 7 million doses.In addition to the European nations, other countries including Canada, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have also announced the suspension of air travel to the UK to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus variant in their countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspend-air-travel-from-uk-arvind-kejriwal-urges-centre-over-new-covid-19-strain/story-tHcz1GJKbxlOcU4i6atC0N.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal asks for ban on flights from UK ahead of Centre’s meeting on new coronavirus strain||With the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) finally under control in Delhi after the surge in cases in November, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the central government to ban flights from the United Kingdom where a new, infectious strain of the virus has been detected. “New mutation of corona virus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately,” tweeted Kejriwal. The new strain of the virus—which accounts for one-third of the current cases in London—is believed to be 70% more infectious that the other strains in circulation. The United Kingdom announced a surprise lockdown in London and other parts of the country amid the surge in cases due to the new strain of the virus. Also Read: Govt is alert, no need to panic: Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on new strain of coronavirus in UKThe new strain of the virus was first detected in September and has been shown to increase the spread of the disease in labs. So far, there is no evidence to suggest that it leads to more deaths. “The government is alert, there is no need to panic,” said union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. The union health ministry has called an urgent meeting of the joint monitoring group on Monday to discuss the particular strain. The new strain has a mutation in a very important part of the virus—the receptor binding domain on the spike protein. This is the part of the virus that first comes in contact with human cells and helps the virus enter the body. The strain is also being monitored closely by scientists as the vaccines that have been approved or are under development target the spike protein of the virus. However, experts believe that the vaccines will be effective against the virus for now. “If we let it add more mutations, then you start worrying. This virus is potentially on a pathway for vaccine escape, it has taken the first couple of steps towards that,” Prof Ravi Gupta from the University of Cambridge told BBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-asks-for-ban-on-flights-from-uk-ahead-of-centre-s-meeting-on-new-coronavirus-strain/story-jwgBAgZSs54Vz0TyII4KsI.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers to start their vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik today||Over 5,000 farmers from Maharashtra will kickstart a vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi at 3.00pm on Monday, to join the farmers protesting at the borders of the national capital since the past three weeks. All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) will flag off the March with a public meeting in Nashik at 1.30pm. Farmers from 20 districts of the state will gather at Nashik and travel 1,266 kilometres to Delhi and join the protests at the Rajasthan-Haryana border on December 24. Ashok Dhawale, president, AIKS, said in the statement, “The vehicle jatha will begin with a massive public meeting at Nashik at 1.30pm. About 5,000 farmers will join this meeting and participate in the vehicle march. Most of them will accompany us till the Maharashtra border. Thereafter, 2,000 or so farmers will continue to travel to Delhi.” The vehicle march will be met by farmers at Ozar, Pimpalgaon Baswant, Chandwad, Umrane, Malegaon, and Shirpur and Dhule districts of Maharashtra before entering Madhya Pradesh.Also Read: Govt asks farmers to come for talks, spell out objectionsThe purpose of organising this march is to counter the government’s argument that only farmers from Punjab and Haryana are affected by the three laws, and that this is not a pan-India protest. Dhawale said, “The government is running a propaganda that whatever is happening in Delhi is only because of farmers from Punjab and Haryana. When thousands of farmers from Maharashtra will travel around 1,300 kilometres to participate in the protest, it will effectively counter the government’s argument.” The massive farmers’ protest was set off by the three farm laws pushed through Parliament by the government in September. These allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-to-start-their-vehicle-march-to-delhi-from-nashik-today/story-ppk0a1YniTxDe5bJCKg9WM.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||BJP using the Ram temple public donation drive as part of 2024 election campaign, alleges Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to use the public donation drive for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya to fund its campaign for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. In an editorial in Saamna, the mouthpiece of the Sena, it alleged that the decision of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to depute 400,000 volunteers to meet 1,200,000 families across the country for collecting donations had political overtones. “This is just a campaign in the name of Ram temple. It is time for political parties to stop using the Ram temple issue and focus on developmental issues,” said the editorial. It called such a political campaign disrespectful to those who laid their lives for the creation of Ram temple. “Who are these volunteers who will collect money? Who has appointed them?” questioned the editorial. Also Read: Ram temple fund drive to start with contributions from prominent personalities: Trust officialThe editorial questioned the very concept of public donation for the construction of the temple. “Lord Ram was the king of Ayodhya and we have all fought a war for the construction of his temple. This involves the pride of India. People have sacrificed their lives for this campaign. Hindus across the world have donated generously for this construction. Then what is the purpose of this donation drive?” questioned the editorial. The Shiv Sena has already donated Rs1 crore for the construction of the temple. This announcement comes on the heels of the decision of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to not use government money and construct the temple using donations from the followers of Lord Ram. This campaign will take place from January 15 till February 27. The BJP, however, has derided the Sena for its opposition to public donation. “Those who believe in extorting will never be able to understand the concept of public donation. This money is for Ram Mandir which is a national monument and not for someone’s private property. Hence it will be constructed by public money and not by extortion,” said a BJP press release. It said that Sena’s assertion that it was time to delink Ram temple from the political agenda was understandable as it had turned secular for power. It also taunted the Shiv Sena saying that it was ironic that the party which was creating obstacles in development was talking of developmental politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-using-the-ram-temple-public-donation-drive-as-part-of-2024-election-campaign-alleges-shiv-sena/story-XKzxAu0DH0TcrtIsuZ4adK.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Tikri, Singhu borders closed as farmers’ stir enters Day 26||Tikri and Dhansa borders have been closed for traffic movement and the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians, Delhi Traffic Police said on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws entered the 26th day. Police have also asked people to avoid the Outer Ring road, National Highway 44 and GTK Road. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders have also been closed apart from Tikri and Dhansa, they added.“Tikri, Dhansa borders are closed for any traffic movement. Jhatikara borders is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road and NH 44,” they added.The farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three farm laws is nearing its one month anniversary on December 26. Thousands of farmers have taken to the streets leading up to the national capital from several states, especially Punjab. The protesting farmers have made it clear that they were not willing to accept anything other than a complete rollback of all the three laws. The Centre, however, has proposed amendments to the laws, all of which have been rejected after discussions between the representatives of both parties.The sets of representatives have discussed possible future courses of action a number of times but all have resulted in a stalemate. The contentious farm laws were passed by the central government in the Lok Sabha on September 17, and in the Rajya Sabha on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tikri-singhu-borders-closed-as-farmers-stir-enters-day-26/story-ZVLidBIdQ3CIdEBke2zfQJ.html
21-12-2020||City||Intense winter begins in Jammu & Kashmir with sub-zero temperatures||The 40-day intense winter period “chillai kalan” started in Kashmir valley on Monday with sub-zero night temperatures across the region. This year, winter started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record minus 6.6 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season, and also the second-coldest December night in the past decade.The mercury dipped to minus 4 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, 2.5 notches below the normal, said a meteorological department officer.Dal Lake in Srinagar was frozen in parts. Also Read: Brief relief likely from extreme cold over northwest India“I could not reach the floating vegetable market on the lake today as the lake’s surface was frozen at many places. The lake has been freezing during the nights in the past four-five days,” said Nazir Ahmad, a vegetable dealer who traverses the lake on his boat every day. The tourist resort of Gulmarg witnessed a temperature of minus 6.4 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg has already had four spells of snow this winter and winter games have begun on the icy slopes of the resort. The cold wave has been leaving water taps frozen every night across Kashmir. “While some people use warm water to break the chill of the water pipes every day, others have been making use of insulated foam tubes to cover the pipes, “ said Ishfaq Ahmad, a plumber in the old city. Meteorological department director Sonam Lotus has predicted that the valley will receive light snowfall with the onset of chillai kalan. Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages, starting with the 40-day intense period from December 21(chillai kalan) followed by 20 days that are less intense (chillai khurd) and then 10 days of mild cold (chille bache).The night temperatures continued to drop in most places of Kashmir.Jammu was also cold at 5.8 degrees Celsius. Leh in the Union Territory of Ladakh recorded a low of minus 13.1 degrees Celsius, while Kargil recorded a low of minus 20 degrees Celsius and Drass, the second-coldest place in the world, observed minus 20.5 degrees Celsius.The night temperatures started dipping in Jammu and Kashmir from December 14 after snowfall over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/intense-winter-begins-in-jammu-kashmir-with-sub-zero-temperatures/story-rm8hE0s1coZKQuIYp8mtEP.html
21-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Notices to 48 industrial units for violating pollution norms||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has issued notices to 48 industrial units across the state this month for failing to adhere to norms for reducing pollution-causing emissions.The notices were issued as part of efforts to improve the air quality index (AQI), said UPPCB officials.“These industrial units were found to be running without adhering to guidelines. They have been issued notices regarding the same. They have also been asked to explain their actions or face monetary fines,” said VK Singh, senior environment officer.Of the 48, 28 units were from national capital region and the rest from Lucknow, Kanpur and nearby districts.Also Read: Air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad slips again, enters ‘very poor’ zoneOn Sunday, the AQI reading of Lucknow reached the “severe” level of 406 and UP’s cities topped the list of the most polluted cities in the country. “Emissions caused by industries and particulate pollution are major factors that contribute to the worsening of AQI. We are trying to limit this so that the air quality can be improved, especially during winters,” said the officer.The UPPCB had earlier issued guidelines to industries and construction units and asked them to adhere to the guidelines. These guidelines include taking measures like liquid scrubbers, spraying of water, using dust curtains, catalytic converters, closed construction and others to prevent causing harmful emissions.“We will continue the inspection of these industrial units in days to come and action will be taken against those found to be not following guidelines,” asserted the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-notices-to-48-industrial-units-for-violating-pollution-norms/story-lt155fzsc4JEbfjedNuJ9H.html
21-12-2020||City||Three years after he went missing from West Bengal, special child reunited with parents in Assam||Three years after he went missing from Cooch Behar district in West Bengal, 15-year-old Mithun Debnath was reunited with his parents on Saturday in Guwahati. A special child with mental and learning problems, Mithun was found in Assam’s Dhubri three years ago with no clue how he managed to leave his home and reach another state. He was soon placed by the district child welfare committee in care of Destination, a Guwahati-based NGO that works with special children. Mithun kept mostly to himself and didn’t speak at all. Also Read: Man spent 8 months in UP jail as bail order did not mention his full name“Maybe he was unfamiliar with the language as his mother tongue is Bengali and the children in Destination spoke Assamese. After spending six months with us, he said in Bengali that he wants to go home. That’s how we guessed he could be from West Bengal,” said Chumki Bora, superintendent, Destination. “But he was unable to give us his proper address. It took us nearly two years to from whatever little information he used to provide us. We contacted police in Siliguri in West Bengal, but didn’t get any response from them,” she added. A breakthrough took place last month when the chairperson of Cooch Behar child welfare committee in West Bengal visited Dhubri. The issue was discussed with him and instructions issued to try and trace the address. “The child welfare committee there managed to trace the address and locate his parents. Once they sent us documents and old photos of Mithun, we were sure about his identity. His parents reached Guwahati on Saturday and we handed him over to them,” said Bora. The father, a vegetable vendor, said that Mithun had gone to watch a prayer meeting and went missing after that. They had lodged a police case and carried out a search in their area for many months, but failed to get any result. “Despite our efforts not yielding any positive outcome, I was always hopeful that I will find my child one day. I am very happy that we were finally able to trace him and are now taking him back home,” Mithun’s mother Anita told journalists on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-years-after-he-went-missing-from-west-bengal-special-child-reunited-with-parents-in-assam/story-97aPhUYXZ5kUzwbSkSVvnM.html
21-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s cities continue to be plagued by polluted air||Uttar Pradesh’s cities continued to be plagued by polluted air on Sunday, too, with some of them recording the worst air quality in the country, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data revealed.Lucknow, which was the most polluted city on Saturday, recorded an air quality index (AQI) reading of 406 on Sunday to become the second-worst polluted city in the country. Muzaffarpur of Bihar recorded the worst AQI reading of 453. An AQI reading of above 401 is considered “severe”, which not only affects healthy people but severely harms those with pre-existing breathing issues, children and the elderly. Lucknow was followed by Moradabad (391), Kanpur (364), Bulandshahr (364), Varanasi (358), Ghaziabad (346) Greater Noida (346). The AQI reading in these cities was categorised as “very poor”.Also Read: Air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad slips again, enters ‘very poor’ zoneMeerut, Baghpat, Aligarh, Agra and some other cities of Uttar Pradesh recorded higher than normal AQI readings. Particulate pollutants like PM2.5 and PM10, along with vehicular and industrial emissions, comprised the major pollutants that contributed to higher AQI readings. According to experts, the cold weather also contributed to these factors and lead to higher AQI readings.“Particulate matter takes longer to settle down in cold weather because the air becomes dense. This not only causes a rise in AQI readings, but also leads to smog formation,” said senior environmentalist Devesh Kumar.The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board, like previous years, has largely been ineffective in controlling the spike in air pollution. Though the board has issued directions to districts and government bodies suggesting ways that could improve air quality, the measures seem to have failed to show results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-s-cities-continue-to-be-plagued-by-polluted-air/story-N1BuFIt9Urb72EyFzGI23O.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s temperature likely to increase today, will dip again this week||A western disturbance over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh is likely to increase the minimum temperature in Delhi by a few notches on Monday. The increased moisture in the air is also likely to raise pollution levels, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that at 7am on Monday, the hourly average air quality index (AQI) reading was 324, in the "very poor" zone. The overall AQI reading on Sunday was 321, categorised as "very poor". On Saturday the AQI reading was 290, in the "poor" zone.Also Read: Delhi sees season’s coldest day at 3.4°C, next week may be colderThe national capital on Sunday recorded the coldest morning of the season, with the minimum temperature falling to 3.4 degrees Celsius. The IMD forecast said that the temperature might rise marginally on Monday before dipping again.On Sunday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for Delhi, was 3.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s normal, making it the lowest recording this season so far. The maximum temperature of the day was 22.4 degrees Celsius.Scientists said that because of a fairly good wind speed, which cleared the fog and kept the sky clear, the day time temperature rose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-temperature-likely-to-increase-today-will-dip-again-this-week/story-XQm1mYFsMwIhBywQgxjVEL.html
21-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Man held for offering namaz gets bail||The Allahabad high court has granted bail to a man who was arrested for the alleged offering of namaz on the premises of the Nand Baba temple in Mathura. Justice Siddharth allowed the bail application of Faisal Khan after hearing the parties concerned.Granting bail on Friday, the court directed Khan not to tamper with prosecution witnesses, to cooperate in the trial and not to use social media for posting photographs of such activities when the proceedings are pending in court.On November 1, a first information report (FIR) was registered under Sections 153- A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 295 (defiling a place of worship with the intent to insult a religion), 505 (circulation of a rumour to cause disharmony), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 467, 468 (related to forgery) and 471 (using a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code at Barsana police station in Mathura.It was alleged in the FIR that Khan, along with co-accused Chand Mohammad, had performed namaz inside the temple without the consent of the priest and photographs of the incident were made for posting on social media. The FIR also alleged it was done in an act of disrespect for the religious feelings of the Hindu community. The FIR alleged Khan received foreign funds for doing this.Ali Qambar Zaidi , the counsel for Khan, argued: “Applicant is a renowned social activist, who has revived the Khudai Khidmatgar movement of India and is working for maintaining communal harmony for the last 25 years. In this connection, he undertook a yatra for visiting temples.” The court, after hearing counsel for the parties concerned, granted the bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-man-held-for-offering-namaz-gets-bail/story-pzYNIMyL3hFkfhc2eIR2gO.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Confessions of a Piano Man||His bedroom’s Yamaha Electone is clamouring for attention, even on Zoom. The statelier Steinway is in the drawing room, out of sight. An accomplished pianist, the enterprising Arjun Sagar Gupta, 35, is best known for giving the National Capital Region new opportunities to experience live jazz. He opened his first music venue, the Piano Man Jazz Club, in Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave in 2015, and the second the previous year in Gurugram’s Sector 15. They both stayed shut in the coronavirus-triggered lockdown and reopened in September.“I spent a bulk of my time in the lockdown practising a new instrument, trumpet, and interviewing and live-streaming musicians from all over the world,” he says, chatting from his home in Vasant Vihar. He gamely agreed to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series, in which folks from diverse backgrounds are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions” so as to explore the lives, thoughts, values and experiences of fellow citizens.Your main faultDefault mode – Blind trust, it’s bitten me a few times. Impatience, a bit too quick to get excited / upset.Your idea of happinessHot chocolate fudge and a good movie with my partner and knowing that I did something useful today.Your favourite colour and flowerBlack, and Tuberoses. I’ve grown up with their scent in my house, dad used to get them every Sunday from the flower mandi that used to be set up in CP (Connaught Place).Your favourite composersChopin, Liszt, Bill Evan, Oscar Peterson, Jobim… this is a really long list.Your favourite poetsI enjoy reading the rather beautiful though rare poetry written by my father’s brothers.Your heroes/heroines in real lifeMy piano teacher, John Raphael, who passed a few years ago, my folks, my brother… might sound silly, but I know them better than I know anyone else, and I’m grateful to be able to call them family.What characters in history do you most dislike?Sigh, the worst of them are alive today. The audacity and appetite of evil grows with every generation, just gets worse, implemented by people with more powerful tools at their disposal.The military event you admire the mostNone that I can think of, when do we get a borderless world?The reform you admire the mostThe reform that will eliminate religion.How do you wish to die?Good food, good sex, no pain and with the knowledge that the institutions I’m trying to build will live on.Your motto in lifeGrowing up I used to say avoid excessive avoidance of excesses. But looking at the world today, I think we have enough excess. So now, it’s “Be kind, you don’t know what the person in front of you is going through.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-confessions-of-a-piano-man/story-XolGLBvEtAOb9muHyFEGWL.html
21-12-2020||Kolkata||Will ensure TMC wins 18 seats in North Bengal: Bimal Gurung||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s (GJM) founder-president Bimal Gurung held his first public meeting in Bengal’s Darjeeling town on Sunday afternoon and announced that he will help the Trinamool Congress (TMC) win at least 18 assembly seats in north Bengal when elections in the state are held next year. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 with support from the GJM and other parties demanding creation of a separate state since it promised to find a permanent political solution to the hill issue and accord scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha communities. “I have joined hands with chief minister Mamata Barerjee. We will win 17 to 18 assembly seats in north Bengal. The BJP betrayed the Gorkhas and wasted our 12 years,” Gurung said at the meeting. He said Banerjee has assured him that she will find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. There are six assembly seats in the Darjeeling hills, of which the TMC holds one while the BJP has none. The CPI(M) has one seat, the GJM has two while the remaining two are in control of the Congress. The Gorkha community has presence in the adjoining districts in the plains as well. The two GJM legislators from Darjeeling offered support to the BJP after the 2016 assembly polls but Gurung has now withdrawn his support. Gurung went into hiding in 2017 after being charged under anti-terror law by the Mamata Banerjee government for the violent Gorkhaland movement. He appeared before the media in Kolkata in October and announced that he was shifting his allegiance to Banerjee. Since then, the rivalry between Gurung and Binoy Tamang, his former lieutenant who has been heading a pro-TMC faction of the GJM since 2017, has intensified. Though Tamang and his men are opposed to Gurung’s entry into Darjeeling, the erstwhile fugitive leader was received with a warm welcome on Sunday. Gurung told his followers that he will start calling the shots in hill politics very soon. Without directly naming Tamang and his associate Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators in Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), Gurung said, “They cannot deliver anything despite all the support they have.” Since the TMC failed to wrest the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat from the BJP in 2019 despite having the support of Tamang and Thapa, Gurung targeted the duo. “Why should they be supported (by the TMC)?” he said. “The two must leave within 10 to 12 days,” Gurung said. Local people said Gurung hinted that he wants Tamang and Thapa to step down from the GTA. Gurung returned to Siliguri town on December 6 and addressed a rally. He was waiting for the right time to visit Darjeeling. Political equations in the Darjeeling hills suddenly changed after Gurung pledged support to the TMC. “The BJP should be defeated at any cost and I will ensure that keeping the chief minister in front of us,” Gurung said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-ensure-tmc-wins-18-seats-in-north-bengal-bimal-gurung/story-4FAzdaanngl8YVpE06O4gI.html
21-12-2020||Jaipur||Congress gets 36 local body chiefs out of 50 in Rajasthan||Congress leaders were elected as chairpersons of 36 municipal bodies in Rajasthan out of 50 for which results were declared on Sunday. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates were elected chairmen of 12 local bodies and independents of two. In Alwar, the Congress formed the governing boards in two municipal councils and the BJP won four. It was a clean sweep for the Congress in five districts. The Congress won two seats in Baran, eight in Bharatpur, three in Dausa, two in Dholpur and three in Karauli. In the capital, Jaipur, the Congress won nine councils out of 10. In Jodhpur, Sawai Madhopur and Kota, it was one each for the BJP and Congress. In Sri Ganganagar, both BJP and Congress won four councils. In Sirohi, BJP won the only council. After the results were declared, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasara tweeted: “Today after the end of the election for chairman in Rajasthan’s 50 municipal bodies, the Congress party managed to get control of 36 boards and BJP was reduced to only 12 boards. Thanks once again to all Congress workers and leaders for this expected result.” State BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said that ahead of local body elections, the delimitation of seats was done by the Congress on the lines of religion and caste which suited the party. “The Congress also misused government machinery to form their boards in majority,” Pareek said. On December 12, the Congress had defeated the BJP in elections to 50 urban local bodies in 12 districts of the state. The results come a few days after the BJP performed better than the Congress in rural local body elections in 21 of the state’s 33 districts. Results for urban local bodie elections show that independent candidates will play the role of kingmakers in the formation of boards in most districts. Of 1,775 municipal wards, results were declared for 1,774 on December 12; the Congress bagged 619, independents 597, BJP 547 and the rest others. The voting to elect representatives of 1,775 wards in 50 municipal bodies was held on December 11. Amid Covid-19 restrictions in the state, a 79.90% voter turnout was recorded. The highest turnout, 90.32%, was recorded in the Bharatpur Nagar municipal body. The lowest turnout, 64.39%, was recorded at Sawai Madhopur Nagar Parishad. Out of 14,35,000 voters in 12 districts, 11,46,000 voted. The Congress suffered a setback in the Rajasthan rural body elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-gets-36-local-body-chiefs-out-of-50-in-rajasthan/story-dzH9ZBvwKwEXGceGywMugJ.html
21-12-2020||Patna||Minor abducted, gang-raped in Bihar||Police on Sunday detained two out of six accused on Sunday for abduction and gang-rape of a 14-year-old girl of a village situated under Piro police station, police said. The girl was kidnapped on December 16 and allegedly gang raped by six men for four days. She, somehow, managed to escape from captivity on December 19, polce said. Father of the victim filed a complaint at Piro police station against six men of the same village.SHO of Piro police station A K Choudhary said that during investigation, it came to fore that the victim was in relationship with one of the accused for more than a year. Police has detained two accused for interrogation. A case has been filed under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/minor-abducted-gang-raped-in-bihar/story-bM2Q8TLkZftmsdYYjN3vaP.html
21-12-2020||Bhopal||Minor forced into sex trade; sister, 6 arrested||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly drugged and pushed into the sex trade by her elder sister in Bhopal, the police said on Sunday. Police arrested seven people on Sunday, including the minor’s 20-year-old sister and a man with two sons, on Sunday under section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, the police said. Bhopal’s superintendent of police (north) Mukesh Shrivastava said: “Upset with the violent behaviour and drug addiction of the girl, who is a class 10 student, the mother informed Childline and sent her to a shelter home in Bhopal in November where she was counselled for a month. The victim shared her ordeal recently and told the counsellors that her sister pushed her into drugs and the sex trade. The mother lodged a complaint at Gandhi Nagar police station {on Saturday} ...on Saturday.” “In her statement registered with the police, the minor said she was raped for the first time two years ago when she was just 13 years old. Her sister, who works in a company in Indore, took her to an unknown place in Bhopal and gave some cannabis to her. Later, the sister left her alone with a man, Sameer, who raped her. The man also gave Rs 2,000 to her sister. The victim’s sister took her to several places where people raped her and gave money to her sister,” the SP said. A cousin of the girl also raped her. Police are interrogating the people they have arrested, who are all related o each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/minor-forced-into-sex-trade-sister-6-arrested/story-p3a5Y3ZdxHxXh2FoYYYaUL.html
21-12-2020||Lucknow||2 men held for trying to convert woman: Police||Two men were arrested under the Uttar Pradesh’s new anti-conversion law for allegedly abducting and trying to convert a 21-year-old woman in Shahjahanpur district on Sunday, the police said.They were arrested a day after family members of the woman alleged that she was abducted by some men who wanted to forcibly convert her to another religion for marriage, police said.Superintendent of police, Shahjahanpur, S Anand said, “Police arrested one Mohsin and Sadiq for kidnapping. The duo is also accused of trying to force the woman to convert to another religion. The woman has been found and the two men have been sent to jail.”The FIR was lodged on the complaint of the woman’s family members on Saturday, according to the officer. The woman, according to the police, worked at a brick kiln at Baslia village under the Katra police station limits and she was allegedly abducted by the accused on Saturday.Police have booked the two men under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. Police sent the woman for a medical examination. She will be produced before a magistrate on Monday.The recently promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance nullifies marriages if they are carried out for the sole purpose of religious conversion. The state government had on November 24 approved the draft ordinance, which provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/2-men-held-for-trying-to-convert-woman-police/story-XsNlVtyHQNq2UipWJFQg9O.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab commission agents plan strike against tax raids||The Arhtiyas , or commission agents, of Punjab plan to keep their shops shut in a protest over raids by the income tax department. There are two federation of Arthiyas in Punjab -- the Punjab Arthiyas Association led by Ravinder Singh Cheema and Federation of Arthiyas led by Vijay Kalra. Cheema and Kalra said collective raids have been conducted on the Arthiyas by the income tax ( I-T) department for the first time. The IT department has conducted a search on Arhtiya’s across the state in the past couple of days amid the farmers’ protest.According to the Punjab government, 14 prominent Arhtiyas across the state have received tax notices from the department.“Our shops will remain closed from Monday onwards in the protest against the central government over the revengeful act for supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” Cheema said.He said the contentious farm laws enacted in September were not only against farmers, but also the Arthiyas because these laws will hit the government-controlled mandi system. “We will be also holding a joint meetings with the Federation of Arthiyas too on future steps”, added Cheema. The Federation of Arthiyas held a state level meeting on Sunday. Kalra said members of the federation would keep their shops from Tuesday to Friday. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday criticised the Centre for its “intimidatory tactics” against Arhityas supporting the protesting farmers, and termed the I-T department’s raids a pressure tactic to weaken the farmers’ agitation.Farmer unions protesting at the Singhu and Tikri borders condemned the I-T raids and threatened a stir against the department if the raids continue. Ruldu Singh Mansa, president of Punjab Kisan Union, said, “We have sent our team to Punjab to hold a meeting with arhtiyas. We have also asked the arhtiyas to protest at the I-T department offices.” Farmers and Arthiyas have often been at odds over disputes over supplies and loan repayments, since these commissioning agents also offer informal financing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-commission-agents-plan-strike-against-tax-raids/story-3OcUNjMMZ2UQvynCHgYezM.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi winter 2020: Warmth of home, a cozy bed and sunshine to beat the winter chill||Delhi winter is chillier than usual. And this time as well, as we brace ourselves for a winter that has already started making new records. But, many denizens are thankful for not having to step out due to #WorkFromHome set-up. And that’s why it is this year, after so many, that the small pleasures of Delhi-NCR winter months are being cherished by many on their social media handles. When was it last that you enjoyed a calm morning without having to worry about reaching work in time? “I can’t remember the last time I read the newspaper peacefully in the morning. I would just catch up with the news on my phone, on the way to work, and only get to read the whole paper before I’d go to sleep,” says Harish Kumar, a Gurugram-based HR executive. “Now that I’m home, I manage to wake up, and actually enjoy the sunlight in my balcony, with a cup of coffee and my newspaper. This winter is different,” he adds. For some like Delhi-based web producer Priya Choudhary, who have cut down on their travel time thanks to WFH, mornings now mean getting a window to read books and practice yoga. “It’s easier and healthier to exercise early. I love winters, but I hate leaving my flat, changing and going out in the cold. So I’m glad to be home, and not stuck in a metro train, commuting to work and missing out a bright winter morning,” adds Choudhary. And not just mornings, winter evenings, though chilly, have become an excuse for bonfire get-togethers to come knocking. Pooja Bhateley, a Delhi-based data analyst, says, “My friends and I were planning a trip to the hills this December, but since the Covid-19 situation is bad, we postponed it to next year. However, what we did is organise a small bonfire party in my balcony, since this is the perfect weather for it! And we could all start it early evening since almost all of us are working from home. Plus it’s safer than going to a public place.”Amid all this, the housemate who is making the most of everyone staying indoors, this winter, is the furry being! Shailash Prasad, a Gurugram-based corporate employee, says, “My dog, Zap loves his nap and cuddles and used to fight when I had to leave the house for work. So we both are enjoying this winter at home. While I work, he sleeps and then eats, only to sleep again.” Prasad shares that while he hasn’t shopped for woollens since he isn’t really going out, Zap has been flaunting his new jackets! “I’ve been enjoying walks on the terrace with Zap and my girlfriend; we unanimously agree that winters are bearable only if one is home,” he adds. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-winter-2020-warmth-of-home-a-cozy-bed-and-sunshine-to-beat-the-winter-chill/story-J7SKJpvrIyrmAOkosneuJL.html
21-12-2020||Bollywood||Gurugram treats cinephiles, hosts film festival amid pandemic||Heartwarming films, discussions on human rights, a glamorous red carpet and awards to laud independent cinema - all this and more comprised the recent I-View World Human Rights Film Festival 2020. It is to initiate a dialogue on gender equality that the festival was held in physical format, albeit following all Covid-19 protocols. The opening ceremony marked the Human Rights Day, and opened with a screening of filmmaker Deepa Mehta’s Funny Boy, and the closing night feature was director Nathan Grossman’s documentary, I Am Greta. The oh-so-glam red carpet opening of the star-studded 10-day film festival had presence of actors Swara Bhasker, Sayani Gupta, Vivek Gomber, Rajesh Tailang, Bani J, and directors Onir, and Faraz Ansari, to name a few. Equipped with masks, sanitisers, and following social-distancing norms amid Covid-19 pandemic, at Gurugram’s CyberHub, the celebrities also received awards for their work this year. The global programming schedule included virtual screenings of critically-acclaimed films such as Sweden’s And Then We Danced, Brief Story From The Green Planet, and Nasir, to name a few. There were also in-depth panel discussions, including a conversation on ’Archetypes of Justice’ with Richie Mehta (director) and Shefali Shah (lead actor of Delhi Crime, the International Emmy Award Winner for Best Dramatic Series. These discussions will be available on www.plexigo.com/IViewWorld2020/, till January 24, 2021. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/gurugram-treats-cinephiles-hosts-film-festival-amid-pandemic/story-EPuXUgW8gTVPgrwbmaM8gP.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||They have turned our lives upside down: Singhu village on farm laws, stir||It is a sunny December afternoon and Ramesh Sharma is sitting on a charpoy in the lush green lawn of his house overlooking the wheat fields. One can hear the rousing speeches made by the farmers’ leaders over megaphones at the nearby Singhu border on the national highway. “You know, these protesting farmers have made our village famous all over the world. But their protests have also disrupted our lives,” he says. Sharma is a resident of Singhu, the last village before entering Haryana, in north Delhi. It also gave the name to the border, Singhu border, which is one of the major sites for the farmer protests around the Capital against the central government’s new farm laws. The village is home to about 250 families. Being close to Delhi’s industrial areas such as Narela and Kundli, a rental economy has developed in the village over the years, but more than half of the families depend on agriculture. They mostly grow rice and wheat, which they sell at the Delhi government’s Agricultural Produce Market Committee Mandi (APMC) Mandi in Narela, about five kilometers away. The new farm laws and protests have divided the residents. Also Read: Farmers to start relay hunger strike from today to mount pressure on govtAsk Sharma, who has a 2-acre farm, what he thinks of the farmers’ demands and after a long pause, he says: “The farmers should have the right to sell their produce wherever they want. These new laws, in my opinion, will facilitate that.” As we talk, Satish Kumar Sherawat, another farmer joins in. He tells us that he came straight from the border protest site, about a kilometer from the village. “I go there every morning for two hours. Their fears are not unfounded. The corporates will first offer a great price for our produce, much more than what government mandis offer. That will lead to mandis becoming irrelevant and then non-existent. Then farmers will be left at the mercy of the big companies,” says Sherawat, who has five acres in the village. “The only solution is that all three farm laws be scrapped.” So, does the village support the protests with supplies? Sherawat answers with a sheepish smile: “No, they can help us more than we can help them.” It is the season for the wheat crop and almost all of Singhu village is growing it on hundreds of acres of farmland. On the village’s well-paved roads, snaking through the lush green fields, one sees parali (stubble) -- stalks of the previous season’s paddy pulled out from the ground after harvest -- dumped on the verge at many places. Many farmers in north India resort to burning their stubble to quickly prepare the ground for the wheat crop. This spikes the already high pollution levels in the national capital region (NCR) and the north Indian plains. But Sharma is quick to point out: “We do not burn it, we sell it to dairy farms in Delhi and NCR, where it is used as animal fodder.” He then points to a dense cluster of low-rise houses in the distance. “That is a Haryana village. Unlike them, we get uninterrupted supply of electricity.” Also Read: Western Railway diverts, short terminates trains due to farmers’ protest in PunjabThe Singhu village is also home to a shuttered rice factory, several grain godowns and large milk dairies, run by both villagers and outsiders. With families expanding, land holdings in the village have decreased. Many village youngsters have set up businesses, others have found jobs in the nearby industrial areas. The village is also home to many retired and serving Delhi transport corporation (DTC) employees. DTC employee and resident Narendra Singh had sold his farmland in the village a few years back. He is fiercely opposed to the farmers’ protest in his village’s vicinity, saying the three-week-old protest had turned their lives upside down. “There were around five petrol pumps on the highway near our village; all of them are closed because of the protests. The DTC buses do not come any more as the village’s narrow main road is choked with vehicles taking a detour because of the blockade,” says Singh. “Sometimes it takes us two hours to cover a distance of a km from the highway to home during peak hours. Traffic policemen have appeared in our village, which is quite a curious sight.” Still others, like Satish Kumar, says the new laws miss the nuance. Kumar has rented 27 acres in the village to farm for Rs 12 lakh a year. More than the APMC mandis, it is the disappearance of the arhtiyas (commission agents) that worries him the most. “Whenever I need money for agricultural or personal needs, I approach these arhtiyas. They know that I am a farmer and will bring my crop to them, and so they readily give me a loan. Sometimes, I have taken as much as Rs 8 lakh from them to pay the land rent,” says Kumar. And how much does he pay as interest? “About 24 per cent per annum. I know it is high, but the arrangement suits me as I do not have much land of my own it is not easy to get such loans from the bank,” he says. In another part of the village where multi-storey houses are clustered together, a group of elderly people are busy playing cards. While most support the protesting farmers, calling their worries about the new laws as ‘genuine’, a couple of others are worried about how the protests are going to end. Also Read| Kisan Diwas on Dec 23, toll collection to be halted in Haryana from Dec 25: Farmers intensify stir“I think both the government and the protesting farmers are being unreasonable. Farmers cannot say ‘my way or the highway’. Most of the union leaders, who have been shouting themselves hoarse there do not seem to have read the laws,” says Ran Pal Sherawat, who owns 2.5 acres here. His elder brother, Om Prakash Sherawat, gets philosophical as he seeks to describe the stalemate. “You must have heard the saying that rulers and children are very difficult to deal with when they get obstinate. Now, we are beginning to get worried how and when these protests will eventually end. Sometimes we fear violence; our relatives keep calling us from all across the country to know if everything is fine in the village,” says Om Prakash. “While we are happy that our village is now famous, we do not want to it to become a site of a violent farmers’ revolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/they-have-turned-our-lives-upside-down-singhu-village-on-farm-laws-stir/story-OTIPZjYTCeemXlB13tRBAP.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER nurses to initiate week-long protest on December 21||The nurses at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Monday will initiate week-long protests to press for their demands, which include changing control of nursing to the administration office from the medical superintendent.“There has been rampant corruption in the office of the medical superintendent and so, we are seeking change of the nursing establishment’s control. In every institute, the deputy director of administration controls the nursing establishment,” said Satyaveer Dagur, general secretary of the Nurses Welfare Association.The nurses will wear black badges for three days and will hold a rally on December 26. However, no patient services will be affected.The association has also given a memorandum to the institute listing 21 demands ranging from creation of more nursing posts as per the patient load and creation of nursing orderly posts for better nursing care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgimer-nurses-to-initiate-week-long-protest-on-december-21/story-V5GuFG15DfYvqxrb7sq0AI.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Teachers’ Association to continue protest over pending promotions||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has decided to continue their protest on campus till the interviews of all teachers, whose cases are pending under the career advancement scheme (CAS), are not held.The decision was taken in a meeting of the PUTA executive on Sunday. The teachers’ body has been protesting for the last 31 days over the CAS issue. The screening of a few teachers has already been started by PU, but PUTA has said that not a single selection committee has been held so far.During the meeting, PUTA resolved that vice-chancellor Raj Kumar should be asked to present data of how many meetings of the selection and screening committees of CAS promotions had been held during the last one year.Conduct of senate pollsPUTA executive body has also unanimously resolved that the V-C be impressed upon to get the elections of the senate conducted forthwith to avoid any complications in running the varsity smoothly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-association-to-continue-protest-over-pending-promotions/story-v0ZEn9OpwSDILYdiLOo7oJ.html
21-12-2020||City||Footfall, donations improve but normalcy yet to return to Golden Temple||Though footfall and donations from devotees are gradually increasing at the Golden Temple, complete normalcy is yet to return to the Sikh holy shrine. The staff of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the affairs of the shrine, says that though the number of devotees has considerably increased as compared to the initial months of the lockdown, it is still far from what was seen before the pandemic outbreak.SGPC honourary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said that the shrine is currently getting only 60-65% of its normal footfall. The dip in footfall is clearly visible as before the pandemic, the bridge on the sarovar (holy tank), which leads to the sanctum sanctorum, used to be jam-packed with devotees. Now, the rush is much lower and devotees can be seen waiting in queues while ensuring physical distancing. The wait time for reaching the sachkand (sanctum sanctorum) has also come down. Dhami attributes the low footfall to the fact that air and rail connectivity have not fully resumed due to which devotees from other states and countries are unable to visit. This in turn has led to a dip in donations. Notably, a major chunk of donations came from NRIs. But most of them are unable to visit due to restrictions on international travel. Dhami says the dip in donations has had an adverse impact on the functioning of SGPC, which runs scores of educational, medical, sports, religious and human welfare institutions. It may be recalled that during the initial months of the lockdown, the average daily footfall had dipped to 1,000 and the average daily collection of offerings had come down to around Rs. 10,000 a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/footfall-donations-improve-but-normalcy-yet-to-return-to-golden-temple/story-vq4Met5fWpDFJQLejkHHCJ.html
21-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC elections: Candidates reach out via small gatherings, social media amid pandemic||Reaching out to people and seeking votes for the upcoming MC elections amid the pandemic has been a little challenging for politicians who are avoiding big rallies, but they are making do with nukkad meetings, door-to-door campaigning and social media.Ten to twenty small meetings a day by each candidate, hiring of PR agencies, setting of IT cells to ensure circulation of messages on hundreds of WhatsApp groups, targeting the opposition via social media are some of the main communication tools being adopted this time.The mayoral candidates of the two main parties have hired separate PR persons who share their daily programme on hundreds of WhatsApp groups, Facebook accounts, etc.On Sunday, Kulbhushan Goyal, mayoral candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party, held 11 meetings between 9am to 7pm. On the other hand, Congress’ Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia held 10 meetings between 10am to 7pm.No bog rallies this timeFormer city mayor Ahluwalia said: “Campaigning this time is different and difficult because of the pandemic. We have to take all precautions and are not holding big gatherings. Also, because these are direct elections, we have a large area to cover in a limited time.”Ahluwalia said that social media was playing a major role this time. “I attend meetings as per the schedule made by the party. Apart from this, I also make separate visits to families. Rest, messages are being conveyed to a large number of people via Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp, and we have a separate team for that.”Naveen Garg, district media in-charge of BJP, said: “There are no big rallies this time. The candidates are holding nukkad meetings in which a few families of an area gather and vote appeal is done.”He added: “Daily, over 20 such small meetings are held across the wards by senior leaders of the BJP. Apart from this, candidates go door-to-door to ensure people in their areas are covered.”The BJP has also created a 15-member IT and media cell to manage Twitter, Facebook and other social media accounts of the party. “The main work of the cell is to reach out to as many people as possible and give them every detail related to the campaign. Apart from this, the cell keeps an eye on rumours spread by the opposition and clearing false allegations,” Garg added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-elections-candidates-reach-out-via-small-gatherings-social-media-amid-pandemic/story-h5hr4uEyZt3RNAnP47jKsM.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Wear masks for at least six more months, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray tells citizens||People will have to wear a mask for at least six more months as the Covid-19 danger is yet to pass, said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, as the state recorded 3,811 fresh infections, taking the tally to 1,896,518. Thackeray said residents should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to avoid imposition of restrictions such as night curfews and lockdowns, and urged them to see the examples of United Kingdom (UK) and other European countries where lockdowns have been reimposed to contain the pandemic.On Sunday, active cases increased to 62,743 and its percentage against the total reached 3.30%. The toll went up to 48,746 as 98 casualties were reported, of which, 47 were in the past 48 hours, 11 were in the past week and the rest 40 deaths were from before last week, officials said.“Today’s Covid situation in Maharashtra is before the world. We have yet to completely contain it, but it is in control to some extent for sure. We have got busy in our routine life, but as the head of the family, it is my responsibility to caution you that the danger is yet to pass,” the chief minister said in his live address to people of the state.Maharashtra has been maintaining its trend of relatively fewer cases for more than close to two months now. For the past 16 days, it is reporting fewer than 5,000 cases, indicating an improvement in the situation. Health officials, however, are still wary that it may change in January when the state may hit a potential second wave.“Recently, union health minister Harsh Vardhan said the people will have to wear masks even after taking a shot of Covid-19 vaccine. In my view, wearing a mask is necessary for six months at least. Use masks at public places for the sake of your family and for the society at large. Masks can protect us from the pandemic. We will have to be vigilant, while welcoming the new year,” Thackeray saidHe said that he doesn’t believe in imposing lockdown or night curfew as suggested by the experts and wants citizens to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour on their own. “I have got suggestions from experts for imposing night curfew or lockdown ahead of the new year, but I don’t feel it is required. We have learnt what to do and what will happen if certain things are not followed from the past. If you stay away from Covid-19, it will stay away from you,” the chief minister said.A comparison of data with the last month showed that the state has reported 85,070 cases in the last 15 days, whereas 88,061 cases were reported in the corresponding period last month.Showing a decline, Mumbai has clocked 586 cases, highest in the state, on Sunday, taking the count to 286,850. Of them, active cases are 7,996. There were 16 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 10,996.Nagpur city contributed the second-highest number of infections in the daily caseload and it has recorded 374 cases. Their tally reached 108,393.Pune city recorded 339 cases, third-highest number of cases. Its case count stood at 188,302.The state has completed a total of 12,119,196 Covid tests with 59,961 conducted on Sunday. The positivity rate for the day declined to 6.35%, against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 15.65%.The number of recovered patients reached 1,783,905 with 2,064 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 94.06%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wear-masks-for-at-least-six-more-months-uddhav-tells-citizens/story-oY4x1XrJac2Y8jQeX3eTBL.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||20 million people in Mumbai at risk due to cyclones, sea level rise: Study||The threat of increasing cyclonic events, storm surges and sea level rise could paralyse the financial capital, affecting the lives of more than 20 million people, a study has revealed. It further warned that coastal cities with high population density and delicate infrastructure were left with no more than 10 years to act against the impacts of climate change.Findings for Mumbai city and the Maharashtra coastline by not-for-profit policy research institute Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) as a part of its recent report assessing patterns of extreme climate events through district-level profiling showed that south Mumbai was highly vulnerable to the combination of sea-level rise and storm surge.“Storm surge and cyclone trends across the west coast are worrying because of their compounding effects. The storm surge often leads to an abnormal rise of sea level threatening the safety of citizens. Through spatial maps we were able to estimate that around 20 million people were at risk in Mumbai owing to this threat,” said Abinash Mohanty, programme lead, CEEW and author of the study.According to data used from National Disaster Management Authority, India Meteorological Department, Press Information Bureau, and international bodies such as World Meteorological Organisation, the study found that the decadal increase in cyclone events had increased six times from two cyclones in 1970-1979 to 12 during 2010-19 that had impact along the Maharashtra coast. At the same time, the number of affected districts increased from two during 1970-79 to six during 2010-19, an addition of another three in 2020 (including the impact of severe cyclone Nisarga), taking the tally to nine for the 2010-20 period. South Mumbai witnessed a threefold increase in the frequency of extreme flood events over the past five decades with two flood events per decade from 1980-2009 that shot up to six in 2010-19.Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, and Raigad were identified as the cyclone hotspot districts in Maharashtra. “Cyclones of various categories have severely hit the eastern coast but on the contrary, the west coast has also witnessed a fivefold increase in cyclonic storms’ frequency and intensity making these districts susceptible to annual pre and post monsoon extreme climate events,” said Mohanty.A similar analysis report by McKinsey & Company Inc, released in February, showed almost three million people living within a kilometre of Mumbai’s coastline were under threat from coastal flooding, storm surges and sea-level rise from now till 2050 with extreme weather events and storm surges accelerating by 1.5 times with 100 km/hour wind speed being the new normal.The Maharashtra government said it was aware of the increase in cyclonic events and associated threats from sea level rise to coastal cities. “Maharashtra’s climate action policy has factored in these threats and our focus is to protect natural ecosystems, climate resilience for new constructions and linear infrastructure, and effective implementation of coastal protection norms. All state departments are in the process of preparing their own climate policies through the state’s action plan, and simultaneous implementation is being done at district and region-wise levels,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, state environment and climate change ministry, adding that the department will be hosting a climate action summit in February-March 2021 to address these and many other such issues.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) of the United Nations has said warming of oceans (rising sea surface temperature) has been triggering sea-levels to rise faster. Since 2005, the sea-level rise has risen by more than 2.5 times during the last century, posing a serious threat to communities, livelihoods, and economies. Studies have estimated that the rate of rising seas over the Arabian Sea is about 0.5–3 mm/year, whereas it is 0.75–6 mm/year over the Bay of Bengal. “Considering IPCC’s projections of a 1m rise across by 2050 under a high emissions scenario, many cities of Mumbai’s size can be inundated,” said Mohanty.Dr Anjal Prakash, research director and adjunct associate professor with Bharti Institute of Public Policy at the Indian School of Business and lead author, IPCC’s 6th Assessment Cycle report, said, “Mumbai as a prominent hotspot, facing challenges of frequent cyclonic storms and sea level rise, coastal green space (mangroves) is vital to be protected under a city-specific policy banning construction, waste dumping and ensuing sustainable utilisation of the sea resource.”Among solutions, the study said that apart from limiting our emissions and retrofitting the existing infrastructures, restoring natural shock absorbers like mangroves and wetlands could fetch triple dividends of climate-proofing. “It will help halt micro-climate changes, and generate green economic opportunities. We are left with only a decade to act against devastating impacts of climate change,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-million-people-in-mumbai-at-risk-due-to-cyclones-sea-level-rise-study/story-oShLJ45DEPFzLHtUdYUh6H.html
21-12-2020||City||Mumbai Metro-7, 2A gear up for operations; 18 women among 1st set of operators||With the city expected to get two additional Metro lines in May 2021, the Maha Mumbai Metro Operation Corporation Limited (MMMOCL) has readied a batch of 41 station controllers and train operators, of which, 18 are women.MMMOCL is a newly-formed government body that will operate and maintain all the upcoming metro lines in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).MMMOCL is looking to hire 1,100 staffers for the two lines — Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) and Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar).Of the batch of 41, there are 30 station controllers and 11 train operators. DK Sharma, managing director, MMMOCL, said, “The batch was trained for 22 weeks at the L&T Academy in Hyderabad during the lockdown. They also received hands-on training on Mumbai Metro-1. We have also trained the station controllers to undertake for operations in case of an emergency.”Apart from being trained in operation and maintenance, MMMOCL is also looking to get all the employees trained in disaster management. “A batch of 30 staffers have been trained at the civic body’s facility at Parel,” said Sharma, adding that each employee will be trained in fire-fighting, administering first-aid or combatting any major hazard. MMMOCL has also planned mock drills for the employees with the National Disaster Response Force, Sharma added.Of the women trained for operating metros, 24-year-old Adeshree Thakare from Amravati was the first to operate a locomotive, used for shunting the trains, at the Charkop depot earlier this month. “I never thought I would get to operate a train in my life. The technology has advanced so much that it has become easier for women to opt for these jobs that were perceived to be male-oriented professions. It’s a very exciting opportunity and I am looking forward for the inauguration of the two lines next year,” said Thakare. Meanwhile chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday visited Akurli and DN Nagar Metro stations, among other sites, to review the works of the two corridors. He also visited Charkop depot, where the trains will be housed.The trial-runs for the two metro lines are expected to start from January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-metro-7-2a-gear-up-for-operations-18-women-among-1st-set-of-operators/story-1fTvB6kv3YD4qNs5FxsFDP.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Kharghar-Panvel belt near Mumbai breathes unsafe air for 17 hours a day: Study||Air pollution levels on the outskirts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are above safe limits for nearly two-thirds of the day, with peak pollution during early morning hours posing a threat to morning walkers and joggers, according to a month-long air study carried out by environment group Waatavaran Foundation across the Kharghar-Panvel-Taloja belt. The air has suspended particulate matter (PM) of different sizes. Many of these are a complex mixture of dust, pollen, soot and smoke and are hazardous, making them responsible for lower visibility and smog. Of this, PM2.5 is the smaller kind, with a diameter not more than 2.5 micrometers. They are fine particles that can stay in the air for days or weeks and are small enough to invade the narrowest of lung airways and cause health ailments. The study found extremely high levels of PM2.5 in the air, especially between 6am and 8am, and average air quality above safe standards for 17 hours every day. Air quality only improved during afternoon hours. Read more: Mumbai’s winter pollution more toxic in 2020; PM2.5 levels 25-30% higher than 2019: CSE“The idea was to understand what local residents in these areas were breathing daily while highlighting the failure of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the civic bodies to provide a dedicated air quality monitoring system in these areas,” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, founder, Waatavaran Foundation. The data from five locations – Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Taloja; Sector 13, Panvel; Navade, Taloja; Sector 7 and 36, Kharghar, showed average PM2.5 levels over 31 days was 101.12 microgrammes per cubic metre (μg/m3), which is almost twice the national safe standard (60μg/m3), and four times the World Health Organization (WHO) standard (25μg/m3). The highest PM2.5 concentration was at 7am at 141.1μg/m3 (average data from five monitors). MIDC Taloja had the most polluted air among five locations at 197.4 μg/m3 at 7am. “The average PM2.5 level at MIDC for 31 days was 139.27μg/m3, which is 2.3 times the national standard and 5.5 times the WHO standard,” said Farah Thakur from Waatavaran, who analysed the data. PM2.5 data was accessed using five low-cost air quality monitors between November 13 and December 13, and then analysed. Waatavaran will submit their study and suggestions to the Panvel Municipal Commissioner, local elected representatives, state environment department and MPCB. “Robust pollutant monitoring is the key to frame effective policies and ensure timely implementation. Our recommendations entail curbs on industrial pollution, road dust resuspension, and to make Panvel region zero waste burning for overall emission reduction,” said Kesbhat. Panvel resident Srinath Kolare said, “The study findings are critical at a time when low-cost real estate development is being planned in these areas . It is alarming as 7am is the time when children normally go to school and would be breathing such polluted air.” MPCB said they already had plans to expand their air quality monitoring network across other areas in the MMR. “Air quality spikes could be mostly due to vehicular emissions in these areas. We already have monitoring stations across Kalyan, Thane, Dombivli and Navi Mumbai. A study to determine the efficacy of low-cost monitors is underway, and based on its results, we will set up more stations on the outskirts of MMR for better data monitoring, pollution abatement, and action on ground,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB. Experts said the study showed that about half a million people in Panvel are constantly exposed to poor air quality. “Vehicular traffic, industry and road dust appear to major sources. Pollutants from these can cause recurrent lung infections, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart ailments and stroke in the elderly. It is now up to the local authorities to take this issue seriously and plan strategies to reduce pollution,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director, Pulmocare Research and Education (PURE) Foundation, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kharghar-panvel-belt-near-mumbai-breathes-unsafe-air-for-17-hours-a-day-study/story-DWRiTz8fyayQu9PO4A6qVO.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC to tehsildars: Give Maratha students EWS certificates||In a relief to students from the Maratha community aspiring to join various undergraduate professional courses under the government quota, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) directed the tehsildars to issue Economically Backward Class (EWS) certificates to the students after verifying their bona fides. On July 28, the state government had issued an order stating that students from Maratha community would not be able to apply for EWS quota seats as they were already given reservation under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota. However, as the Supreme Court (SC) stayed the implementation of the 12% SEBC quota in education in September, the students were left without the benefit of any reservation and hence approached HC, seeking relief under the 10% EWS quota. The court has also directed the state medical common entrance test (CET) cell and respondent medical colleges to consider the EWS certificates of such students and not be prejudiced against them in the light of the July 28 order. A division bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant D Kulkarni, while hearing the petitions of eight aspiring students, was informed by the respective counsels for the students that they belonged to the Maratha community and were desirous of pursuing the undergraduate courses in medical education. The bench was informed that the students were covered under the SEBC Act and wanted to apply for the 12% seats reserved for Marathas under the law. However, as the Apex court had stayed the implementation of SEBC quota on September 9 and had referred the issue of constitutional validity of SEBC Act to a larger bench, the students were left with no option for benefitting from quota, and hence wanted to apply under the EWS quota. The counsels also informed the court about the state’s July 28 order which barred students from Maratha community to avail benefits under EWS quote. In the light of these submissions, the counsels sought directions to the authorities to issue EWS certificates to Maratha community students and grant them admission under the quota. The counsels assured the court that the students were willing to give an undertaking that they would not seek reservations under any other quota for education purpose once they were issued the EWS certificates and got admission under it. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the state medical CET cell and colleges, “If the petitioners are issued EWS certificates in the state format, and an undertaking is filed by the petitioners that during their entire educational career they would not claim benefit under any reservation – either vertical or horizontal except EWS category – then the petitioners be considered for admission from EWS category.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-tehsildars-give-maratha-students-ews-certificates/story-ttQJHRGCXRiEtph8fN6nYO.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||33 years after being notified, Maharashtra govt appoints WII to reorganise boundaries of Malvan Marine Sanctuary||Thirty-three years after it was first notified, the state mangrove cell under the Maharashtra forest department has appointed the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, to carry out spatial mapping of critical marine habitats of the Marine Malvan Sanctuary (MMS) in Sindhudurg district and reorganise its boundary. According to a letter issued to them by the mangrove cell last week, WII was appointed for the nine-month-long study (January to September 2021) at a cost of ₹36.02 lakh to identify the new coordinates suggesting the safety of protected and endangered coastal and marine biodiversity, including protection of important coral reefs.The rationalisation was proposed after the Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) 2017-18 report (a global framework to evaluate the performance of protected areas) released by the Union environment ministry marked a “poor performance” of the sanctuary, flagging several discrepancies, including inadequate management, an archaeological structure located in the sanctuary’s core zone, free movement of fishers and tourist operators leading to pollution, and failure to carry out settlement of rights and concessions of local residents. The report called for the reorganisation of the boundaries by excluding areas of human intervention, proper protection of marine biodiversity, and local livelihood. Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell), who issued the letter to WII, said, “At present, the sanctuary is a multipurpose use area, which may have already disturbed the marine, especially coral biodiversity there. So there is no point to protect a sanctuary just on paper. Our mission is to avoid any over utilisation or exploitation of marine resources while identifying coral rich areas (inside as well as outside the present boundary), tag and protect it.” She added that it was a win-win situation for both, the administrators and the fishers. “We will be considering active fishing areas and exclude them from the sanctuary to ensure their livelihood is protected,” said Somraj. The final decision was taken during a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray with Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) and various state bodies in the last week of November to discuss the issue. Located in Malvan taluka, MMS was notified on April 13, 1987, across a total area of 29.122 square kilometre (sq km) (3.182 sq km core and buffer area of 25.94 sq km). The core area encompasses within its boundary the historic Sindhudurg Fort built by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj (recognised as a monument by the Archaeological Survey of India), the Padmagad Island, and a combination of underwater rocky areas and sandy beaches. The diverse habitat with coral reefs, intertidal zone and mangroves are home to 331 of 367 marine species, including 18 coral species, recorded along the entire Sindhudurg coastal and marine ecosystem. “The spatial study will help identify the appropriate location of the sanctuary and suggest conservation measures. Thereafter, we will submit the final report before the State Board for Wildlife, based on approvals to the National Wildlife Board. We will also need permission from the Supreme Court based on its order from 2000 where de-notification or changes in sanctuary area needs Apex court approval,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). According to the management plan for MMS prepared by the forest department, the present coordinates include the north-east border of the buffer zone, which is about 50 metres (m) from the seashore near Malvan Port, while the eastern border comprises a semi-circular sandy beach (Dandi beach), which is about 500m parallel to the shore at Malvan. Towards the south, the sanctuary expands covering the buffer zone near Mandal Rock of Malvan Port, while the core zone covers the Sindhudurg Fort. The Padmagad Island is along submerged exposed rocks which extend to about 3.182 sq km. “The WII study will allow us to reorganise the boundaries in such a way that it will allow fishermen and locals to carry on with their livelihood activities such as fishing and tourism, and at the same time, it will allow us to conserve some areas of rich biodiversity,” said Manas Manjrekar, deputy director, Mangrove Foundation. Significance of the marine sanctuary Malvan is home to globally significant species protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, including the whale shark, Bryde’s whale, Blue whale, Sperm whale, Indian Ocean humpback dolphins, Finless porpoises, otters, Olive Ridley, Green and hawksbill sea turtles, white-bellied sea eagle, swiftlets among others. Being studied by conservationists since 1980, MMS is among 11 ecologically and economically critical habitats identified along the country’s coastline by the Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management programme of the Centre’s Department for Ocean Development. The presence of the 16th century Sindhudurg Fort by the founder of Maratha Empire Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj further adds historical significance and heritage value to the south Konkan taluka. Threats to the sanctuary Unregulated water sports, marine adventure activities such as snorkelling, SCUBA diving, and dolphin watch. Clearing of sand dune vegetation for beautification purpose for tourism.Increase in water pollution due to unregulated tourism and untreated municipal and rural sewage and solid waste disposal directly into the open sea. Vehicular traffic on beaches and light pollution disturb the turtles nesting along beaches. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Oil spill, fishing boat, vessel accidents.Collection, hunting, unnecessary handling of marine life for tourism purposes and trade of scheduled and endangered species. (Source: Malvan Marine Sanctuary Management Plan 2020-21 to 2029-30)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/33-years-after-being-notified-maharashtra-govt-appoints-wii-to-reorganise-boundaries-of-malvan-marine-sanctuary/story-1pqQPvWktbxgHWIvhwD4WL.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||2,500 staff trained for Mumbai civic body’s vaccination drive||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is all set to execute the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination. It has trained a group of 2,500 individuals at civic hospitals to assist with the administration of the vaccine. These staffers have also been trained to deal with various scenarios that may occur during the vaccination drive. Each vaccine administration team will consist of five people, including the vaccinator, support staff and security personnel. There will be 500 teams in total, and each of them will assist one doctor.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “While the preliminary training for the vaccination drive is over, a detailed training is still ongoing. The detailed training includes identifying people [who need to be administrated the dose on priority basis], handling Covid-19 mobile application designed for distribution and scheduling of vaccines and [ensuring] precautions to be taken during vaccination. By December 31, we want to complete all our preparations.”The BMC has already devised a vaccine distribution strategy for around 40% population in the city that has been tagged as ‘vulnerable’. Around 1.25 lakh healthcare workers will get the Covid-19 shots in the first phase of vaccination, followed by frontline workers such as police force and conservancy workers in the second phase. In the third phase, citizens above the age of 50 and those suffering from comorbidities will be vaccinated.Kakani said initially there will be eight civic hospitals (King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper hospital, Sion hospital, Bhabha hospitals at Kurla and Bandra, Rajawadi Hospital and the Jogeshwari trauma hospital) that will be utilised for administering the vaccine to the healthcare workers in 15 days after the vaccine arrives. The second dose will be administered in 15 days after a buffer of 28 days. BMC is in the process of procuring deep freezers and has set up a central vaccine storage facility at Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-500-staff-trained-for-mumbai-civic-body-s-vaccination-drive/story-hjsu0mCk5pptbS1cXftBtO.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap wants Congress to go solo for 2022 BMC polls||Newly appointed Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap on Sunday said the Congress should go solo in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections to be held in 2022. His statement came despite the fact that the Congress is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) along with the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). “As the president of the Mumbai Congress, I am of the firm opinion that the Congress should contest all 227 seats in the BMC,” said Jagtap. “Even when we were in power for 15 years in an alliance with the NCP [1999-2014], we always fought the BMC polls independently and this should be followed even now,” he said. The top leaders in the MVA government have been advocating that all three parties should fight the elections for all local bodies together to defeat the BJP. Read more: Ashok Jagtap appointed Mumbai Congress chiefEknath Gaikwad, who was replaced by Jagtap as the Mumbai Congress chief, however wanted all MVA partners to fight unitedly. “We can fight the polls under the banner of the MVA. When we are running the state government under the MVA, we can also fight the polls under this banner. When I will be asked my opinion, I will give my view. However, currently I cannot take this decision. Bhai Jagtap has to take this decision, which has to be endorsed by the Congress high command,” said Gaikwad. Currently, the Shiv Sena is in power in the BMC and the Congress is functioning as the main Opposition party. The BJP is determined to dislodge the Sena and has started the preparation through ‘Mission Mumbai’. Kandivli legislator Atul Bhatkalkar has been appointed the head of this mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-chief-bhai-jagtap-wants-congress-to-go-solo-for-2022-bmc-polls/story-AXNm1sCxucAjIBSchaV1CO.html
21-12-2020||City||Bombay HC refuses pre-arrest bail to man accused of duping friend of ₹87 lakh||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant anticipatory bail to a man who allegedly duped his close acquaintance of Rs87 lakh on the assurance that he could help her solve her matrimonial issues and help in curing her husband’s health problems by performing religious rituals through a priest. As the problems did not subside, the woman lodged a complaint against him under the relevant sections of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 (Black Magic Act). The court held that as the man had intentionally swindled the woman and he was unable to substantiate his claims of repaying her or give her the whereabouts of the priest, his custodial interrogation was required, and rejected his application. A single-judge bench of justice Sandeep K Shinde, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Burzin Daruwalla was informed by his advocate Yogesh Dalvi that his client was booked by Ambernath police station under sections 406 (breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as under the provisions of the Black Magic Act.According to the complaint, the woman had paid ₹10.9 lakh in 2015 to Daruwalla and also loaned him ₹76.38 lakh from 2015- 2019. In return Daruwalla had promised to perform rituals and gave finger rings to her, assuring that on wearing them, her problems would be solved. The case registered at Ambernath police station further states that Daruwalla kept demanding more money and told the complainant that the rituals were not making a difference as she was follow not following the norms. However, the woman did not buy the claims and asked Daruwalla to return the money. When he refused to do so, she lodged a complaint against him. After hearing the submissions and perusing the evidence placed before it – including messages between Daruwalla and the woman– the court noted, “The messages over a period of three-four years clearly suggest that the applicant had dishonestly inducted the complainant to part with huge money on the pretext of performing puja/rituals to resolve her family issues. The messages clearly suggest that the applicant knew well since inception that the promise made by him was false.” The court also noted that there was no evidence to support the man’s claim that he had repaid ₹60 lakh to the complainant.In light of the above submissions, justice Shinde ordered, “In my view, custodial interrogation of the applicant cannot be denied to the prosecution. Anticipatory bail application is, therefore, rejected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-man-accused-of-duping-friend-of-87/story-7o2BkvDwLnWS2uO9e7zw1K.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||A year on, LGBT match-making app has 8K registered profiles||A year after its inception, Umeed Matrimony, an application that facilitates match-making for the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) community across India, have registered more than 8,000 profiles and matched over 100 couples, according to the founders. While the LGBT community is yet to get equal marriage rights, it hasn’t deterred the community members from finding a right partner. Sameer Seerjeesh, founder of Umeed app and Vanya Foundation — an NGO working for the welfare of transgender community, started the app in 2019. The service is offered free of cost to everyone. Seerjeesh, a resident of Mira Road, said, “Usually we see the community being neglected in the society, but the time is changing. We created Umeed as a platform for the LBGT community to find their match. It is not a dating app, but for likeminded people to get together and explore potential relationships.” While consensual same sex relationships has been decriminalised in the country, same sex marriages are still not recognised. Read more: For marriage ‘equality’ that is truly equalSeerjeesh started the app after he found there is no such app for the LBGT community. “We found that there are some agencies who help these people find a match. However, they charge a huge fee for the same. We developed an entire app at an affordable price and launched it for free for the community.” Speaking about the journey of the app, he said it had a slow start as they had to first make a database and also know if the community is interested in such a service. He added that it later gained momentum. He added, “We promoted the app through different events held for the community and managed to enrol 500 profiles before we launched it. We have helped around 100 couples find their match through the app in the past one year. They might not enjoy the same rights as other couples, but all of them are happy. We also follow up with all those who uninstall the app to know the reason and 90% told us they found a match. The remaining 10% go through failed relations, though have assured to retry the app.” More than 50% people do not prefer to upload their photos on the app. However, this situation too will gradually change, said Sreejesh. On the topic that these couples do not get the benefits of marriage under the law, he said, “The court might have decriminalised relations between same sex couples but these couple still cannot get their marriage registered nor get any documentation for the same. They can avail personal or home loans on joint account, however do not enjoy other legal rights. There are many activists who are fighting for the cause and we believe the scenario will change.” The app is also getting profiles from Thailand, South Africa and Philippines with more than 30 profiles from foreign countries. A 30-year-old marketing executive from Nagpur, who joined the app, said, “I was not aware that there are so many people like me in my community. The app helped me find the right match.” Rekha Thakur, secretary of Vanaya foundation, added, “We have been undertaking many educational, cultural and social initiatives for the LGBT community, especially transgender people. We provide them education and means of employment. Umeed regularly works with us in these initiatives and approached us last year with the idea of the app. We loved the idea as we know of many people who spend a lonely life, and helped Sreejesh by promoting the app through our programmes.” Case Studies A 30-year-old Ghatkopar resident, who works with a private airline, said his family was forcing him to get married. “I was scared to tell them that my interest is different. They knew it but were not ready to accept it,” he said. After the Umeed app was launched, he approached his sister. “I asked her to go through the profiles and choose a match for me so that I can live with a person my family also likes. They grudgingly choose one person and I also got along with him. Not we are married and happy. Though there are still some issues with the families, we have managed to work around them.” A 25-year-old boy from Orissa who came to Mumbai in search of job said, “Staying in a rural village in Orissa, I was not aware about my identity till I came to Mumbai. I was a constant target of joke for everyone in my village. But Mumbai is completely different where people know each other and respect the community. The app is just helping hand for me and I am happy that I will get my life partner soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-year-on-lgbt-match-making-app-has-8k-registered-profiles/story-RzaFH0x2ZEq2ayL06wFqbN.html
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival: ‘Armed forces are true reflection of unity in diversity’||On Day3 of the Military Literature Festival, a special session was held virtually on “Pluralism, the defence forces, and the question of who is an Indian”.The session was attended by General VP Malik (retd), Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Maj Gen AP Singh (retd) and Col Shantanu Pandey; it was moderated by Lt Gen NS Brar (retd).General Malik said that the armed forces were a true reflection of the basic concept of unity in diversity. “Soldiers from all classes and religions are living together in barracks and eating from the same kitchens. Secularism, discipline, integrity and loyalty are the essential values that are integrated among our men and women,” said he.“We have great concern about unity and pluralism in the Indian Army,” he said, adding that schools and colleges should play a key role through programmes like NCC, however, sadly a large number of schools were not doing so.Talking about history, Badal said that at the time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, large troops were Muslims serving under Italian and French generals.Gen AP Singh said, “Even though we have different religions, we all live happily; we all are from various classes.” Col Pandey said, “We have a rich history of the army of Chhatrapati Shivaji and Laxmi Bai, which were beyond casteism and inspirational for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/military-literature-festival-armed-forces-are-true-reflection-of-unity-in-diversity/story-DORoB1qpbNQbUD0wDqwlZI.html
21-12-2020||City||CISF arrests foreign national from Mumbai airport with heroin worth ₹2.5 crore||Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials on Saturday had arrested a 31-year-old woman from Uganda at Mumbai airport for allegedly trying to smuggle 501 grams of heroin – estimated to be worth Rs 2.5 crore – on a flight to Delhi. The accused had concealed the drugs in the false cavity made in her footwear. During investigation, she revealed the name of another foreign national who had supplied her the drug for smuggling it to Delhi. According to sources in the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU), CISF officers on Saturday had intercepted a foreigner who was to depart to Delhi from Mumbai by flight 6E637 during the security check. They then found a white-coloured powder and some lumps of drugs weighing around 501 grams concealed in the cavities of her sandals. The field drug test kit revealed that the drug were heroin, AIU officers said. During the investigation, the accused identified herself as Mbabazi Oliver Joselynand and admitted that she was travelling on a fake identity – Jane Nalumansi. She also stated that she overstayed in India and her passport was impounded by the immigration department. Thereafter, she was taken into custody and AIU officials were informed. AIU subsequently seized the contraband and arrested the woman under relevant sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The AIU officials are now further investigating the case and are trying to gather more information on the suspect. The investigators are also scanning her phone call details to identify the people she is associated with. A local court remanded Joselynand in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cisf-arrests-foreign-national-from-mumbai-airport-with-heroin-worth-2-5-crore/story-FFk0fsBecExTlCZsRKPSlI.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants bail to man accused of raping minor after reports show her age to be 18 years||The Bombay high court (HC) recently granted bail to a man who was accused and booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for raping a minor after the ossification report indicated the survivor’s age to be 18-19 years and not 14 years, as claimed in the complaint. The court also took note of the fact that the applicant and complainant had a consensual sexual relationship, and hence granted bail. A single bench of justice PD Naik, while hearing the bail application, was informed by advocates Devendra Shukla and Hare Krishna Mishra that their client, Farahan Shaikh, was booked by Shanti Nagar police station in Bhiwandi under sections 376 (committing rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and provisions of Pocso Act. The first information report (FIR) was lodged on January 2, 2019 and the applicant was arrested on January 14. As per the complaint, the survivor had claimed she was 14-years old and she and Shaikh lived in adjoining buildings. She had come to know through an acquaintance that Shaikh intended to marry her and wanted to talk to her. However, after she turned down his proposal, Shaikh allegedly started to harass her. The complaint further stated Shaikh also sexually assaulted and threatened her to not disclose it to anyone. On January 2, the day the complaint was lodged, the survivor said Shaikh had called her at his residence in the presence of his parents and sister. The applicant allegedly told her that he would not marry her and the sister assaulted her. The advocates for Shaikh submitted that the story was concocted and fake, and said even if her allegations were assumed to be true, the relationship appeared to be consensual. They further submitted that the survivor and her family members had suppressed her age while filing the complaint and sought bail for Shaikh. Additional public prosecutor AA Takalkar, however, submitted that prima facie the documents on record indicated that the victim was a minor and the relationship was non-consensual. Opposing the bail plea, the police submitted that since the victim was threatened, it was a forcible sexual assault and arguments by the accused can be considered during trial. After hearing submissions and examining the documents, the bench observed, “From the tenor of the FIR lodged by the survivor, it appears that according to her, there was a sexual relationship between the applicant and the survivor on the terrace on several occasions. Her version also reflects that once her brother had accompanied her.” Justice Naik then observed, “There are discrepancies relating to documents regarding date of birth of the victim. The ossification test report on record indicates that the victim is aged about 18 to 19 years. Considering the factual aspects, the case for grant of bail is made out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-accused-of-raping-minor-after-reports-show-her-age-to-be-18-years/story-1zp3s5rG95Dl9APUF9UBeJ.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM invites BJP, Centre for dialogue on Mumbai Metro car shed||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday, took potshots at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government for allegedly “obstructing” shifting of the Metro-3 car shed from Aarey Colony at Goregaon to Kanjurmarg. He said it would be improper if both the state and the Centre started stopping each other’s projects, while referring to a petition filed by the Centre before the Bombay high court (HC), claiming ownership. Thackeray also invited the Centre and the Opposition party in the state — Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — for a dialogue to resolve the dispute, saying he took the decision in the interest of the people and not to satisfy his ego. The Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had recently moved the car shed of Metro-3 line from Aarey to Kanjurmarg. However, the Centre went to the HC, which recently ordered an interim stay over the land transfer. This has turned the ongoing battle between the Centre and the state uglier. The BJP has been alleging that Thackeray took the decision to satisfy his ego. The state is now also looking at the land allotted for the bullet train project for the car shed. In his live address to people on Sunday, Thackeray questioned the Centre’s move stating, “It is unfortunate that the Central government went to court. Why did they do this? It is people’s property, not mine or yours’.” “The state gave its most priced land in the Bandra-Kurla Complex for the bullet train project. We never created any hurdles. The International Finance Centre went to another state, we didn’t create an issue on it. Then why create hurdles for this land (Kanjurmarg),” he said and criticised the Centre for not providing the saltpan land for the long-pending pumping station in Mahul that would provide relief during flooding in Mumbai. Explaining his decision to shift car shed, the chief minister said they decided to choose Kanjurmarg plot, so that they can build a car shed of two more lines apart from Metro-3. “The size of the plot at Kanjurmarg is 40 hectares, whereas at Aarey, we were getting only 25 hectares and to expand the project, we will require more land after 25-50 years. Also, at Kanjurmarg we can construct car sheds for three lines— Metro-3, 4 and 6. Isn’t (this plan) more beneficial? How am I wrong in proposing this? How is it about my ego,” Thackeray asked. He further said, “Of the 30 hectares allotted in Aarey, five hectares would be left untouched as it is a thick forest. Then why was it allotted for the project? This only means that in the future, there will be more tree-cutting and more forest land will be utilised, all for just one car shed.” He also said the plan did not have any provision for stabling lines where the rakes would be kept when not in use, which was “shocking”. “Aarey is an option for five years. Kanjurmarg is for 50 years,” he stressed. CM Thackeray said he was ready to give all credit to the BJP for solving this. “This issue can be easily resolved. We are ready to give you [BJP] credit for this. It is not about my ego. It should not be about your ego also.” He also replied to former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis’s remarks, stating that the MVA government is only continuing projects that were initiated by the BJP government. “What do you want me to do? Do you want me to review these projects or stay them? I will only look at its progress,” Thackeray said, adding that in the past few weeks, he had made a visit to several ongoing works, including the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi corridor and the Mumbai-Pune missing link project. In his response, Fadnavis told the media that the Opposition was ready to cooperate, if the chief minister gives up the insistence on Kanjurmarg land and opts to build car shed again at Aarey Colony. “The site at Aarey Colony was approved by the Supreme Court. The state had gone far ahead on the project as an expenditure of ₹100 crore has also been made. If you have any doubt, then take a decision that not a single inch of additional land will be given to the car shed at Aarey in the future, we are ready to support it,” the former chief minister said. He said that they were also ready to have a discussion, saying, “My only request is don’t be adamant and open the way to build a car shed at Aarey Colony in the interest of the people. If it is built in time, Mumbai Metro-3 will be ready in the coming year, else it will have time and cost overruns. We don’t want credit for anything. Let the CM (Uddhav Thackeray) take the credit, but we want Metro-3 ready in time,” Fadnavis said. CM Thackeray also said that many were hoping that the MVA government will fall but they not only completed one year but also successfully faced a health pandemic and political attacks while maintaining development of the state, taunting the BJP but chose not to name them. “On November 28, the state government has completed one year. Many were hoping that it would fall but the government not only completed its first year but also tackled the most difficult health situation, the world had faced in the last 100 years. Not only this, we faced political attacks and also brought development,” he said. Meanwhile, NCP chief Sharad Pawar has intervened to resolve the matter between the state and Centre. “Pawar saheb told the CM on phone that coordination is necessary. He has also discussed the issue with the leader of Opposition and will speak with the Prime Minister, if required,” state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-invites-bjp-centre-for-dialogue-on-mumbai-metro-car-shed/story-ZJdefZHPwbO74inUo1JNNL.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||4K farmers from Maharashtra to hold vehicle rally to Delhi against farm laws||Approximately 4,000 farmers from Maharashtra will undertake a vehicle morcha from Nashik to Delhi from Monday to protest the contentious farm laws cleared by the Central government. The farmers hailing from 21 districts in the state, under the banner of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), will lend support to the farmers who are demonstrating against these laws in Delhi. These are mainly farmers from areas such as Thane, Palghar, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Read more: Maharashtra farmers plan vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi on December 21 The farmers will travel in around 250 vehicles for four days covering 1,266 kilometres crossing states such as Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.Ajit Navale, general secretary, AIKS (Maharashtra), called it a battle. “This is to show the support of Maharashtra farmers, and we will not come back till we achieve our aim of repealing these anti-farmer laws,” said Navale. He described the laws as tailor-made to suit the interests of the corporate sector and trample over farmers. He said they are taking all precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4k-farmers-from-maharashtra-to-hold-vehicle-rally-to-delhi-against-farm-laws/story-DQMtNTFhF6zs25crVGH9oI.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: 16-year-old booked for sodomising 12-year-old class 7 student||Noida: A 16-year-old student of class 12 was booked for allegedly sodomising a 12-year-old student of a private school in Greater Noida. The victim is a student of class 7 in the same school. The victim’s father has filed a complaint at the Sector Beta 2 police station.In the complaint, he stated that his son has been studying in the private school for five years. “The juvenile, a neighbour, studies in class 12 in the same school. He is five years older to the victim and used to go to school with my son in the same bus. His father is our family friend and hence the two children were also friends. However, for the last four years, he has sexually abused my son. He used to call my son to his house, remove his clothes and abuse him,” the complainant alleged.The complainant alleged that the victim has been depressed since then and talking less. Satya Prakash, programme manager of FXB India Suraksha – Childline, an NGO that works towards child rights, said that the victim had searched Childline helpline number 1098 through the internet and narrated the incident. “Our counsellor talked to the victim in detail and then informed his parents, who then filed a complaint. The child is improving now,” he said.In October 2018, the child had disclosed the matter to his family, the complainant added. “We confronted the juvenile in front of his parents. He apologised and said he will not repeat,” The complainant alleged. He added that about three months ago, the juvenile and his family moved to another society in Greater Noida. “However, when my child did not recover from the trauma, we decided to take legal action. We filed a complaint with the police and also called Childline, an NGO, for counselling. It appears my child is improving now,” he said. Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO, Sector Beta 2 police station, said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered against the juvenile under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the IPC and also under Section 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Friday. “Primary investigation shows that the incident took place two years ago. The accused is also a juvenile. He was produced before the child welfare committee and sent to a juvenile home,” Upadhyaya said. Vrinda Shukla, DCP, women safety, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that she has not received information from the police station about the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-16-year-old-booked-for-sodomising-12-year-old-class-7-student/story-InFDtvcSrh4UrOMc2TjEVJ.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Property registration up in Noida but stamp department still lagging in revenue target||Noida: Though more than half the financial has already passed, the Noida registry department has collected only ₹750 crore this fiscal so far, who is not even half of its annual target of ₹3,148.45 crore, even though the registration of properties has increased ever since the lockdown restrictions were eased. According to officials, April to November in 2019, the department had collected ₹900 crore and ₹850 crore during the same period in 2018. S K Tripathi, assistant commissioner, stamps, and assistant inspector, general registration of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the department had not registered any property in April and that revenue was zero that month. In May, June and July, however, the department collected ₹12 crore, ₹60 crore and ₹110 crore, respectively as stamp duty. In August and September, the department collected ₹116 crore and ₹130 crore in revenue, respectively, through stamps and registration. In October and November, the registry department collected ₹322 crore. “We have so far collected ₹750 crore from April-November despite the lockdown, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We aim to collect ₹700 crore in the next four months,” Tripathi said. The officials said that they are getting applications for registration of small properties but no big developer has come for registration after the lockdown. They added that the department used to register about 1.25 lakh properties annually at its six offices in the district but this year, Tripathi said, a 30% fall in registration is being estimated. The UP government has given ₹3,148.45 crore as annual revenue target to the department for the financial year 2020-21. For the last four years, figures show that the department has not been able to meet the target due to slump in the real estate sector. The registration department’s data shows that in the 2019-20 financial year, the department had collected ₹1,856.48 crore against the annual target of ₹2,597 crore. In 2018-19, it had collected ₹1,879 crore against a target of ₹2,532 crore. In 2017-18, it had collected ₹1,685 crore, falling short of its target of ₹2,522 crore. Similarly, in 2016-17, the revenue collected was ₹1,761 crore against a target of ₹2,223 crore.Pankaj Bajaj, the president confederation of real estate developers’ association of India (CREDAI -NCR), a developers’ body, said that the real estate market is now improving after the lockdown.“The government should reduce the stamp duty so that more people can come for the registration. This will immensely boost the government’s revenue and also the real estate sector,” he said. The district administration revises the stamp duty annually, which comes into effect from August 1. Tripathi said that the stamp duty will be revised by March 31 in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/property-registration-up-in-noida-but-stamp-department-still-lagging-in-revenue-target/story-VzDcavM5xtfEDOdGvIZ9jK.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Garima Abrol, wife of late Squadron Leader Samir Abrol, is now a Flying Officer with IAF||Garima Abrol, wife of late Squadron Leader Samir Abrol, is now a Flying Officer with the Indian Air Force (IAF), graduating from the Air Force Academy on Saturday. Squadron Leader Abrol was killed, along with co-pilot Squadron Leader Siddhartha Negi, while they were flying an upgraded two-seater IAF Mirage 2000 TI aircraft on a test sortie on February 1, 2019 in Bengaluru. “She had a dream to join the air force. We are happy about her achievement but also pained that Samir is not there,” said Sushma Abrol, Samir’s mother, adding that Garima will be posted in Bareilly. An IAF spokesperson confirmed that Garima would be joining as a Flying Officer.The Abrols are residents of Ghaziabad’s Gandhi Nagar. Samir and Garima had married in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/garima-abrol-wife-of-late-squadron-leader-samir-abrol-is-now-a-flying-officer-with-iaf/story-BpTCF5IjHEj4K64xnj6sHO.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Yeida plans land acquisition around airport||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) will acquire more land along the 165-km Yamuna Expressway in connection with the Noida International airport project.“We need land around the site of the airport for our different schemes that include urban schemes, industries and infrastructure projects. For urban schemes alone we need 1,500 acres more. We are yet to decide on the exact measure of land to be acquired,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of Yeida.Yeida’s plans will see the extension of the Gautam Buddh Nagar industrial area to neighbouring Bulandshahr district. “Chola railway junction in Bulandshahr is located near airport. Extending the industrial area will also extend the rail connectivity to the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor on which the work is underway,” said Singh.As per Yeida’s requirements for industrial projects, the authority will need to acquire land in Gautam Budh Nagar, Aligarh, Mathura and Agra, said officials.Yeida was established in 2001 to generate employment and develop urban areas along the expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. It has 268,862 hectares notified for development and has acquired 12,481 hectares for various developmental projects. But it has to fast-track land acquisition in view of the airport project, work on which is scheduled to begin by mid-2021 and completed in three years.So far, Yeida has 58,397 hectares (ha) notified in 131 villages of Gautam Budh Nagar and 40 villages of Bulandshahr district. In Aligarh it has 34,291 ha notified, 88,968 ha in Hathras, 75,751 ha in Mathura and 11,455 ha in Agra. An area identified for planned development is said to be notified. The UP government had handed over 1,334 ha for the airport and is expected to hire a total of 5,000 ha to develop the airport to its full capacity, said officials. Yeida will start land acquisition once it gets the approvals from the state government, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yeida-plans-land-acquisition-around-airport/story-OfAgvm7pABkRotGDbKcQZO.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Let our supporters reach us, say farmers camped at Noida border||Traffic remained affected at Noida’s Chilla border with Delhi on Sunday as farmers completed 20 days of protest against the Centre’s new farm laws at the site. The border first closed on December 1 when farmers from Uttar Pradesh were stopped from going to Delhi. After negotiations, the border was opened on December 13 but was shut again on December 15 when members of the Bhanu faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) alleged that their supporters from other districts were stopped from reaching them. Traffic from Noida to Delhi has since then been re-routed through the DND Flyway.The group is being joined daily by farmers from different districts but not without struggle.“We were leading a group of nearly 70-80 farmers from Firozabad too this border on Friday when the police stopped us at the district outskirts. We then used other routes to reach Noida on Saturday night,” said Suresh Chandra Bhati, state secretary, BKU, Bhanu.BKU (Bhanu) Uttar Pradesh president Yogesh Pratap SIngh, who has been at the sit-in from the beginning, said that the campers will stay put as long as their demands are unmet.“They should allow our supporters to reach us. Every day groups are being stopped in various districts. The state government is making it difficult for our supporters to reach us. We want them to be able to raise their voices in support and the government should allow them,” said Singh.The group on Sunday afternoon also paid tribute to all the farmers who had lost their lives in the ongoing agitation. They also wanted to hand over a memorandum of demands to the administration but were unable to do so.Members of the Lokshakti faction who have been camped at the Dalit Prerna Sthal during the movement also carried out a rally in the area against the new farm laws on Sunday evening.A spokesperson for the faction said that they are continuously trying to address the farmers regarding developments in talks with the central government while they feel that efforts are being made to hijack the peasant movement.Meanwhile, traffic in the area from Noida to Delhi continues to move via the DND and Kalindi Kunj routes.“We are constantly monitoring the situation and any changes will be shared with the public. The situation is under control and there are no law and order concerns for now,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/let-our-supporters-reach-us-say-farmers-camped-at-noida-border/story-53E4QkWEykPlEk0gatHDJP.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Western UP farmers hold rally in Ghaziabad to support farm laws||Ghaziabad: Amid the ongoing protests by farmers at the UP Gate in Ghaziabad, another group of about 2,000 farmers on Sunday reached Indirapuram from different parts of western Uttar Pradesh and held a rally in support of the Centre’s three new farm laws. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh police said that the pro-bills farmers had come in about 300-350 tractor-trolleys and other vehicles to Indirapuram. Sunday’s was the first pro-farm law rally in Ghaziabad, the police said, adding that the farmers held the rally at Ramlila Ground in Indirapuram under the banner of ‘Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti’. Their vehicles made various stoppages at Meerut, Modinagar, Muradnagar and Raj Nagar Extension before proceeding towards Indirapuram, the police said. A major traffic jam also ensued between Arthala and Mohan Nagar where the farmers and officials indulged in heated exchange of words. However, senior police officials said that the traffic jam was for a brief period and was cleared up soon. “They (farmers) were trying to proceed on a different route and our officers asked them to follow a designated route allotted to them to proceed to Indirapuram. This resulted in brief disruption in traffic. These farmers had arrived with about 300-350 tractor-trolleys and other vehicles, and we had made arrangements to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to commuters,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general of police (Meerut range). The leaders of Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti’ (HMKS) said that they were supporting the three farm laws and should also be included in talks between the government representatives and protesting farmers. “It seems that opposition to the three laws has some political motive behind it. When the Prime Minister has several times said that the new laws will not harm interests of farmers, other groups are continuing to oppose the laws. However, we have no personal differences with them as they are also farmers like us,” said Satish Kumar, secretary, HMKS. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the pro-farm law farmers had planned to go to Delhi via the UP Gate, but they were stopped and taken to Indirapuram. “We did not permit them to go to Delhi, and they were taken to Ramlila Ground in Indirapuram where they held their rally. They were also not allowed to move to the UP Gate as another group of farmers is protesting there and could have raised law and order concerns. We have asked them to hold the rally in Indirapuram and return,” Pandey added. The farmers said that they accepted the request of the Ghaziabad district administration. “Since our rally was held at Indirapuram, a small delegation will go to Delhi and try to meet the Union agricultural minister. We have also demanded that if there are talks of protesting farmers with the government, farmers supporting the new agriculture laws should also be included. We have intent that talks should be held and the ongoing stalemate should end. Like other farmers, we too have our demands such as waiver of electricity bills and free plying of old tractors. But we support the new farm laws,” Satish Kumar added. Amit Kumar, treasurer of the association, said, “Those who are now opposing the farm laws had initially supported the laws. We maintain that rumours are being spread among farmers that their land will be taken over. However, it is not so. Even the Prime Minister has several times assured that the minimum support price (MSP) will remain. However, some people are trying to mislead farmers.” The farmers protesting at the UP Gate have been demanding rollback of the new farm laws and had also been demanding a new law on MSP. At least six rounds of talks with the government had been held so far, but failed to end the stalemate. “We are not opposed to farmers who are supporting the new farm laws. They have right to raise voices like we are doing to oppose the new legislations. We want that they should continue with their work and we will continue with our protest,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The BKU supporters from western UP and farmers from Punjab and Uttarakhand have been opposing the three farm laws and continuing with their agitation at the UP Gate since November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/western-up-farmers-hold-rally-in-ghaziabad-to-support-farm-laws/story-LGXml50kYezLsqijT6j7cJ.html
21-12-2020||Noida||Farmers claim passage to UP Gate protest site denied||A day after the famers holding protest at the UP-Gate in Ghaziabad raised concerns about tractor-trolleys with farmers heading to the site being stopped at different districts in western UP, officials of the district administration met and assured them that this was not the case. Farmers’ leaders Rakesh Tikait and Sardar VM Singh on Saturday had raised the issue claiming that the local administrations and the police in Amroha, Bareilly and other districts were stopping farmers. “We had given them an ultimatum of 24 hours to resolve the issue or we would be forced to block roads. The meeting was successful,” said Shamsher Rana, national media co-ordinator of the Tikait-led Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) faction. Shailendra Kumar Singh,additional district magistrate (city) said that farmers were assured that no vehicle were being stopped in Ghaziabad and that they would speak to their counterpart in other jurisdictions of Meerut division.Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range) denied the farmers’ allegations. “We have allowed a number of farmers’ vehicles to come to UP Gate and there is no reason to stop them. However, at some points we are checking vehicles to ensure that no anti-social elements were proceeding to the site. This may have delayed some farmers,” Kumar said. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also said no vehicle was stopped in his district. The farmers at UP Gate have been proteting since November 28, and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the National Highway-9 since December 3. Twice they had tried to hold up the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway, but vacated it soon. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former chief minister of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat visited UP-Gate and lent his support to the struggle. Rawat stayed for about half-an-hour at the site and also wore the green and white cap of the BKU. “I have come here to say ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad.’ I am also a farmer and have come here to participate with them in their agitation as a farmer. The farmers are giving supreme sacrifice and no one has been able to win against god and farmers,” Rawat, said. He did not offer any political comments, but paid tributes to the farmers who died during the agitation. Farmers at UP Gate on Sunday held a prayer meeting from 11am to 1pm for them. Rawat also paid floral tributes at the site but was not allowed by farmers to use the dais for any address. The farmers maintained that the ongoing protest would not allow any politician or their parites to be a part of it. “It is farmers’ struggle and their own fight. If the opposition parties want to support our agitation, why not they ask their MPs to stage a similar protest at Jantar Mantar in Delhi?” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU faction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-claim-passage-to-up-gate-protest-site-denied/story-LoSTv0IKMkmUUK533XCndL.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees season’s coldest day at 3.4°C, next week may be colder||The National Capital on Sunday recorded the coldest morning of the season, with the minimum temperature falling to 3.4 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that the temperature might rise marginally on Monday before it dipping again. On Sunday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for Delhi, was 3.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s normal, making it the lowest recording this season so far. The maximum temperature of the day was 22.4 degrees Celsius. Scientists said that because of a fairly good wind speed, which cleared the fog and kept the sky clear, the day time temperature rose. The Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 6 degrees Celsius, while at the Lodi Road observatory, the temperature fell to 3.3 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung had been recorded at 3.9 degrees Celsius. Also Read: In the cold winter, keeping the Gods warmKuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the cold winds from Jammu Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Ladakh were coming into the national capital, which had been keeping the temperature low. “From today (Sunday) evening, a western disturbance will impact the hills and its affect on Delhi will increase the minimum temperature of the city by one or two degrees on Monday,” Srivastava said.This relief, however, will be temporary, he said. “From Tuesday again, the minimum temperature will start to dip. It is also possible that it falls to around 3 degrees Celsius,” he added. Dense fog cover in the early hours of Sunday also led to a deterioration of air quality, which slipped from ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) on Sunday was 321, categorised as ‘very poor’. On Saturday the AQI was 290 in the ‘poor’ zone. The IMD has forecast that because of the western disturbance, even though there will be no rainfall in Delhi or surrounding areas, it will lead to a spike in the moisture levels. This might in turn lead to an increase in pollution levels this week. Also Read: Srinagar records 2nd coldest December night of decade as intense cold wave sweeps J-KUnion ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said the cold day conditions could intensify in the Delhi region and surface winds are likely to slow down. “The current better dispersion conditions are likely to decrease. Hence, AQI is forecasted to deteriorate to middle end of very poor category on December 21, and further deteriorate to the higher end of very poor on December 22, before falling further on December 23,” the Safar analysis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-season-s-coldest-day-at-3-4-c-next-week-may-be-colder/story-4V4FYjfRS7tMHKsMzeEBUL.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Govt drafts plan for agricultural market in Tikri village, sets 2023 target||The state government has drafted a plan to set up an agricultural produce market in northwest Delhi’s Tikri village, equipped with a cold storage facility, an 8 MW solar generation plant, a pneumatic waste disposal system and a parking facility for 1,500 trucks, a senior government official said. The new market would help decongest Azadpur, the biggest agricultural produce market in Delhi, which receives around 5,000 trucks of fruits and vegetables per day that leads to severe traffic snarls in and around the market. The site for the new market, which has been pending for long, is located on the north-western periphery of Delhi, around 19 kilometres from Azadpur. The market will be located along the National Highway-1 and spread over an area of 70.62 acres. “Like Azadpur, the new market in Tikri too will deal with fruits and vegetables. It is expected to be ready by early-2023. The government plans to name it Nutri-Mall of Delhi,” the official. The senior official said that the project will have a built-up area of 2.75 million square feet, of which 1.8 million square feet has been allocated for a wholesale market, 0.7 million square feet to a retail market and 0.25 million square feet to cold storage and other facilities. “It will be Delhi’s first modern mandi (market). The new mandi is being planned by a group of experts, keeping in mind the best utilisation of space,” said Adil Khan, the chairperson of the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) in Azadpur, who is also a member of a committee supervising work related to the new market in Tikri. Mandi is a colloquial term for agricultural produce markets. Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader based in Azadpur and a member of the APMC, said, “Space is a major problem in Azadpur. The new market will be a big relief. The land for the new market was procured by the Azadpur APMC more than 20 years ago and the government’s plan to construct a new market has missed several deadlines.” While presenting the budget in 2017, Delhi finance minister and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said that the work to set up a new market in Tikri will be completed by 2019. Senior government officials attributed the delay to hassles concerning permits from multiple agencies which, they said, have been settled now. “The delay, however, has given the government more time for better planning,” said the senior government official quoted above. Delhi currently has two mandis for grains, at Narela and Najafgarh, and four mandis for fruits and vegetables, at Azadpur, Ghazipur, Okhla and Keshopur, which are authorised by the government and managed by separate boards and committees. With only 800 hectares of agricultural land, Delhi is largely dependent on agricultural produce from other states. The mandis in Delhi broadly serve two purposes — first, they act as the lifeline for the supply of fruits, vegetables and food grains and second, they act as transit points for supply between states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-drafts-plan-for-agricultural-market-in-tikri-village-sets-2023-target/story-OLim7ieOfQHhv5eSnXNKKL.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||AAP to hold door-to-door campaign to highlight Rs 2,400 cr scam in MCDs||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday said they will organise protest marches and hold door-to-door campaigns across all 272 municipal wards in the city on Tuesday to protest against the alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 2,400 crore by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-run civic bodies in Delhi. The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.“AAP will take out padyatras in all 272 wards in Delhi on December 22 to highlight the Rs 2,500 crore scam in BJP-ruled MCDs. AAP workers will meet with the people in all wards and will inform them about this scam . They will visit every house to expose the BJP and its misdeeds in front of the people of Delhi. When BJP is claiming that there has been no scam in MCD, why are the party leaders scared of a CBI investigation into the matter,” said the AAP in-charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.On Friday, the Delhi Assembly had passed a resolution demanding a CBI probe into the matter.Delhi BJP’s spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “This is a baseless allegation. The purpose of daily propaganda by the AAP leaders is to malign the image of the BJP which rules all three MCDs. The AAP leaders themselves know that there has been no scam and that is the reason the Kejriwal government is not officially writing to the CBI for an inquiry.”The party has alleged that the north MCD waived off Rs 2,400 crore rent due from the south MCD, resulting in a loss to the public exchequer. The north civic body has denied any wrongdoing. The north civic body’s mayor, Jai Prakash deemed the allegations baseless and a diversionary tactic. The Delhi government has also launched an inquiry into the allegations. The inquiry will be headed by an official of the rank of an additional chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-to-hold-door-to-door-campaign-to-highlight-rs-2-400-crore-scam-in-mcds/story-4nVnWAbj8xtfOtFQxxoAvL.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Call centre used to dupe foreigners busted; frauds amount to at least Rs 70 crore, say cops||The Delhi Police on Saturday busted a fake call centre in Peeragarhi and arrested 42 employees, who used to dupe foreigners by posing as officials of law enforcement agencies in phone calls. In the three years of their operation, the gang has duped nearly 3,500 citizens of the US and other countries of at least Rs 70 crore, said Anyesh Roy, the deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime unit). In one instance, they had managed to dupe an individual of $45,000 (over Rs 33 lakh), the officer said.The police said the employees were offered heavy incentives to keep persisting with the potential victims, by forcing to either “pay up” or face an immediate arrest for “imaginary offences.”For instance, the caller who made the $45,000 deal was offered an incentive of Rs 90,000 and the team leader and the deal “closer” got Rs 1,80,000 each, apart from their monthly salaries, said police.The DCP said that the racket was busted on Saturday after the police received a tip-off about 26 men and 16 women working at the fake call centre. Those arrested included the alleged owner, Rajat, and four team leaders.The officer said that the modus operandi was to call up foreigners and talk to them in their local accent. The caller would pose as an officer of the law enforcement agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration or the US Marshal Services, depending on the country the victim belonged to.“They would tell the victims that they were found involved in a crime. For example, they would tell someone that their bank account was found to be making a financial transaction with a drug cartel in Colombia,” said the officer.The victims would then be threatened with an immediate arrest and given two choices. “The first option was to be immediately arrested, have their bank accounts frozen and assets seized before being able to pursue legal help. The other option was to go for a dispute resolution, which was quicker and simpler,” the officer said.Those who opted for the second option had the choice to either convert all the money in their bank accounts to Bitcoin or gift cards and transfer the same to the callers’ accounts. “There was a long written script which the callers followed. These calls often went on for four to five hours, during which the victim wouldn’t be allowed to disconnect the call,” the DCP said.If the caller — who was the lowest level employee in the hierarchy — managed to trap someone, his or her superiors would take over the call to finalise the deal. The new employees were usually hired through referrals of existing employees, but not before a rigorous interview, the DCP said.The employees’ salaries ranged from Rs 20,000, for a recruit, to Rs 75,000 for shift managers. “There were also New Year and Christmas bonuses, as well as holiday packages, offered for the employees,” the DCP said.The officer said that 90 digital devices and Rs 4.5 lakh in cash have been recovered so far, even as the police continue to probe the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/call-centre-used-to-dupe-foreigners-busted-frauds-amount-to-at-least-rs-70-crore-say-cops/story-oR2pxcwuowgjMuj91Xeh4N.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||From January 1, updated driving licence, registration certificate must for all drivers||If your driving licence or vehicle registration certificate has expired, you must apply for its renewal soon because a government move to exempt holders of lapsed documents from prosecutions is set to end on December 31.Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb its spread, motorists were exempted from challans or prosecution if found driving with expired documents such as driving licenses (DLs), registration certificates (RCs) and fitness certificates. Senior transport officials said that after being in place for nine months, the exemption would be lifted from January 1, 2021, unless there are specific directions from the ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) to extend it further. As per the amended Motor Vehicles (MV) Act, driving without a valid licence attracts a penalty of Rs 5,000. To prevent a backlog of applications and avoid long waiting periods for appointments, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said he had directed the transport department to relax the rule in cases where an applicant is mandated to visit only a motor licensing office (MLO) located near the address mentioned in his application. “I held a meeting to review the application process of all transport-related documents. People can get their DLs and RCs renewed now as the provision is fully operational at all the 13 RTOs (regional transport offices) of Delhi. Since the exemption is till December 31, I request people to renew their documents by applying online,” said Gahlot. To apply for renewal of DLs, one can visit parivahan.gov.in, click on “driving licence-related services” and then again click on “DL services”, after which one needs to type out the DL number and fill out other details, upload documents and make a payment to book a slot to visit the nearest RTO. At the RTO, the biometric details will be checked and documents verified, after which a DL will be issued. The process is similar to renew RCs. Records with the state transport department showed that as of Sunday the waiting period to get an appointment at an RTO for renewal of DL —post online application submission — ranged from two to 60 days. “This month, the rush to get DLs and RCs has increased . But it is manageable as each of the 13 RTOs is capable of processing 200 renewal requests every day. Also, the process of renewal is far easier than getting a fresh document,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport). He said the rush was more also because, under the amended MV Act, DLs, if not renewed within a year of their expiry date, are deemed invalid and a motorist then has to start from scratch by applying for a learner’s license and appearing for all the tests again. Earlier, a DL could be renewed anytime within five years of the date of expiry.The problem, however, is being faced by those who have applied for a learner’s or a permanent driving license as the waiting time to visit the RTO and give the required tests has gone up to as long as three months in some busy zones — like Janakpuri and Loni.Minister Gahlot said that in the review meeting held last week, it was decided that the number of appointments or slots that will be booked per day per RTO will be increased to pre-Covid times. For this, the transport department has been asked to analyse demand in the month of January and fix the number of slots accordingly. “Directions have been issued to ensure that the waiting period should not be more than 45 days in any zone. I have asked the transport department to decongest some of the busy RTOs by shifting applications to the less crowded ones. The idea is to evenly distribute the load among all 13 RTOs so as to reduce the waiting periods,” Gahlot said. He said it was found that many are failing the driving tests on the automated test tracks despite having good driving skills because of the sensors and cameras being “over-sensitive”. “A committee has been constituted to check the entire system operating the automated test tracks. The panel will also revisit videos of those who have failed the tests to understand the problems better. Also, I have asked the MLOs to strictly keep out-of-turn cases for DLs and RCs only up to 5% of the total slots booked on any day. Reasons will have to be cited for use of this discretion in each out-of-turn case,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/from-january-1-updated-driving-licence-registration-certificate-must-for-all-drivers/story-421EcoJA9cpjv5vsHeiozN.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Virtual carols, mass: Tied down by curbs, Christmas spirit in Delhi goes online||With Delhi still recording over a thousand Covid-19 cases every day, Christmas celebrations in the Capital have largely moved online with churches switching to online mass and carolling as churches and religious groups work to keep the festive cheer alive on digital platforms.Christmas celebrations across the world revolve around the traditions of the Christmas tree, the guiding star, nativity scenes, songs, and skits on the birth of Jesus along with the rendering of Christmas carols and gift-giving among other revelries.Reverend Mohit Hitter, priest in charge of the Cathedral Church of the Redemption, said celebrations have moved online due to the limit on gatherings. “We are observing an online mass. Due to the restrictions on large gathering and rules of physical distancing, we cannot have carols in person. So people are carolling at home and we share these videos on social media and chat platforms. All other events, too, have moved online and we will livestream them,” he said.He added that most members of the church have been attending mass online since the pandemic struck. “People outside the community too have reached out to us, and said they miss out on Christmas celebrations, food, and the general festive spirit. We are not happy but there will be a Christmas next year as well and maybe we could double up the celebrations then,” he said.Norris Pritam, vice-president of the New Delhi YMCA, said the organisation had organised several virtual Christmas music concerts last week that were watched by hundreds. On Sunday, the organisation also participated in a virtual candlelight service by the Christ Methodist Church playing pre-recorded Christmas carols in Hindi and English.“We had a pipe-organ concert where people were playing the instrument from 10 different locations including one person each in Germany and South Korea. Among these, two organists from India may have had connectivity problems that disrupted the sync. So we asked them to record and send their bits to us, and we played them from our end,” he said. The nearly two-hour-long concert played 21 carols including O Come All Ye Faithful, Joy to The World, and O Little Town of Bethlehem.Royall McLaren, director at Delhi Christian Chorus, the oldest choir group in the Capital, said, “We have been unable to practise during the pandemic, so there will be no concerts, online or offline, because we need to work for at least three or four months. This is the first time we will not be performing during Christmas in the past 50 years.”Similarly, the Capital City Minstrels (CCM), a popular choir group in the city, said they will record their carols and post it on social media. Neeraj Debraj, CCM president, said, “It is impossible to perform live concerts and coordinate multiple voices using video-conferencing apps. The only way virtual concerts can work is if soloists are performing. We were engaged in virtual rehearsals since June where separate instrumental tracks were given to each choir singer as per their classification (tenor, base, soprano, alto etc) and everybody would sing their part. These tracks will be brought together by a video editor to create a comprehensive choir recital.”Neena George, 55, a resident of Dwarka who works as a nurse, said apart from the midnight service, this year, people will also miss the community activities. “We will stream the mass virtually this year. But carolling and singing competitions will be missing. Usually, a big part of the Christmas tradition is to go for the cake-mixing, where people gather in large numbers and go to a bakery. The activity is an all-nighter and was a big part of our Christmas celebrations. But we will be missing that as well this year.”While many churches have switched to digital options, a few churches across the capital are allowing services in smaller numbers following all Covid-19 safety guidelines. Reverend Sunil Ghazan, presbyter-in-charge of St Martin’s Church in Delhi Cantonment, said their church will reopen on Sunday with Covid-19 protocols in place. They had shut in November after the government capped gatherings at 50 people at a time.“Upon revisiting the guidelines, we understood that 50% of the existing capacity was allowed. So, we will be having the worship service beginning Sunday and will also continue with the virtual streaming of services. Safety protocols like compulsory mask and gloves, alternate seating arrangements, constant sanitization, thermal screening etc will be followed. We will also discourage the elderly and children below 14 years of age from coming to the church,” he said.Rev Ghazan, who is also the secretary of the Diocese of Delhi, said that a few more churches under the Church of North India are also likely to reopen before Christmas. “For Christmas, our church (St Martin’s Church) will be taking bookings for the visit over WhatsApp. If it is filled, we may hold another service,” he said.However, unlike previous years, when the days leading up to Christmas would be filled with nativity plays by Sunday school children, community lunches or dinners, celebrations with underprivileged children, and choir concerts, most of these events will take place online this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virtual-carols-mass-tied-down-by-curbs-christmas-spirit-in-delhi-goes-online/story-O4w7iKun1HmVfdjVnGO2sL.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||1,091 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi- lowest since August 24||The national capital on Sunday added 1,091 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in 125 days, as new infections continued to fall, and the positivity rate remained below 2% for the sixth consecutive day. The city also saw 26 deaths of the infection — the lowest since October 16, when the state government’s daily health bulletin added 22 deaths. Delhi has now added a daily average of 38 deaths over the past seven days, down significantly from a high of 116 on November 24.The drop in cases and deaths and consistently low positivity rate come even as the state government has continued to test around or over 80,000 Covid-19 tests. Also Read| ‘Maybe in January’: Harsh Vardhan on first Covid-19 shotPromisingly, of the 83,289 tests conducted on Sunday, a majority (46,001) used the RT-PCR method, which is more accurate than rapid antigen tests that though faster, are prone to throw up false negatives.Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicExperts regard the positivity rate, which was 1.31% as per Sunday’s bulletin, as crucial to gauge the spread of an infection in society. According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region.The daily positivity rate in Delhi has now been below 5% for 18 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-091-new-cases-in-delhi-lowest-since-august-24-26-more-deaths/story-gsETCRfUysjq6x3f0DfPTL.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers to start relay hunger strike from today to mount pressure on govt||Farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders on Sunday, decided to step up pressure on the government to repeal the new farm laws and announced a relay hunger strike at all the protest sites from Monday onwards, while asking agitators from across the country to join them.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu Border on Sunday evening, Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said, “We have decided to start a 24-hour relay hunger strike, starting Monday, at all the protest sites in Delhi as part of our ongoing agitation. At least 11 people will sit on strike at a time. We request farmers protesting in different parts of the country to also join us.”The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered into its 25th day on Sunday. The farmer union leaders on Sunday also requested all agitating farmers to skip a meal on December 23, which is celebrated as Kisan Diwas (farmers’ day) every year. Rakesh Tikait, leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union Tikait (BKU) faction in Uttar Pradesh, said, “On this Kisan Diwas, farmers across the country will skip a meal. Those who provide food to the nation will stay hungry because of the government’s anti-farmer’s stance. I request everyone not to cook lunch that day and join the farmers.”Also Read| Rs 10 to Rs 1 lakh: People from different walks of life donate for farmers’ causeAppealing to the agitating farmers to maintain peace at the protesting site, farmer leader Jasbir Singh Bhatti said, “The government has been trying to defame the ongoing movement. They have been propagating propaganda against us. I request the government not to defame us and appeal to the protesting farmers, especially the youth, to maintain peace.”Farmer leader Jagjit Singh Dalewal said that the agitating farmers will make all toll plazas free in Haryana between December 25 and 27. On Sunday, farmers protesting at Delhi borders observed ‘shaheedi diwas’ and paid tribute to those who have lost their lives in the agitation against the three farm laws. At Singhu borders, posters and banners with photos of farmers who died during the protests were put up at different locations and people were seen lighting candles and offering floral tributes.Joginder Singh, a farmer from Bhatinda who has been camping at the Singhu border since November 27, said, “At least 24 farmers have died in the last 25 days across the country. But the government is still not listening to our demands. Their deaths will not go to waste. We won’t go home till the government withdraws the three new farm laws. We are ready to die in this battle like our brothers.”Similarly, farmers also held candle light marches at different locations to mourn the deaths of fellow protesters. Addressing a gathering at Ghazipur border, VM Singh, leader of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, said, “Their sacrifice has further strengthened our movement. We will have to take care of their families now.”Also Read: Farmers rally to pay tribute to protesters who died during farm laws agitationAt the Chilla border, protesting farmers were seen paying tributes to those who died during the ongoing agitation. Yogesh Pratap Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Manch (Bhanu), said, “We honoured those who lost their lives while participating in this movement. We won’t give up on our fight and continue this protest for as long as it takes. We will participate in the hunger relay hunger strike from Monday.”At Delhi’s borders, protesters were on Sunday seen shouting slogans against the government, singing songs of resilence, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage. The farmers were also seen discussing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Rakabganj Sahib Gurudwara on Sunday.Indrajeet Singh, a farmer from Moga, said, “The Prime Minister should also visit us here and see how we are living on the streets without a roof over our heads in this harsh weather. He will realise our pain. I request the Prime Minister to accept our demands and end this deadlock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-to-start-relay-hunger-strike-from-today-to-mount-pressure-on-govt/story-KucBbpnbiaMKG3olqLOvkJ.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||A wall of requirements set up at Chilla protest site||A banner, serving as a “wall” that lists essential items, has been set up at the Chilla border protest site to help farmers seek and receive daily necessities to keep them going with their agitation. Set up on Sunday evening by a group of half-a-dozen working professionals and students, this wall serves as a reception point for donations at the site, which is one of the four border points in New Delhi, where farmers are agitating. Farmers are being urged to mention essential items, if not already available at counters, on the wall. As of Sunday evening, the only requirement was for a pair of slippers, which the organisers hurried to fetch. “If someone doesn’t donate the slipper, we will procure them,” said Anukriti Singh, who works for an NGO and is one of the organisers of this facility. Also Read| They have turned our lives upside down: Singhu village on farm laws, stirBesides the slippers, the wall received a host of essential items such as toothpaste, blankets and socks. They were collected by the farmers as soon as they were placed. “I had arrived here with very basic essentials. I did not even have a toothpaste. I picked up one paste and a blanket to keep me warm,” said Paramjeet Singh, a farmer from Chandpur village in Bijnor. Apart from the usual essential items, the organisers have also stocked the place with Neem Datun. “This wall is on the concept of Neki Ki Deewaar, in which those with extra items donate them here and those needing them collect them. We expect the wall to be filled with writings of essential items needed and then those to be supplied by Good Samaritans,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-wall-of-requirements-set-up-at-chilla-protest-site/story-GAWBVk1UoI6EvsfHpdZhTP.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Rs 10 to Rs 1 lakh: People from different walks of life donate for farmers’ cause||At Delhi’s Singhu border, four farmers have been assigned the critical job of accepting voluntary donations and documenting the list of contributors daily. From donations of Rs 10 to a lakh rupees, monetary aid has been pouring in at the border, a road between Delhi and Haryana, which has been at the centre of the protest against the three farm laws. For the last 20 days, Amreek Singh, Jasbinder Singh, Kamaljeet Singh and Kuldeep Singh sit behind a makeshift stage between 9am and 5pm with their registers, to note down the names, contact numbers, and addresses of their donors, only after which they accept the fund. They also provide an acknowledgement slip to the donors and sometimes, announce the name of the donors from the stage. According to their register entries, seen by HT, the donations range between Rs 10 and Rs 1 lakh. Among the donors are farmers, workers, businessmen, teachers, students, activists, writers and homemakers. Jasbinder Singh, a member of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, a Punjab organisation, said, “The movement is supported by people from different walks of life. People are contributing according to their economic status. The contributions range from Rs 10 to Rs 50 and from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh.” The farmers said that they receive a contribution of Rs 2 to Rs 3 lakh daily. “We collect the money, document the record and then submit the amount to our management committee by the end of the day. These funds are used on the daily expenses for the stage, including microphones, speakers, mats and tents. We have recently provided 25 large waterproof tents and hundreds of tarpaulin sheets to the protesting farmers from the same funds. Besides, we have decided to help the families of farmers who lost their lives during the protest with these donations,” said Amreek Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian). Amid allegations of farmers receiving “foreign funding” and “funds for their protests”, he said that a section of people is propagating a “false narrative”. “They are saying that farmers are receiving money from Canada and other foreign countries. Those who are sending money are also our brothers and sons. They are not terrorists. Besides, people should know we are not asking for even a penny from anyone. People from across the states and different walks of life are willingly contributing for the cause,” Amreek Singh said. On Sunday, around 300 people had contributed by 4pm. The majority of them, according to the entries, were from Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, and Punjab. Some of the donors were also from the southern states of Telangana and Karnataka. Among them was Zeba, a social activist from Delhi. “None will be able to survive without farmers. We are here because of them. If farmers are fighting for a cause, we should help them,” she said. Amarjeet Kumar, of Bihar, who works as a farm labourer in Punjab’s Ludhiana district, also contributed Rs 100 on Sunday. “If farmers will not be there, who will give us work? I just want to be a part of this historic movement with my small contribution,” he said. Baljeet Singh, the head of the IT cell set up by farmers under the banner of Kisan Ekta Morcha, said, “We have not even put up posters and banners requesting people for donations. They are walking in to contribute. The contributions are regularly helping us manage the stage and other works here. We will soon be installing two 20x10 foot digital screens at the protest site so that farmers can see what is happening on the stage. The cost of maintenance of those screens will be Rs 15,000 per day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rs1-to-rs-1-lakh-people-from-different-walks-of-life-donate-for-farmers-cause/story-gRK61mnvwdgDjp1rW5MMdO.html
21-12-2020||Gurugram||GMDA starts installing smart cameras to detect red light violations||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started installing 315 red light violation detection (RLVD) cameras at 29 locations across the city, officials said on Saturday.According to GMDA officials, the RLVD cameras will be placed atop traffic signals to capture the entire intersection or crossing and spot red-light violations. They further said that the cameras have been linked to the traffic signals, with light sensors detecting the changes.The cameras will automatically turn on as soon as the traffic light turns red and subsequently, the automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) will capture the image or the video of the number plate of the offenders’ vehicle and automatically send it to the centralised server at the traffic police tower in Sushant Lok-1 as well as the GMDA’s integrated command and control centre (ICCC) in Sector 44.Nippon Electric Company (NEC) is the GMDA’s main contractor for the project as a master system integrator.GMDA officials said that based on the image or video, the software will automatically generate an e-challan and send an SMS, along with the evidence, to the registered owners of the vehicles.“At least 60 RLVD cameras have so far been installed. Work on installing the remaining cameras is ongoing and we are aiming at completing the project by mid-2021,” said Kapil Bardeja, chief executive officer (CEO) of Vehant Technologies, GMDA’s sub-contractor for the project.The total cost of the project is Rs 60 crore and the 29 locations include Bakhtawar Chowk, Rezangla Chowk, MG Road, Galleria Market, Jharsa Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Huda City Centre, ABW Tower, Rajiv Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Signature Tower, Hero Honda Chowk, IMT Manesar Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, and Sector 55/56 crossing.The GMDA’s Smart City advisor, who did not wish to be named, said that RLVD cameras are part of GMDA’s bigger objective of installing 2,000 smart cameras across the city. The official said that besides RLVD cameras, there are four other types of smart cameras.“The RLVD and ANPR will be used for traffic violation purposes. Besides these, the GMDA is also installing fixed cameras which would be used for surveillance and artificial intelligence, Pan-Tilt-Zoom (PTZ) cameras that will provide a 360-degree view of an important street or landmark, and dome cameras, which would be installed in specific public areas for face detection purposes,” the advisor said.He said that in the first phase, the GMDA is looking to install 1,200 smart cameras at 222 locations and 800 cameras at 136 locations in the next phase. “We had carried out a survey and identified 358 locations falling under GMDA’s jurisdiction where smart cameras needed to be installed. Of the 358, we further identified 222 locations such as major road networks, flyovers, crossings, underpasses, and junctions where smart cameras need to be installed on priority. We are aiming to finish the first phase work by March 31 next year,” the advisor said.Of the 1,200 smart cameras in the first phase, more than 700 have already been installed in the city, as per GMDA calculations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-starts-installing-smart-cameras-to-detect-red-light-violations/story-UEhq2jJ1zPq13ixsdkdTjI.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||DDA requests Delhi govt to revise compensatory plantation policy||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has requested the Delhi government to revise the compensatory plantation norms—10 saplings have to be planted for every tree that is cut—under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994, as it is increasingly becoming difficult to provide land for compensatory plantation in the Capital.Citing land constraints, the land-owning agency has requested the government to revise the number of trees to be planted under compensatory plantation from 10 saplings to two for every tree that is cut.DDA officials said that in this financial year alone they have received compensatory plantation requests from various development agencies for approximately three lakh trees, for which 300 hectares of area is required.Citing the increase in Delhi’s green cover from 268 sqkm to 324 sqkm in 2019, DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said that the Delhi government’s compensatory plantation policy of planting trees in 1:10 ratio has played an important role.Jain said, “Given the land constraints, it is becoming increasingly difficult to support compensatory plantation and compensatory afforestation for development projects. Therefore, having achieved its purpose, the policy of Delhi government needs to be revisited. We have taken up this issue with the Delhi government.”He added, “As per the third-party audit conducted by Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, the survival rate of saplings planted by DDA is in the range of 80-90%.”A senior official with the environment department, requesting anonymity, said, “We have received the DDA’s proposal. The matter was discussed and is under consideration, but no decision has been taken so far.”Apart from compensatory plantation, the Delhi government recently approved a tree transplantation policy under which development agencies have to transplant 80% of the trees affected by their projects to a new location. A senior DDA official said that more land is required for transplantation.The official said compensatory plantation is done in areas earmarked as green spaces for recreational purpose in the master plan. As per the Master Plan of Delhi-2021, “green /recreational use constitutes 8,722 hectare of land (including 1,577 hectare under the Northern, Southern and Central Ridge)”. Compensation plantation is mainly done in green spaces other than the ridge area.A senior DDA official said that over the years, land for compensatory plantation allotted to the development agency has been part of biodiversity parks, the Yamuna floodplains, district and regional parks, etc. The compensatory plantation is done either by the development agency such as NHAI, PWD, DMRC etc itself or the forest department on behalf of the development agency. DDA will be doing compensatory plantation for various agencies for the first time this year due to land constraints.This year, DDA has allotted land to plant around 298,000 saplings and allotted 50 hectares in Dwarka to various development agencies. In the past few years, it has allotted land for over 200,000 saplings for compensatory plantation to various agencies, said a senior DDA official.The official said, “For the first time, we are now providing land for compensatory plantation before meeting our annual plantation targets. This time we will be doing compensatory plantation for various agencies. As for tree transplantation, we have told agencies to do it near the project site.”While environmentalists and urban planners agree that availability of land is an issue, they say it is now time to prioritise development projects. Some agree that there is a need to re-look at the compensatory plantation policy.Vijay Dhasmana, ecologist and curator of Aravali Biodiversity Park, Gurugram, said, “Land is a scarce resource. The DDA is right in their view that there will be no land left if we continue with present compensatory plantation guidelines. The problem is that there is no vision for holistic development of the city.”AK Jain, former DDA planning commissioner, said that the present policy has been a deterrent against indiscriminate tree cutting for development projects and people, therefore, it should continue. “There is a need to prioritise development projects in order to decongest the city. As for shortage of land, it shouldn’t be just DDA’s responsibility to provide land. The Delhi government has large land parcels in the green belt along the Delhi Haryana border which can be used for compensatory plantation.”Environmentalist Kanchi Kohli, a researcher with the Centre for Policy Research, said, “The proposal represents an urban imagination which treats trees and green public spaces as a burden. We start with proposals for tree removal, rather than tree protection. If we continue to approach urban land only as real estate and to build concrete infrastructure, there will never be enough land for compensatory plantation. We have at least four decades of evidence to show compensatory afforestation has been a failure, that too by design.”But considering the pace at which development work is going on in the city, especially in urbanised areas, some experts say that there is a need to rework the compensatory plantation policy.Sabyasachi Das, former DDA planning commissioner, said that plantation can’t be done on land earmarked for commercial or other development uses as future requirements have to be kept in mind. “Earlier, we used to give land on the Yamuna floodplains. But there is a limit to which plantation can be done in the floodplains. Ideally, a majority of compensatory plantation or transplantation should be done near the project site. There is a need to reduce the amount of compensatory plantation as it will become difficult to undertake development projects in the future. A solution has to be found,” said Das.Dhasmana says that there is a need to rework the compensatory plantation policy but for a different reason. “There is a need to review the policy, as compensatory plantation done in the city is a complete eyewash. The idea is flawed as just planting trees anywhere is not good enough; we have to create habitats. Unfortunately, we are seeing even land rich in wilderness being used for compensatory plantation. This is not how it should be,” Dhasmana said.The Delhi government refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-requests-delhi-govt-to-revise-compensatory-plantation-policy/story-uSZzLnhYOQaquhvkWSmvnL.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Pillion rider killed, another injured as minor rams two-wheeler into divider in Pune||One person was killed and two others, including a minor, injured after the two-wheeler they were speeding rammed into a divider in Begdewadi area on late Friday night. The incident happened around 10pm near a hotel along the old Pune-Mumbai highway, according to the police. The deceased was identified as Sonu Datta Kedari (22) of Thakar vasti in Chakan. The booked person was identified as a 17-year-old who is undergoing treatment for minor injuries at a local hospital in Talegaon, according to the police. “The third person has serious injuries, is unconscious, and undergoing treatment at a local hospital,” said sub-inspector Aniket Hiravkar of Talegaon police station who is investigating the case. A complaint was lodged by a farmer who is a maternal relative of the deceased. A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 279, 337, and 338 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 184(b), 128, 177, 181 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Talegaon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pillion-rider-killed-another-injured-as-minor-rams-two-wheeler-into-divider-in-pune/story-DAIBY6mC4gcigF1KirPWJK.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Mobile shop broken into, padlock and 5 mobile phones stolen in Pune||A mobile shop was broken into and robbed by a person who used a duplicate key and fled with the padlock on the shop shutter in Kondhwa area on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.Five mobile phones collectively worth Rs 61,448 were stolen, according to the complainant. A complaint was lodged by shop owner Govind Kshirsagar (26) of Yewaliwadi.“There was no sign of forced break-In and the padlock was missing. The complainant said that the key is with multiple people who work and manage the shop. We are questioning everyone,” said sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 457 and 380 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mobile-shop-broken-into-padlock-and-5-mobile-phones-stolen-in-pune/story-Z1l9avWeCcgXjkScFEiXeO.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Bhama Askhed water project to be inaugurated on Jan 1||From January 1, the residents of eastern parts of the city will avail drinking water facility of Bhama Askhed dam project. The plan saw many delays, including farmer protests, since it was kick-started 10 years ago. Rescheduled many times, the project will be officially operational on January 1, said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol. The project, which saw a six-year delay since its 2014 official deadline, has been commissioned for testing. “We had scheduled the inauguration of the project on December 20. However, both the leaders – former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar – were busy on that day. So, we have decided to launch the project on the first day of new year,” said Mohol. Earlier, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) wanted the project to be inaugurated by Sharad Pawar, though the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has majority in PMC, decided to also invite Fadnavis in whose tenure the plan was expedited. PMC planned the project in 2011 to bring 2.64 TMC (thousand million litres cubic feet) water from Bhama-Askhed, 42 km from Pune, through a closed pipeline to supply water to the eastern part of the city, including Kharadi, Yerawada, Dhanori, Wadgaonsheri, Vishrantwadi, Kalas and Vidyanagar. The facility will supply water to around 14 lakh residents. PMC had sent a project proposal to the Centre to get funds under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNRUM). The Centre sanctioned the project in 2013 while accepting to pay 50 per cent amount of the total cost estimated to be Rs 350 crore. PMC added 30 per cent and the state gave shares of 20 per cent to complete the project. The project was divided into six stages. The work started in January 2014 with deadline slated for March 2017. However, due to agitation of Bhama-Askhed Project affected persons (PAP), work was halted more than 10 times. Finally, the corporation gave Rs 135 crore to PAP and the project completed by the end of 2020. Prashant Waghmare, PMC city engineer said, “This is the first project of a corporation in which more than 70 per cent of work was done outside the corporation limit. It is the civic body’s achievement. PMC hasn’t done any such big project of water work till date.” With project being commissioned, Pune will be getting water from five dams including Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon, Temghar and Bhama Askhed. Anirudha Pawaskar, chief superintendent engineer of the water supply department said, “It is true that the project has been delayed. But, it was not the fault of the civic body. There is little escalation of project cost due to delay.” Sanjay Kadu, executive engineer of PMC water supply department who is part of the project said, “We have started water testing. We will soon start regular water supply to the eastern part of the city.” Ashish Adsul, IT professional and resident of Vishrantwadi area said, “We have been getting reports of villagers halting Bhama-Askhed water work project since the past five years. We even thought that the plan will not see the light of day due to villagers’ agitation and political interference. We are happy that we will get regular water supply in 2021. It is good news. Though the project has been delayed, we are happy now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhama-askhed-water-project-to-be-inaugurated-on-jan-1/story-PgfoxAbUiYbfsK91pYdwGM.html
21-12-2020||Pune||FYJC centralised admission special round schedule declared||The detailed schedule of the special round of the first year junior college (FYJC) Class 11 admissions for Pune region was declared on Saturday by the deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune. Earlier in the three regular rounds, of the total intake of 1,07,030 seats in Pune region, 45,671 students completed the admission process and 61,359 seats are still vacant. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) since September 9 and it resumed on November 26. As per the new schedule of the special round, on December 20 at 10am, the vacancy list for admission in the special round will be displayed online, including quota seats surrendered by junior colleges. On December 22 till 5pm, the application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for special round will be available online. “All students who were restricted in the previous rounds are now allowed to participate in this special round to process their admission. Every student must give his/her consent to participate in this special round. And then students need to check if option form is locked or not,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department. On December 24 at 11am, junior college allotment list for special round admissions will be displayed online. Accordingly display of cut-off list for special admission round will be done and SMS will be sent to students. “Then from December 24 at 11am to December 26 at 6pm, students need to confirm their admission in the allotted colleges. Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by student login. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect their admission fees only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI), any e-wallets approved by the government of India or Reserve Bank of India to contain the spreading of coronavirus,” added Jagtap. Finally on December 27, the vacancy list after completion of this special round will be displayed online. Important dates December 20 – Special round updated merit list will be declared December 20 to 22 – Application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for special round will start December 24 – Display of Junior college allotment list for special round admissions and cut-off list for admission December 24 to 26 – Students need to confirm their admission in the allotted junior college December 27 - Vacancy list after completion of special round will be declared||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fyjc-centralised-admission-special-round-schedule-declared/story-2GBTn75obIKUdERKXuEKWI.html
21-12-2020||Pune||Many migratory birds miss Bhigwan winter date||The water body at Bhigwan near Pune is a winter destination for migratory flamingos, but this year, the turnout has been sparse. Girish Jathar, assistant director, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), says that there are 77 species of migratory birds that visit Bhigwan during the winter, but the flamingos are the major attraction. “There are 43 species of water land birds and 34 species of migratory land birds, which is a total of 77 species of migratory birds. Flamingos are the most popular ones. A fairly good number of these birds can be seen,” said Jathar. Talking about the flamingos, Jathar said that these birds breed in the Rann of Kutch. “From there they migrate locally to all parts of the country. Bhigwan is one of them. Flamingos can be seen in other parts of the country like the Chilka lake in Odisha,” said Jathar. Speaking about the decline in flamingo population this season, Dharmaraj Patil, a city-based ornithologist, said “It seems the birds are late. Bhigwan is a popular spot for bird watchers as the maximum number of birds are flamingos. Due to ecotourism, a lot of young youth from the small town are working as local guides. They have informed us that this year, the numbers of flamingos are low.” He added that aside from the wetlands, there are the grasslands where a lot of raptors can be seen. “The number of raptors, like eagles and harriers are also few in number. Wolves are also seen in the area, but the number this time is less,” said Patil. Talking about the reason, he said that the erratic climate is one of the major reasons. “Due to erratic weather, this year as well as the last year, we have seen that the mud habitat has been affected. As it is a wetland, the land fills up quickly. Last year, the rain was heavy. This year, relatively, the rains were normal, but there is a possibility that the groundwater table was high. This could be one of the reasons,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/low-turnout-of-migratory-birds-at-bhigwan/story-ig1KahEbF1JmkT8MFxHA9L.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Special students, schools in Maharashtra find a way in new normal||After the state went into its Covid-19-enforced lockdown in March, 12-year-old Sara Malshe, a child with special needs, found it hard to cope with the new normal as schools were shut. “We send her to a special school where she has friends and teachers who encourage her every day. But when all social interactions stopped, she was really not able to cope. She would not sit for online classes and often had difficulty in getting instructions,” says Divya, Sarah’s mother. For children with special needs, adapting to the new normal of online classes is a tough battle as physical interaction with friends and teachers is vital. However, schools, parents and the children themselves are putting their best efforts to combat the situation. “Nine months into the lockdown, children with special needs have faced a lot of challenges. Initially, there were issues with getting them to attend online classes. But now with the help of parents and through the right use of technology, these children are trying to cope,” says Sunil Satpute, founder of Gharkul, a special school in Santacruz. The school was started for students with special needs from low-income backgrounds. Satpute says the school manages to get parents involved in supporting their children to learn, but in many poor households, where parents have to go out for work, children are still not able to attend classes. “We do a lot of sessions with them which are interactive in nature. But there are still about 50% students who do not attend them. When we ask their parents, they give us reasons like unavailability of network, compulsions of going out to work, among others. We are still trying our best to bring each and every child into the current learning mode, but the challenge is definitely big,” adds Satpute. Geetha Sequeira, a special educator and a former teacher at Childreach, a special school, says, an online-only mode has turned out to be difficult for children with special needs. “It is a nightmarish experience for them as they cannot eat lunch with their friends and have no outdoor sessions for physical education as they had in school. While this affects all kids, special kids are more affected as they already have learning challenges and need the support system at school,” she says. Manjushree Patil, founder-director at Aatman Academy, an inclusive school in Thane, says the school has been able to get students acquainted with the new normal gradually.“We need to first understand that children with special needs are a broad spectrum and the challenges vary depending on what category you are referring to,” says Patil. For these students, online learning has been made an enjoyable experience by integrating everything from art to music into their classes. “Of course, there are times when children face difficulties in paying attention to online sessions, but then we rope in parents and ask them to support from home,” Patil adds. Parents, however, say they prefer sending children to school once they reopen. “At least for a few activities it would be nice to send the children [to school] if all precautions are taken care of. Children with learning difficulties also need to see their teachers once in a while, “says Kshama Mhatre, whose son Rian studies in a south Mumbai-based special school. ,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/special-students-schools-in-maharashtra-find-a-way-in-new-normal/story-sIjtCl1aEma2k4P3xBVwvO.html
21-12-2020||Indore||Indore: Study finds gradual rise in resistance to Covid-19||Indore, the worst-hit district by Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, has recorded a gradual increase in resistance to the infection among common people over the past three months, a study has revealed.The study was conducted by the blood bank of the Government Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital (MYH).Talking to PTI quoting the survey, Dr Ashok Yadav, the head of MYH’s blood bank, said, “We tested antibodies of 1,323, 1,128 and 1,590 blood samples during September, October and November respectively. Of these, IgG antibodies against Covid-19 have been detected in 197, 367 and 615 samples respectively.” An analysis of the data showed that out of a total of 4,041 samples of new blood deposited in the MYH blood bank in the last three months, IgG antibodies were found in 29 per cent (1,179) samples.Yadav said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved ELISA kit was used for the antibody tests.The blood samples of people in the age group of 18 to 60 years were randomly selected for the tests. However, samples from individuals, who recovered from Covid-19, were not included.“Our study also shows that there was a month-on-month increase in immunity against Covid-19 in the city between September and November,” Yadav said.Officials said that in a sero-survey conducted between August 11 and 23 in the city, antibodies against coronavirus were found only in 7.72 per cent of the participants.During this survey, the blood samples of 7,103 people were collected with the help of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) of the central government.According to the official information, a total of 46,971 Covid-19 patients have been found in Indore district from 24 March to 8 December. Of these, 796 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/indore-study-finds-gradual-rise-in-resistance-to-covid-19/story-OzjfNslJV5L5po7dhE9ZEI.html
