22-12-2020||City||Drugs worth ₹1.13 crore seized from car in Thane district, 2 held||The Thane Rural police, local branch, arrested two people and seized 1.7kg of mephedrone and 1.7kg brown sugar (low-quality heroin) worth ₹1.13 crore. The accused were arrested with the consignment near Padgha in Thane district. The police are trying to establish if the drugs were for a New Year party. Police arrested Jahid Hanif Shaikh, 30, a resident of Bhiwandi, and Ishwar Mishra, 39, a native of Basti in Uttar Pradesh. The patrolling team spotted a car parked along the highway near Savad Naka towards Pisa Dam. Suspecting something amiss, the team went and checked the car. “We check the car and found 1.70kg brown sugar and 1.7kg mephedrone worth ₹11,379,500 and a digital weighing machine. We also seized the vehicle they were driving,” said a police officer. A case has been registered at Padgha police station under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. “We are investigating the link of the supply chain,” said Suresh Manore, senior inspector, local crime branch, Thane Rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drugs-worth-1-13-crore-seized-from-car-in-thane-district-2-held/story-xdj5QKbmNYXxIYcNqHhU2M.html
22-12-2020||City||Punjab Agricultural University employees hold protest rally against farm laws||Expressing solidarity with farmers, the members of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Employees’ Union and PAU Teachers’ Association jointly organised a protest rally against the three farm laws outside Thapar hall in PAU on Tuesday. Teachers and staff from universities including Panjab University (PU) Chandigarh, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Amritsar, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, also participated in the rally. Dr Neelam Grewal, member of Punjab Public Service Commission, and Jagwant Singh, secretary, Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), also expressed their support for the farmers during the protest. PAUTA and PFUCTO president Harmeet Singh Kingra and PAU Employees Union president Baldev Singh Walia, while addressing the rally, said that the teachers and employees of the PAU stand in solidarity with the farmers in their fight against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-agricultural-university-employees-hold-protest-rally-against-farm-laws/story-5F784004lZIep8FrAGKoEK.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Protests staged in Mumbai to oppose Center’s farm laws and express solidarity with farmers||Over 35 social, political, farmer organisations, trade and labour unions on Tuesday organised a peaceful protest at the suburban collector’s office in Bandra, to show solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi for the past three weeks. Tuesday’s protests, called Lok Sangharsha Morcha, were directed at corporate conglomerates, alleging the Central government has passed the three farm laws for the benefit of these corporates. Political outfits such as the Peasants and Workers Party (PWP) and Prahar Janshakti Party also participated in the protests, with leaders including member of legislative Council (MLC) Jayant Patil and former member of Parliament (MP) Raju Shetti from Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leading the protests, along with members from Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Maharashtra and Narmada Bachao Andolan. Over 5,000 people are estimated to be present at the protests, according to the organisers and police estimates. Representatives of farmers from Punjab and Haryana were also present at the protest.The march commenced from the suburban collector’s office at Bandra at 3pm on Tuesday, preceded by a public meeting. The massive farmers’ protest in Delhi was set off by three controversial laws pushed through Parliament by the government in September. These allow agri-businesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale, and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators. “We organised Tuesday’s protests to show solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi. This issue not only affects Delhi’s farmers but farmers all across the country. The government is not keen to even initiate dialogue with protesting farmers, so we are now channelling our protests to the root of the issue – the corporates who will benefit from the three laws,” said MP Shetti.Farmers and labourers from various parts of Maharashtra – Dhule, Nashik, Parbhani, Ahmednagar, Pune, Satara, Latur, Aurangabad, Thane, and Palghar – were present for the protest. “It is very difficult to reach Mumbai as trains are not working. These farmers have organised their own vehicles and busses to reach Mumbai for the protests,” Shetty added. Trade unions have also decided to issue a notice to corporate firms. On December 29, press conferences will be held at six industrial centres in Maharashtra – Nagpur, Pune, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Mumbai, and Nashik – to urge corporates to relay the farmers’ demands to the government. Vivek Montero, Maharashtra secretary of CITU, said, “Since the Prime Minister (PM) listens to corporate monopolies, we believe that if the request goes from them to the PM, he is likely to listen to the demands. These three laws were passed to facilitate businesses of large corporates looking to expand into the agriculture sector.” Other farmers from Maharashtra-led by the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), which started the vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik on Monday afternoon, were on Tuesday joined by leaders from all political parties including the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Shiv Sena, the Samajwadi Party, the Janata Dal (Secular), the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Ashok Dhawale, president of AIKS said, “On Tuesday, all parties except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) joined us at Dhule, Malegaon and Shirpur. Local leaders from these parties marched with the farmers.”The farmers entered Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday morning and will reach the Rajasthan-Haryana border on December 24, after covering a distance of 1,266km by road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/protests-staged-in-mumbai-to-oppose-center-s-farm-laws-and-express-solidarity-with-farmers/story-bihY2M4XpJk02j0HWpUMpI.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cricket association announces probables for Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy||The UT Cricket Association has announced probables who are attending a week-long camp at the Sector-16 stadium in Chandigarh under coach VRV Singh ahead of Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy, which starts January 20. Meanwhile, Shresth Nirmohi and Raman Bishnoi, who had tested positive for Covid-19, will undergo a test again on December 26. A total of 37 players are participating in the camp, whose names are as follows: Aman Bharti, Anirudh Kanwar, Amit Parashar, Ankit Kaushik, Arpit Singh, Bhagmender Lather, Bipul Sharma, Gaurav Gambhir, Gaurav Puri, Gurinder Singh, Jaskarandeep Singh, Jaskaran Sohi, Karanvir Singh, Kunal Mahajan, Manan Vohra, Mandeep Singh, Ronit Dhawan. , Sarul Kanwar, Uday Kaul, Ayush Sikka, Amrit Lal Lubana, Harshit, Jagjit Singh Sandhu, Mohammad Arslan Khan, Nippun Pandita, Taranpreet Singh, Shivang Saini, Jagmeet Singh, Pardeep Yadav, Arjun Azad, Chiragveer Singh Dhindsa, Rajangad Bawa, Shahbaz Singh, Surya Narayan Yadav, Yuvraj Chaudhary, Sanyam Saini and Amit Kumar Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-association-announces-probables-for-syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-trophy/story-EkdNeXyEzAt7dh88Ayz4BM.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Protesters block Delhi-Meerut e-way at border for 10 hours, inner lanes jammed||Ghaziabad: Protesting farmers at UP Gate blocked carriageways between Delhi and Ghaziabad of the Delhi-Meerut-Expressway (DME) on both sides, and the National Highway 9 for about 10 hours on Tuesday, which resulted in massive traffic jams and inconvenience to local residents and commuters. The blockade started at 7am and ended by 5pm, while the carriageway has continued to remain blocked since December 3.Thousands of farmers have been camping at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, near the Delhi border, since November 28 demanding complete rollback of the three new farm laws. Their leaders for the past couple of days have been alleging that farmers coming to join the protest in tractor-trolleys from Uttarakhand and other parts of Uttar Pradesh were stopped midway, and demanding that they be allowed to proceed. On Tuesday morning, protesting farmers blocked the carriageways by placing tractors. As the road was empty, some could be seen playing cricket over the empty lanes. After a marathon of discussions with officials, the blockade was lifted by 5pm from the carriageways. “The carriageway was vacated by the protesters and we have assured that all their issues will be taken up. They were demanding that their vehicles must not be stopped from approaching the UP Gate site from other areas in the state. However, we have to check vehicles in order to ascertain that no anti-social element gets in. We held discussions with other officers and got the issue resolved. The carriageway was vacated around 5pm,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range).The carriageway has been blocked thrice now –December 8, 14 and 21.Leaders of the farmers, however, denied blocking the highway. “We did not put any blockade; it was blocked by the police and this is causing inconvenience to our vehicles as well as to local commuters. Our tractor-trolleys are being stopped in different areas of UP. Our protest is going on peacefully and it is up to the government to pick a date, place and time for talks. We are waiting but we have not received any communication so far,” said Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that vehicles coming towards Ghaziabad were diverted through the Anand-Vihar/Kaushambi border route by the Delhi traffic police. “As part of the ongoing diversion, vehicles going to Delhi from Ghaziabad have been using the Kaushambi border route. On Tuesday, however, those coming to Ghaziabad from Delhi also had to use the same route as the carriageway was blocked by farmers,” he said.Delhi Police’s public relation officer, Anil Mittal, said that the carriageway going to Ghaziabad from Delhi was closed for vehicles after farmers blocked roads at the UP Gate border. “So, traffic was diverted from Nizamuddin Khattha, Akshardham and Ghazipur chowk for onwards journey towards Ghaziabad, via Anand Vihar, Apsara and Bhopra borders,” said Mittal. UP Gate – a border area between Ghaziabad and Delhi – sees about 80,000 passenger car units pass through every day, as per official estimates of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The authority’s officials estimate that the blockade on Tuesday could have affected about 50% of the traffic.The blockade resulted in massive jams at the Kaushambi border. Local residents said that even the internal lanes of Kaushambi Township were choked till 12.30pm on Tuesday. “On normal days, when there is a traffic diversion here, the jams last up to 11am but the volume of traffic increased manifold on Tuesday and there was chaos till 12.30pm. Due to the diversion, Kaushambi is already facing jams as people going to Delhi take any lane they can find,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartment residents’ welfare association.“Initially, I and some colleagues proceeded to Kaushambi border but we had to turn towards Sector 62, Noida due to heavy traffic, from where we headed to the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway to reach Delhi. Many commuters from Indirapuram faced traffic issues due to the blockade and some used the Hindon canal road to reach Ghazipur to enter Delhi,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a resident of Indirapuram who uses the stretch daily. The NH 9 starts from Akshardham in Delhi and goes up to Lucknow, while the inner six lanes of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) overlap the highway lanes up to Dasna in Ghaziabad. From Dasna, the DME goes up to Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/protesters-block-delhi-meerut-e-way-at-border-for-10-hours-inner-lanes-jammed/story-jcQUXqnEcKrCQ6LyQiSt3I.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Leaders want more farmers to be able to reach UP Gate, say agitation will be prolonged||Ghaziabad: Farmer leaders on Tuesday said that they want more volunteers to come to the UP Gate protest site, alleging that the authorities have been trying to prevent their farmers in tractor-trolleys making it to the site, a claim that the authorities have denied.The issue has been brewing for the past several days as farmers’ leaders at UP Gate resorted to blocking the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageways on both sides, on National Highway 9 on two consecutive days – Monday and Tuesday.The farmers, led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), came to UP Gate on November 28. In the following days, hundreds more joined them from Uttarakhand and Punjab. According to official estimates, initially the gathering was about 300-400, which has now swelled to about 1,200-1,500 or more, as more people come in during the day time. “Our vehicles are being stopped in areas like Bareilly, Shahjahanpur and others, and we raised the issue with officials several times. We want that more people should come here while the authorities have plans to not allow more people to gather here. It will be a long, peaceful protest and will go up to January 26. We have told our people back home to harvest the crop and sow the next one. We have come prepared for about three months,” said Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the BKU.At UP Gate, the protest area was initially confined to below the flyover, but it has now spilled on to the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway – from Hindon canal to the upper portion of the UP Gate flyover, which is a distance of about one kilometre. There are several kitchens, besides hundreds of tractor-trolleys and tents at the site, while farmers have started erecting newly-acquired tents over the UP Gate flyover. According to sources, about 50 more have come up since Monday.“These tents are designed to accommodate people in temperatures below five degrees Celsius. We have about 1,000 blankets in stock, as well as tents designed to provide a comfortable stay in temperatures up to 10 degrees Celsius. All these have come as part of donations,” said a volunteer at the site.Police officers, meanwhile, said that they are in touch with other officers in the state to ensure that movement of farmers’ vehicles is not hampered. However, they said that they have to be on lookout for anti-social elements, which necessitates inspections.“There is a huge gathering at UP Gate and there are several leaders who are leading the protests. On our part, we have to ensure that no anti-social element gets in and creates unwanted situations. So, the gathering has to be in a manageable proportion. Otherwise, their leaders will blame us. We are ensuring checks but their numbers are on the rise,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). Protesters at UP Gate are demanding rollback of three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP) for crops.“All the pillars to support farmers have to be built anew. There is no question of accepting any amendment. We would like to know from the people who are supporting the laws how they are not being affected (by what is happening). We have also issued appeals that people should not use products of certain corporate houses who side with the government, and should even terminate contracts with them,” Rakesh Tikait, said adding that no “goonda” (unruly) element will be allowed at the UP Gate site.“Instead, people should use “desi” products. We know that this agitation is difficult but we will continue peacefully and for long,” he added. Tikait, a couple of days ago, had at UP Gate issued appeals to volunteers to come to site in rotation, so that work in fields does not get hampered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/leaders-want-more-farmers-to-be-able-to-reach-up-gate-say-agitation-will-be-prolonged/story-O3C65j2shQP1pWWbgBIp1J.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Noida farmers march in support of new bills, traffic comes to a halt at Greater Noida Expressway||Noida: Hundreds of local farmers from Dadri and Jewar on their way to Delhi to show their support for the three new farm laws on Monday afternoon were stopped near Mahamaya flyover, causing traffic to stall at the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.A group of over 250 farmers was on its way to the Noida-Delhi border when it was stopped by the police. Barricades were put up in the area and traffic was diverted internally towards the Kalindi Kunj route.“We had prior input about their movement so we diverted traffic from the Charkha cut. There was congestion on the expressway from around 2pm till 3.30 pm. But it was cleared steadily. We were constantly sharing updates with the public via social media. The delay was due to traffic spread over four lanes being constricted to two lanes because of the diversion,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.A senior police official said that the group had blocked off the main roads after they were stopped from proceeding towards Delhi.“More than a kilometre-long stretch of the expressway remained congested for over two hours. The farmers handed over their memorandum once they were stopped, after which they dispersed. But the group said that they will return soon. Traffic was affected but there was no law and order situation,” said the official, requesting to remain anonymous.Meanwhile, status quo was maintained at the Chilla border where farmers protesting the new laws are camped, blocking traffic from Noida to Delhi. Traffic in the area continues to be re-routed via the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) flyway.Farmer leaders have urged the authorities not to stop their supporters from reaching Delhi.“With tomorrow being farmers’ day, our local representatives will hand over our memorandum of demands to officials. We are requesting authorities to not stop our people from reaching us in solidarity and until our demands are met, we will continue to protest,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Bhanu.Members of BKU’s Lok shakti faction are also camped at the Dalit Prerna Sthal since December 2 and are being steadily joined by farmers from various districts in Uttar Pradesh.The Chilla border first closed on December 1 and opened on December 13, only to be closed again on December 16 after farmers alleged that their supporters were being illegally detained and harassed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-farmers-march-in-support-of-new-bills-traffic-comes-to-a-halt-at-greater-noida-expressway/story-mfUa222adCC4YnOnqTP5UK.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Noida forms committee to address local farmers’ demands over land compensation||NOIDA: Noida authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari has assured farmers that issues of farmers will be looked into and their grievances related to land compensation, Abadi area and residential plot allotment, among others, will be addressed.For this, the CEO has also formed a committee, headed by the additional CEO, which will suggest ways to make amends in the building regulation bylaws so that issues of Abadi (residential buildings) of farmers can be addressed.The move comes after a group of farmers protested against the authority at its administrative building in Sector 6 on Monday morning. They alleged that the authority has failed to address their genuine grievances that include Abadi areas in villages, hiked land compensation, residential plots against their acquired land, and development work in villages. Following the protest, the authority met with the farmers’ delegation and also discussed the issues with Noida MLA Pankaj Singh.“The authority will take up the issues of farmers on a priority basis with the state government so that a solution can be reached at the earliest. It will carry out developmental work in villages at par with urban sectors and also allot them residential plots in a new Sector 146,” said Maheshwari in a press statement.However, the farmers’ group said it is not satisfied with the authority’s assurances.“The authority is trying to destroy the villages as well as villagers who gave their land for the development of Noida city. Our demands are very simple – the authority must leave our houses (Abadi) without troubling us in the name of getting map approvals; pay land compensation to all farmers; allot residential plots uniformly; and allow registry in villages, as it was allowed earlier on all floors of a house, among others,” said Sukhbir Yadav, who led the protest against the authority.Yadav said that if the authority continues to demolish their houses in villages and label them unauthorised constructions then their agitation will continue.“We protested for a day against the authority on Monday and if they continue to harass us, we will protest once again,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-forms-committee-to-address-local-farmers-demands-over-land-compensation/story-hRlbAaXQ48glFPNaKLWs1N.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mandatory institutional quarantine for fliers from Middle East, Europe, says Mumbai airport official||Adhering to the latest directive issued by the Government of India (GoI) and the state government of suspending all flights to and from the United Kingdom, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Tuesday announced changes for the passengers travelling via the airport.After the state government announced mandatory quarantine rules, CSMIA said that all passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries, irrespective of their further travel plans, will be subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine.“Any passenger identified as being symptomatic on arrival will be transferred to designated Covid facility for further evaluation. Passengers arriving from these regions will be transported by state officials to nearby hotels of their preference to undergo institutional quarantine for seven days at their own cost,” said CSMIA spokesperson.As per the guidelines, instead of undergoing a test at the airport, passengers will have to undergo the RT-PCR test during the fifth or seventh day of the institutional quarantine at the hotel at their own cost. Passengers with a negative test report will be discharged to observe home quarantine for seven days and passengers with the positive report will be directed to continue to quarantine at the same hotel or in a state-designated Covid-19 facility for 14 days.“Effective, December 22, 2020, until January 5, 2021, concerning the night curfew from 11pm to 6am, all operations at CSMIA will continue as scheduled. Passengers travelling to and from the airport during the specified hours will be allowed to proceed onwards, as cab services and public transportation will remain operational at all time,” added the airport spokesperson.Four flights landed at CSMIA on Monday. These included one from Amsterdam and three from London, totally carrying over 690 passengers. While no flights operated to or from London on Tuesday, December 22, five flights arrived and eight departed to Dubai and one departed to Doha on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-mandatory-institutional-quarantine-for-fliers-from-middle-east-europe-says-mumbai-airport-official/story-RNzt8R3zQXIJl0A3psICoN.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Akshay Kalra murder case: One more suspect arrested||Noida: A 28-year-old man, wanted in the murder of an engineering graduate in September in a carjacking incident, was apprehended by the Noida police on Monday night. With this, eight persons have been arrested in the murder case. The police said that one more suspect, the last one, is still at large.The eighth suspect, who was arrested from near a private hospital in Sector 62, has been identified as Ravi Singh, a native of Meerut. Incidentally, the victim, Akshay Kalra, was a resident of a high-rise in Sector 62. The murder had taken occurred on the intervening night of September 2 and 3, when Akshay Kalra, a resident of a high-rise in Sector 62, had left his home to visit a street food shop nearby in his Hyundai Creta. Kalra, the 24-year-old engineering graduate, was critically injured while resisting the car robbery near his house on the intervening night of September 2 and 3. The carjackers had fled with his SUV, a white Hyundai Creta. He was found barely a 100 metres from his home half an hour later in an injured state and was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to injuries on September 4. A case of robbery (section 394 of IPC) had been registered at Sector 58 police station against the unidentified suspects. Seven people had been arrested in connection with the murder on October 27. According to police officials, Ravi and his accomplice were living in Ghaziabad near the house of Vasukinath Tiwari, one of the suspects who was nabbed earlier. “Ravi and his accomplice were involved in the sale of stolen vehicles. Tiwari had approached them with the plan of a car theft. The deal for the Creta was done for Rs 1.3 lakh in Meerut,” said Anil Rajput, station house officer, Sector 58 police station.But the deal fell through because of disagreements in price and by then Tiwari and the other suspects had been nabbed by the Noida police, the police said. “Ravi’s accomplice is still on the run and is the last suspect in the case. We are working on nabbing him,” said the SHO.According to the police, Ravi has gone to jail in 2019 in connection to an abetment to suicide case in Meerut. He was booked for criminal conspiracy at Sector 58 police station before being produced in front of a magistrate and being sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/akshay-kalra-murder-case-one-more-suspect-arrested/story-SzHufMt9ydXgVKmLMM8kAM.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Noida road rage incident: Two held for death of 14-year-old boy||Noida: Two men in their late twenties were nabbed by the police on Monday in connection with the assault on a 14-year-old boy who succumbed to injuries on Sunday. The incident was reported on December 18 from the Naya Gaon area under Phase 2 police station. The victim, Rohit who was a class 8 student, was helping his elder brother with their vegetable cart at the time of the incident, the police said.The suspects were identified as Likhit Raghav and Ashish Singh, natives of Bulandshahr and Bijnore, respectively.According to the police, the suspects were on their motorcycle purchasing vegetables when Rohit’s cart hit their vehicle. This resulted in the duo abusing and manhandling the teenager, but after the intervention of other local vendors, they left the spot only to return a few minutes later armed with sticks, the police said.Police officials said that the two hit Rohit brutally with the sticks and fled the spot when other vendors called the police.“The boy was taken to a nearby primary health centre from where he was rushed to the district hospital in Sector 30. He was then referred to a higher centre in Delhi where he died during treatment on Sunday,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.He said that the suspects were living in the same area and absconding since the incident. They were nabbed on Monday from near the Kulesra bus stand, the police said, adding that the stick used to hit the boy and the motorcycle were recovered from them.The suspects were booked under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 482 (using a false property mark) and 414 (assisting in concealment or disposal of stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the SC/ST Act at Phase 2 police station. The duo was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.Rohit was the youngest of three siblings and lived in Greater Noida with his family. The body was handed over to the family following the autopsy, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-road-rage-incident-two-held-for-death-of-14-year-old-boy/story-qRICR5aptmFPwh2R4ExauN.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Noida Extension mess: 21 officials face disciplinary action as probe indicts them for irregularities in change of land use||GREATER NOIDA: More than a year after a probe established irregularities in the allotment of land to builders in Greater Noida West, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday directed for disciplinary action against 21 Greater Noida authority employees for their alleged involvement in the case. The case pertains to the acquisition of agricultural land in Noida Extension, now known as Greater Noida West, for industrial use and allotment of the same to builders for residential purposes in 2009 without the approval of the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB).The irregularities had caused ₹7,000 crore loss to the Greater Noida authority, officials said, adding that the authority has asked the personnel department to take action against the 21 employees who were involved in changing the land use in violation of rules. “After the probe established irregularities, the UP industrial department has taken a decision to take disciplinary action that includes imposition of penalty and giving adverse entry to 21 officials, who were involved in the wrongdoing. We have directed the department of personnel to implement the state government’s order immediately,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.As per the state government’s order, these 21 employees will be deprived of annual 3-4% increment in their salary, fail to get promotion for rest of the job period and also get adverse entry in their confidential report.“Getting adverse entry in confidential report causes repercussions in career and it is considered a punishment for government employees,” said an official at the Greater Noida authority.These 21 employees include town planners, senior town planners, architects, and clerks, and most of them are still serving in the Greater Noida authority. These officials were posted at the Greater Noida authority during this land-use change and subsequent allotment to the developers.In 2011, the Allahabad high court had directed the then UP chief secretary to order a probe into the authority’s decision to implement its Master Plan 2021 without the approval of the NCRPB. However, the probe did not reach any logical conclusion and no action was taken in the eight years, the authority officials said.On June 11, 2019, the UP government appointed the Greater Noida authority additional chief executive officer KK Gupta to investigate this case. Gupta submitted the final report to the government on October 11 last year. On receipt of the final report, the UP government’s industrial and infrastructure department issued notices to 21 officials involved and asked them to file a reply in a week’s time. Now, the state government asked the Greater Noida authority to act as probe established irregularities, the officials said.The government had directed the authority to reinvestigate the case after Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh demanded action in the UP assembly against officials responsible for the ‘Noida Extension mess’. “During previous regime, no action was taken against the corrupt officials. It is good that after my demand, the probe established irregularities and fixed the onus to give a message that the corrupt will not be spared,” said Singh.Greater Noida West entrepreneur association president Vivek Raman said, “The irregularity shattered the image of this industrial town and also delayed dozens of housing projects. Now the government has taken disciplinary action only, that too after nine years. There must have been termination of job and criminal action against the officials involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-extension-mess-21-officials-face-disciplinary-action-as-probe-indicts-them-for-irregularities-in-change-of-land-use/story-EGos52ZLbJT5R6aVKaNcWN.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Rapid test kit positivity at all-time low in December, RT-PCR lowest since April||Ghaziabad: The positivity rate of the tests conducted through rapid antigen kits and also through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method is on a declining trend in Ghaziabad. Officials from the district administration said the figures indicate that the number of Covid-19 cases has slowed down in December. According to official records of the district health department, the positivity rate of the antigen tests is at all-time low ever since such tests were initiated on June 26. In July, the positivity rate was 2.44% (58,647 tests conducted giving 1,430 positives) and peaked to 3.85% in the month of September with 70,248 tests yielding 2,702 positive cases. It now stands at all-time low of 1.76% in first 20 days of December with figures stating 35,905 tests giving 632 positives. Similarly, in the first 20 days of December, the positivity rate of the “gold standard” RT-PCR tests stood at 4.19% (33,323 tests giving 1395 cases) which is the lowest since April when the positivity was 2.69% when 2,601 tests yielded 70 positive cases. “The figures indicate that the trend of fresh cases has slowed down this month, but we are still not lowering the guard and taking up effective surveillance and focussed testing in high incidence areas. We are also making all efforts to bring down the number of cases in high incidence areas,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Experts said that the figures indicate a declining trend. “The figures indicate a declining trend but we must continue to keep a watch on figures for another two months. There are also new issues as a new strain of virus has cropped up in some countries like Britain. So, all precautions must continue,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of the Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The figures also indicate that the average daily tests in 20 days of December stood at 3,285 while the corresponding figure was about 4,057 for the month of November and 3,298 in October. The official figures show that the Ghaziabad district till December 20 has completed overall 614,430 tests/samples which yielded 25,496 positive cases. The total tests also include 353,762 tests conducted through the rapid antigen kits. The officials of the state health department on Tuesday said that they have also witnessed a decline of daily cases in the state in the past week. “In the week of December 14 to 20, daily average cases in UP were 1,352 while in the previous week of December 7 to 13 the daily average was 1,520. So, there is a decline in cases and indicates that the infection is coming down. However, we are keeping special focus on the people in age group over 60 years. Their share in total cases is 10.62% while they have a high share of 46.09% in overall fatalities,” Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), said during a briefing in Lucknow on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rapid-test-kit-positivity-at-all-time-low-in-december-rt-pcr-lowest-since-april/story-Xw7Roz7Pf08KJ1ClUrDldO.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Five succumb to Covid, 147 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity on Tuesday reported 147 cases of Covid-19 while five patients succumbed to the virus.At 56, maximum cases surfaced in Chandigarh, followed by 49 in Mohali and 42 in Panchkula.Panchkula reported no casualty, while three people died in Mohali and two in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, after the new guidelines were released by the Centre regarding quarantine of travellers from the UK on Tuesday, the UT administration said passengers who have arrived recently will be traced. Chandigarh’s infection tally stands at 19,184, of which 364 cases are active. The toll has reached 312 after the death of two men, aged 72 and 82, of Sector 8 and Manimajra, respectively.With 79 more patients being discharged in the past 24 hours, 18,508 people have recovered so far.Mohali district has reported 17,621 cases so far, of which 1,673 are still active.Among the fresh cases, 44 surfaced in Mohali city alone. While 15,617 patients have recovered, including 90 discharged on Tuesday, 331 have died. In Panchkula district, of 9,777 cases, 279 remain active. Among the fresh ones, 33 surfaced in Panchkula city alone. As many as 9,359 patients have been cured so far, and 139 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-succumb-to-covid-147-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-UA9wgiAkLbpxCeS2rmxuyO.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra signs MoUs worth ₹61,042 crore with 25 national firms||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with 25 national firms that will bring in investments worth ₹61,042 crore and create over 2.53 lakh job opportunities in the state. The firms are mostly from steel manufacturing, information technology parks, logistics, chemicals, renewable energy and battery manufacturing sectors.With this, the state has managed to bring in investment of over ₹1 lakh crore in this year, a target set by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, said state industries minister Subhash Desai at the MoU event.In November, the state government signed MoUs worth ₹34,850 crore with 15 national and international firms. Earlier, in June it had signed MoUs worth ₹16,300 crore with 12 major companies, while inaugurating Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 – the second instalment of the global investors’ summit, held in February 2018.CM Uddhav Thackeray and Desai used the event as an opportunity to take veiled potshots at Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath over his recent Mumbai visit to attract investment for the state.Without mentioning his name, the industries minister said, “Nowadays, we can see many hawkers coming to Maharashtra asking ‘UP lelo, Bihar lelo’ (take UP, take Bihar) but people end up investing in Maharashtra and it is being proven once again, even during the ongoing health pandemic.”Yogi Adityanath had recently faced a lot of flak for allegedly making attempts to lure the Hindi film industry to UP.“Some people come to make investments here, and some people come to take investments from here. However, this is not easy, as investors in the state and we [government] have a relationship almost like a family. Nobody would like to go from Maharashtra to other states. We would be there together with you [investors] at every step of the way,” Thackeray said.Desai also highlighted how the state was now appointing relationship managers for each investment project who would facilitate and liaison with government officials for various clearances till the entire project is realised.The biggest investment deal signed was with JSW Steel that is planning to expand its existing plant at Dolvi in Raigad district to the country’s largest steel plant, to a capacity of 14 MPTA (million tonne per annum) with an investment of ₹20,000 crore. Another steel manufacturer, Kirtikumar Steel Udyog, has proposed a ₹7,000 crore plant at Wada in Thane. Indian Corporation Logistics plans to make an investment of ₹11,049 crore at Bhiwandi in Thane, Inspira Infra Limited will invest ₹7,500 crore at a plant in Aurangabad, K Raheja will invest ₹7,500 crore in the IT industry at Thane, and Exide batteries is planning to invest ₹500 crore in a plant at Phaltan in Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-signs-mous-worth-61-042-crore-with-25-national-firms/story-fIzI2iPY6xLe7PYgJbxGgK.html
22-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Man gets life imprisonment for kidnapping and raping minor girl||GREATER NOIDA: A local Gautam Budh Nagar court has awarded life imprisonment to a 22-year-old man for kidnapping and raping a minor girl more than two years ago. The court also imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the accused, special public prosecutor said on Tuesday.The victim’s father had lodged an FIR at Noida Phase 2 police station on April 3, 2018, stating his 14-year-old daughter was enticed by neighbour Rohit Singh. The father further stated in the FIR that Rohit wanted to forcibly marry his daughter and used to threaten the family. An FIR under IPC sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (inducing woman to compel her marriage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) was lodged.The victim, a class 8 student at the time of the incident, had said that the accused forcibly married her and then raped her.On April 5, 2018, the police had recovered the victim and got her statement recorded. The victim in her statement stated that Rohit had called her to a market and from there he took her to Aligarh and forcibly married her at a temple. Then he took her to his relative’s house and raped her, and the next day he left her at Pari Chowk in Greater Noida from where the police took her to police station, the victim said in her statement. The police had called her parents at the police station and got her medical examination done. Police also recorded victim’s statement before a magistrate on April 16, 2018. Later, the police had added IPC section 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act to the FIR. On April 27, accused Rohit had surrendered before the police. A charge sheet was filed against the accused on July 10, 2019.“Additional District Judge Niranjan Kumar today held accused Rohit Singh guilty, and awarded life imprisonment and a fine of ₹25,000 under the POCSO Act. Under sections 363 and 366, imprisonment of five years each and a penalty of ₹5,000 each has been awarded. Under section 506, three years’ imprisonment has been awarded to the accused. All imprisonments will go concurrently,” said JP Bhati, special public prosecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-kidnapping-and-raping-minor-girl/story-e9nt5tdmnmomO8ukwYq6QP.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Senate elections: HC puts Panjab University on notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday put Panjab University on notice on a plea from seven ex-senators demanding senate election.The high court bench of justice Fateh Deep Singh acting on the plea by Keshav Malhotra and six others has sought response by January 12. The plea demands direction for holding senate polls and quashing August 15 orders of the PU vice-chancellor, whereby elections were deferred indefinitely. It also demands that the October 16 communication of the UT administration, asking PU to defer election, be set aside.The senate is the apex governing body of PU with 91 members, out of which 36 are nominated by the varsity’s chancellor. Its term ended on October 31.The plea alleges that certain individuals from the ruling political dispensation at the Centre in order to avoid an unsuccessful contest for polls initially pressurised the varsity to defer the elections and have now started another agenda for abolishing the senate. The plea says it should be examined whether the V-C can defer the senate elections without the syndicate’s approval, and further whether the affairs and governance of the varsity can be vested in the V-C in the absence of the two bodies.They have also demanded that record pertaining to this issue be summoned, and till the time elections are not held, the senate and such other bodies, including the syndicate, be allowed to function as they were before the expiry of their term. It was also demanded that the V-C be issued direction to convene ordinary meeting of the senate as prescribed in the law, as complete governance and superintendence of affairs of the varsity are vested with the senate and PU cannot be left without the apex governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senate-elections-hc-puts-panjab-university-on-notice/story-ubOR6kzmVBGV39ZBPOUy6J.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||After objections, Chandigarh delimitation panel to rejig boundaries of some wards||Acting on objections raised by residents in a few areas, the ward delimitation committee has decided to reorganise boundaries of some of the newly proposed municipal corporation wards in Chandigarh.The UT administration on December 9 notified the draft notification for delimitation, increasing the number of wards from 26 to 35. In the committee’s meeting on Tuesday, around 180 objections made to the draft notification were examined and discussed. “We have proposed that certain urban-planned areas like Modern Housing Complex (Manimajra) and Sector 38 West be shifted out of the wards that mainly include rural and semi-urban areas,” said a UT official privy to the development.A final report will be prepared by the committee and it will be submitted to the administration for its final approval.Residents of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), duplex houses, Rajeev Vihar and Uppal Marbel Arch in Sector 13 (Manimajra), having a combined population of around 13,000, had objected to be clubbed with rural areas of Kishangarh and Bhagwanpura under the proposed ward number 4.“We had contended that there is no contiguity in the proposed ward. Urban and rural areas, which are non-contiguous, have been mixed up,” said Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president, resident welfare association (RWA), MHC.Another proposed ward, number 26, is likely to see its boundaries reworked. RWA of Sector 38 West had objected to being combined with Dadumajra Colony, Dadumajra village and Shahpur Colony. RWA president Pankaj Gupta said: “Sector 38W is currently with adjacent urban areas in ward number 8. It would lose its urban character if mixed with the semi-urban areas and rural areas.” “As delimitation exercise has been done keeping in mind similar nature of electorates in a ward, the delimitation committee has tried to maintain homogeneity of the population in a ward, keeping urban areas and rural areas in different wards,” said the UT official, on the condition of anonymity. “The sanctity of the nature of the population has been tried to be kept as much as possible. The demand of these areas were considered in sync with this and so changes are being proposed in the boundary of some of the new wards.”Currently, there are 26 wards in the MC, which cover the urban sectors and nine villages. The process has become crucial in the wake of the addition of 13 new villages under the jurisdiction of the MC.“All wards currently don’t have uniform population. This is being corrected through the latest delimitation process. But to keep the urban character of the city intact, the population in some wards will still be higher than in the other wards,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-objections-chandigarh-delimitation-panel-to-rejig-boundaries-of-some-wards/story-YEwfN3mmf1YAPDJlZ2qhYJ.html
22-12-2020||City||Star studded Punjab Reds, Blues register easy wins||Star-studded teams of Punjab Reds and Punjab Blues emerged victorious after defeating their opponents in their first league matches in the ongoing Trident Cup T-20 cricket tournament on the grounds of Hara Cricket Club and GRD Academy here on Tuesday. In the first match, Punjab Reds beat Jalandhar XI by 5 wickets at Hara Cricket Club. Jalandhar XI won the toss and chose to bat first. A third-wicket partnership of 57 runs between opener Azam Nazar (39 runs in 34 balls, 6 fours) and Abhishek Gupta (22 runs in 26 balls) helped Jalandhar XI score 111 for 8 in 20 overs. For Punjab Reds, India player Sandeep Sharma claimed two wickets for 27 runs. Gurkeerat Mann got one wicket for 19 runs, and Siddharth Kaul got 2 for 17 runs. Punjab Reds started well with IPL players Abhishek Sharma ( 20 runs in 19 balls), and Prabhsimran Singh (18 runs in 20 balls,) scored 39 runs in partnership. India player and Punjab captain Mandeep Singh with 24 runs off 23 balls, Gurkeerat Mann, 22 runs off 14 balls, and Anmolpreet Singh, who remained not out with 16 runs, helped the team achieve the target in 19 overs. Gurkeerat Mann of Punjab Reds was declared man of the match. In the second match played at GRD Academy ground, Punjab Blues beat Mohali Legends by 39 runs. Punjab Blues won the toss and decided to bat first. An opening partnership of 98 runs between Sanvir Singh, who remained not out with 98 runs off 60 balls, and Abhijeet Garg, who scored 52 runs off 35 balls, proved to be instrumental in the victory of Punjab Blues. The team ended the innings with 175 runs for 5 wickets in 20 overs. Mohali Legends’ Maninder Singh claimed two wickets for 25 runs, and Saurabh Dhaliwal got two wickets for 27 runs. In response, Mohali Legends could manage only 136 runs for 9 wickets in 20 overs, losing the game by 39 runs. For Mohali, Sachin Sohal scored 39 runs off 35 balls, and Jasinder Singh, 17 runs off 12 balls. Punjab Blues’ Karan Kaila sent four players to the pavilion for 13 runs, Birender Sran got 1 wicket, and Rahul got 2 wickets. Sanvir Singh of Punjab Blues was declared the man of the match. Punjab Blues will face Amandeep Club, Amritsar while Punjab Reds will take on Patiala Colts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/star-studded-punjab-reds-blues-register-easy-wins/story-h9xkFFVg6VMCD78Uxz1cmK.html
22-12-2020||City||Chandigarh-Kharar flyover: Sunny Enclave underpass to be opened on December 25||After opening the Ludhiana link of the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover project at Desumajra, the Mohali administration is set to open the underpass at Sunny Enclave on December 25. It will enable those travelling towards Ludhiana from Chandigarh to use the flyover. “The entire flyover to Ludhiana side will be opened from December 25, which was earlier scheduled for December 31,” said Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain. “The Rupnagar link will be opened by January 15.”The 1-km Balongi stretch (called the Balongi flyover) was the first to be opened in October. With two links of the flyover now open, the project is 96% complete. The ₹368-crore project, being executed by Larsen & Toubro, was initiated in November 2015 and has missed six deadlines, after initially slated to be completed in three years by December 2018. It entails widening of the road between Balongi and Kharar T-point and construction of two flyovers and three minor bridges. The total length of the flyovers (divided into three parts) is around 10km. The national highway where the flyover is located connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck, as about 50,000 vehicles cross the stretch daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-kharar-flyover-sunny-enclave-underpass-to-be-opened-on-december-25/story-EyuGcZUGO2CtCLwm5s2GnM.html
22-12-2020||City||Covid impact: All 30 outlets shut up shop at Chandigarh airport||Even as Chandigarh International Airport resumed its operations for domestic flights post lockdown on May 25 this year, in the past seven months all 30 outlets on its premises, including of high-end brands, have ceased operations owing to huge losses. The company which was subletting the shops at the airport has pulled back, citing a loss of nearly ₹5 crore due to the pandemic. Now, the airport authorities are planning to rent out the shops directly, for which security clearance is awaited. Some of the brands that have shut up shop are British multinational toy retailer Hamleys, footwear maker Tresmode, clothing brands Toscee, Pehnawa and Manyavar and ayurveda brands Patanjali and Kama. Even Sindhi Sweets owned two stores at the departure and arrival. “Even we have suffered a loss of nearly ₹40 crore on various accounts in the past nine months. We will be renting out the shops directly and are waiting for security clearances,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, airport’s chief executive officer.Before the lockdown was imposed in March this year to contain the Covid-19 pandemic spread, the airport saw at least 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. The number has since come down to around 5,000, even as around 40 domestic flights have already resumed operations.The airport was generating a total revenue of around ₹30 lakh daily, with the main source being the aeronautical category, whereby ₹800 per passenger is charged from the airlines. For instance, a Delhi-bound flight with 80% occupancy fetches about ₹65,000 to the airport. The other sources of revenue are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking, and advertisements. Dubai, Sharjah flights resumeIn some good news, international flights have resumed operations at the Chandigarh airport. IndiGo’s Dubai flight is scheduled every Monday, while Air India Express’ Sharjah flight will operate every Saturday. The Dubai flight will land here at 2:20pm and take off on its return journey at 5:10pm. The Sharjah flight is one-way for the time being, and will arrive here at 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-impact-all-30-outlets-shut-up-shop-at-chandigarh-airport/story-gk4IhIDYEgZZ2Z0wsrO0gN.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Jet Airways case: Court shuts case against Naresh Goyal, his wife||A day after the Bombay high court (HC) rejected a petition filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), opposing closure of a cheating case against Jet Airways and its directors Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita, the metropolitan magistrate court on Tuesday closed the case by accepting the closure report filed by MRA Marg police.MRA Marg police had filed the closure report on November 9 after probing the complaint filed by Rajendran Neruparambil, chief financial officer (CFO) of Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL), against Jet Airways and the Goyals.Neruparambil had alleged that in 2018-19, Jet Airways owed ATIPL ₹46.05 crore. He further alleged that the Goyals’ had engaged ATIPL in business despite being aware of the financial crisis faced by the airline, which shut operations in April 2019 and had accumulated debt of nearly ₹8,500 crore.After conducting a probe, MRA Marg police filed a closure report in March, having found no evidence of cheating; and sought closure on the grounds that it was a civil case.The magistrate court on Tuesday rejected the protest petition of ATIPL and closed the case by accepting the closure report.ATIPL’s lawyer, advocate Dharmesh Joshi, said that they would appeal against the ruling, once a detailed order becomes available.The order comes a day after the HC rejected the plea of the ED to intervene in the case before the magistrate and oppose the closure report.It was on the basis of the MRA Marg case that ED had initiated the probe into money laundering allegations against the Goyals. But neither the magistrate court nor the sessions court allowed ED to intervene in the case to oppose its closure. On Monday, HC upheld the order, observing, “The petitioner [ED] is an independent investigating agency, empowered to investigate offences under the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) and FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act) and in the facts, cannot be termed as a victim or aggrieved/injured person interested in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jet-airways-case-court-shuts-case-against-naresh-goyal-his-wife/story-3uomBNXPTzYSd0kk9L45SL.html
22-12-2020||City||PAU scientist bags NASI Young Scientist Platinum Jubilee Award 2020||The National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI) awarded the Young Scientist Platinum Jubilee Award 2020 to Nitika Sandhu, molecular geneticist, School of Agricultural Biotechnology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), for her contribution in the field of plant sciences. Nitika has also been awarded one international and three national funded competitive grant projects during the last two years. Besides, she is a recipient of the Monsanto Beachell Borlaug International Scholarship, which she got during her PhD. She also secured Asian Development Bank Post-Doctoral Fellowship and worked at International Rice Research Institute, Philippines, before joining PAU as a regular faculty. Sandhu has pursued research on molecular breeding to unravel insights of stress-tolerances and is working towards the development of drought-tolerant rice varieties and direct-seeded adapted breeding lines.PAU vice-chancellor (V-C) Baldev Singh Dhillon, director of research Navtej Bains and director of the school of agricultural biotechnology Parveen Chhuneja congratulated Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-scientist-bags-nasi-young-scientist-platinum-jubilee-award-2020/story-N985WnIMFQXJv2x1cRTyIO.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway to form 84 groups on messaging app to ensure women safety in Mumbai||To strengthen women commuters’ security, the Central Railway (CR) on Tuesday initiated a new concept called ‘Smart Saheli’. The initiative involves the formation of 84 WhatsApp groups, which will include women railway police officers, commuters and members from non-government organisations to alert the officials in case of an emergency.While 59 of these WhatsApp groups will cover 1,774 suburban railway services, 21 WhatsApp groups will be formed for important stations along the route like Thane, Mulund, Ghatkopar and Kurla. These stations will also have women railway protection force (RPF) staff round the clock.KK Ashraf, senior divisional security commissioner of the Mumbai division said, “Once a commuter posts a message in the group, railway officials will be alerted immediately. We expect the response in case of a mishap in around two minutes.”Apart from this, the Mumbai division will also form four WhatsApp groups for ladies special trains. All of these special trains will also be escorted by three lady police officers, Ashraf said during a virtual press conference on Tuesday.Shalabh Goel, divisional railway manager, Mumbai division said, “Women safety is one of the most important issues for us and this initiative is a form of community policing to ensure commuters’ safety.”CR caters to around 4.5 million passengers, of which around 30% or 13.5 lakh are women commuters. In 2018, Maharashtra recorded the most number of criminal offences on trains, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). In November 2020, two women were assaulted and robbed in two separate instances, though railways are currently operating for a limited category of passengers. Meanwhile, CR on Tuesday inaugurated a video surveillance system at 17 railway stations. The system will help in enhancing security within railway premises, which is a challenging job, a statement released by the CR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-form-84-groups-on-messaging-app-to-ensure-women-safety-in-mumbai/story-XEZlV1CsN79z60LpnJE5yH.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP team comes under attack while on demolition duty||Plot owners in Qadarpur village adjacent to sector 63 attacked officials from the enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) who were on a demolition drive there on Tuesday.A few policemen and department officials suffered minor injuries but the situation was brought under control after Gurugram police rushed reinforcements and forced the protesters to scatter, said DTCP officials. Police later detained a few people in connection with the attack. The department said that they would lodge a criminal complaint in the matter with the police. RS Bhath, the district town planner who led the team, said that the drive started around noon. They had just demolished an under-construction illegal building, he said, when a crowd of around 100 people gathered and started pelting stones on them. “We were taken aback and were forced to retreat into an open field to save ourselves. It was only after half and hour that the situation was brought under control by the police, which took effective action and chased away the violent protesters,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said that despite the attack, the team continued the demolition drive till 6 pm. Around 20 large illegal houses, which were under-construction over 15 acres were demolished along with several boundary walls and plinths. Gurugram Police said that they had detained five persons in the matter and the DTCP had lodge a complaint. “The police was there to support the demolition drive and took action to prevent the situation from going out of control,” said Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police. This is not the first time when an enforcement team of DTCP has come under attack from the locals for carrying out a demolition drive. Last month, residents of an illegal colony on Bhondsi had attacked the enforcement team and tried to stop traffic on Sohna road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-team-comes-under-attack-while-on-demolition-duty/story-YeFX5eVFMrwjoXC7KMO9CM.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||Mercury set to dip, dense fog likely||Dense fog is likely to prevail in the city on Wednesday, with the minimum temperature also set to dip, according to weather experts. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 7.7 degrees Celsius and a maximum temperature of 20.9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam Observatory in Delhi, which, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s minimum temperature on Tuesday.On Wednesday, the minimum temperature is expected to settle around 4 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature may stay around 22 degrees Celsius, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast. IMD officials said that a fall in minimum temperature by 1-3 degrees Celsius might be recorded in some parts of the plains in northwest India and central India during the next three days. “Cold wave conditions are likely to prevail tomorrow in Delhi-NCR tomorrow in isolated pockets. The sky will remain clear while moderate to dense fog might prevail in the morning hours. The maximum and minimum temperature might settle around 24 and 4 degrees respectively,” said an IMD official. Air quality in the city deteriorated and entered the very poor category on Tuesday, with a reading of 377 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was up from Monday’s reading of 271, which put the city in the poor category. Experts attributed the deterioration in air quality to the accumulation of airborne pollutants, on account of poor wind speed. However, Gurugram was the least polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Tuesday, as the AQI in the neighbouring Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad spiked to the severe categories on Tuesday. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 270.38 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Tuesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in severe to the very poor category on Wednesday. The air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category on Thursday as well. Subsequently, air quality is expected to stay in the very poor category over the next five days since surface winds are likely to remain light, due to which ventilation will be poor. “Due to low wind speed and thermal inversion, the air pollutants are not being dispersed. The mixing height is also at the lowest right now,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. Panwar said that the wind direction is expected to change around December 25, which would aid the dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mercury-set-to-dip-dense-fog-likely/story-eFnzZJ058mW0BeBmwotDTJ.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||As Delhi fines, residents rush to register for HSRP, fuel stickers||With Delhi Police imposing ₹5,500 penalty on vehicles without high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour coded stickers, vehicle owners in the city are rushing to the regional transport authority office in Gurugram to fall in line with the rules. To deal with this, the Haryana government has taken the entire process online. This has also allowed those who registered their vehicles outside the district to get the HSRP and stickers delivered to Gurugram. Alternatively, residents could go to government approved private dealers and get these markers quickly; however, this will be more costly.“Just apply for the HSRP and colour coded stickers on www.hsrphr.com, make the payment also online, track its progress and get it delivered to their nearest HSRP point. Earlier, people had to visit government offices for this, which has now been done away with,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, state head of link Utasav, the company which has a contract for installing HSRP in Haryana. Bhardwaj said earlier they were issuing HRSP to only those vehicles which are registered in that district. In Gurugram people could have got HSRP for the vehicles registered in city only. “Now all the districts are linked under one platform and one can apply for HSRP from anywhere and get it delivered at the place of choice,” he said. Officials said another national-level website www.bookmyhsrp.com has been launched for HSRP. “At present in Gurugram people can get HSRP for the vehicles registered in Delhi, UP and Himachal Pradesh,” he said adding that the idea is to allow people to get HSRP anywhere in the country irrespective of the place of vehicle registration. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary Gurugram RTA, said adequate arrangements have been made for installation of HSRP. “Now process has been made online wherein people make an application for HSRP through a website, pay the fee online and track their application,” said Yadav. Officials said those who have the HSRP plate but don’t have laser coded sticker then need to apply for the full plate and those who have the laser sticker with HSRP , they require only the colour sticker. Blue stickers are for petrol and orange are for diesel vehicles, said officials HSRP has become mandatory from October 2018 in view of Supreme court order and often people who migrate from one city to another for a job, faced difficulty in getting high security number plates. Delhi police has started imposing fine from the beginning of December 2020 triggering a rush among people to get HSRP not only in Delhi but also in NCR districts. While new vehicles registered in the city, particularly those registered from beginning of 2018, come fitted with high-security registration plates, most of the older vehicles don’t have these sophisticated and tamper-proof plates. After an order from NGT now colour coded sticker (blue sticker for petrol vehicle and red sticker for diesel vehicle) has also become mandatory. Those who are now applying for HSRP will also get colour coded stickers while those who have HSRP can apply for colour coded stickers after paying a charge online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-delhi-fines-residents-rush-to-register-for-hsrp-fuel-stickers/story-m1VrhOESryAsrtXUub9OjK.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||Software engg’s death throws up dark side of ‘easy loan’ apps||Four days after a 28-year-old software engineer in Hyderabad allegedly took his own life, police suspect he may been a victim of harassment by mobile phone app companies in Gurugram that offered micro loans. If the borrower failed to pay, these companies would extract information from the phone and brand the person as a fraudster to their contacts, said police.Hyderabad Police, which is investigating the case, raided two offices in the city on Monday, arrested five persons and booked them for abetment.According to police, the victim had borrowed ₹8 lakh from an app that promised quick loans. When Covid-19 hit the country, the man lost his job and could not meet the repayment deadlines. With interest, the man owed the app company ₹11 lakh. Police said he was harassed with many calls demanding repayment and soon got to know that several of his contacts had received messages branding him a “fraudster”.Hyderabad Police had received other similar complaints too and their investigation revealed there were around 30 such apps owned by four companies operating from Gurugram and Hyderabad, but registered in Jakarta, Indonesia. The police investigation said that often, users would unwittingly provide these companies access to contacts, pictures, location and the device memory that would be a pre-condition to using the app. On Tuesday, police raided two call centres in Udyov Vihar Phase 2 that was staffed by nearly 100 people. Police seized systems to recover data and to establish if the apps were misusing customer’s data. Similar raids were conducted in Hyderabad call centres tooGurugram Commissioner of Police (CP) KK Rao said they were not involved in the investigation but provided support to Hyderabad police. “These app aggregators start calling the victim’s family and friends, demanding repayment leading to harassment,” he said. Police said they could not comment on any regulatory mechanisms over these apps.Hyderabad Police could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/software-engg-s-death-throws-up-dark-side-of-easy-loan-apps/story-wAmQutVFROnr7tGev42ANP.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||92 new Covid infections, 1 more death in Gurugram||Gurugram reported 92 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest rise in nearly four months. The district had last reported fewer than 100 cases on August 24, when 77 new infections of Covid-19 were detected. In early November, new cases had peaked when it touched 964 new cases in a single day. “As we have said before, it’s hard to pinpoint the precise reason behind this slowdown. The most likely is that a large portion of the community has already been exposed to the virus and have acquired immunity. A proper serosurvey is needed to test the validity of this argument,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.The district also reported 129 new recoveries on Tuesday, along with one new Covid-related death. The total number of Covid-19 cases to emerge from Gurugram now stands at 55985, of which 54304 patients have recovered. The number of active patients stands at 1340, the lowest in at least a month. Of these, 120 people are presently hospitalized, while 1217 patients are under home isolation, while another three patients are under observation at district Covid care centres.Gurugram tested 4024 new samples for Covid-19 on Tuesday, with the daily test positivity rate dropping to 2.2 percent, the lowest in over four months. The World Health Organization’s guidelines state that a desirable test positivity rate is under five percent, seen successively over a period of at least 10 days. Tuesday marked the fifth consecutive day that the positivity rate was below five percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/92-new-covid-infections-1-more-death-in-gurugram/story-sQ5ByMTAML1TgE7iQHlv1M.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||Nylon fishing nets removed from Najafgarh to safeguard migratory birds||The district wildlife department has confiscated nearly 40 nylon fishing nets from the Najafgarh wetland in two raids this month. Officials said the step has been taken in order to protect the area’s substantial winter bird population that may face a threat from commercial fishing activities prevalent in the area.“Fishing activities have been taking place in Najafgarh for a few years now. We cannot prevent it since the area is not a protected wetland or national park, like Sultanpur. But we have spoken with the fishermen and asked them not to use nylon wire netting as visiting birds may get trapped. If an endangered bird specie or a rare migratory species gets caught, it will become a legal issue,” said Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector.As per the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), conducted by Netherlands-based Wetlands International, last winter, 54 species of waterfowl, including six species red-listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), were recorded in a census at the Najafgarh jheel in Gurugram. The number was up from 31 species, including four red-listed birds, recorded the year before that. “Since we have been noticing more birds visiting Najafgarh every year, we have taken this as a precautionary step and will continue to monitor the area to prevent fishing,” Chahal said.Chahal cited the example of a black-necked stork, which, in 2018, had caused a flutter among the birding community after it was found in Basai with its beak trapped in a rubber tube. The bird was finally rescued in Najafgarh after several days. The subsequent year, a darter was seen with polythene-like substance wrapped around its beak in Sultanpur. “The danger with fishing nets is heightened because the birds may get tangled while trying to feed on fish. Environmentalists have also raised this issue with us,” said Chahal.Pankaj Gupta, a veteran birder with the Delhi Bird Foundation, said that commercial fishing has been a common sight at Najafgarh for nearly eight years now. “It will certainly attract attention if a rare bird happens to come in harm’s way. I can’t recollect any instance where we have actually witnessed a bird in danger due to these nets, but the birds are definitely at risk, at least in the canal portion of the wetland where fishing is most prevalent,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nylon-fishing-nets-removed-from-najafgarh-to-safeguard-migratory-birds/story-AWjvIdeZhGMTFoDXeZ31kL.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||Six black spots on expressway on transport authority radar||The regional transport authority (RTA) of Gurugram on Tuesday held a meeting with stakeholders involved, including the district administration, on ways to reduce fatalities on National Highway-48. The officials identified six black spots — Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Khandsa crossing, Shankar Chowk, Bilaspur Chowk and Sidhrawali crossing — and discussed ways to make commute safer at these spots. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, said that the meeting focussed on discussing solutions to checking road violations and improving safety and security measures, such as road signage, to reduce confusion. “After two meetings, we have identified six black spots across the city, where the maximum number of accidents are reported. We have studied those areas and have recommended changes to departments concerned,” she said. During a site visit, officials found various issues — the lack of pedestrian infrastructure, crossings, refuge island and speed calming measures — at the black spots. “We have written to NHAI to mark lanes on the service road. Also, we have asked them to display warning signs, including merging and diverging lanes, and mandatory signs of speed limits at all intersections,” she said. In many areas, officials said motorists are not aware of pedestrian zones and when to slow down. Rajiv Chowk is very unsafe for both motorists and pedestrians, said officials. An analysis of the year-long survey of accident-prone spots by the traffic police shows that most accidents in the city took place because of jaywalking, speeding, incorrect parking of vehicles, including trucks along the national highway at night, and non-functional traffic lights. Another important reason that led to accidents was faulty road engineering, the traffic police said. The RTA has also started a drive against overloaded vehicles and unauthorised vehicles plying on roads. Since November, they have penalised 868 drivers and have collected penalties of Rs 3.5 crore. Yadav said they have penalised 269 drivers for overloading goods, which comprised of mined stones in most cases. Officials of the GMDA had also stated that there are 568 CCTV cameras at 137 locations across the city, to monitor road safety.Yadav said they have asked for information provided on accidents in each jurisdiction and intervention required from the district road safety committee. “We have written to the civil surgeon to provide us data on a total number of accidents calls received by them on 108 helpline and the time taken to provide first aid to the patient and total time taken to ferry the patient to the hospital,” said Yadav. Officials said they have also sought for information on time lapse between road accidents and the death of victims, so as to improve response measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-black-spots-on-expressway-on-transport-authority-radar/story-q92SJmDt0ZSLJT5FRhpj6I.html
22-12-2020||Gurugram||Suspension of senior MCG officials hits daily operations, developmental works||The suspension and temporary withdrawal of charges from senior officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), the city’s primary civic agency, has started affecting its daily operations and developmental projects in the city over the last month.Approvals for localised civic projects, the sanction of funds under Rs 50 lakh and multiple enforcement measures have all taken a hit due to officials holding multiple charges. On Tuesday, the demolition of six shops in Nathupur was just the first demolition drive the MCG has carried out in more than a month.At least four of the 10 executive engineers (XENs) in the MCG are suspended for issues such as discrepancies in the issuance of tenders for GPS-enabled smartwatches, missing key MCG meetings and for irregularities in the issuance of work satisfactory certificates on the behalf of councillors.In the smartwatches matter, tenders were not allocated as per norms to the final contractor, while at least 12 work satisfactory certificates, based on which MCG disperses funds to its contractors, allegedly had forged signatures of councillors. Further, a XEN of the horticulture wing had missed a key MCG meeting earlier this month without any clear reason, leading to his suspension.Of the remaining six XENs, one XEN, responsible for civil engineering, is due to retire by the end of this month, which will leave MCG with half its strength of XENs.Besides the XENs, a large number of junior engineers and assistant engineers are also under suspension for various discrepancies, including constructions in the 900-metre restricted area of IAF depot. A subdivisional officer (SDO) was also suspended in the work satisfactory certificate matter.The charge of MCG’s city project officer has also been withdrawn for negligence in the MCG’s street vending zone project.Due to the staff crisis, officials are holding multiple charges, public dealings have reduced, and there is a lack of clarity regarding the official responsible for approving or sanctioning civic matters.“Nearly every senior MCG official working full-time is having to hold dual or more charges. With time and attention divided into multiple aspects, the MCG’s output is getting seriously hit. MCG contractors are not receiving money on time, thereby, delaying developmental projects, while public redressal is either not being executed or being done after a long delay. The MCG has never been in such a staff crisis before,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.To make matters worse, the position of senior town planner (STP) one of the two main positions in the MCG’s planning branch, besides chief town planner (CTP), has also been lying vacant for nearly three months, after the previous STP was transferred to the town and country planning (TCP) department.“If officials are disobeying norms and rules, and are also guilty of violations or negligence, action had to be taken by the mayor or the MCG commissioner accordingly. While we understand that this has led to a few officials being overburdened and also resulted in work being delayed, our bigger objective is for the MCG to work in a transparent and corruption-free manner,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG.Azad also highlighted that the XEN of the horticulture wing, who had missed a key MCG meeting earlier this month, will resume his charge from next month onwards, after serving his suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/suspension-of-senior-mcg-officials-hits-daily-operations-developmental-works/story-AweG4PJVwVxHXgrpJMYMKN.html
22-12-2020||City||Trident Group begins training of 1,500 candidates under Grameen Kaushalya Yojana||Trident Group commenced a training programme for 1,500 candidates under the Grameen Kaushalya Yojana. On December 18, the project’s first batch was inaugurated at Trident’s Takshashila campus in Dhaula by Barnala SDM Varjeet Walia.The comprehensive residential programme covers housing, clothing and food facilities for all the students throughout the training schedule. To ensure implementation of the same, hostel blocks have been allocated for the students with dedicated caretakers. The trades to be covered under the training are apparel and textiles. The five districts being targeted for the scheme are Barnala, Bathinda, Sangrur, Fazilka, and Mansa, with full focus on rural candidates.Training has begun for two batches of the sewing machine operator and inline garment checker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trident-group-begins-training-of-1-500-candidates-under-grameen-kaushalya-yojana/story-xlyrbIz7DkqbyGPW9uj5bM.html
22-12-2020||City||Low visibility forces Ludhiana-bound flight to land in Delhi||Passengers had a harrowing time on Tuesday after a Delhi-Ludhiana flight was forced to land in Delhi due to low visibility at the Sahnewal airport.The Alliance Air flight (AI 9837) with around 40 passengers on board had twice attempted to land at Sahnewal airport but could not do so due to poor visibility.Scheduled to arrive at 3.15 pm, the flight was already running late and hovered over the Sahnewal airport for around 15 minutes. The airline also sought permission to land at Amritsar or Chandigarh airport but was denied the same, sources said.Ludhiana Airport director SK Sharan said due to poor visibility the air traffic control did not permit the flight to land at Sahnewal airport.One of the passengers Deepa Sharma said that the experience was scary as after almost reaching the destination, the flight was turned back.Meanwhile, two other Ludhiana-bound flights have been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-visibility-forces-ludhiana-bound-flight-to-land-in-delhi/story-pXdjZ3TuHp8xoRRQnMO9RI.html
22-12-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to increase services on Dec 25 to tackle commuter rush||Anticipating heavy rush of commuters on Christmas, the Kolkata Metro Railway has decided to run 216 services from 7 am to 10.30 pm on December 25, an official said on Tuesday.While the first service will start from both ends - Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash at 7 am and from Noapara at 7.09 am, the last service will leave Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 9.30 pm and from Noapara at 9.25 pm, he said.Services will be available every seven minutes during the morning and evening peak hours.The Metro official said that e-passes will not be required for senior citizens, women and children below 15 years, but these will have to be produced by other passengers between 3 pm and 8 pm on Christmas.Meanwhile, the Metro Railway will conduct trial of its newly-constructed Noapara-Dakshineswar section on Wednesday. Following successful trials, inspection by the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) will be conducted as per rules before clearance is obtained for running commercial services in the section, the official said. The country’s first underground railway extends from Noapara to Kavi Subhash station on the busy north-south axis of the city over a length of 27.22 kms, with 15.70 kms of underground section. The 4-km stretch between Noapara and Dakshineswar is mostly on elevated structure, the official said.The Metro Railway has also decided to offer nine of its stations across its north-south axis and the East West Metro for branding to generate more non-fare revenue, he said The stations which have been offered for branding are Belgachia, Sovabazar-Sutanuti, Chandni Chowk, Phoolbagan, Bengal Chemical, City Centre, Central Park, Karunamoyee and the soon-to-be-inaugurated Baranagar. Salt Lake Sector-V and Salt Lake Stadium have already been co-branded, he said. Earnings of the loss-making Kolkata Metro have decreased owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and related health protocols, which have led to lower footfall compared to ordinary times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-to-increase-services-on-dec-25-to-tackle-commuter-rush/story-LIqX7p2lg6pZHXheQ7pPJO.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Cops taking precautions while probing cases of honey trapping, HC told||The Delhi police has informed the Delhi High Court that it has issued a standing order in September directing the IOs and the SHOs to take extra precautions while investigating the cases of Honey Trapping while stating that the accused should not be tortured and harassed.The directions were given in compliance to an earlier court order where the judge had directed the police to look into the complaints of Honey Trapping while hearing the plea of a man who had been allured and later accused in a false rape case.In September, Justice Suresh Kait had directed the Delhi Police to call for reports from all police stations in cases of ‘’honey trap’’ or extortion and issue standing orders for taking action. Pursuant to the court’s September 23 direction, the police on December 21 said “a circular has also been issued to all police stations and units with the instructions that in all cases of honey trapping, action may be taken as per law without harassing the accused persons”.The high court had also directed the police to find out whether the complainant in the instant case and her neighbour/associate were involved in any other similar cases.The court’s September order had come while granting anticipatory bail to a businessman, accused in a rape case, who claimed that he was trapped and tricked under a well-designed, meticulously planned and thoroughly woven racket of extortionists. The businessman was represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa.The police have told the court that according to reports received from other districts and units, three cases having similar modus operandi as the instant case were found in Rohini and in all three, the complainants were another set of two women.The police have also told the court that the complainant’s associate in the instant case had herself lodged a similar complaint in 2016. It further told the court that in the instant case, all endeavours would be made to complete the investigation within three months.According to the prosecution, in the instant case, the woman and the man were strangers till August 24, and as she was looking for a job, she got the man’s number and texted him. The man replied that he was looking for a “hot personal assistant” and a meeting was fixed and the woman sent her location where the man came with a wine, it had alleged.It had also alleged that after drinks, the man raped her and she called her neighbour for help. When she came, she saw the man running away from the woman’s house and the matter was reported to police.However, Pahwa had argued in court that as per the WhatsApp chat, the woman had got the man’s number through an online job portal and she asked him whether he was looking for any personal assistant. When the man answered in affirmative, the woman, instead of sending pictures in professional suits or attire, sent her sensuous pictures in bathing suits or bikinis, he contended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cops-taking-precautions-while-probing-cases-of-honey-trapping-hc-told/story-biHBXDge84l9VhEecrKFCM.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s movie nominated at International Science Film Festival||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s (PGIMER) movie “War against Covid-19” has been nominated in the category “Science and awareness on Covid-19 and other health emergencies” at the International Science Film Festival India .It depicts the institute’s journey and its preparedness to deal with critical Covid-19 patients. “In a very short span of time, Nehru Extension Block was designated a Covid Hospital. The efforts of all staff members who worked tirelessly is depicted briefly in the film. The movie was shot in July when there was much uncertainty about the future and the lockdown was in full force. The movie revolves around the experience of all those involved in Covid-19 management,” said Abhijeet Singh from the department of clinical photography who has directed the film. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the festival on Tuesday and the valedictory function will be attended by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on December 25 where the winners will be announced.Other educational movies on breast cancer, which have also been directed by Singh, have been nominated under the category “Science for self-reliant India”. The film highlights the ways in which cancer patient can deal with the side-effects of the treatment of the disease.The theme of IISF-2020 is “Science for self-reliant India and global welfare”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-s-movie-nominated-at-international-science-film-festival/story-WxXHF1UxrS7ppV8E2qH67I.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bring gangster Lawrence Bishnoi to Chandigarh in handcuffs, under watch of 20 policemen: HC||After fears expressed by incarcerated gangster Lawrence Bishnoi that he could be eliminated in a ‘fake police encounter,’ during transit to Chandigarh and Haryana for interrogation in various criminal cases, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday directed Chandigarh police to bring him to the city in handcuffs and “under the watch of 20 policemen,” with videography done of the entire transit. The directions were issued by high court bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill after Bishnoi, currently in a Rajasthan jail, pleaded that he would be killed in a “fake encounter” similar to criminal Vikas Dubey’s “elimination” by Uttar Pradesh police. The court directed that the Rajasthan jail to Chandigarh transit be supervised by deputy inspector general (DIG), UT, Omvir Singh Bishnoi, with the escorting team led by a deputy superintendent of police with two inspectors and 17 policemen.Escort details Laying out precise movement instructions, the court said the convoy would have a pilot vehicle followed by the prison van carrying Bishnoi and the escort vehicle. The DSP travelling in the last vehicle would be in charge of the transit.Bishnoi will travel in a bullet proof or armoured vehicle duly escorted by trained commandos, armed with sophisticated arms and ammunition, the court directed. After he is interrogated by Chandigarh police, Bishnoi will be handed over to a Haryana police team supervised by Inspector general (IG), Hisar, Sanjay Kumar. If Haryana fails to get production warrant for the case in which Bishnoi has to be presented in court, the gangster will be taken back to Chandigarh with the same protocol to be followed.Officials to be held responsible for lapsesOfficials concerned will be held personally liable and responsible in case of default, the court warned. Bishnoi has imprisoned in Bharatpur for two years, with a custody period of almost five years.Haryana police is probing his role in a July 2020 FIR on the murder of two persons in Dabwali, Sirsa. In Chandigarh, police is investigating his role in four FIRs registered this year, most of them involving use of weapons. Bishnoi has pleaded that he be allowed to appear in court through videoconferencing or be handcuffed if brought in transit,He has also alleged being framed in criminal cases in Punjab (where he was named in 16 FIRs at one point), Haryana and Chandigarh. While denying Bishnoi’s videoconferencing plea, the court observed that the police could not be deprived of its right to interrogate an accused and that physical interrogation was necessary in a case where he had place a background role in the criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bring-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-to-chandigarh-in-handcuffs-under-watch-of-20-policemen-hc/story-l77suDSNd7kkWWN3A1MKMK.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicles to collect segregated waste flagged off in Chandigarh||With the municipal corporation all set to start door-to-door collection of segregated waste in the city from Wednesday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore flagged off newly purchased waste collection vehicles here on Tuesday.Badnore said these vehicles have been deployed to reduce the problem of mixed garbage collected at the garbage plant. He appealed to all residents of Chandigarh to put segregated waste in these vehicles so that the garbage can be processed easily. He also asked all councillors to create awareness in their respective wards so that the system can be implemented successfully.Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said that these vehicles will carry the segregated waste from households to transfer stations from where the waste is transported to the garbage plant in loaders.The segregated waste ie wet, dry and hazardous waste from the domestic generators, will be collected everyday by the 97 newly-deployed vehicles, which will ply on the streets of Sectors 1 to 30.“All vehicles used in the collection and transportation system are monitored by a GPS enabled tracking system. The GPS system is constantly monitored by the monitoring cell. Any route deviation by drivers will be penalised and multiple deviations are also grounds for termination,” added Yadav.Residents left confusedMeanwhile, residents were left confused as the new vehicles came and collected garbage in some sectors, but were just used to spread “awareness” in others. Residents said that in some areas like Sector 13, neither the trucks nor rehris came to collect waste.Kuldip Singh Gill, president of Bright RWA, Sector 21B, said, “The trucks came but didn’t pick up the garbage. There were no regular garbage collectors manning the trucks. We have to see what happens tomorrow.”Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said, “MC should immediately involve the residents and at least inform them about their plans. There was total confusion today and even for tomorrow we are not clear how the civic body will go about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicles-to-collect-segregated-waste-flagged-off-in-chandigarh/story-cymNCsjXmWM50c0kt7OitK.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||4 arrested in Kharar for cricket betting, supplying drugs||Four gang members making calls on mobile phones and working on laptops in an i20 car were arrested on Thursday for betting on cricket matches and supplying narcotics. Rajesh Kumar and Vijay Rana from sector 56 and 41A, respectively, in Chandigarh; Johnny Bagla from Anupgarh village in Ganganagar, currently living in Jalvayu Vihar here and Ashwani Chohan of Sector 19, Panchkula, were running a large scale cricket betting and match fixing racket through mobile phones and laptops, said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.The four, who are believed to be members of a bigger betting gang that also deals in drugs, were traced after investigations by Harmandeep Singh Hans, SP investigation; Pawan Kumar, sub inspector, Deepak Singh, assistant sub inspector and members of the Crime Investigating Agency (CIA), the SSP added.Men were sitting in carThe police swooped down on the four men when they were sitting in their car (number CH 01 CA 8055) near a private school in Kharar. Searches revealed 300 gm of narcotics with Rajesh Kumar. His accomplices had four mobile phones, betting money amounting to Rs2 lakh; two laptops, 10 syringes and four registers. The men confessed during interrogation that they had engaged with other gang members in large scale betting over cricket matches. All are repeat offenders with cases registered against them under the Gambling Act, Arms Act and intent to murder at Chandigarh and Mohali. Cases registered earlier tooEarlier, cases under sections 384 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); 38, 25-54-59 the Arms Act and 22 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act were registered against the men at Sector 39, Chandigarh.In this case, after Thursday’s arrest, cases under section 420 of IPC, 13A-3-67 the Gambling Act and 22-61-85. of the NDPS Act were registered at City Police Station, Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-arrested-in-kharar-for-cricket-betting-supplying-drugs/story-91cHBfccrSbJJlxmG5vfOO.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Verbal autopsy to be done of Chandigarh’s Covid deaths||The health department has decided to conduct a verbal autopsy of all the Covid-19 deaths in the city..Giving details, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director, UT health department, said this form of autopsy by gathering information on symptoms and circumstances leading to the patients’ death will be carried out soon.“Consenting relatives will be interviewed on events prior to death and how readily they accessed the health system. Detailed sequence of events will also be noted to seek health information, prior symptoms and analyse how death occurred,” Dr Kang said.There had been instances when people with comorbidities and other conditions have been requested to stay under medical observation but they insist on staying in home isolation, she added. “In a few cases patients with falling oxygen levels might not have reported on time despite our efforts. So, a proper analysis would be done of each fatality and its cause will be analysed,” she said. The city has so far recorded 312 Covid-19 deaths among the 19,184 cases detected, suggesting a fatality rate of 1.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/verbal-autopsy-to-be-done-of-chandigarh-s-covid-deaths/story-LqzdUT4lUfkWSWoC3IDA6M.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Gujarat firm to set up new sanitary landfill in Chandigarh||chandigarh@hindustantimes.comA Gujarat based company has been awarded the contract for setting up a new sanitary landfill (SLF) site at Dadumajra for dumping of non-recyclable solid waste generated in the city.The decision to award the contract to the lowest bidder, Varun Constructions, was taken by the board of directors of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) on Tuesday. Work is expected to start in a month.The site, which lies next to the current dumping site in Dadumajra and the waste processing plant, will be spread over eight acres and developed over a year at a cost of around Rs 12.40 crore.The municipal corporation (MC), through CSCL, has already begun the Mining of Legacy Waste and Recovery of Land Project at the dumping ground.Nearly five lakh metric tonnes (MT) of ‘legacy’ waste that has collected over 20 years is being bio-mined and processed scientifically. MC intends to reclaim the entire 25 acres for scientific waste disposal and treatment.Used for dumping non-recyclable dry waste“The landfill is a crucial component of achieving total waste segregation in the city, in its entire cycle, from collection to processing and disposal. The site will be used specifically for dumping non-recyclable dry waste, which will neither be reused nor processed at the waste processing plant,” said a CSCL official.Scientific development of the site will ensure that no damage is caused to the environment and people living nearby are not inconvenienced. “The site will be surrounded by a 4.5m tall and 10m deep boundary wall and waste dumped there will remain covered. The site design incorporates systems that will leave no scope for seepage of water into the dumped waste or the ground beneath and no foul smell will generated,” the official added.The city’s urban and the rural areas generate about 450 metric tonne (MT) of municipal solid waste (MSW) per day, which is estimated to increase to 788 MT by 2036.The treatment plant for resource recovery is able to divert only about 20% as refuse-derived fuel (RDF), while the rest is dumped in the open.RDF is a fuel produced from various types of waste such as MSW.Almost out of capacityMC is currently operating Phase 1 of the SLF, which was set up in 2007 and commissioned in 2012. The site covers 10 acres and will reach, as planned, an average height of about 10m. Given the large quantity of waste arrival, this phase has almost run out of capacity.“Considering the proximity of habitations, the adverse impact on public health and environment, and the urgency of compliance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, it is imperative to expand the capacity of the SLF for safe waste disposal for a foreseeable period in the future,” said a senior MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gujarat-firm-to-set-up-new-sanitary-landfill-in-chandigarh/story-VrzaiTd4st1XVn98tprxqJ.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Woman duped by man posing as police officer, held in Pune||PUNE: A man was arrested for duping a 42-year-old woman from Mangalwar peth area by posing as a police officer for the past year and a half.The man was identified as Suresh Ishwar Pednekar (36) of Bhandup in Navi Mumbai. The man had falsely promised a job to the woman’s son in the police department.The man took Rs 80,000 cash from the woman on various occasions citing various requirements over the past year.“In December he returned Rs 12,000 to her saying he cannot secure a job for her son. He said he is working as an assistant police inspector at the Thane police and was unable to return the remaining money immediately due to lockdown pay cut,” said sub-inspector Sandeep Balasaheb Jore of Samarth police station who is investigating the case.The woman had called the man near a restaurant called Hotel Sanjeevani in the jurisdiction of Samarth police station on Sunday evening around 6pm. It so happened that while the two were talking, two staff members of Samarth police station were passing by and the woman stopped them to complain about the man, according to the police. “Our policemen brought them both to the police station and as we started asking him questions, we realised that he was faking it. Had our policemen not been roaming in the area on Sunday, this would have continued in the future,” said Jore.A case registered under Sections 170 (personating a public servant), 419 (personation), and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-duped-by-man-posing-as-police-officer-held-in-pune/story-IY88qAddn4iCzg02Z2hWpO.html
22-12-2020||Pune||PMPML to reduce stops to improve bus punctuality||Pune: In a bid to improve its service, in terms of punctuality and regularity, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is starting a new system on 11 existing routes called, “LTD”. Under the LTD system, buses will stop at only specific stops on its routes, thus enabling it to reach its eventual destination faster. The system will be launched on a trial basis from December 25. “We are introducing this specialised new modification on existing long-distance bus routes. It is called the ‘LTD’ service, which will have only important selected stops along the routes. The intention is to minimise journey time and improve speed to reach the destination faster,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD). “As of now we are starting this service on a trial basis with only 11 routes. The actual bus service will be implemented from December 25. We will be using the smart e-buses for this service. Frequency of one LTD bus will be every 30 minutes or 60 minutes on that particular route. The fares will remain the same. Also, this is an attempt to create and improve upon specialised services to bring in more ridership,” added Jagtap. While commuters have welcomed this new bus service with limited stops, Manohar Khandade a regular commuter said, “I regularly travel by PMPML and there are some routes where travel time is long due to the number of stops. This new bus service with limited stops will certainly benefit commuters.” Routes where LTD system will be in operation Katraj to Nigdi Bhekrainagar to NDA gate Bhekrainagar to Nigdi Bhekrainagar to Nigdi (from different route) Bhekrainagar to Alandi Bhekrainagar to Chinchwad Bhekrainagar to Hinjewadi Phase 3 Bhekrainagar to Katraj Nigdi to Wagholi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-to-reduce-stops-to-improve-bus-punctuality/story-SxeKrMoEOSsEgI4lVmHSSN.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Man held for attempted murder of wife for refusing to live with him in Pune||PUNE: A man was arrested by the Pune police on Tuesday for attempted murder of his wife in Parvati Paytha area on Monday morning for refusing to go home with him.The accused was identified as Amit Sanjay Kasbe, a resident of the same area as the injured woman. He will be produced in a local court on Wednesday.The injured was identified as Rukmini Amit Kasbe who had a love marriage with the arrested man three years ago, according to the police.“He used to fight with her over multiple things. She had left him with their three-year-old daughter around 1 1 months ago. He used to drink and beat her up. He was upset that she had not visited and cared for his ailing mother who had recently undergone a surgery. He also suspected her of having an extra-marital affair and used to abuse her for it,” said sub-inspector Ravindra Kaspate of Dattawadi police station who is investigating the case.While the arrested man is a cleaner working for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the injured she is daily wage labourer.She is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Amrapali Nagtilak (22) a resident of Parvati Paytha area and the injured woman’s sister-in-law.A case under Section 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered against the man who is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-held-for-attempted-murder-of-wife-for-refusing-to-live-with-him-in-pune/story-Q4cl4zhujrQs8WRqMUpcvJ.html
22-12-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Major fire breaks out in shanties adjacent to E M Bypass||A major fire has broken out in a number of shanties at Duttabad, adjacent to E M Bypass in Salt Lake area of the city and located next to an apartment building on Tuesday.Fire brigade sources said 15 fire engines are fighting the flames, which have been aggravated by LPG cylinders and other combustibles stored in the shanties.The news of the inferno was informed to the fire brigade at 6.38 pm but there is no report of any casualty so far, the sources said.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, they said.The fire disrupted movement of vehicles on the busy E M Bypass with onlookers crowding nearby areas and firefighters parking their vehicles and cordoning a portion of the thoroughfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-major-fire-breaks-out-in-shanties-adjacent-to-e-m-bypass/story-VHs2exg4YWLIaUphGRG7HO.html
22-12-2020||Pune||SPPU cancels fee hike for second semester exams||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) administration has decided not to increase the second semester and examination fees looking at the Covid situation. Students had been complaining that colleges are demanding higher exam fees than last year. SPPU issued a circular. The varsity will be holding the offline senate meeting at the SPPU main building on January 9 and 10. “As students and their parents, especially from rural parts, are facing financial crisis because of Covid pandemic, fees for academic year 2020-21 will be same as last year,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU director of the board of examination and evaluation. The senate meeting planned for March was cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic. Later, only a few members attended the online meet in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-cancels-fee-hike-for-second-semester-exams/story-U6yA8zOH5wM7de9Ah2RyGJ.html
22-12-2020||Kolkata||Attempts being made to create false narrative about Bengal: TMC||Rejecting Union home minister Amit Shah’s accusation that West Bengal had fared abysmally on development indices under the present dispensation, the ruling Trinamool Congress said on Tuesday that attempts are being made to create a false narrative about the state. Ruling out the charges levelled by the Union minister, senior TMC leader Saugata Roy mentioned the state’s impressive performance in GDP, industrial output, per capita income, construction of rural roads among others.At a press conference in Bolpur on Sunday, Shah had accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state of failing to deliver, claiming that West Bengal lags behind most states in the country on various parameters, except on corruption and extortion.Countering the charge levelled by Shah that TMC workers had misused funds meant for Amphan relief, Roy said, the state was yet to receive Rs 32,310 crore earmarked for the SDRF (State Disaster Relief Force) from the Centre.Claiming that election strategist Prashant Kishor has so far helped politicial parties win polls in five states, Roy said, the TMC believes, the figures predicted by the poll consultant in his tweets on Monday that the BJP will not cross the two-digit figure in the West Bengal assembly elections are correct.Kishor has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to boost her party’s prospects in the state assembly polls likely in April-May next year.“We support his tweets, he is the election strategist of our party,” Roy told reporters at the TMC headquarters here.Asked whether Kishor was taking crucial decisions about the TMC’s affairs, Roy said that he is an advisor and gives his opinions as a consultant, while decisions are taken by the party leadership.“Prashant Kishor had similarly advised Narendra Modi during his campaign in 2014 Lok Sabha polls,” the TMC MP quipped.Speaking on the performance of West Bengal, Roy said, the state’s GDP has increased by 53 per cent, from Rs 4.51 lakh crore to Rs 6.9 lakh crore in the last 10 years.Contrary to Shah’s claim that industrial output in the state has decreased to 3.5 per cent, it has increased by 60 per cent, the TMC leader said.The per capita income in West Bengal which was Rs 51,543 in 2010 has increased to Rs 1.09 lakh in 2019, Roy said, noting that it is higher than Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Roy also rubbished the union minister’s claim of the jute industry of the state passing through bad times.“Most of the mills are open and the state government has decided to buy 7 crore gunny bags and use of such sacks have been made mandatory for storing rice,” he said.The TMC MP mentioned that industrial development of the state is 3.1 per cent, which he said, is five times that of the national average in 2019-20.“In the service sector, they pointed out that the state’s growth stood at 5.8 per cent, while we are saying that it has increased by 62 per cent,” Roy said.The TMC MP claimed that since 2011, electricity connection has reached 90 lakh households.“In the last one decade, 1.18 lakh kilometre rural roads have been built,” he said, denying Shah’s assertion about lack of growth in village road infrastructure in the state.Roy claimed that FDI in the state has increased 24 times between 2016 and 2018.The budgetary expenditure in the health sector has increased three times from Rs 3,442 crore in 2010-11 to Rs Rs 11,280 crore now, denying Shah’s assertion that healthcare infrastructure in the state was in poor condition.The health portfolio is held by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.“West Bengal ranks on the top in the country in terms of the number of hospital beds at 85,627, while the number of doctors has increased from 4,800 to 15,338, registering a 219 per cent jump,” he said, adding that the number of nurses have also increased by 51 per cent.In the education sector, he said that 30 new universities have been set up during the TMC regime since 2011, taking the total to 42 such institutions, while 50 new colleges have also come up.Roy claimed that more than 1.87 lakh new classrooms have come up in the state since 2011.With regard to the accusation that people of the state are losing health care benefits under the central government’s Ayushman Bharat project, he said that under the state’s Swasthya Sathi programme, 1.4 crore families in the state get an annual health insurance benefit of Rs 5 lakh.On the allegation that criminal activities have been institutionalised in West Bengal, the TMC MP said that crime against women has decreased by 21 per cent between 2014-2019 in West Bengal.“NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) has declared Kolkata as the safest city in the country for two consecutive years,” Roy said.He claimed that the BJP is speaking about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Viveknananda with an eye on the coming elections in West Bengal.“The RSS or the Hindu Mahasabha did not have any role in the nation’s freedom struggle. Even Syamaprasad (Mookerjee) did not go to jail during the freedom movement,” the TMC MP said.Documents relating to Netaji, which are in the National Archives, have not yet been released by the central government despite the chief minister’s demand, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/attempts-being-made-to-create-false-narrative-about-bengal-tmc/story-xJW09VrxM6X87otO09C24H.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana ramps up preparation for Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led government in Haryana has stepped up preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive by starting the registration of those who will be administered shots in the first phase, a senior official told news agency PTI. The state has been witnessing a drop in its daily Covid-19 tally for almost a month with 534 new cases and 662 recoveries registered in the last 24 hours.Haryana’s additional chief secretary (Health), Rajeev Arora, said that the health department has already identified 1,800 vaccination session sites and over 5,000 vaccinators have been mapped for administering the vaccine.“Moreover, to ensure the vaccine reaches every district, the health department has 22 vaccine vans (insulated) for transporting vaccines across the state,” the chief secretary said. Haryana recorded 534 new cases of #COVID19, 662 recoveries, and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 2,58,731Total recoveries: 2,50,502Active cases: 5,387Death toll: 2,842 pic.twitter.com/Zuiv9KuAlHData of more than 190,000 health workers - belonging to both government and private sectors - has been uploaded on the CoWIN portal, which was formed by the central government for monitoring the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines.Arora said the health department will expeditiously roll out the vaccine once it is available and added that vaccine introduction will span over a year with several groups being included in a sequential manner starting from health care workersOn the availability of cold storages for doses, he said the state has sufficient cold chain space to meet additional requirements. “All districts have been instructed to create additional dry space for storing logistics and a majority of them have already created extra space for the same,” he added.According to the health department bulletin, Haryana has logged over 258,000 coronavirus cases till now out of which 250,502 people have been cured/discharged while 2,842 have died. Faridabad, Gurugram, Rewari and Hisar are some of the regions which continue to have a high Covid-19 positivity rate. Health authorities in the state have tested over 1 million people in the previous one month with 236,000 being tested last week.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-ramps-up-preparation-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-1J1E7gjaTdlOuoPadXC3kL.html
22-12-2020||City||Pune Metro begins work on piers at Bund garden area riverbed||Pune: Post successful underground tunnel work between the College of Agriculture and civil court at Shivajinagar, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) has commenced launching of segments on circular piers on the riverbed near Bund Garden. It is the part where Vanaz-Ramwadi metro line crosses Mula-Mutha river at Sangamwadi stretch through an elevated way. The launch of segments on circular piers was halted due to extension of monsoon, according to Maha- Metro officials. Maha-Metro has already put piers on the riverbed along the Yerawada bridge. The 8.3 km civil court-Ramwadi stretch is part of the second line of the Pune metro plan connecting Vanaz with Ramwadi. Hemant Sonawane, general manager, Pune Maha-Metro, “The Pune Metro crosses river at two areas - Sangamwadi and Bund Garden area. Both areas are the part of Vanaz-Ramwadi stretch. During the monsoon season, we cannot work on riverbed due to increase in water level and irrigation department also does not grant permission.” “Due to extension of monsoon, we started working late even as we speeded up the work and launched segment on the circular piers on the river near Bund Garden. Now, we have started work to put segment on piers. We constructed 10 piers to cover river. On Sangamwadi riverbed, metro constructed five piers and same numbers of piers build at Bund Garden area.” Work on this stretch started in 2018. The route consist stations at RTO, Pune Railway station, Dole Patil road, Bund Garden, Yerawada, Kalyaninagar and Ramwadi. On this stretch, maximum pillars are located on riverbed. According to metro officials, more than 50 per cent work of foundation / pile cap, pier, pier cap, portal beam, segment casting, span erection, concourse pier arm and platform pier arm has been completed. The metro stationsVanaz to Ramwadi stretch is 14.67 km in length and consists of 16 stations Vanza (depot), Anandnagar, Ideal colony, Nal Stop, Garware college, Deccan Gymkhana, Sambhaji Garden, PMC headquarters, civil court, Mangalwar peth, Pune railway station, Ruby Hall clinic, Bund Garden, Yerawada, Kalyaninagar and Ramwadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-metro-begins-work-on-piers-at-bund-garden-area-riverbed/story-MU52hZZGQopNxNuI4LAL3O.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 507 fresh Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department reported 507 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday and 12 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.67 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.42 lakh have recovered, 7,734 have been reported dead and 17,449 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 234 new cases taking the total count to 1,88,711 and eight deaths took the death toll to 4,387, while PCMC reported 130 new cases taking the final count to 92,522 and zero deaths took the death toll to 1,264. Pune rural reported 143 new cases taking the final count to 86,593 and four deaths took the death toll to 2,048, according to the state health department.The department reported that 4,122 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the final count of such cases to over 17.94 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.3%. Also, 3,106 new cases in the state were reported on Tuesday taking the total to over 19.02 lakh cases.In addition, 75 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 50,0002. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Of 1,22,12,384 laboratory samples, 19,02,458 have tested positive (15.58%) for Covid-19 till Tuesday. Currently 4,94,815 people are in home quarantine and 3,660 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-507-fresh-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-in-24-hours/story-QWBcGzLqwOqa7Q2dKDF4uL.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi International Airport has storage capacity of 27 lakh vaccines, confirms CEO||There is a storage capacity of 27 lakh Covid-19 vaccines at any point at the Delhi Airport, said Videh Jaipuriar, CEO, Delhi International Airport Ltd on Tuesday adding that both cargo terminals of Delhi Airport are equipped with cool chambers to handle the vaccines. Speaking to ANI about the Covid-19 vaccine storage capacity at Delhi Airport, Jaipuriar said, “We have a storage capacity of 27 lakh vaccines at any given point for Delhi Airport. So, we can distribute 54 lakhs vials, if we are able to complete two rotations in a day.” Elaborating on Project Sanjivani, related to handling and redistribution of Covid-19 vaccines, he said, “Both cargo terminals of Delhi Airport are equipped with cool chambers to handle the vaccines. We have made special arrangements for redistribution.”There is a truck management system for booking slots so that waiting time for trucks carrying Covid-19 vaccines is minimised, Jaipuriar said. “We are looking at different containers to augment cool chain capacity,” he added. “No specific date has been given for vaccine re-distribution. If you look at whatever is the govt line-- sometime in January 2021, the Covid-19 vaccine should be available for redistribution,” Delhi International Airport Ltd CEO said. He said their preparations are sufficient for what has been indicated to them currently.“But, if the capacity needs to be increased, then we can increase the number of containers at a short notice of two to three days,” he added. There are currently nine Covid-19 vaccine candidates in different phases of clinical trials in India -- six are under clinical trials and three in the pre-clinical phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-international-airport-has-storage-capacity-of-27-lakh-vaccines-confirms-ceo/story-B9Q8QzPQtPUnsI6luV8qaP.html
22-12-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru airport sets up Covid-19 testing facility for passengers||The Bengaluru airport on Tuesday announced the setting up of a Covid-19 testing facility for passengers.Located near the arrivals area of the terminal, the RT-PCR testing centre is managed and operated by the Auriga Research Pvt Ltd, Bangalore International Airport Ltd (BIAL) said in a statement.Under the express test method, the RT-PCR test result would be available in less than 15 minutes, while the regular RT-PCR test result would take up to six hours, BIAL said in the release. Until the test results are received, those tested would be required to wait in a specially demarcated area. Reports would be shared directly with those tested through digital platforms, it said.The charges for these tests start from Rs 800 and to Rs 5,000, according to BIAL.The testing facility is equipped with a sample collection kiosk inside the terminal and a state-of-the-art laboratory outside it as well as a waiting lounge.It added that international arrival passengers unable to get a test prior to boarding their flight can make use of this facility on their arrival at the airport. The service will be available to departing passengers, who need to undergo a RT-PCR test before travelling, it added.The private airport operator said it has established a detailed standard operating procedure, in accordance with guidelines stipulated by the relevant authorities, to manage people who test Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-airport-sets-up-covid-19-testing-facility-for-passengers/story-NthovhioOgjwo6xasyeSII.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Worry over finances after Covid outbreak impacting mental health in HP: Survey||Mental health issues after the Covid-19 outbreak have yet to be assessed fully, but in Himachal Pradesh people have had significant concerns over the financial losses they suffered during the lockdown, reveals a study carried out by government agencies after a spurt in suicide cases in the state. The spike in suicides this year was first flagged off by the police department which gathered data from all police stations. About 657 suicides were reported in the first nine months of 2020 till September 30 as compared to 709 in 2019. In fact, 302 suicides were reported in just three months, from May to July. This was when the state’s mental health authority and Himachal Pradesh University’s department of psychology carried out a statewide mental health survey and design strategies to tackle such issues.A mobile based survey was carried out from November 18 to December 8 and the report was released on Tuesday. Though questionnaires were sent to 15,000 persons in Shimla, Chamba and Mandi districts, only 5,188 people responded . Participants’ identities were kept confidential.Govt employees feel ‘secure’The report stated that government employees were relatively secure about their finances, but workers in private enterprises and the self-employed faced loss of income, leading to the anxiety, depression and suicidal tendencies.The population below the age group of 25 at the career planning stage also reported high levels of stress because of academic and career uncertainties. The second group aged between 26 to 60, which was more settled in life, experienced anxiety and depression due to the threat of contracting Covid-19.Groups older than 60 were also apprehensive of contracting and dying of Covid -19 and, as a result, experienced depression. Sad and irritableAccording to the survey, 23.87% of the population between the age group of 26 to 60 years was preoccupied with the idea of the contracting Covid-19, while 92% reported feeling “sad and irritable.” Males (10.95%) were most likely to display such behaviour than women (6.68%). About 14.92% of the respondents also complained about sleeping disordersAbout 50.91% people reported feeling anxious and the depressed after watching and the reading Covid-related content. Most of the respondents said they were unwilling to go for counselling and only 4.17% sought psychiatric consultation even as 2.42% contemplated ending their lives due to stress . Of these, “8.04 % reported having put their suicidal ideas into action,” said Sanjay Pathak, CEO of the state mental health authority .What’s recommendedRecommendations that health experts have made going forward : 1.Strengthening of mental health services in districts by ensuring that at least 10 psychiatric beds are available at places where psychiatrists are available. 2. Setting up satellite clinics with mental health support by the district mental health team at the sub-district level. 3. Training of medical officers and field staff in handling and identifying patients with mental illness. 4. Verbal autopsy of the all completed suicide cases to ascertain circumstances that led to the act. 5. Financial assistance to patients (travelling expenses, food bills and accommodation charge with attendant) for those experiencing hopelessness, with psychiatric support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/worry-over-finances-after-covid-outbreak-impacting-mental-health-in-hp-survey/story-Y6nzeUB9DWAA45aGcz9RUM.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Baba Farid University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur gets three-year extension||Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore has extended the term of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur by three years.Dr Bahadur was appointed to the post in 2014 and got his first three-year extension in 2017. His tenure was due to end on Wednesday. However, an order issued this week states that his tenure will continue for another three years.The terms and conditions of service will remain the same as contained in Punjab Raj Bhavan’s earlier order.Before joining the Faridkot-based BFUHS, Dr Bahadur was the director-principal of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, and head of the orthopaedics department at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baba-farid-university-of-health-sciences-vice-chancellor-dr-raj-bahadur-gets-three-year-extension/story-HyA5g55QU2wJiuJZM55kHI.html
22-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Farmer agitation gains support at Shahjahanpur border||Farmer agitation is gaining support on the partially blocked Jaipur-Delhi National Highway in Shahjahanpur village of Alwar district along Rajasthan-Haryana border as the protest enters its 10th day.Former IAS officer and collector of Jaipur Jagrup Yadav, national president of Kisan Mahapanchayat Rampal Jat and other farmer leaders are conducting meetings in nearby villages to garner the support of farmers for the agitations at the Shahjahanpur border.Himmat Singh Gurjar of the Gujjar community and state president of the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti also reached Shahjahanpur in support of the farmer agitation.Himmat Singh has threatened to block the Delhi-Mumbai railway track in Rajasthan in support of the farmers.While a large number of farmers from Maharashtra will join the agitation at Shahjahanpur on Wednesday, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP Hanuman Beniwal has already given a call for a march to Delhi from Shahjahanpur on December 26.Rampal Jat, national president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, said that, “We are firmly in support of the farmers agitating at the Singhu border and other parts of the country, demanding the repeal of the three agricultural laws.”There is heavy police deployment at Shahjahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border, he said.Farmers have blocked the border along Haryana since December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-farmer-agitation-gains-support-at-shahjahanpur-border/story-V9MuM3qnmComfqgeMMFirO.html
22-12-2020||Pune||‘We have been struggling with basic facilities for more than 10 yrs’||Wagholi is one of the highest populated and most urbanised areas of the 23 village areas being included in the PMC limits. Sanjivkumar Patil, director, Wagholi Housing Societies Association, tells Siddharth Gadkari why merger with the PMC is long overdueWhy was the Wagholi Housing Societies Association formed in the first place? We formed the association in the wake of popular sentiment coming from residents of housing societies to drive the solitary aim of “Making Wagholi a better place to live”; also, to seek better coordination between authorities and residents and encourage office accountability. Does Wagholi get all the basic facilities now? No. We were hoping that the local authority will provide us with basic facilities, but, it was not done. There is development of some internal roads. We are purchasing tanker water as there is no other alternative. We have to pay private agencies to clear our sewage. There is no proper garbage collection and disposable system. We have invested our saving to purchase a house. And we have been struggling with these basic facilities for more than 10 years. Why do you think this is so? Can something be done about it?There is something wrong with the system. It is possibly inadequate to cope with the growing needs and infrastructure demands. I settled down in Wagholi village a decade ago. The population is now two lakh. We are demanding that this village be included in the PMC as the gram panchayat has absolutely failed to cater to the basic needs of the residents. We want a strong civic body, with reasonability and accountability. It may be the Pune corporation, or PMRDA. I think, Pune corporation is the only choice for us. After inclusion, we will get what we want for our area’s development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/we-have-been-struggling-with-basic-facilities-for-more-than-10-yrs/story-AMsWaWeiVa0aHwKCQfewfP.html
22-12-2020||City||Oppn terms ruling party proposal to fix members of medical college trust “illegal”||PUNE At a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) general body, held on Monday, the opposition parties termed as “illegal” a ruling party proposal to appoint members from all political parties to a trust that will run the PMC’s first medical college. Despite multiple proposals on the table, only this single proposal was discussed, and then passed. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, only emergency proposals are being discussed at the GB’s emergency proceedings. The opposition questioned the urgency to pass a proposal regarding the medical college. A special meeting is to be conducted before the year ends, wherein all party members are to be made part of the college trust. The trust would be responsible for the recruitment and admission to the medical college, which will be set up at Kamala Nehru Hospital. Congress leader Avinash Bagwe said, “We are still not clear on issues regarding payments which will be made to trustees and employees. The corporators do not have any information and so a detailed discussion is needed at the General Body meeting itself.” Leader of the house, the BJP’s Ganesh Bidkar, said “This decision was unanimously approved by all party leaders at a previous meeting and this proposal was just a formality to appoint party leaders to the trust. However, if opposition leaders have an objection then we will discuss this in the special meeting that is to be held.”Except for Covid-19 expenditure, which is considered an emergency, all major decisions are now on hold. At the Monday GN meeting, most proposals were postponed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/oppn-terms-ruling-party-proposal-to-fix-members-of-medical-college-trust-illegal/story-cgf8vhCxLXHIdplahNiXIL.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Expanding Pune: It’s PMC or bust for lakhs of new Punekars||PUNE For far too long, residents from 23 areas –in the government records referred to as villages – have suffered a lot. While five lakh residents from these parts surrounding Pune city have been crying for amenities like roads, water supply, sewage and garbage management, they now finally see hope after the latest decision by the state government to include these 23 areas in Pune’s municipal limits. These areas have also seen maximum real estate development in the past 15 years, considering the relatively cheaper land rates. For the residents of these 23 areas, one hurdle, so far, for not getting basic amenities is that these areas are under gram panchayats, which have not been able to carry out developments due to a shortage of funds. Aditya Kumar Gupta, an IT professional and resident of Sarathi Souvenir society in Mhalunge, says, “We want water supply, sanitation, roads, drainage pipeline and street lights. These are basic amenities we need.” For over two decades, there has been a pattern for fringe areas to demand its inclusion in PMC limits. Due to affordability of land, people settle down in projects located in these fringe areas. Wagholi, one of the highest populated and urbanised areas among the 23 villages, is one such example. Despite being located adjacent to the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, residents of Wagholi are fighting to get basic facilities like road, water and a drainage system. Finally, they founded the Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) to push for their demands. Narendra Hagwane, architect and resident of Kirkitwadi, said, “Gram panchayats don’t have planning and money to carry out facilities. In our area, there is only one road which connects to the main road. Due to a lack of a development plan and negligence of the Pune Metropolitican Development Authority (PMRDA), there is no road network. Water supply and garbage is another major issue which we are facing now. We hope the corporation will solve it with better planning and funds.” Basic facilities For real estate developers, Sus-Mhalunge, which is next to Baner, has been on their radar considering its proximity to the Hinjewadi IT park. Around a decade ago many among IT professional bought flats in Baner, Hinjewadi, Aundh, Balewadi, and Kothrud. As a result, these areas witnessed high urbanisation even as amenities eluded most parts. Pankaj Damale, president of the Sus Mhalunge Association which represents 20 big housing societies, said, “In Sus and Mhalunge, there are 350 residential societies. Water, drainage, road, and street lighting is not available in this area. It is an absolute undeveloped area. There is a lack of proper planning this area. We have to pay to get water, drain the sewage, pick up garbage.” Lokesh Sharma, who lives in a rented house in Khadakwasla, said, “I am working in the Nanded city area. Rent rates are high so I shifted to Khadkwasla, where I live in a one BHK. The area is connected to the city, but narrow roads and water are a big problem. Though there is the dam located in Khadkwasla, we don’t get regular water.” Bad roads Sailesh Rao, an IT professional living in Manjari said, “Manjari is not a village. There are so many big housing schemes. But, basic infrastructure is almost zero.” Located on the eastern part closer to Hadapsar, water scarcity in Manjari and adjacent areas is a major problem, besides the lack of roads. The Serum Institute of India, which is currently producing Covishield, India’s Covid-19 vaccine, is based here. “We have to buy big jars of drinking water. At the same time, due to bad roads, we are facing huge traffic problems and accidents. I take almost an hour to reach my office, which is located in Hadapsar,” said Rao. With a population of 5000, Sus on Pune’s western part is an upcoming residential destination for most IT employees working in HInjewadi. There are educational institutes like Symbiosis, whose students and staff use the Sus roads, to reach the campus. Vijay Shinde, a resident of Wagholi living in Shriman Apartments said, “Traffic is one of the biggest problems after water. There is no road network. We cannot drive four-wheelers properly as roads are narrow and encroached upon.” Unauthorised construction In 2018, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) had identified 16,938 unauthorised constructions in its area with most falling in these villages. While the PMRDA served notices to those responsible for unauthorised constructions, not much happened. Rajesh Ranjan, a resident of Holkarwadi, which is on the eastern part closer to Urali Devachi, said, “Besides garbage and weak water supply, unauthorised construction is another major problem in our area for which no action has been taken.” Like Holkarwadi, Kirkitwadi, which has population of 8900 and is located adjacent to Sinhgad road on the western side of Pune, also similar issues. Balasaheb Hagwane, a resident of Kirkitwadi and one of the petitioners for the inclusion of 34 areas (23 areas now, and 11 areas which have already been merged) said, “Roads, garbage and water are major problems in Kirkitwadi. Due to lack of development funds, basic infrastructure is not adequate. The urbanisation has been increasing. Builders are developing a scheme due to the lower rate of lands, as compared to city areas. There is good connectivity with Pune city. Rent rates are low. People now own properties in these fringe villages.” Merger is not the solution Pravin Gedam, a former corporation official who recently retired said, “Merger is not the solution to urbansation. During my service, I have seen two mergers 1997 and 2007. Corporation is not able to give basic infrastructure to villages. Corporation cannot take on the responsibility of a fringe village’s development. Actually, Pune Metropolitan Regional Authority (PMRDA) should take the lead and develop these villages, applying the town planning scheme. Corporation cannot take the burden.” Residents want ‘Pune development’“Pune Mahanagar Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) sanctioned big housing projects in the Manjari and Shewalwadi area. After completion, the population will increase and the gram panchayat will not be able to provide basic facilities to residents. So, a merger is the only solution for proper planning and development of villages.” RAHUL SHEWALEresident, Shewalewadi “Gram panchayats don’t have planning and money to carry out facilities. In our area, there is only one road which connects to the main road. Due to lack of a development plan and negligence of the Pune Metropolitican Development Authority (PMRDA), there is no road network here. Water supply and garbage is another major issue. We hope the corporation will solve it with better planning and funds.”NARENDRA HAGAWANEarchitect, resident of Kirkitwadi“We want water supply, sanitation, roads, drainage pipeline and street lights. These are basic amenities we need. There are no streetlights here. We are also paying huge amount of ₹2 lakh per month to get drinking water through tankers.”ADITYAKUMAR GUPTAIT professional and resident of Sarathi Souvenir society, Mhalunge“We are missing basic facilities like roads, water, drainage and street lights. We are facing these problems for six years. We are located on the border of the Pune, Mhalunge and Sus village. Government had inaugurated the Mhalunge High Tech city, but, nothing has changed. We just want basic things like any common citizen.”ASHISH BHARGAVIT professional and resident of Teerth Towers in Sus “In Sus and Mhalunge, there are 350 residential societies. Water, drainage, road, and street lighting is not available in this area. It is an absolutely undeveloped area. There is a lack of proper planning this area. We have to pay to get water, drain the sewage, pick up garbage.. We welcome the state government’s decision to merge our area with the Pune corporation.” PANKAJ DAMALEpresident, Sus Mhalunge Association||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/expanding-pune-it-s-pmc-or-bust-for-lakhs-of-new-punekars/story-KTnxdoX2q1ctfvkzSVqR4J.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Schools get the Christmas spirit going with Nativity plays, Santa Claus||The schools in Pune will go into Christmas vacation beginning December 23; however, before holidays, teachers and staff at the St Joseph high school, Ghorpadi enacted the nativity play to spread a message of love, hope and positivity to students. The nativity play is the enactment of the story of Jesus Christ’s birth. As many as 45 staff members of the school recreated the scene depicting an infant Jesus, Mother Mary, Joseph, shepherds, angels and various animals. “It is our school’s tradition to perform the nativity of Lord Jesus Christ play.Every year before we break for the Christmas vacation, the students enact the nativity story. In the physical absence of the students in the school, we decided to enact the play. All teachers and support staff were really excited to take part in this,” Shanti Devidas, headmistress of St Joseph School said. “There were adverse conditions when Lord Jesus was born and he showed us the light of hope. We are going through turmoil due to pandemic. We wanted to tell our students that this too shall pass. There will be normalcy again” said Father Rajesh Bansode, principal of St Joseph High School. Even if students could not be physically present for these Christmas celebrations in the school, they attended the event virtually. Only the representatives from class 10 were present in the school to attend the event. Edward Clint Decosta, a lab attendant in the school played the role of Joseph. “It was a different experience. When I was told that I would get to play the role of Joseph, I wasn’t confident if I would be able to perform it well but when we started to practice, my confidence boosted,” he said. “We were really happy when we came to know that our teachers were going to perform for us. Each year students start to practice the nativity play almost a month before this day,” recalled Aditya Gaikwad, a class 10 student who had come to school to attend the celebrations. The holiday break of the schools will begin from December 23, 2020, to January 3, 2020. Other schools in the city are also celebrating Christmas while dealing with the pandemic situation. Clara Global School moved the Christmas celebrations completely online. “Our teachers and students celebrated Christmas events online. Last week, we decided the dates and dedicated those days for the virtual Christmas celebrations. The students performed the nativity play online. Our teachers draped into Christmas costumes and sang Christmas carols online for the students,” Akash Thombre, Clara Global School administrator said.The staff members of Rewachand Bhojwani Academy in camp decided to give a personal touch to the Christmas celebrations. “We received a very good response from the students. We had informed them when would we be giving them the gifts. Before our staff reached there, students had decorated their homes,” said Roxaane Quadros, principal, Rewachand Bhojwani academy, Pune.“We hadn’t seen our students for many months because of the pandemic. So, we went to their homes, sang carols in front of them and gave them chocolates as a gift. One staff member dressed up as Santa Claus. We have a total of 500 students. Our target was to reach 50 homes per day. We have reached the homes of maximum children,” said Ajay Sarwan, admin head at the Rewachand Bhojwani Academy Pune in the Camp area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-get-the-christmas-spirit-going-with-nativity-plays-santa-claus/story-jUlxEyyCxDkO0sQCr90dLN.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Pune records season’s lowest minimum temperature at 9.2 degrees Celsius||The city recorded the season’s lowest minimum temperature on Monday at 9.2 degrees Celsius, according to the officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Earlier the minimum temperature was recorded at 11.8 degrees Celsius and 12.2 degrees Celsius on December 8 and December 20 respectively.The day temperature in the city was reported to be at 28.4 degrees Celsius, on Monday.The IMD has forecast that cooler nights may continue this week.“The minimum temperature this week is expected to be not more than 11 degrees Celsius. The day temperature in the city will also be recorded not more than 29 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.Temperature across Maharashtra has witnessed a dip. The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded at Gondia at seven degrees Celsius on Monday. On Sunday evening, the lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra was reported to be at Gondia at 7.4 degrees Celsius.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, private weather forecasting agency, said that the day and night temperatures in the next few days will be less than normal.“Since the last few days, north westerlies are blowing over northern plains and central India which includes Maharashtra. The temperature has seen a significant drop due to this Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada. These winds are icy cold winds travelling from the Himalayan region,” he said.He further explained that due to the fresh western disturbance in the north there is a slight rise in temperature in the northern parts.“Due to a fresh cyclonic storm over Rajasthan, the icy cold winds will be obstructed. So after December 24, there will be a marginal increase in temperature for two days. Then again, the temperature will drop. There is a seesaw of temperature in the coming few days,” added Palawat.*Date--Lowest minimum temperature in city this month (in degrees Celsius)*Dec 21--9.2*Dec 8--11.8*Dec 20-- 12.2*City--Night temperature in state on Monday (in degrees Celsius)*Gondia--7*Parbhani--7.4*Nagpur--8.4*Aurangabad--9.5*Pune--9.2*Nashik-- 9.1*Mahabaleshwar-- 11.5*Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-season-s-lowest-minimum-temperature-at-9-2-degrees-celsius/story-IMSs9VN22GvzvlmsFpn57N.html
22-12-2020||Pune||SPPU forms committee to initiate college reopening process||A committee has been formed to decide on reopening of colleges affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), said officials during the meeting of management council on Monday.This committee will interact with principals about the safety arrangements and other necessary steps to reopen the colleges.“A committee has been formed to work on the reopening process. They will talk to college principals and understand various issues related to the reopening of colleges. Accordingly, we will need permissions from several government bodies. And in next five days this committee will submit their report about the same,” said Prof Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU.“The safety of students is the most important factor. We will study the overall situation of Covid in all the three districts Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar where our colleges are affiliated and accordingly further decision will be taken,” he said.On November 5 the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued guidelines regarding reopening of colleges to all the universities. So to take a review of the colleges affiliated with SPPU a two-day interaction programme was conducted by SPPU in November where the vice-chancellor interacted with principals of various colleges from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts.Dr Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said, “We do not want to risk the safety of students and so it is important to analyse the local situation and then decide. We agree the classes should start, but the safety of students should always be the top priority.”Rohan Nalawade, a second-year science student, said, “We have now become used to the new normal of Covid situation and as we are doing our other day to day activities with safety measures colleges should also reopen. I hardly understand anything which is taught online by teachers, nothing can replace the classroom teaching and so it is important to reopen the colleges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-forms-committee-to-initiate-college-reopening-process/story-2lvuXn5Y9oxMKf1UEPCXUN.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC’s women legal forum to fast tomorrow in solidarity with protesting farmers||A forum of women lawyers, social Group of Lawyers of Delhi High Court have decided to fast on Wednesday in solidarity with the ongoing “Satyagrah” by farmers demanding to roll back the recently passed farm laws.Lawyers associated with the forum demanded to repeal the three farm laws on December 23, the day which is observed as Kisan Diwas.“It is our belief that while the issue of the Constitutionality of the farm laws being enacted by the Center when agriculture is a state subject is subjudice before the Supreme Court and the issue of the legality of the enactment by a voice vote in the Rajya Sabha is also being heard by the Supreme Court, implementation of irreversible and far-reaching farm laws would render these petitions infructuous and could cause irreparable damage to the farm sector in India,” the forum said in a press statement on Tuesday.The forum includes senior advocates Indira Jaising, Mahalakshmi Pawani, Biswajit BhattacharyaMohan Katarki, Anand Grover and advocates Shadan Farasyat, Prashant Padmanabham, Ritu diwan, etc. It also includes members Shweta Kapoor, Zeba Khair and Iram Majid among others.It said that the forum lawyers are against dismantling the regulatory mechanism of minimum support price (MSP) and permitting big corporates to negotiate with small farmers, who it said lack the means to enforce or negotiate contracts especially due to the absence of effective legal aid and judicial infrastructure in rural India.“The decisions of corporates driven by profit would also affect the food security if India and cropping patterns would be determined not by local needs but by international market forces.While the Indian and global economy, especially urban employment is badly hit by covid, 80 per cent of the country is dependent for its sustenance on agriculture, imposing such far-reaching legislation upon a vulnerable citizenry in such an unconstitutional manner is a matter of grave concern,” the statement said.“The father of our nation, Mahatama Gandhi said that if you silently watch injustice, it is as good as perpetrating it. We, therefore, have decided to observe a one-day fast in keeping with the moral practice of Satyagrah observed by Bapu against the injustice and haste of imposing the New Farm Laws, in solidarity of farmers,” it added.This comes as thousands of farmers have been protesting at the borders of the national capital against the three farm laws, recently passed by the Central government. While farmer leaders and the Centre are engaged in several rounds of talks, discussions have remained inconclusive so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-s-women-legal-forum-to-fast-tomorrow-in-solidarity-with-protesting-farmers/story-VlLU5RMFhnQadqGiPgWTdP.html
22-12-2020||Pune||No New Year celebrations in public places, says mayor||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has barred public celebrations of New Year while the police said detailed order will be issued once there is clarity from the government.According to city mayor Murlidhar Mohol, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, PMC has appealed to people not to celebrate New Year in public places such as Fergusson College and JM roads.The hotels and restaurants, meanwhile, have not planned any big parties considering lack of clarity from the government.Mohol’s remarks come in the wake of state government imposing night curfew from Tuesday evening till January 5. The curfew will be effective in all the municipal corporation areas across the state from 11pm till 6am. It has decided to keep all passengers coming from Europe and Middle-East countries in institutional quarantine facilities for 14 days and other travellers will be asked to be home-quarantined.In the city, areas like Deccan Gymkhana, FC road, Pune cantonment, JM road often witness large crowd where gather to celebrate New Year.“The threat of pandemic still exists. We will have to follow precautions and avoid public function at a large level. So, we appeal all residents of Pune city to avoid the celebration of New Year at public places,” said Mohol.While written order from PMC was awaited, in Mumbai, the municipal corporation has appealed people not to celebrate New Year in public places and stop busting crackles.Santosh Zagade, excise superintendent, said, “We have not given permission to hotels or any other type of liquor establishment to function in absence of guidelines from the state government. The directives issued by the state will be implemented vigorously.”Prominent restaurateur Ikram Khan of Sohos Toscana, hotel, said, “ We will follow guidelines of the state government regarding the functioning of the hotels. The industry is already reeling under severe crisis and more than eighty per cent of the hotel industry is over. We need strong pro-active steps by the government to boost the hotel trade which currently has hit rock bottom.”Joint commissioner (Law and Order) Dr Ravindra Shisve, said, “We cannot comment today and we are waiting for the orders. We want the clarify our position to the citizens only after we receive the order in black and white.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-new-year-celebrations-in-public-places-says-mayor/story-UoB8s78UKlqXZ8eXf3tPJJ.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 362 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||The state health department, on Monday, reported 362 fresh Covid-19 cases. Five Covid-related deaths in 24 hours have also been reported in the district which puts the Covid-related death toll at 7,722. The district has reported 3.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.42 lakh have recovered, and 17,190 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 96 new cases taking its final count to 86,450. Four Covid-related deaths on Monday put the rural death toll at 2,044, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 175 new cases, taking its count to 1,88,477 with one Covid-related death on Monday, putting the death toll at 4,379. PCMC reported 91 new cases taking its final count to 92,392 with no deaths reported. Its death toll stands at 1,264. The department reported that 6,053 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to 17.89 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.24%. Currently, 5,04,938 people are in home quarantine and 3,579 people are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-362-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-deaths/story-at6irUrV8asWrLZ45SqYZI.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Jumbo facility staff to meet PMC, PMRDA officials over salary woes||Staff working at the COEP Jumbo Covid-care facility, after facing months of delay for their salaries, will now meet PMC and PMRDA officials to plead their case. The staff has alleged salary cuts and delays from the agency that runs the facilities. The agency has said that a reduced work load and unpaid dues from the PMRDA is the reason for the delay. The PMRDA, on Monday, maintained that it has released all payments from its end and that the agency must resolve all issues by Thursday. The facility was opened on COEP grounds in August, built by PMRDA and part payment for the same was made by PMC. The staff had, last week, staged a protest, where they alleged that they were paid only a part payment since September. Payment of the balance has been delayed repeatedly, is the allegation. A staff member, requesting anonymity, said, “After much negotiations and discussion with the agency Med Bros, we are forced to seek help from outside including local politicians and also the PMC and PMRDA. We were recruited on a Rs 35,000 salary per month, but have been paid Rs 18,000-20,000.” The PMC has clarified that there is no payment pending from its end. Suhas Diwase, CEO and commissioner, PMRDA, said, “There is no payment pending from our end in fact whatever payment we got from the PMC we have transferred it to the agency on the same day. We have now asked the agency to reconcile all pending payments and resolve the issue by Thursday.” Dr Shreyansh Kapale, dean at the facility, said, “The work order which was earlier for 800 Covid-19 patients has been reduced to 600 beds. We have verbal communication with the staff that their salaries would be renegotiated, which is what we are follwoing. Even the salaries of senior doctors have been reconciled, including me. However, we have sought time till Thursday to check the records and attendance of the staff and then take a call.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/jumbo-facility-staff-to-meet-pmc-pmrda-officials-over-salary-woes/story-KtojLPqf2GntM4j86ZdAdJ.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi actor protesting at Delhi’s Singhu border is poster boy of Punjab BJP||The Punjab BJP’s campaign to promote the new farm laws and assurance on the minimum support price (MSP) has failed to impress many, least of all its “poster boy”. Punjabi actor, director, producer and photographer Harpreet Singh, popularly known as Harp Farmer, who is participating in the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws at Singhu border, was shocked to find his photo making the rounds on social media on a poster of Punjab BJP’s official Facebook page. The 36-year-old Hoshiarpur-based actor criticised the BJP for using his picture without his consent and reiterated his support to the farmers’ agitation. In the poster, the BJP has used a photo taken six years ago, which shows Harpreet Singh in a farmer’s attire along with a figure of purchase of crops on MSP. The post says in this Kharif season, the purchase of crops on MSP is continuing. “Government agencies have bought rice worth Rs 77,957.83 crore at the price of MSP so far and 49% of the purchase is from Punjab alone. But some forces are misleading farmers and running their agenda,” the post said. In a video message, the actor warned of sending a legal notice to the party. “They have been shameless by using my picture in their poster, while I’m protesting against the farm laws at Singhu border. They have made me a poster boy of the BJP without my permission. I oppose the farm laws and can never be a part of their promotion. They have used my Sikh identity to show people are happy but that’s not the case. They should come to Singhu to know how many farmers are really happy. MSP is not the only issue, there are collective demands. Punjab is at Delhi’s border and we will return only after the laws are repealed,” he said. When contacted, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Kumar Sharma said he was not aware of the matter. “I’m not active on social media and IT wing handles these days but I will inquire about this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-actor-protesting-at-delhi-s-singhu-border-is-poster-boy-of-punjab-bjp/story-dHbsMxCr363vnFY0PwcOaP.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Know how to register your pet animal in Pune in 5 steps||Step 1:Three passport-size photographs of the pet animal. The three photos required will be used for the licence, vaccination card and one photo is retained with the municipal health department.Step 2:Anti-rabies certificate from a registered veterinary practitioner is a must. Photostat copy of vaccination card should indicate full name of owner, address and cell/contact number, name of the doctor or organisation/clinic of doctor who vaccinated the animal(s).Step 3: Address proof of the owner and where the pet will live. A proper address is required for the licence, which will be issued in a maximum of six working days. It will be sent to the address mentioned while applying.Step 4:Registration charges of ₹500 are to be paid in advance (₹50 per year for a period of 10 years). It is important to re-register the pet every year at the ward office.Step 5:Licence for pet animals will be issued maximum within six working days after acceptance of proper documents and necessary fees applicable. Please note that the badge is not issued along with licence.The Pune Municipal Corporation has appealed to pet owners to register pets at the earliest. According to the data available, PMC has, to date, 2,000 Pets (mostly dogs) registered “We have uploaded the pet registration rules on the website and are in the process of allowing pet registration online to save time. Due to Covid, this process has been postponed. We have decentralised pet registration process at all the 15 ward offices,” says Manisha Naik, assistant medical officer, health department.Weblink for more details: http://115.124.97.169:8080/FAQDepartment/ DepartmentDetails/6?language=EN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/know-how-to-register-your-pet-animal-in-pune-in-5-steps/story-KvxJyKYluFGbAH9X5O4s1J.html
22-12-2020||City||Forest dept safely returns strayed Indian bison to natural habitat||PUNE: After 10 and a half hours, the forest department was successful in sending the young bison that had strayed from its herd into the city limits from forest in defence area near Sutarwadi safely back to its habitat on the hills in Mulshi taluka of Pune district. The forest officials, police and ResQ team carried out various measures to ensure the wild animal does not enter city areas.Two weeks after a gaur (Indian bison) strayed into a residential area in Pune, and died after being captured, another gaur was spotted on Tuesday morning in the city, a forest official said.“A gaur has been spotted in the western part of Pune and forest officials along with the police rushed to the spot in an effort to capture the animal,” said the forest official.The bison, according to forest officials, is a 4-5 years old male spotted at the defence land beyond High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), on Sutarwadi, Pashan.As early as 8.45 am, the Pune – Bengaluru highway was abuzz with amateur photographers crowding near the odha (canal) near Sutarwadi, Pashan, where a few passers-by spotted a bison on the side of the highway. Few people from Bavdhan also spotted the wild animal along the boundary wall of HEMRL. “I was returning from walk when I spotted the huge animal, which looked like a bull, but was of much bigger built. I alerted the police,” said Kiran Dagade Patil, corporator, Bavdhan.“The bison is running near the canal trying to find its way back to the forest along the HEMRL boundary wall, but is lost,” said Sujay Dodal, chief conservator of forests, who along with many forest officials and ResQ team members at work, is trying to find ways to send him back.According to Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune, “We are not going to use tranquiliser guns. Instead will try to find ways to send him back to the forests. We have done a recce of the old natural adivasi track and tried to see the openings for leading the bison towards the forest.”The forest department, along with ResQ, NGOs like Wild Animals and Snakes Protection Society, is working to ensure that the bison does not run towards city and highway and have put up barricades made of wire mesh and cloth.Bhimrao Tamdar of Suresh Mandap Kendra is busy helping the officials. “The officials have hired 80 metres of wire mesh (thick one) almost 8 feet in height hoisted over iron stands to hold it in place and covered with a red cloth to scare the wild animal.”Many villagers from Sutarwadi claim that it is not the first time that gaur/bison is seen in the odha. “There is a break at the boundary wall and we often see gaurs grazing in odha. Today, this young one strayed further down towards the highway and was spotted,” said B Sutar, owner of the open plots on the side of odha. On December 9, a gaur had strayed into a residential area in Pune city triggering panic among residents. It died after being captured by a forest team. Following the death of Gaur, which attracted criticism, forest officials had on Monday held training for staff on how to rescue animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-indian-bison-strays-into-residential-area-in-pune-capture-attempt-on/story-sC4SRczKLcW6Li0zZHt15L.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Gaps in 39 crash barriers on e-way; free-for-all major cause of accidents||The highway police have identified at least 39 crash barrier punctures (gaps) on both sides of the Pune-Mumbai expressway, where stray animals and motorists were found intruding, leading to mishaps.According to highway police, 24 crash barrier punctures have been identified on Mumbai to Pune lane of the high-speed corridor while 15 crash barriers were found punctured from Pune to Mumbai lane of the highway.The highway police under the superintendent of police Sanjay Jadhav has submitted a report to the state government stating that some villagers had broken the security fencing at different places to reach to the highway, where only four-wheelers are allowed as per guidelines.The breaches were facilitating the movement of cattle, buffaloes, human being and two-wheeler riders and possibilities of fatal accidents cannot be ruled out, the report stated.In 2019, between January and October, 56 fatal accidents claimed 65 lives on the expressway while this year during the same time span, 53 fatal accidents were reported in which 58 people lost their lives. While the total number of accidents is comparatively less than last year — in 2019, 255 accidents were reported from January to October and 121 accidents were reported in 2020 during the same period.“We have conducted the inspection of the most vulnerable points on the expressway for the first time. These areas need to be repaired and necessary communication has been conveyed to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) for action. These places might see accidents and I have personally inspected, visited and verified each of the spots on the expressway,” said Jadhav.According to Jadhav, Wadgaon division of the highway police have communicated it to MSRDC to immediately carry out repairs of the said breaches to prevent future accidents, the highway police report states.Similarly, the highway police have been carrying out regular programmes aiming at creating awareness about the road safety measures and dangers of breaching on the expressway.The locals of the adjoining villages were summoned for the briefing programme on road safety taking place at regular intervals. The report further mentions that the MSRDC had assured the police that the punctures will be repaired at the earliest.According to Rakesh Sonawane, executive engineer MSRDC, the punctures are closed from time to time. “Local villagers in order to save time carry out these breaches. We have tried to convince through dialogues about the dangers of trespassing on the highway. Even the local policemen have been urged to take strict action in these cases. While trying to explain the risks of punctures, the locals do pick up quarrels,” said Sonawane.Independent researcher and activist Tanmay Pendse, whose brother and Marathi actor Akshay Pendse, and nephew died in an expressway accident in December 2012, said, “ Human behaviour has changed since the outbreak of Covid-19. Commuters have taken to wheels after a long time and stress levels have gone high. Now is the right time to pay attention to highway safety. Commuters are overspeeding and the median punctures are dangerous and can lead to more fatalities. MSRDC must take up the repair work at the earliest and make it safe for commuters,” he said.Nine injured in two separate accidents on December 19Nine persons were injured in two separate accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and the old Pune-Mumbai highway on Saturday because of poor visibility.In the first accident three passengers in a car were injured after it rammed into a truck ahead of it at the Bhor gate on the Pune-Mumbai expressway near Khopoli.In the second accident, six persons travelling in amini bus were hurt after the bus lost control and toppled near Khopoli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/gaps-in-39-crash-barriers-on-e-way-free-for-all-major-cause-of-accidents/story-6fJzyPrAXtB3IpHOE04YvK.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Talk the talk, and ensure our city walks the walk||Late at night, last week, I listened to ‘Conversations’, a fusion jazz music piece by L Subramaniam and Stephane Grappelli. The violinists play in turn, their melodies responding to each other to make a harmonious whole. The music reaches a peak, and then seems to start another, quieter, more reflective strand of conversation.Our public conversations are hardly like that. TV is driven by TRPs, social media is troll prone, isolating and limited by the digital divide. NGOs and social movements do organise public debates and discussions, but we can and must go further.I mean democratic forums where ordinary citizens can come together on issues they care about, to have well-informed deliberations, the results of which influence public decision-making.One may say that we elect representatives to discuss civic issues and make public decisions. But, around the world, we are seeing that representative democracy is just not enough!The problem is not only that the typical elected representative is more focused on winning the next election. The problem is in thinking that a few people, just because they were elected on the basis of some promises made, actually know best on all issues.What a responsibility to leave to elected representatives, and what a burden for them to carry!Civic issues, such as air quality, green zones, traffic, waste, housing, are complex. They have more than one side, since people in different situations experience them differently. The collective situation is changing over time and has impacts that may go unnoticed and disregarded in public decisions.A young woman travelling 20 km on a bike to a factory, a plumber cycling house-to-house for work, and a person on crutches crossing the road – each have different views on how to make their journey more comfortable.Scientists point to the increasing number of private vehicles taking up more road space; more accidents, air pollution, and climate change.Experts recommend walking, cycling and public transport. Such issues need talking through, so that we understand them better and figure out how to address them here in our own city and neighbourhoods.But, we don’t have forums for people from different walks of life to deliberate on the most important issues of our lives and times.In 2017, through the Centre for Environment Education, we conducted street surveys in Pune, on how people viewed current civic governance, their opportunities for participation, and their interest in and ability to participate.About half the respondents were dissatisfied with government decisions. Most people were interested to participate in civic affairs, but felt that they did not have opportunities to do so.Citizens’ Assemblies are in fact happening in many parts of the world. Participants in these assemblies are selected through a lottery system. In Melbourne, recommendations from a mini-public on the entire municipal budget were actually implemented.In Ireland, a citizens’ mini-public recommendations were included in constitutional reforms. Over the last few months, climate assemblies have been convened in the UK and France on country commitments. I would like to see our local government arranging citizens’ forums that include people from different walks of life in democratic dialogue and deliberation.A citizens’ jury that can examine different views, scientific evidence, and good practices in a structured way, will likely yield highly relevant recommendations that are better for people, our local environment and the planet.Such a deliberative democracy forum does not replace, but enriches representative democracy. I think it is time to practice democracy in the true sense with well-structured inclusive public forums. Let’s have civil, civic conversations!(Author: Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-talk-the-talk-and-ensure-our-city-walks-the-walk/story-GzQpfgA8v9RichwmKjsOrM.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Real estate agent kills homeless man, portrays death as his own to evade debt||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a real estate agent for killing a homeless man and portraying the half-burnt body as his own to evade paying the debt worth multiple crores, according to police. The arrested agent was identified as Mehboob Dastagir Shaikh, a resident of Rajwadenagar in Kalewadi in Pimpri-Chinchwad. A body was found in an open ground along the Bangalore-Mumbai highway stretch in Hinjewadi at 11am on November 29. The investigation began with identification of the unknown body, After following his last known whereabouts, the identity of the deceased man was found to be Sandeep Pundalik Mainkar, a resident of Mhada Society in Sant Tukaram Nagar area of Pimpri. Before it was identified, Mainkar’s body was found to be half burnt with a half-burnt document which helped the police ascertain his identity. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station. While investigating the case, the police were checking if there was a missing case registered by his relatives. However, his relatives told the police that he was never in one place and was habitual of consuming alcohol. “Upon conducting technical analysis, the police found that he came to Shivbhojan thali near Vallabhnagar ST Stand every day to have a meal and found his picture in the eatery,” read a statement by Balkrushna Sawant, senior police inspector of Hinjewadi police station. While looking for whereabouts of the deceased person, the police came across an active missing person’s case registered by Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The police identified this missing person as Shaikh. The police traced the real estate agent to be in Delhi along with his second wife. However, as the police reached Delhi, they found that he had left from there and has come back to Pune. Several teams of local police stations and Unit 4 of crime branch were formed to track him and he was found in a train at Daund railway station. Having run himself in debt worth multiple crores, the real estate agent had found a homeless man, killed him, attempted to burn his dead body, and tried to show it as his own death. After his arrest, the police found a Rs 100 bond paper made by Shaikh which claimed that he was dying by suicide due to his debt and that his body was to be found on the location where Mainkar’s body was found. The police are investigating it further as he is in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/real-estate-agent-kills-homeless-man-portrays-death-as-his-own-to-evade-debt/story-LG09UTjzNChaXbrAlhhLPM.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Man killed in shop fire in Nigdi||A man working in a computer workshop was killed in an early morning fire in Nigdi, Pimpri-Chinchwad on Monday. The deceased was identified as Agarwal (27), a Nepal national who was living and working in the shop. The shop is Vision Computer Networking and Hardware, located in Yamunanagar, Nigdi. The fire brigade received the call in the morning hours of Monday about a blaze emanating from the shop. The incident was recorded at Nigdi police station as an accidental death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-killed-in-shop-fire-in-nigdi/story-DAXj21AfgcO575w6zCyuTM.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Railway police seize 34kg hashish worth Rs 1.4 crore; two held||The officials of the Government Railway Police (GRP), Pune unit, have arrested two men and seized hashish worth Rs 1.4 crore from them.The arrested men have been identified as Lalit Kumar also known as Dayanand Sharma (49), a resident of Shamshi village in Bhuntar region of Kulu in Himachal Pradesh, and Kaulsingh Roopsingh Singh (40) also a resident of Kulu in Himachal Pradesh. They were arrested around 11 pm on Saturday (December 19).“The hashish seized from the two men weighed around 34.4 gram and could have fetched around Rs 120 crore in the black market,” according to Sadanand Vayse-Patil, superintendent of police, Government Railway Police, Pune.Of the seized narcotics, 22kg was meant to be sent to Mumbai, 5kg each to Goa and Bangalore, and 2kg was meant to be sold in Pune, said police.“They hid the hashish inside the silencers (exhaust pipes) of the vehicles and brought it to Delhi before it was transported further. We caught one of the arrested men as he was taking the bags from the railway station to a secret location. Required tests were conducted and samples have been sent for chemical analysis. I took advice from Sameer Vankhede of Narcotics CB (NCB) in Mumbai and conducted further investigation,” said Patil.From hotspots in North India, the hashish was collected in Kasol tehsil of Uttarakhand and then brought to Delhi, according to the police. The hotspots mentioned by railway police include Manali, Manali, Rasol, Tosh, Chalan, Batang, and Kasol.“We have been working on inputs for this case for the past two months. In the past four days, we received information about Delhi to Pune trains. Four officers and at least 45 staff members were deployed at entry points of the trains. At 11.05 pm on December 19, we arrested two men with 34kg hashish. This could have been sold before December 28, in light of the upcoming New Year’s Eve celebration,” said Patil.The hashish was wrapped in a black carbon-paper-kind of a layer which ensured that it evaded detection on the scanners, according to the SP.A case under Sections 8(c), 20(b), (2), and 29 of NDPS Act has been registered at Pune Railway police station.Proposal for formation of SIT to probe drug supply in and out of Maha-The GRP SP, Pune has proposed the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for the investigation of drug supply in and out of Maharashtra.-The SIT will comprise of Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune rural and GRP Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/railway-police-seize-34kg-hashish-worth-rs-1-4-crore-two-held/story-uDGFBP1kqfTnZU9WwZn2BO.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||All industries in Delhi to switch to PNG by January 31, 2021, directs air quality commission||The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas has directed all industrial units in Delhi to switch over to piped natural gas (PNG) by January 31. In one of its first big interventions, the Commission has also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to inspect and identify industries using polluting fuels and take stringent penal action against those found violating the directive.At a meeting on Tuesday, the Commission reviewed the progress of switching over of industries operating in Delhi to PNG. Representatives of the Delhi government, Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) attended the meeting. Also Read: Delhi’s economy suffered the most due to severe air pollution last year: Lancet studyAbout 1,644 of the industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi had been identified for the switch over to PNG. The Commission stressed the need to switch over by all identified industries in Delhi considering the sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the NCR or the National Capital Region.IGL and GAIL have been directed to complete the pipeline network, metering, and associated infrastructure by January 31.MM Kutty, chairman of the Commission and former Delhi chief secretary, had earlier said they were also working on a long-term solution to crop stubble fires that also pollute the region’s air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-industries-in-delhi-to-switch-to-png-by-january-31-2021-directs-air-quality-commission/story-vYvQMOvrYVUxYklyZ2jsAM.html
22-12-2020||Lucknow||Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 will soon reach India: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 will soon reach India. “I believe our scientists will complete the trials very soon as the government has... agreed to vaccinate the doctors and health care staff first,” he said in his virtual address to mark the foundation day ceremony of Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU).Singh said the Covid-19 pandemic has compelled India to fight a war that it never imagined it would. “Instead of ammunition and soldiers, we have the medical fraternity at the forefront in this war, who have worked non-stop against an enemy which cannot be seen... It is a situation which [also] prevailed some 100 years ago during the Spanish Flu pandemic.”Also Read: New Covid-19 strain in South Africa: Countries that announced flight suspensionsHe said no superman can save the people from this pandemic and called the doctors the real superheroes. “A picture shared on social media showing a superhero bowing to doctors is apt for the situation and humanity will forever remain indebted to doctors, nurses and paramedics...”Singh said KGMU should think in 2020 where it should stand in 2050. “Can’t KGMU become a world-class centre of excellence in the next 30 years?”He referred to the scarcity of health facilities in the country and added the government’s priority is health care. “But giving health care services to 135 crore people is a big responsibility. The government spends 1.16% of the GDP on health. If the private sector was not there to spend on the health sector, the situation would have been bad.”He said the Ayushman Bharat scheme was started for 100 million families to ensure no one remains deprived of health care. “Till now 1.5 crore individuals have been treated at a cost of Rs 17,000 crore.”Singh said work was also going on to increase the health infrastructure. “In 2014, there were 381 medical colleges and now there are 541.”Singh called upon doctors to join the armed forces and serve the country. “The forces need you.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-against-covid-19-will-soon-reach-india-rajnath-singh/story-1Fa5F19FRpcPvTdWiYiQCK.html
22-12-2020||Pune||“Model Schools” with modern amenities, infrastructure planned in all talukas in the state||The ‘Model School’ project will be launched in a bid to give quality education to Below Poverty Line (BPL) children and improve the standard of education in the state. Under this project in 408 Talukas across the state, one model school will be started by the state education department. The government schools built under this scheme, will be equipped with new technology and modern infrastructure making it the first of its kind. “We are now planning to develop model schools in the state, and one model school in each taluka. It will be a school with very good infrastructure, would also start catering to needs of smaller schools around. We have 408 talukas or blocks we can say in each district of our state. It will be in both rural and urban areas where these model schools are being planned and we are shortly finalising the list of schools selected for this project,” said Vishal Solanki, state education commissioner. According to Solanki, along with good infrastructure other investments will be made in these model schools with the help of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and local community support. “So that these schools will really become vibrant in those particular talukas and attract and help other schools catch up. Even the new education policy is talking about school complexes and many new things, so we are moving in that direction. We are also trying to implement recommendations made by the national education policy in this project,” he added. Through this project, the education department will be trying to make education system easier and simpler for students with BPL. One existing school from each talukas will be selected for this project and will be turned into a completely new model school and would start from next academic year. Welcoming this decision of the state government, Rakesh Zhanje, an education activist working for the rural area children education said, “The condition of schools especially in the rural parts of our state is not so good, starting from basic infrastructure and facilities it needs to be improved. Now, if the state government is planning to come up with these model schools for each taluka it is welcomed.” However, Zhanje said, it is necessary to turn each and every school in rural parts into a model school to give quality education to our students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/model-schools-with-modern-amenities-infrastructure-planned-in-all-talukas-in-the-state/story-PoasYoPTv9pRubI3lcBhwI.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Wedding season sees violation of Covid norms in city||Physical distancing and crowd norms to contain the spread of Covid-19 were seen going for a toss during marriage ceremonies in various parts of the city including that of BJP’s Malshiras Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Ram Satpute. While there is a limit of 50 people to be allowed at marriage functions as per state government directions, wedding invitees are seen in large numbers at various lawns flouting physical distancing norms. In the latest incident, the leader of the opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnvais, leader of opposition in assembly council Pravin Darekar, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil and several others were among the leaders who blessed Satpute and his wife in Pune. Sanjivan Jagdale, police inspector (crime) from Alankar police station, under whose jurisdiction the marriage venue falls said, “The marriage took place on Sunday afternoon and there was no big mob or crowd as such at one point of time as the attendees were coming and going after blessing the couple. No complaint has been received on this matter so far.” Similar incidents were spotted at several other marriage halls in the city, in another such wedding happened at one of the wedding lawns on DP Road more than 300 people were seen at the venue last week. Long queues of vehicles were parked around the venue and no social distancing was maintained properly during the wedding. Even some of the guests were not wearing the face masks at the venue. Such instances are now seen regularly around the city as the wedding season is going on. Almost on a daily basis, there are marriage ‘muhurats’ and accordingly, weddings are seen happening around marriage halls in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wedding-season-sees-violation-of-covid-norms-in-city/story-B1KdTgPJXrFhJcB6mRPRFP.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Passengers from Heathrow stuck at Amritsar airport for over 12 hours due to Covid-19 testing||The 242 passengers and 10 crew members on board the Air India flight from the United Kingdom that landed at 12.05am on Tuesday were stuck inside the terminal of Sri Guru Ram Das Jee international Airport in Amritsar for more than 12 hours as their RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 were being conducted. The alleged delay in testing led to tension at the airport as the passengers and their relatives waiting in the chill outside since midnight raised anti-government slogans. The aircraft had departed from Heathrow airport in London before India decided to suspend flights from the UK till December 31 to block a new strain of coronavirus sweeping across England. The RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test for Covid-19 was made mandatory for the passengers on arrival and they would be allowed to exit only after they test negative. The passengers who test positive would be taken to hospital or quarantine centres. Also read: 2 test positive for Covid-19 in Kolkata after arriving from LondonPASSENGERS PROVIDED FOOD, MILK: AIRPORT DIRECTOR Airport director VP Seth said that food and milk was being provided to the passengers and the reports of the tests were expected anytime. Amritsar assistant deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said the sampling process started as soon as the flight landed. “Each passenger and crew member has to undergo the RT-PCR test.” He said the airport authorities had already informed their relatives about testing. Asked about the protest by some passengers, Aggarwal said, “Usually, it takes five to six hours for clearance of all international passengers. But today it will take a few hours more and everybody should bear with us.” Punjab Police personnel were deployed to ensure the situation remained peaceful. OUT IN COLD, RELATIVES ON TENTERHOOKS The administration had shared a communiqué on Monday evening to intimate the recipients that the passengers would be kept inside for eight hours but the procedure took longer, leading to the protests. Ankush, a resident of Faridkot, said his brother Ankur had arrived on the flight. “All our family members have been waiting for him for the past several hours,” he said. Amrik Singh, whose son Sukhwinder arrived from the UK, said, “I have enquired from the airport authorities about the test report of my son for a number of times but they keep saying that it will take two hours more.” “I got a message from inside that several passengers have protested for the delay in the sampling and testing process. I fail to understand why all passengers have been detained there for more than 12 hours on the pretext of testing,” he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passengers-from-uk-protest-at-amritsar-airport-over-delay-in-covid-19-testing/story-78I3dW75HCtf3erjyn15gM.html
22-12-2020||Pune||Indian bison’s death prompts forest dept to conduct training on rescue operations||Days after the death of the Indian bison in a residential locality of Pune and a leopard was shot dead in Solapur, the forest department held a training of its staff on how to capture wild animals. After two incidents, the forest department on Monday held a daylong session on rescuing wild animals in city limits in order to prevent their lives. This training programme, held at the Rescue Transit Centre, Bavdhan was organized by the department of forest and rescue centre and focused on Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) to capture the wild animals along with crowd control management. The death of the bison last week had attracted criticism from various quarters. Around 150 people from the department of forest, police personnel, veterinary doctors and NGO’s working in the rescue attended the training programme. “We had arranged a theory and practical session for people who are part of the rescue missions in the past. This latest session was arranged in a retrospective of the two incidents that took place recently where an Indian bison which lost its way in Kothrud died of exhaustion. In another incident, a leopard, which reportedly killed eight persons, was shot dead at Karmala in Solapur district due to a man-animal conflict,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune. The training was in-depth and also important as a step to minimize the man-animal conflict which is increasing day by day, said forest officials. “We should be ready with mitigation measures, at least the front-line staff should be ready,” said Patil. The participants had brainstorming sessions with HS Prayag, senior veterinary, from the Karnataka Veterinary Animal and Fisheries Sciences as well as practical sessions where they discussed tranquillizer dosage for every animal which has a different dosage, how to handle a tranquillizer gun. The participants also practised rescue on a bull at the treatment centre. “We plan to upgrade the department with sessions every three months and create a standard protocol of how to handle such incidents,” said Patil. The training also included how to handle animals in distress, keeping distancing and using tranquiliser guns||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/indian-bison-s-death-prompts-forest-dept-to-conduct-training-on-rescue-operations/story-TmCh0a96BxO0BC5vgdLmOL.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Temperature drops to 16 degrees Celsius as winter arrives||The mercury plunged to 16 degrees Celsius, the season’s lowest, in Mumbai on Tuesday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD said temperatures are likely to remain low in the city for the next couple of days. IMD’s Santacruz station recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal, and a maximum of 32.9 degrees Celsius. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 31.6 degrees Celsius.On December 7, Mumbai recorded a minimum temperature of 17.4 degrees Celsius.Also Read: Maharashtra’s night curfew at cities to begin today: All you need to knowKS Hosalikar, IMD’s western region deputy director, said Mumbai’s short winter spell is finally here. “It is a routine weather phenomenon as temperatures usually drop during this time of the year. There is a chill in the breeze.”The air quality, which improved slightly on Monday, deteriorated on Tuesday as temperatures dropped. Mumbai reported an average air quality index (AQI) reading—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 183 (moderate).The AQI reading in Navi Mumbai was 331 (very poor category). Bandra Kurla Complex had the worst air quality with the AQI reading at 336.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-temperature-drops-as-winter-arrives/story-DMAUPyEVlBgjoWtifwAq4I.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||‘Party (nahin) chalegi till 6 in the morning’: Mumbai Police after night club raid||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday conducted a raid at a night club in which a party was being held. The police said that the party was stopped for flouting Covid-19 norms and action initiated against 34 people.The raid was conducted at 3am.“Party (Nahin) Chalegi Till Six In The Morning (the party won’t go on till 6 am)! A raid was conducted at a nightclub in Andheri at around 3 am, for flouting COVID prevention norms. Action has been initiated against 34 people, out of which 19 were from Delhi & Punjab, including some celebrities,” the Mumbai Police said on Twitter. Party (Nahin) Chalegi Till Six In The Morning! A raid was conducted at a nightclub in Andheri at around 3 am, for flouting COVID prevention normsAction has been initiated against 34 people, out of which 19 were from Delhi & Punjab, including some celebrities #NewNormalThose arrested have been booked under relevant Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections, including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), news agency PTI quoted a police official as saying. Cricketer Suresh Raina and singer Guru Randhawa are among those booked.Ahead of the Christmas and New Year celebrations, the Maharashtra government has announced a night curfew across all cities and municipal corporation areas. The curfew from 11pm to 6am is being imposed from Tuesday, December 22, 2020, for 15 days until January 5, 2021.The decision has been taken to check the spread of the coronavirus disease as people were found violating social distancing norms. “This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated,” BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said.According to an official statement, it has also been decided to compulsorily put in institutional quarantine for 14 days those who arrive at the states airports from European and West Asian countries.Essential services like vegetable and milk supply will remain unaffected during the night curfew, but more than five people cannot assemble at a place during the seven-hour period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/party-nahin-chalegi-till-6-in-the-morning-mumbai-police-after-raid-on-night-club/story-hpuWfIwTb5EZTbzV8n9H8L.html
22-12-2020||Kolkata||Will BJP leaders quit if party fails to get 200 seats in WB, asks Prashant Kishor||A day after claiming that the BJP will not cross double digits in the West Bengal assembly polls, election strategist Prashant Kishor on Tuesday challenged its leaders to say on record that they will quit their positions if the party failed to get 200 seats.“BJP will struggle to cross double digits and will get less than 100 seats in West Bengal. Will quit my work if they do,” Kishor told PTI, reiterating his assessment.He also clarified that if the saffron party does any better than what he has predicted, he would quit his work.Kishor, who managed Narendra Modi’s successful campaign for prime ministership in 2014, has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to boost her party’s prospects in the West Bengal assembly polls likely in April-May next year.On Monday, he tweeted that the BJP would struggle to cross double digits in West Bengal, setting off a war of words with BJP leaders on the microblogging website.His remarks came after senior BJP leader and Union Minister Shah’s visit to West Bengal during which political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, nine MLAs and a TMC MP joined the saffron party.Shah, considered the architect of the BJP’s resurgence in West Bengal, had asserted that his party will win over 200 seats in the upcoming polls.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s pointsman in the state, took a swipe at Kishor, saying the country will end up losing a poll strategist after the West Bengal elections.“Given the ongoing BJP tsunami in Bengal, once the new government is formed, the country will have to lose an election strategist,” Vijayvargiya quipped in Hindi on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-bjp-leaders-quit-if-party-fails-to-get-200-seats-in-wb-asks-prashant-kishor/story-FfpwFelMzzejT2eAyXfJqN.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Gurbani of no use if it does not change a person’s thoughts: Shiv Sena on PM Modi’s gurdwara visit||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday wondered what will be the outcome of the ongoing farmers’ protest after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited a gurdwara and sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose followers are among those protesters.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ was referring to Modi’s visit on Sunday to Gurdwara Rakabganj in Delhi where he paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice.Guru Teg Bahadur, whose death anniversary was observed on Saturday, was cremated at the Gurdwara Rakabganj.Thousands of farmers, including Sikhs, have been protesting near the Delhi borders since November 26 against the Modi government’s three new farm laws.The editorial in the Marathi daily said farmers from Punjab did not flinch even when Modi reached the gurdwara, “turning his back towards the Sikh peasants protest”, and continued with their demonstration. “Prime Minister Modi sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur. Happy about it. Thousands of Sikh fighters are also fighting (protesting) from the same inspiration near Delhi border. Hence, it is a question what will be the outcome of the battle,” the editorial said.It said ‘gurbani’ was being played when the prime minister reached the gurdwara.The gurbani says services and devotion towards God will be of no use if one does not change his/her thoughts, the editorial noted.The gurbani says reading holy religious book several times will be of no use if one does not understand its teachings, and also asks what will one do when his/her time comes and an account of his/her deeds is checked, it said.The gurbani mentions that none could defend himself from time, it added.It is “not right” that Modis political opponents criticise him for anything he does, the editorial said in a cryptic remark and asked what is there to be restless if he visited the gurdwara.Modis opponents are alleging “politics” behind the prime ministers visit to the gurdwara and asking why are the farmers from Punjab protesting in the cold if he loves Sikhs so much, it said.“...but none should question Modi’s faith. Guru Tegh Bahadur was a great saint. The Guru accepted martyrdom for humanity, principles and ideals...he was the protector of religion. Hence, not only Sikhs, everyone on this land should bow before Guru Tegh Bahadur,” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gurbani-of-no-use-if-it-does-not-change-a-person-s-thoughts-shiv-sena-on-pm-modi-s-gurdwara-visit/story-59KK5bqyCuhtryQwvvAifM.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Passengers arriving from UK protest at Amritsar airport over delay in Covid-19 testing||Passengers who arrived at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport from the UK protested against the authorities over the alleged delay in carrying out their coronavirus tests. Their family members on Tuesday claimed that they have been made to wait for hours. The authorities, however, said the clearance may take some more time as every passenger and crew member will have to be tested for coronavirus. The Air India flight from the UK with 250 passengers and 18 crew members had landed at 12.30 am last night. India has suspended all passenger flights from the UK till December 31 in the wake of the emergence of a mutated variant of coronavirus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban. Moreover, passengers coming from the UK through flights till Tuesday midnight will be tested for Covid-19 on arrival at airports. Relatives of passengers told the media that several passengers protested at the airport due to the delay in testing for the infection. Ankush, a resident of Faridkot in Punjab, said his brother Ankur has arrived from the UK on the flight. “All our family members have been waiting for him for the past several hours,” he said, accusing the authorities of not informing them about the time to be taken for his clearance. Amrik Singh, whose son Sukhwinder arrived from the UK, said he could not meet him yet. “I have enquired from the airport authorities about the test report of my son for a number of times but they keep saying that it will take two hours more,” he said. “I got a message from inside that several passengers have protested for the delay in the sampling and testing process. I failed to understand why all passengers have been detained there for more than 12 hours on the pretext of testing,” he said. A team of health authorities deputed at the airport took samples of all passengers and crew members. Amritsar Assistant Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said the sampling process started as soon as the flight landed last night. Each passenger and crew member will have to undergo a RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, he said, adding that passengers were provided with food. He said the airport authorities had already informed their relatives about testing. To a question on the protest by some passengers, Aggarwal said, “Usually, it takes five to six hours for clearance of all international passengers. But today it will take a few hours more and everybody should bear with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passengers-arriving-from-uk-protest-at-amritsar-airport-over-delay-in-covid-19-testing/story-nMwzVYEkU7Vhqu0MgjZrEO.html
22-12-2020||City||J&K: Counting of votes for DDC polls underway; PAGD leads in Kashmir, BJP in Jammu||Counting of votes polled in the District Development Council elections in Jammu and Kashmir, the first direct election in the newly carved union territory, is underway.As of 1.10pm, the state election authority has published leads for 224 seats out of the total 280 across the 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Almost 13% of roughly three million votes polled in the eight-phase election have been counted so far.The early trends give the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) – an amalgam of several political parties that joined hands after the effective nullification of the erstwhile state’s special constitutional position – a clear lead.The alliance was leading in 87 seats, or 39% of seats for which the trends are known. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is emerging at the second position with a lead in 54 seats (24%). The Congress, which has been one of the leading political forces in Jammu and Kashmir, was leading in only 26 seats, while the newly formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party has so far been able to manage a lead in only 10 seats.Another clear trend as of now is that the pre-existing political polarisation between the Hindu-majority Jammu and Muslim-majority Kashmir regions has continued in the latest round of elections.As of 1.10pm, the PAGD was leading in 64 of 111 seats in Kashmir, for which the trends were known, while the BJP managed to have a lead in only 2 seats. In the Jammu region, on the other hand, the BJP was leading in 52 of the 115 seats for which the trends were known, while the PAGD managed to have a lead in 23 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-counting-of-votes-for-ddc-polls-underway-pagd-leads-in-kashmir-bjp-in-jammu/story-a9yIATJu16fwcFHmMWPcRN.html
22-12-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt launches affidavit-based approval system to assist business||In an effort to enhance the ease of doing business in Karnataka; Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa launched the affidavit-based approval system (ABAS) on Monday.ABAS is launched as a part of the amended Karnataka Industrial (Facilitation) Act and will enable investors to establish a business without multiple clearances for the first 3 years.Speaking at the launch event, Yediyurappa said Karnataka is a forerunner state when it comes to providing an investor-friendly ecosystem for the business community and various stakeholders.“The amendment in the Karnataka Industrial (Facilitation) Act is a milestone which would enable investors to establish their business without any clearances or approvals from various departments for the first three years. We are committed to the development of a state-of-the-art business ecosystem in the state, and we have been taking several measures to ensure that the state’s commitment to providing ease in doing business in the state of Karnataka,” the Chief Minister said.He further said that in terms of business reforms, Karnataka has taken various historic steps to improve the business climate for various stakeholders.“These reforms include land reforms, labour reforms, auto-renewal of various licences and clearances and central inspection system. I have no doubt that with the help and support of investors and industry representatives, we will achieve the goal of inclusive and sustainable growth for Karnataka,” he added.The Chief Minister tweeted about the launch of ABAs and said it will help in providing an investor-friendly ecosystem for businesses in the state.“Launched affidavit based approval system, a historic reform that will enable investors to establish a business without multiple clearances for the first 3 years and provides an investor-friendly ecosystem. This reform will enhance the ease of doing business in Karnataka,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-launches-affidavit-based-approval-system-to-assist-business/story-7ckDqdw8b7Wkh0gbgu9lbN.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Passengers from UK quarantined amid new coronavirus strain concerns||Passengers arriving from the United Kingdom (UK) in Mumbai on Tuesday morning have been sent for institutional quarantine in the wake of the new coronavirus strain. People who came to receive them said, “Government should have informed us before. Didn’t passengers board flight after being permitted by authorities?”Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner, Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday said, “No flights to land from UK post 2:30 am. Passengers who have boarded flights will undergo institutional quarantine. Asymptomatic people will be quarantined at hotels while symptomatic passengers will be admitted at GT Hospital.”Flight services from the UK to India have been suspended till December 31 over the spread of a new strain of coronavirus in London and England.On December 20, Prime Minister Boris Johnson informed the public that a new variant of Covid-19 virus has been found in the UK.He tweeted, “Given the early evidence we have on this new variant of the virus, and the potential risk it poses, it is with a heavy heart that I must tell you we cannot continue with Christmas as planned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-passengers-from-uk-quarantined-amid-new-coronavirus-strain-concerns/story-ZtFt94EglyoVazjfk8oOPP.html
22-12-2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav warn of action against saboteurs; predicts early election in Bihar||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has warned those who “sabotaged” the party’s prospects in the October-November assembly elections in Bihar of action while asking its workers to keep their morale high and be ready for an early election.In his address to RJD functionaries and assembly election contestants on Monday, Yadav said the party’s jailed chief Lalu Prasad has asked him to revamp the party and take action against all those who spoiled the party’s chances of returning to power. He asked the state president to take action against all those who worked against the party’s candidates.The RJD emerged as the single-largest party in the elections with 75 seats but the alliance it led failed to get the required numbers to form the government. The National Democratic Alliance returned to power with a wafer-thin majority of 125 seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly. The RJD-led alliance got 110 seats.Also Read: For the fourth time, Bihar policemen take oath against alcohol consumptionThe RJD has removed its Darbhanga district president after an audio of his campaigning against the party’s candidate went viral.“It is easier to fight the opponents but difficult to deal with back-stabbers in the party who damage the party intentionally,” said Yadav. “Everyone wants to contest polls. ...many sitting MLAs [members of legislative assembly] were also denied tickets. But party leaders should desist from sabotaging. Anybody who works against the party will face action.” Yadav also announced a divisional level review of the loss.Some RJD leaders blamed the party’s alliance partners for the loss but Yadav desisted from making any direct comments about that. “Many compromises need to be made in alliance politics,” he said.Yadav asked his party members to continue interacting with the people as elections might be held again as early as 2021. “Bihar may face election anytime. Even as early as 2021,” he said.Yadav announced a thanksgiving campaign after January 14 to express gratitude to the voters who stood by it. He said the RJD will speak about issues like irrigation, unemployment, education, etc during the campaign. Yadav attacked the Bihar government over the law-and-order situation and asked where is good governance. “Murder, rape, and loot have become the order of the day in Bihar.”He urged his party members not to be demoralised as the RJD-led alliance failed to form the government by a whisker. “We failed to form the government by just 12,500 votes. Voters gave us the mandate but the EC [Election Commission] failed us. We will go out to thank people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/tejashwi-yadav-warn-of-action-against-saboteurs-predicts-early-election-in-bihar/story-RZJFYhWNKUvQaAUGdwtkoI.html
22-12-2020||Lucknow||AMU represents diverse and strong India, we should not let it weaken, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday proud alumni of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) represent India’s culture across the world as he praised the varsity’s unprecedented contribution in fighting the coronavirus pandemic.“Getting thousands of people tested free of cost, building isolation wards and plasma banks and contributing a large amount to the PM Cares Fund shows the seriousness of fulfilling your obligations to the society,” he said.The Prime Minister added AMU has in the last 100 years also worked to strengthen India’s relations with many countries of the world. The research done at the varsity on Urdu, Arabic and Persian languages, research on Islamic literature, “gives new energy to India’s cultural relations with the entire Islamic world”, he added.“We must not forget this power of diversity nor let it get weakened. We should work together to ensure that the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat’ grows stronger day by day in the campus of Aligarh Muslim University,” he said.The Prime Minister said the country is on the path where every citizen would benefit from the development happening in the country without any discrimination. The country is on the path where every citizen should be assured about their constitutional rights and their future, he said. “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas is the mantra behind it,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister was speaking at the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) as he participated in a programme of the varsity for the first time. Prime Minister Modi also released a postal stamp during the event in the presence of chancellor Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.AMU became a University in 1920, through an Act of Indian Legislative Council by elevating the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College to the status of a Central University. MAO College was set up in 1877 by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan. The university is campus spread over 467.6 hectares of land in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh and also has three off-campus centres in Kerala’s Malappuram, Murshidabad-Jangipur in West Bengal and Kishanganj in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amu-represents-a-diverse-and-strong-india-we-should-not-let-it-weaken-says-pm-modi/story-zITrXid2QvGfeCD7k3mMIK.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Night curfew to be imposed in Maharashtra from today||Maharashtra will impose a seven-hour night curfew for 15 days from Tuesday in all major cities between 11 pm and 6 am to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. This effectively means the New Year parties and functions will be restricted.The move to impose the curfew comes as a precautionary measure considering mutations found in British samples of the coronavirus that may help the virus spread more easily.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who announced the night curfew, has asked people to be more vigilant for the next 15 days.Also Read: Mumbai civic body prepares blueprint for Covid-19 vaccine driveMaharashtra on Monday recorded 2,834 Covid-19 cases that took the state’s tally to 18,99,352. The state crossed the 1.8 million cases on November 26. The state has been reporting fewer than 5,000 cases for 17 consecutive days. Officials said they have been taking all precautions as a potential second wave may hit the state in January.“There is no doubt that our situation is showing an improvement as we are getting less Covid cases. This is the reason, the period of completing one lakh cases is increasing if compared with the previous figures,” said a health official.The active cases in the state have reduced to 59,469. They account for 3.13% of the cases reported so far. The toll from the pandemic mounted to 48,801 on Monday as 55 fresh deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-night-curfew-to-be-imposed-in-maharashtra-from-today/story-Z5por0Kp25iIPSLE93R25O.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 15% reduction in water supply for 24 hours, starting today||Mumbai will witness a 15% reduction in water supply for a day starting Tuesday, as announced by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last week. Two administrative wards, L ward (Kurla) and N ward (Ghatkopar), will not have water at all between December 22 and December 23.A press statement issued by BMC last week stated, “Repair work of Chlorine Injection point at Yevai between Agra Road Valve Complex (Ghatkopar) to Pogava will be carried out on Tuesday.”A senior civic official said, “This is why water supply will be reduced for 24 hours from 10am Tuesday to 10am Wednesday. Citizens are requested to store water and use carefully.”Also Read: Mumbai civic body prepares blueprint for Covid-19 vaccine driveExcept L ward and N ward, all other wards will witness a 15% reduction in water supply . On an average, households in Mumbai receive water supply for around three or four hours every day. The BMC supplies 3,750 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand of 4,200 million litres. The civic body needs a stock of 14.47 million litres of water at the end of every monsoon season for it to last till the next monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-15-reduction-in-water-supply-for-24-hours-starting-today/story-LYWXQyxwlJNrX9LQOmmT5J.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||‘Baba ka Dhaba’ owner starts a new restaurant in south Delhi, Indian and Chinese on the menu||Indian and Chinese meals will be served from Tuesday at the new restaurant of Kanta Prasad, the 80-year-old dhaba owner who shot to fame in October after a video showing him sharing his woes following the loss of his business due to the Covid-19 pandemic went viral on social media.“A chef and his helper whom we have employed are busy cooking Indian and Chinese food. We will start serving it as soon as they are prepared. The Indian meal--Chawal-Dal, Roti, and Subzi--will be severed for Rs50 per plate, the same rate that we charged at our old eatery. The rate of Chinese food will be decided by the chef and my son,” said Prasad.Prasad, his wife, Badaami Devi, and their son, Azad Hind, inaugurated their new restaurant in Malviya Nagar a few hundred metres from their roadside eatery that the couple ran for decades. They have rented the space for the new Baba Ka Dhaba restaurant for Rs35,000 per month. The family has invested Rs5 lakh in renovating and buying items for running the new restaurant, said Prasad.Also Read: Delhi Police books YouTuber accused of cheating ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ owner“The new restaurant has a kitchen, a bathroom, and six tables along with chairs that can accommodate at least 20 customers at a time,” said Prasad. He added the donations that poured into his account after the video went viral helped him start his new restaurant.“Starting a new restaurant was the idea of the people who supported me or donated money,” he said.Prasad said from morning till noon, he will manage the restaurant and later his son will take the charge. “With this new restaurant, we are trying our fortune in the business. I hope people will come to our new restaurant and support us,” he said. He added his son was unemployed after he lost his job as a ward boy at a hospital.Prasad said free meals were served to 50-60 people on Monday.In the viral video, a teary-eyed Prasad was seen interacting with YouTube “influencer” Gaurav Wasan on how the Covid-19 pandemic hit his business. Prasad later filed a police complaint against Wasan for the alleged misappropriation of funds. He accused Wasan of sharing his and his family and friends’ bank details and mobile numbers with the donors to collect donations and to cheat him. Wasan has denied the allegations.The Delhi police have booked Wasan on cheating charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/baba-ka-dhaba-new-eatery-opens-in-south-delhi-indian-and-chinese-on-menu/story-Xk5DmcuNps76dSWpEQRdTK.html
22-12-2020||City||J&K: Counting of votes for district development council seats begins||Amid tight security and Covid-19 protocols, the counting for all 280 district development council (DDC) seats began in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday morning.Officials said the first result is expected by the afternoon. At every district of J&K, two to three counting centres have been setup for the smooth counting. The polling was held via ballot papers amid heavy security in eight phases—November 28, December 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 and 19. Jammu and Kashmir comprise 140 DDC seats each. Apart from that, elections were also held for 935 panchayat halqas and 11,814 vacant panch constituencies in the Kashmir division. In the Jammu division, 135 panchayat halqas and 339 vacant panch constituencies went to polls.Also Read: J&K Congress questions BJP’s review petition on Roshni land scamThese are the first elections held in J&K after the state was divided into two Union Territories and Article 370 was revoked in 2019. Unlike the panchayat polls that were boycotted by two big regional parties, National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, both contested these polls as part of an alliance, the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. The leadership of the alliance is closely watching the results and expecting to win a major chunk of DDC seats from Kashmir and some parts of Jammu region. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also hoping to win a good number of seats to portray as endorsement from the people for their policies, especially the revocation of Article 370. For the newly created Apni Party, these polls are crucial as a high number of seats could help set a political base.A day before the counting, four prominent PDP leaders, including two former ministers, were detained by the police; but officials remain tight-lipped over these arrests. The PDP has termed these arrests an attempt to manipulate DDC results.“J&K admin is on an arrest spree today. PDPs Nayeem Akhtar too has been abducted by J&K police & is being taken to MLA hostel. Looks like BJP is planning to manipulate DDC results tomorrow & don’t want any resistance. Democracy is being murdered in J&K.@manojsinha_ @JmuKmrPolice,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti late last night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-counting-of-votes-for-district-development-council-seats-begins/story-9zdYNBy829PmVCdxvUrS7O.html
22-12-2020||City||133 new recoveries in Manipur, no fresh deaths recorded||With 133 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 25,779, officials said, increasing its recovery rate to 93.11 %.Of the 25,779 recovered cases, 22,626 are from the general population while the remaining 3,153 are Central security personnel.Most new recovered patients are from 10 Covid Care facilities and 54 from home isolation facilities, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the state health department, said in a press release on Monday night.Also Read: WHO says new Covid-19 strain not yet ‘out of control’The northeastern state reported no death due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, officials said. The cumulative number of deaths continues to stand at 337.Only about 38 persons tested positive for Covid-19 at nine testing facilities in the past 24 hours.The new cases from the general population are from Imphal West (14),Imphal East (9),Thoubal (4),Bishnupur (5), Churachandpur (3)and Kakching (1), it added. The cumulative number of positive cases is 27,684 while the numbers of active cases is 1,568, the statement added.As of Monday, 511,874 people had been screened at various entry points into the state, while 466,931 individuals were tested for the disease, said officials.The state health department has also urged the public to self-isolate and contact the Covid control room or the chief medical officer for testing on coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/133-new-recoveries-in-manipur-no-fresh-deaths-recorded/story-LarrZq2qu8FOoxSpJIJAqK.html
22-12-2020||Bangalore||People who returned from UK must test for Covid: Karnataka Health Minister||In a view of the new strain of Coronavirus emerging in the United Kingdom, the Karnataka Health Minister, Dr Sudhakar K on Monday requested people to undergo RT-PCR (Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test.“We request people who have returned from abroad in the last 14 days especially from the countries including United Kingdom, Netherlands and Denmark to undergo RT-PCR test, in view of the new strain of coronavirus,” Sudhakar said while talking to media.He further said, “We have understood that this virus can spread quickly and this property is highly contagious. We need to take utmost precautionary measures.”Precautionary measures should be taken to contain spread of mutated variant of Coronavirus, he added.Passengers who are RT-PCR negative shall be under strict home quarantine for 14 days. Contact details of all such passengers should be informed to District Surveillance Officers for quarantine follow-up, according to the circular issued by the state government.Flight services from UK to India have been suspended till December 31 as a precautionary measure of overspread of a new strain of coronavirus in London and England.On December 20, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson informed the public that a new variant of the Covid-19 virus has been found in UK.He tweeted, “Given the early evidence we have on this new variant of the virus, and the potential risk it poses, it is with a heavy heart that I must tell you we cannot continue with Christmas as planned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/people-who-returned-from-uk-must-test-for-covid-karnataka-health-minister/story-78mcGh3QIc0RJ8ovMSxj4N.html
22-12-2020||City||Two employees of oil drilling company abducted in Arunachal Pradesh||Two employees of a private oil drilling company were abducted by a group of unidentified miscreants in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district on Monday evening. According to officials, around 10 armed miscreants and took away PK Gogoi, a drilling superintendent, and Ram Kumar, a radio operator, from the company’s drilling location in Diyun, on foot. “Ten people had come and abducted the two persons from the drilling site. The incident took place around 6.30pm,” said Devansh Yadav, deputy commissioner of Changlang. Gogoi is a resident of Sivasagar in Assam while Kumar hails from Bihar. The company, Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited, operates oil and gas drilling sites in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. Also Read: Over 8,000 security personnel for Arunachal panchayat, municipal pollsAccording to reports, the miscreants had come looking for another employee of the company. But since he was on leave, they took away Gogoi and Kumar. The incident is believed to be the outcome of an unfulfilled extortion demand. “There is no confirmation on which group or militant outfit have carried out the incident. We have informed police of the nearby district as the incident took place near the border. Hopefully, we will get some positive news soon,” said Yadav. Changlang district shares its borders with four districts of Arunachal Pradesh, Tinsukia district of Assam as well as with Myanmar. The area is frequented by rebels from the Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) and United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-employees-of-oil-drilling-company-abducted-in-arunachal-pradesh/story-pPChvwvuHVY64WxOUPgpLO.html
22-12-2020||Lucknow||PM Modi addresses Aligarh Muslim University centenary celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) as the chief guest on the centennial celebrations on Tuesday—December 22. AMU, set up in 1920, completes 100 years.On the occasion, PM Modi will release a special commemorative postal stamp via video conferencing and address the online event which will begin at 10.00am.PM Modi’s address can be viewed on pmindiawebcast.nic.in. The live programme would be online due to the pandemic.Also Read: Ahead of PM Modi’s address, AMU faculty calls for unityThe centenary celebration programme will also feature union education minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank as the guest of honour.The programme will begin with introductory remarks by AMU vice-chancellor, Professor Tariq Mansoor, to invite the Prime Minister for his address. Professor Mansoor will later deliver the welcome speech to invite Pokhriyal for his speech.AMU chancellor, His Holiness Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin will also deliver a special commemorative address.Professor Ali Mohammad Naqvi (director, Sir Syed Academy) will speak on the achievements of AMU in 100 years, while Professor Naima Khatoon (principal, Women’s College) will talk on AMU’s contribution in women’s Education.The national anthem and the university tarana (song) will be played after a customary vote of thanks by AMU registrar Abdul Hamid (IPS).The event will be attended by present students, teachers as well as thousands of alumni of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pm-modi-to-address-aligarh-muslim-university-centenary-celebrations-today/story-pnAIqIoV8iurMpxQgWfrsJ.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi-Meerut Expressway blocked again||Vehicular movement at Delhi-Meerut Expressway completely stopped around 7.30am Tuesday as the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border for the past 27 days blocked all its carriageways. At 7.37am, the Delhi Traffic Police used its Twitter handle to update the public about the closure of the carriageways at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh also confirmed the blockade at the border by the protesting farmers.Also Read: Govt open to more tweaks if farm talks resume: OfficialThe sudden blockade of the expressway has prompted the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Police to divert traffic to alternate borders, such as the ones at Anand Vihar, Bhopra and Apsara. Keeping in view that the blockade may lead to traffic chaos during the morning office hours, officials from the Uttar Pradesh administration and Delhi Police are discussing the reopening of at least one carriageway with the protesting farmers. Farmers protesting at the UP Gate border have occupied the expressway’s carriageway and service roads going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad since they began their agitation last month.This is the second time since Monday afternoon that the expressway has been completely blocked by the farmers, who are alleging that several farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand were stopped from proceeding to Delhi borders and join the agitation.The near hour-long blockade on Monday was cleared after the officials of the UP administration assured the farmers that nobody will be stopped from going towards the borders. The Singhu and Tikri borders where thousands of farmers are protesting continue to remain closed while one carriageway at the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border is open for vehicles entering Delhi from Noida. Motorists going to Noida are being diverted to other borders such as DND, Kalindi Kunj, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli, and Dallupura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-meerut-expressway-blocked-again/story-J3GZlUSrATodnUwi1tzikK.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi pollution continues to rise, temperature set to drop further||Pollution levels in the national capital continued to increase on Tuesday and its air quality index (AQI) reading reached 350 at 7am, which is considered to be in the "very poor" zone. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall AQI reading of Delhi on Monday was 332, in the "very poor" category. This was a few points higher than the AQI reading of Sunday, which was 321, also in the "very poor" range. India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that on Monday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording of the city, was 5.5 degrees Celsius. This was three degrees below the season’s average. Also Read: Frost in plains, lower hills of Himachal likely to damage cropsThe maximum temperature was 22.4 degrees Celsius.On Sunday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory was 3.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s normal. This was the lowest recording for the season. Scientists said that the spike in the temperature was because of the passing of a western disturbance in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. “This marginal rise in the temperature was an impact of the western disturbance in the hills. By Tuesday, however, the temperature will start falling again and we are expecting it to come down to around 3 degrees Celsius in the coming days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-pollution-increases-temperature-to-fall-further/story-PyOrBvZSN2IiMlGdAWNNjO.html
22-12-2020||City||Haryana Democratic Front promises mayor window in election manifesto||Former state minister Nirmal Singh-led Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) on Monday presented their election manifesto and promised to introduce “mayor window” at the municipal corporation (MC) if chosen to power.Presenting the manifesto at the party office in the presence of mayoral candidate Amisha Chawla and senior leader Bittu Chawla, front’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara said that Nirmal had assured all basic issues were covered. “Under the mayor window initiative, a direct public contact system with the mayor herself for redressal of grievances concerned with the civic body will be established and Chawla will try to resolve such complaints at the earliest. We will bring ‘corporation-to-door’ to provide facilities at the homes for the locals and a special window for women and the elderly at the office,” she said. “We will open ward-level dispensaries to make healthcare more accessible. There are plans to provide house tax exemption for houses smaller than 100 yards and general reduction for others, in a way that the revenue model is also not disturbed. Getting an NOC has been a tough task due to unwanted garbage collection fees, but we’ll ensure a solution in a fixed time frame. We will also provide ownership rights of corporation shops to old tenants at collector rates,” Chitra added.The front has also promised a master plan for water drainage and maintenance of roads and street lights in a planned manner. HDF is the first political party to present the manifesto in the city.Meanwhile, the BJP and Congress leaders said that their process was underway. BJP escalated the campaigning with a road show on Monday and CM Manohar Lal is also scheduled to address two public rallies and several meetings here on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-democratic-front-promises-mayor-window-in-election-manifesto/story-8qA6PUxOb9Jezwnf1OaspM.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Affordable rental housing scheme: MoS hands over possession letters, keys to 15 families in Maloya||Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai handed over the possession letters and keys of houses at Maloya to 15 families under the affordable rental housing scheme (ARHS) here at the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Monday.Rai congratulated all 1,700 beneficiaries of the ARHS and asked them to maintain cleanliness and hygiene. He stated that two-room flats with kitchen space, with attached baths and balconies will provide them dignified living.Rai advised the administration to ensure that all beneficiaries of the scheme were linked with other welfare schemes initiated by the Prime Minister.The Chandigarh administration had appointed the CHB as state-level nodal agency and concessionaire for the scheme. The initial monthly rent has been fixed as ₹3,000 with biennially enhanced by 8% and the maximum rental period under the scheme is 25 years.As many as 2,195 vacant small flats at Maloya were earmarked and it was decided to relocate occupants of Prefab shelters at Sectors 52 and 56 under the scheme. The CHB has allotted 1,703 flats to the families staying in the shelters.Schemes implemented in UT reviewedRai also reviewed the central government development schemes being implemented by the UT administration at a meeting held at the UT State Guest House here on Monday. A brief presentation on the 47 schemes of various sectors including education, social welfare, agriculture, housing and urban affairs, health etc, being implemented in Chandigarh, was made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/affordable-rental-housing-scheme-mos-hands-over-possession-letters-keys-to-15-families-in-maloya/story-QOX3LmZ2C7ds7DESnz6BmL.html
22-12-2020||City||MP Manish Tewari lays foundation stones of high-level bridge, road repair works in Mohali||Member of parliament Manish Tewari on Monday laid the foundation stone of the high-level bridge (HLB) being built over Patiala ki Rao river at Nayagaon to Singha Devi Temple, which has been approved under NABARD and will be constructed at a cost of ₹403.59 lakh.Tewari said the project will be completed within six months. He said Singha Devi was an important village and the historical temple there was visited by thousands of devotees from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and nearby villages.Due to unavailability of a bridge over the rivulet, the temple would be cut off from main land during the rainy season.19-km roads to be repairedEarlier in the day, Tewari also laid the foundation stone of construction and strengthening work of 19 km of roads. He informed that arrangements had been made to make the road from Boothgarh village to Haripur an “all-weather road”. This road serves as the shortest route from Chandigarh to Ropar due to which heavy traffic passed over it. So, widening and strengthening of this road will be immensely beneficial, he said.Navagaon to Kane ka Bara to Tanda Karoran Pinjore road is an interstate road that will act as a shortcut for patients coming from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh to PGIMER, Chandigarh. Widening/strengthening and new construction of the road will reduce the distance from Pinjore to PGIMER by 5km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mp-manish-tewari-lays-foundation-stones-of-high-level-bridge-road-repair-works-in-mohali/story-6NqGB339jGGeRtAnDLaKwO.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College eyes centrally-funded institute tag, fresh proposal to be sent to Chandigarh admn||With the Punjab Engineering College (PEC) eying the centrally-funded technical institute (CFTI) tag, a fresh proposal is being prepared that will be presented to the UT administration.In a recent communication, the UT education department had asked PEC to send a fresh proposal with the inclusion of more suggestions. The institution has already given up on its long-standing dream to get an IIT tag.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi had made a presentation to the secretary education, UT administration, Sarpreet Singh Gill in October. It was first scheduled in March, but was postponed due to the pandemic.A letter sent to PEC earlier this month had asked the institute to incorporate more suggestions in the proposal. PEC is a grant-in-aid institution under the Chandigarh administration.The institution became a deemed university in 2003. It is said that the college was closer to getting an IIT tag in the late 1950s when many IITs were established in the country.CFTI tag game changer for PECPEC has not seen any major infrastructure revamp in recent years and getting a tag of CFTI is considered a game changer for the institution. The institution can hire more faculty and its budget will also increase.Sanghi said, “The institute will become more autonomous if we get a CFTI tag. It will improve our quality and we will attract students from all over the country.”“Some central government schemes are only for the central institutes,” he added. At present, over 3,000 students are enrolled at PEC, but the infrastructure and resources are lesser than what the institute needs for its student strength.PEC offers eight undergraduate programmes and 14 postgraduate programmes, besides PhD programmes in various disciplines of engineering, science and others fields.At 68, PEC went up by 10 notches in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) list for 2020. The institute is slated to improve more in rankings if it gets the central institute tag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-eyes-centrally-funded-institute-tag-fresh-proposal-to-be-sent-to-chandigarh-admn/story-8qkWgQOlSU92RTbLg1nmhO.html
22-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP vs TMC politics sparks family drama||A family drama starring a couple torn apart by politics, a likely divorce notice, the near-collapse of a 10-year-old relationship, an emotionally charged press conference beamed on live television, and tearful bytes to the media. Twists and turns straight out of a Bollywood movie played out on West Bengal’s political stage on Monday, shortly after a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian’s wife joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state where elections are due in early 2021. The decision by Sujata Mondal Khan, wife of the BJP’s Bengal youth front president Saumitra Khan, resulted in some melodramatic exchanges between the two, aired on news channels. “I am heartbroken to see 10 years of companionship coming to an end in this manner. The Lakshmi (the Hindu goddess of prosperity) of my home has been stolen,” Saumitra Khan, 39, said at a press conference as tears rolled down his cheeks. “Sujata, I will send you papers for mutual divorce. Please sign them and do not use Khan, my surname, from today,” he added. About an hour later, it was Sujata Khan’s turn. “I married him going against the wish of my family. I love him and will always do so. I still have the red sindoor (vermilion) on my forehead (a sign of a married woman),” she responded in front of reporters. “Can a personal relationship end in divorce because of politics? No TMC leader told me that I have to divorce him to join the party.” Sujata Khan alleged that the BJP was filling its ranks with corrupt and ambitious leaders. She said she hadn’t been shown any respect in the BJP although she worked hard for it. The 32-year-old did not hold any significant post in the BJP. The move triggered unprecedented drama, with Saumitra Khan calling a media conference and declaring that he would send his wife divorce papers in 24 hours. Saumitra Khan is a former TMC leader who joined the BJP in January 2019. He was the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Bishnupur in Bankura district. He retained the seat by contesting for the BJP and was made president of the state BJYM about three months ago. Speaking at the TMC headquarters in Kolkata , before her husband reacted, Sujata Khan said: “I observed with pain that people who are corrupt and overambitious, those who can be called rotten apples, are being herded into the BJP. There is no place for hardworking people who fight for their principles.” Sujata Khan was welcomed into the TMC by Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. “Sujata is like my daughter. We are happy to have her in the party,” said Roy. Her move came two days after seven TMC legislators, including prominent leader Suvendu Adhikari, and three others from the Left and the Congress joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah at a rally in Midnapore town. Jay Prakash Majumdar, state vice-president of the BJP, said: “Unlike Saumitra Khan, his wife does not have a history in politics. This does not have any political significance for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-vs-tmc-politics-sparks-family-drama/story-c2klJ5v1vD2bBL9Zu8ILUK.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver rapes 4-year-old girl, dumps her on highway in a sack, arrested||A 34-year-old driver of a luxury bus has been arrested on Monday by Bhayander police for allegedly sexually assaulting a 4-year-old girl inside the bus on Sunday evening. The accused then stuffed her in a gunny (jute) sack and threw her at a desolate spot near a petrol pump near Waliv on Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway. The girl later regained consciousness and moved around in the sack, following which locals took notice and opened the bag. They then informed Waliv police who took her to Sir DM Petit Municipal Hospital in Vasai where she is undergoing treatment.Senior Police Inspector Chandrakant Jadhav of Bhayander police station said the survivor was playing with her friends inside a parked luxury bus on Sunday afternoon near Bholaram slum in Bhayander (West) when the bus suddenly started moving. While the others managed to alight the moving bus, the minor remained inside.After noticing the minor, the driver parked the bus near a desolate spot, sexually assaulted her and then strangled her. Jadhav added that the accused thought the minor was dead when she lost consciousness. He then stuffed the girl inside a jute sack and dumped it near a petrol pump at Fatherwadi, Vasai.Waliv police had initially registered a case against unknown persons.Meanwhile, the survivor’s mother found out about her getting stuck in the bus and went to Bhayander police station. The police then launched a search operation for her and informed nearby police stations, Jadhav added. After checking CCTV footage from nearby areas, the police identified the accused driver and arrested him on Monday under sections 376(2)(i), 376(3) (rape), 307 (attempt to murder), 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The arrested accused was produced before the Thane court and has been remanded in police custody till December 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-driver-rapes-4-year-old-girl-dumps-her-on-highway-in-a-sack-arrested/story-KjdsnG0MSbLtU9YIJrKBRJ.html
22-12-2020||City||Properties of 15 rice millers in Karnal||Having failed to recover rice costing about Rs 60 crore, the Haryana food and supplies department has attached the properties of 15 rice millers in Karnal district. As per information, these rice millers were deputed for procurement of paddy last Kharif harvesting season as per the Custom Milling of Rice policy of the state government, were to return 67% of the total paddy procurement.But they failed to return it and the difference in the recovery of the rice was around Rs 60 crore, following which the food and supplies department decided to attach the properties of these mills for the recovery of the money. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the properties have been attached as these mills could not return the rice as per the agreement. He said that the revenue department will conduct the auctioning process. He said that the money recovered from the sale of properties of these mills will be deposited with the state exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/properties-of-15-rice-millers-in-karnal/story-vovefRWnyjxbQFf30z0obJ.html
22-12-2020||City||5-yr-old girl raped, killed in Jhajjar||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a man residing in her neighbourhood in Jhajjar city on Sunday night, police said.The victim’s father, a migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh, said the accused, who is a history-sheeter, had come to his rented accommodation on Sunday night when he was not present and taken his five-year-old daughter.“When I returned from the market, my daughter was missing. On suspicion, I went to the house of the accused but he did not open the door. Then I broke open the door and found him in inebriated condition while my daughter was lying dead on the floor,” he added.Jhajjar superintendent of police Rajesh Duggal said, “We have arrested the accused, who is already facing eight cases in various police stations of Jhajjar and Rajasthan. We have handed over the girl’s body to her family after post-mortem examination. The accused was produced before the court and sent to one-day police remand,” the SP added.As per doctors, preliminary report confirmed rape before the girl’s death. Jhajjar city police has registered a case under Section 302 (murder), 376AB (rape on woman under twelve years of age) and 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the Indian Penal Cpde, and Section 6 of the POCSO act and SC-ST Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-yr-old-girl-raped-killed-in-jhajjar/story-v0Zs1B0XfCumbK8lbUGwkL.html
22-12-2020||City||Week-long Gita Mahotsav begins in Kurukshetra||Himachal Pradesh chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the International Gita Mahotsav at Haryana’s Kurukshetra on Monday. In view of the pandemic, the celebrations are expected to be subdued this time. While earlier, the extravaganza used to continue throughout the month, this time the celebrations will last for only a week. The government has also banned gatherings near the Brahma Sarovar, where the main events are to be held. However, all programmes will be livecast for the benefit of devotees. While inaugurating the event the Himachal CM said, “Gita is not merely a book, it is a treasure source of knowledge about life and a medium to learn the art of living.Gita teaches us how to counter stress, indecision and lack of happiness caused by the glitter of modern life based on materialism and mad-race for money. It also teaches us how to rightly conduct ourselves in different contexts of life.” Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, who presided over the ceremony virtually, said, “The message of Lord Krishna delivered in Bhagwad Gita is about selfless action which is the base of all-round growth and welfare of humans, society and the entire world.” Main events to look forward to: Recitation of Gita verses in Jyotisar: December 21 to 26 Sant Seminar at Kurukshetra University: December 24, 2020. Global chanting of mantras: December 25, 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/week-long-gita-mahotsav-begins-in-kurukshetra/story-RfmuSD4KGekg8foaNgOU5N.html
22-12-2020||City||Veggie prices crash, Haryana farmers say unable to even recover input cost||Wholesale prices of several vegetables have seen a sudden slump in the past few days, with farmers claiming that they are not even able to recover the input cost. Traders say the dip is due to the glut in local mandis as they are not able to transport the vegetables to Delhi mandis due to the ongoing farmers’ protests.The prices of not just seasonal vegetables, but even cash crops, such as spinach, coriander and methi leaves, have reported a decline.Seasonal vegetables, such as cauliflower, carrots and radish are being sold at Rs 1 to 2 per kg. The rate of cauliflower was Rs 30 a kg last month. Farmers say they have no option but to plough the standing crop despite the falling prices as they have to prepare for the next crop cycle.“I had ploughed three acres of radish but there were no buyers in the open market so I had to settle with the wholesale rates as otherwise I would have had to dump the crop,” said Satish Kumar, a farmer from Yamunanagar. The slump has especially hit those farmers who had taken land on lease for cultivation. Nasib Singh, a farmer from Ladwa of Kurukshetra, said, “I had taken four acres on rent at Rs 53, 000 per acre. But now the prices of cauliflower have dipped to around Rs 1.50/kg. At this price, I will not get even the harvesting cost.” ‘No relief from govt scheme’Farmers, meanwhile, said the government’s Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana (BBY) too has failed to provide them any relief as the scheme comes with several conditions, including fixed schedule for sowing and harvesting. “The prices (to compensate farmers) fixed under this scheme are not enough to protect farmers from loss, and they also need a J form, which most buyers do not provide. Most famers are not even aware of the procedure to avail the scheme’s benefits,” said Om Prakash, a farmer of Indri of Karnal district. Officials of the Haryana horticulture department said the BBY scheme was launched to provide financial assistance to farmers if prices fell below a certain limit. “The prices under this scheme have been fixed to cover the input cost as the prices of vegetables keep fluctuating,” said a senior official of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veggie-prices-crash-haryana-farmers-say-unable-to-even-recover-input-cost/story-FbLanl3UOTvaBPByjkpmZL.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Airport in Sindhudurg to function from January 2021: Maharashtra CM||Flight operations from the newly-built Chipi airport in Konkan’s Sindhudurg district will commence operations from January 2021, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has announced on Sunday. Thackeray said that while the operations were to commence from May 1, 2020, it got delayed owing to the pandemic-ensued lockdown. In his address to the state on Sunday, the CM said, “The operations were to start from May. However, it got delayed owing to the lockdown as a lot of equipment was to be brought from outside the country. We will, however, start operations from January.”The airport, located close to the Goa border, will provide better connectivity to the Konkan region of Maharashtra, Goa, north Karnataka and western Maharashtra. It will further boost tourism and development in the Konkan region.In April 2019, the ministry of civil aviation had permitted Alliance Air, an Air India’s subsidiary, to operate flights from the new airport under the government’s regional connectivity scheme, Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN), which proposes to increase air connectivity to smaller cities. The airport has been built at an investment of ₹520 crore. The airport has a 2,500-metre long runway and a terminal building with a capacity to handle 200 departing and arriving passengers each. On Monday, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane said that the airport should be named after the late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/airport-in-sindhudurg-to-function-from-january-2021-maharashtra-cm/story-Ey0pq8IVqeVuMsRq9CaCZM.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||BSF, police fire at Pak drone sighted in Gurdaspur border village, 11 hand grenades recovered||The Border Security Force (BSF) troops and Punjab Police fired at a drone purportedly launched from Pakistan and recovered 11 hand grenades it dropped at a border village near Dorangla town of Gurdaspur district on Saturday night. The development comes five days after the police claimed to have busted a drone module in Amritsar district with international links and arrested two Delhi-based drone supplier-cum-assemblers. Four jailed smugglers are believed to have links with them. In a press release, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said a search operation was started immediately after receiving information from the BSF about the drone movement along the border at Chakri border outpost (BOP) around 11.30pm. He said the BSF troops fired several shots to bring down the drone. “The BSF personnel alerted the Gurdaspur police and the Dorangla station house officer (SHO) reached the area and deployed his men to fire at the drone with AK-47 and SLR rifles,” he added. A combing operation was started in the area on Sunday morning, leading to the recovery of a plastic box containing the 11 grenades at Salach village, Gupta said. He said the box carrying the grenades was attached with a wooden frame and was lowered to the ground with a nylon rope. “The drone was not recovered and it is likely to have flown back into the Pakistan territory after dropping the payload. Technical investigation is on,” he said. A case was registered under sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act at the Dorangla police station. The Austrian-made Arges-84 series hand grenades are designed to inflict massive damage against soft targets within their blast radius, spraying shrapnels out to a distance of 30 metres. Four drones, one partially constructed, a video transmitter system, drone hardware, etc were recovered recently and investigations have revealed key links between the Pakistan-based handlers actively involved in the latest drone module as well, the police said. The movement of drones from across the border is posing a fresh challenge to the Indian security agencies as spotting Pakistani drones has become a routine affair of late. In September last year, the police had busted a module of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) that was receiving weapons from across the border using drones with the help of Pakistan agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bsf-police-fire-at-pak-drone-in-gurdaspur-recover-11-hand-grenades/story-L8BGqsQMq5uyTz9ec3hK9H.html
22-12-2020||City||Ready to face any action for supporting farmers: Birender||Former Union minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Birender Singh on Monday said he is ready to face any action for supporting the farmers agitating against the Centre’s agricultural reforms. Singh, who has been touring the state under the banner of Chhotu Ram vichar manch for the last couple of days in support of the farmers, said he wants their issues to be resolved. “Standing with farmers is not a case of crossing party lines or challenging the leadership. Even when I was a Union minister, I had openly cleared my stand in favour of Jat reservation in 2016. If my party takes action against me for standing with farmers, I will neither tell them to keep me in the fold nor ask them to throw me out of the party. I want the government and farmers’ representatives to come together to break the deadlock. The issue will be solved only after a dialogue,” he said.On being asked whether he is in touch with the central leadership to end the ongoing deadlock, Birender Singh said he has told the party’s national president JP Nadda, organisational secretary BL Santhosh and Haryana in-charge Vinod Tawde that the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are “different” from farmers of the rest of the country.“I had a meeting with Tawde today. I told him ye Haryana-Punjab ke kisan hain, inse panga mat lo. Abhi time hai iss masle ko hal krlo (I told Tawde not to mess with the farmers of Haryana and Punjab, there is still time, they should resolve this issue),” he said, adding, “I am in touch with the Central ministers too.”When asked if he wants the new laws to be repealed, he said he only wants the farmers’ income to increase. “I never held that these laws are good for the farmers. During the Baroda bypoll too, I had said that various stakeholders have been talking about reforms for the last 20 years but I had never spoken in favour of these three laws,” the former Uchana MLA maintained.He further said that he wanted to join the agitation sooner but the farmers’ leaders weren’t ready to let him do so. On the possibility of him switching parties, he said there was no question of joining any other party. “I retired from active politics when the party gave my son Brijendra a Parliamentary ticket from Hisar. I will do only farmer politics now; won’t contest on any seat.”When asked if his MP son would resign to stand with him, he said, “ Do you think he (Brijendra) was happy with these laws when these were tabled in the Parliament? Not at all. He has served as an IAS officer for 21 years. He knows what he has to do as he is also attached to Chhotu Ram’s legacy.” “After the anti-defection law came into existence, legislators and parliamentarians have had to face many situations where they had to go against their wishes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ready-to-face-any-action-for-supporting-farmers-birender/story-F7pZd6JpQtTyk8XopXksjK.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ATS unit arrests two for threatening witness in drugs case||Charkop unit of the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) took custody of gangster Harish Mandvikar and Sajid Electricwala from Arthur Road jail after Mandvikar threatened a witness to give false evidence in favour of Electricwala in another case.In June 2015, the Charkop ATS had busted a unit manufacturing mephedrone (MD), a narcotics drug, and had arrested seven persons from the unit at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri (West). ATS had seized 155kg of raw and finished contraband substance from the unit.Electricwala was the prime accused in the 2015 case and was lodged in Arthur Road jail. The trial was scheduled to commence on November 26.However, a week before the hearing, the witness received threats and inducement from one, Sujit Padwalkar, to give false evidence favourable to Electricwala. When the threats continued for a few days, the witness approached the ATS Charkop unit and a case was registered under sections 195(A) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).ATS laid a trap and arrested Padwalkar while threatening and inducing the witness again on November 24. During the interrogation, Padwalkar revealed that he was threatening the witness at the behest of Sachin Kolekar alias Pintu, an associate of Mandvikar, who is also lodged in Arthur Road jail in a Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) case.Subsequently, in the same MCOCA case, Kolekar was also arrested. During his custodial interrogation, Kolekar revealed that he had instructed Padwalkar to threaten the witness, as ordered by Mandvikar. The instruction was passed on to him by the gangster via a hand-written chit from inside the prison, according to an ATS release. Mandvikar has 13 criminal cases, including two cases of murder, registered against him. He has been convicted with a sentence of life imprisonment for his complicity in murdering matka king Suresh Bhagat in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ats-unit-arrests-two-for-threatening-witness-in-drugs-case/story-0QJoBE3q52YTWc127q52yI.html
22-12-2020||City||Uniform farm laws not viable in a diverse country like India, says Punjab Agricultural University report||Uniform farm laws and policies are not viable in a country as diverse as India and legalising minimum support price (MSP) will help encourage crop diversification, said Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, in a report released on Monday. Listing the recommendations in the report titled ‘Farm Sector Laws and their Implications for Punjab Agriculture’, the university says the views of states should prevail while enacting farm laws as agriculture is a state subject. “There are extremely diverse agro-ecologies in the country. Consider for instance cropping patterns and systems in three adjoining states of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. States are in a better position to design and implement policies in sync with their strengths and weaknesses. Implementation of uniform policies across the country might be counterproductive,” the report reads. “The support being given to the farmers in the form of MSP and public procurement is just peanuts as compared to the incentives received by other sectors, especially the big corporate houses,” said PAU vice- chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon.Prof Kamal Vatta, head of the department of economics and sociology, said there should be a policy to narrow down the inequality between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors by generating income opportunities and raising earning of farmers rather than providing a free hand to big traders and corporate houses to flourish at the cost of poor farmers.“This is a major source of state revenue as industrial development got a major setback in Punjab due to huge tax rebates and incentives given to the industry in hill states. Thus, the state should be allowed to levy taxes on trade of agricultural produce outside the APMC markets also,” said Prof Vatta.Also, the report says the laws must have adequate safeguards for the farmers and the government should explore quasi-judicial forums for dispute settlement rather than leaving it to the bureaucracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uniform-farm-laws-not-viable-in-a-diverse-country-like-india-says-punjab-agricultural-university-report/story-PipflAvhbXhraxuTu3wBuJ.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||P Varavara Rao to stay at Nanavati Hospital till January 7: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state government and National Investigation Agency (NIA) to let Telugu poet and accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, P Varavara Rao stay in Nanavati Hospital till the next hearing on January 7, 2021.The court, while taking note of the 82-year-old’s current health status asked the hospital to submit the latest health report before the next hearing, and also announced that it would hear the pleas on the next date of hearing as the same was pending for some time now.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the petition filed by Rao’s wife P Hemlatha, seeking transfer of her husband to a proper hospital and bail for him in light of his health condition, was informed by senior counsels Anand Grover and Indira Jaising that Rao had responded well to the treatment after he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital. Grover, however, said that the octogenarian was having fluctuation in his blood pressure which was above normal, and had bouts of shivering. Rao was being monitored and treated continuously by the hospital.In light of these submissions, Grover sought that Rao should be granted temporary bail as both JJ Hospital and the hospital attached to Taloja prison were overcrowded or did not have the wherewithal to treat Rao. However, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare submitted that the hospital was awaiting an order of the court to discharge Rao as his condition was now stable. Thakare further added that if required Rao could be shifted to state-run JJ Hospital. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA pointed to the fact that Rao’s family had agreed that he had shown improvement and hence, there was no further need to keep him in the hospital.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that it was not keen on allowing Rao to be moved out of Nanavati Hospital till his wife’s application was not heard on merit. The court further directed the hospital to furnish the latest report on Rao’s condition before the next hearing and posted the petition for final hearing on January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/p-varavara-rao-to-stay-at-nanavati-hospital-till-january-7-bombay-hc/story-4Y6nrxeHOWsVbUJjsznu5L.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal questioned by NCB about psychotropic tablets||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday questioned actor Arjun Rampal for around six hours at its south Mumbai office in connection with psychotropic substances found at his residence in Bandra (West).A search was conducted at Rampal’s residence on November 9 after the NCB arrested his girlfriend’s brother Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national in the first week of November from Lonavala for supplying drugs to people the film industry.Zonal director Sameer Wankhede said that the agency has found some contradiction in the prescription submitted by the actor to NCB and the agency was inquiring the matter from all possible angles. “If required, we will call him again,” Wankhede added.NCB had summoned Rampal last week, and he was again asked to attend its office on Monday. Accordingly, the actor reached the NCB office around 11.30am on Monday, and left at 6.30pm, said an NCB officer.NCB had already questioned his girlfriend Gabriella.On November 13, after coming out of the NCB office Rampal had interacted with media. “I have nothing to do with drugs. NCB officers are doing a good job,” he said at the time. He, however, refused to talk to media on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-actor-arjun-rampal-questioned-by-ncb-about-psychotropic-tablets/story-s2SQUEEhVrhRXoa2f0X38J.html
22-12-2020||City||Mumbai civic body prepares blueprint for Covid-19 vaccine drive||With the prospect of India beginning its Covid-19 vaccination drive as early as January 2021, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has prepared a vaccine administration, distribution and storage plan.The civic body has identified eight hospitals as Covid-19 vaccination centres — KEM Hospital, Sion Hospital, Nair Hospital, Cooper Hospital, Bandra Bhabha Hospital, VN Desai Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital and Bharat Ratna Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital.Presently, Cooper Hospital is being developed as a model centre for vaccination, so that other centres can replicate the plan. The vaccine will be administered in three phases.Over 1.25 lakh health care workers have been identified for the first phase, front-line workers will be given the shots in the second phase and people in the high-risk category above the age of 50 years will be administered shots in the third phase. The training of 2,500 people for vaccine administration is underway at BMC hospitals. Administrative management In Phase-1 of vaccination drive, health care workers will be administered the shots. For the purpose, eight hospitals – KEM, Sion, Nair, Cooper, Bhabha, VN Desai, Rajawadi and BDBA – have been identified. Each of these centres will further identify a minimum of three-five ideal vaccination sites. The deans and medical superintendents of the hospitals have been instructed to identify dedicated team members (five per site) for the smooth and effective administration of the vaccine. A model vaccination centre at Cooper hospital is being developed, which will be replicated at the other seven hospitals. Depending upon the vaccine availability and introduction of second phase for frontline workers, BMC will start additional centres. Phase-wise immunisation For the first phase, BMC has so far identified 1.25 lakh health workers, of which data of 80,000 workers has been uploaded on the Centre’s vaccine portal. In Phase-2, frontline workers will be given the vaccine. The maintenance department of BMC is collecting the data of frontline workers from public health, sanitation, waste management services, frontline engineers, vehicle drivers, BEST and cemetery staff for the vaccination drive. In the third phase, citizens in the ‘high-risk category’ above the age of 50 will be administered the vaccine. Management of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) panel The eight centres have been identified as vaccination centres for management of adverse effects following immunisation. The existing AEFI committee will be expanded to include cardiologists, nephrologists and respiratory medicine specialists to strengthen the AEFI surveillance system for the vaccination drive. Vaccine storage facility Regional vaccine store (RVS): An area of 5,000 square feet on the first floor of BMC’s five-storey Parivar building at Kanjurmarg has been identified as the centralised spot for storing the vaccine. Administrative approval has been obtained for the building. The storage facility is as per the norms of the Union health ministry and the World Health Organization (WHO). The facility will have two walk-in coolers (WIC) and one walk-in freezer (WIF). The tenders for WIC and WIF have been invited. WIC will have a capacity of 40 cubic metres and will maintain temperature upto -80 degree Celsius, while WIF will have a capacity of 20 cubic metres and will maintain temperature between -15 and -250 degree Celsius. 17 ice-lined refrigerators (ILR), each with a capacity of 225 litres, will be supplied by the state government. Eight of these have been delivered to the eight identified vaccination centres. A technical committee for cold storage under the chairmanship of additional municipal commissioner of western suburbs, who is in-charge of the civic public health department, has been formed. The other members are technical experts from National Cold Chain Resource Centre. This committee will monitor the construction of the cold storage facility as per quality and safety norms of the Centre. A District Task Force (DTF) Committee has been formed under the chairmanship of the additional civic commissioner (western suburbs) for guidance and overall management of the entire process of introduction of Covid-19 vaccine in the district. The first meeting of DTF was held on December 11 and was attended by officials from the education, police, transport and solid waste management (SWM) departments as well as the vaccine administration partner agencies – WHO, UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) and UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). Distribution mechanism for the vaccine The distribution mechanism already existing under the routine immunisation programme shall be implemented for Covid-19 vaccine. Additional vehicles will be deployed for transporting the vaccine from the Kanjurmarg facility to the vaccine centres with the help of police. Deans and medical superintendents of the hospitals will identify dedicated persons (pharmacists or cold chain handlers) for maintaining the inventory of Covid -19 vaccine when it is made available from the central storage. Training for vaccinators A two-day state-level training was held on December 14 and 15 for vaccinators. Four senior officers from BMC’s epidemiology department, WHO, UNDP were trained as master trainers. The junior-level trainers are being trained at medical colleges, peripheral hospitals and special hospitals. These trainers will train the vaccination team members at their respective centres and field-level staff. All the trainings will be completed by January 7, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-prepares-blueprint-for-covid-19-vaccine-drive/story-neXMWC8qx5PTOHJ4S2HZxM.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects ED’s plea opposing closure of cheating case against Jet Airways||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday rejected a plea filed by the enforcement directorate (ED) for permission to intervene and oppose closure by the Mumbai Police of a cheating case against Jet Airways and its directors, Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita Goyal.A single bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere on Monday upheld a magisterial order refusing permission to ED to intervene in the matter and oppose the closure report submitted by MRA Marg police.ED had moved HC after the Mumbai sessions court rejected its appeal against the magistrate court order.The case of cheating was registered with MRA Marg police station based on a complaint lodged by the chief financial officer (CFO) of Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL). The complainant alleged that in 2018-19, ATIPL had done business of ₹900 crore with Jet Airways, of which ₹21.31 crore was yet to be paid by the airline. In addition, the complainant alleged, they also made advance air ticket bookings of ₹23.87 crore for the airline, which too was due. The complainant, thus, claimed that Jet Airways had defaulted on payment of ₹46.05 crore to the company.The CFO further claimed that when he met the Goyals’ they assured about payment but to no avail. He also said that the Goyals’ made ATIPL do business with them despite being aware of the financial crisis.The police, after completing the probe, had on March 9 filed a closure report claiming that they found no evidence that the complainant was cheated. The police, in its report, claimed the case was of civil nature and sought closure of the case on that ground.ED had filed an application seeking permission of the magistrate court for intervening in the case to oppose the closure report, claiming police left out various crucial aspects in its probe and that it should be reinvestigated.ED claimed that the police did not properly investigate facts about three meetings between the complainant’s representative and Goyal’s, wherein ATIPL was assured of payment, and also did not record a statement of Goyal about his accounts with foreign banks.ED said police has filed the report with undue haste and claimed that during their probe, they unearthed numerous foreign bank accounts of Goyal and his wife Anita and related entities in the UAE, UK, Switzerland, Singapore, USA etc.ED also mentioned that Anita holds eight properties outside India while the couple has around ₹180 crore in one of their several accounts outside India.In the plea, the agency asked the court to not accept the closure report of the police and asked the court to direct the police to reinvestigate the complaint with regards to undisclosed accounts and assets of Goyal’s and his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-ed-s-plea-opposing-closure-of-cheating-case-against-jet-airways/story-KTvvsrK94A8YWF62NyliQI.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Kanjurmarg setback: MMRDA writes to state for Goregaon land for Mumbai Metro-6||Following a major setback over the Kanjurmarg plot, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has written to the state government to grant the land parcel at Pahadi Goregaon to build the car shed for Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar to Vikhroli).According to officials, the land is reserved under Development Plan (DP) 2034. However, it’s a part of the excluded part of the plan, which is pending for approval from the state government. “We have asked the state to allot the land parcel which is reserved for Metro,” said an official from MMRDA, who did not wish to be named.While the state is keen on building a common car shed for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz), 4 (Wadala-Kasarvadavali) and 6 at Kanjurmarg, the Bombay high court (HC) has ordered an interim stay on the transfer of 102 acres of land in Kanjurmarg by the suburban collector to MMRDA, after the Central government claimed ownership of the land.“We cannot let the project suffer owing to legal hurdles. It is better to keep an alternative in place,” the official added. Metro-6 is a 14.5 km under-construction line. For line-4, MMRDA was also looking at a land parcel in Mogharpada in Thane.The state has also indicated at looking at a land parcel in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) for the Metro-3 car shed which was allotted for the Centre’s Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project. In an address to the state on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray slammed the Centre for creating hurdles in the project. He also said that the state is ready for a dialogue with the Centre over the issue.However, an official from the state urban development department (UDD) said that acquiring land in Goregaon will be an expensive affair. The official, who also did not wish to be named, said, “While Kanjurmarg is government land, the land in Goregaon belongs to a private party, which means that the acquisition will be a more expensive affair.” The official added that UDD will now examine the DP again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kanjurmarg-setback-mmrda-writes-to-state-for-goregaon-land-for-mumbai-metro-6/story-KbtmxhvR49sINA9xWZoFPO.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Congress leaders give Sonia Gandhi’s letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray||Days after Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, expressing unhappiness over alleged non-utilisation and diversion of funds allocated for welfare of the socially backward classes in the state, a delegation of senior Congress ministers and leaders met Thackeray on Monday to hand over its copy and requested him to act on the suggestions. State Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said the Congress chief has made important suggestions regarding the welfare schemes for the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST), as the party has always worked to give justice to them. He also said the chief minister responded positively. In her letter to Thackeray, Gandhi has advised the chief minister to ensure that the budget allocated for the SC and ST communities should be used for the same purpose. HK Patil, Maharashtra in-charge of the Congress, recently said the party had organised a conclave of leaders from socially backward classes, in which some problems were raised and suggestions were made. “The party chief specifically mentioned these issues, so that these sections could be protected from administrative lapses,” he said. For the first time since the government of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi – alliance of the Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – came to power a year ago, the Congress chief has expressed her discontent and it would be interesting to see if this will continue as the three-party government has completed just one year, said observers. “The party has got many complaints over diversion of funds meant for socially backward classes. The chief minister has assured us appropriate action in the matter. He also confirmed that he got the letter through a mail on Sunday,” said a senior Congress leader, who was part of the delegation. State energy minister Nitin Raut said the Congress president has expressed her concern and not unhappiness. “It is nothing but a misunderstanding that the Congress chief has expressed her unhappiness. She has only expressed her concern on a serious issue which needs to be treated as guidance for the MVA government as she is also elder to the chief minister. She has been writing such letters to the chief ministers of other states too on important issues that are brought to her notice,” Raut said. Thorat also said just like NCP president Sharad Pawar, the Congress president too is guiding the government. Even if no meeting is being held, this letter is a channel of communication with the chief minister. “Our alliance is strong and the state government is working on a common minimum programme. The coordination between the three parties is also good and the credit for it goes to all of them,” Thorat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-leaders-give-sonia-gandhi-s-letter-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-zQSIa8FQpCwf6qAKqqBS2N.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Are private healthcare providers entitled to PM insurance cover: Bombay HC asks Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) had last week directed the Central government to clarify whether private healthcare providers, who were forced to render services during Covid-19 pandemic, were entitled to insurance cover available to Covid warriors under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP).The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla has directed the Union health and family welfare ministry to clarify the stand by January 7, 2021.The court was hearing a petition filed by Koparkhairane resident Kiran Surgade seeking a direction to New India Assurance Company Limited to immediately disburse her claim of ₹50 lakh under PMGKP.In her petition filed through advocate Ajit Karwande, the woman said her husband, an Ayurveda doctor, was practicing locally in Navi Mumbai. As Covid-19 started spreading across the state, her husband Dr Bhaskar Surgade received a notice from the commissioner of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on March 31 asking him to keep his dispensary open and warned to prosecute him under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code if he failed to do so.She claimed that her husband had to open his dispensary in terms of the notice and treat patients, including persons infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Eventually, he contracted the infection and died on June 10.Following her husband’s death, she submitted a claim for compensation of ₹50 lakh with New India Assurance Company under PMGKP on August 2. However, as the insurance company rejected her claim on September 7 on the grounds that the deceased was not serving in any hospital designated to treat only Covid-19 patients and was a private practitioner, she moved the HC.Responding to the petition, assistant government pleader Kavita Solunke had, on December 17, pointed out that the state government on October 1 wrote a letter requesting the Union health and family welfare ministry to extend the benefit of insurance cover to private practitioners as well.Solunke pointed out that the request was made especially because the Government of Maharashtra had mandated opening of all clinical establishment and had also regulated rates of treatment for private healthcare providers as well.“In Maharashtra, considering the current scenario of Covid-19 situation, OPD (out-patient department) and IPD (in-patient department) services, screening, examination, treatment and follow-ups in field settings or private clinics and hospitals, all are associated with professional hazard of contracting Covid-19 and related fatalities,” stated the letter referred by Solunke.“So request you to please consider inclusion of all private healthcare providers/workers who have continued delivery of healthcare services during this pandemic, endangering their lives and many have died due to Covid-19 while serving humanity and nation,” the letter added.Noticing that the Union health and family welfare ministry has not responded to the letter till date, HC directed the secretary of the department to respond to the letter within two weeks. HC has now posted the petition for further hearing on January 7, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/are-private-healthcare-providers-entitled-to-pm-insurance-cover-bombay-hc-asks-centre/story-kmIMnu2OL4HTie4VcNqIaM.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Climate change is here, need to adapt to ways to handle it: Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray||As Mumbai became the sixth Indian city earlier this month to be chosen as a member of the C40 cities – a global network of cities committed to tackling climate change – state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in an exclusive interview to HT spoke about the roadmap and strategies to make Mumbai the most active city among the C40 group in South and West Asia region. The minister addressed key aspects for the most vulnerable districts in the state in the fight against extreme weather events, droughts, extreme flooding and annual sea-level rise. Being included as a member of the C40 cities allows Mumbai to be a part of an international conglomerate of leaders fighting climate change. What is your strategy to make Mumbai the most active city in the South and West Asia region? Mumbai has been at the forefront of fighting climate change and also has borne the brunt of climate change. We realise the need for climate change action and have been working on mitigation and adaptation measures. Our electric buses, (under construction) sewerage treatment plants, ongoing urban forestry are some of our mitigation measures. The pumping stations that we need now due to excessive monsoons, is one example of adaptation. However, we can’t just stop here and look inward. C40 will help us track global measures in various cities around the world to fight climate change. What are some of the other cities in Maharashtra that you plan to propose that could be part of the C40 cities and why? We may have Pune or Nashik or even Thane as a part of it soon. More so, the experience and knowledge-sharing by Mumbai would help us work towards making other cities better in terms of environment, and ideally carbon-neutral at some point, in the decade. Among the districts in Maharashtra, Mumbai has been identified as one of the most threatened ones according to the climate vulnerability index. How do you plan to reduce risks to the city? We have to realise that climate change is already in our backyards. It is no longer something that is restricted to the poles and glaciers. We will have to work on it on macro as well as micro levels. We have to adopt and adapt many lifestyle changes from governments working towards electric mobility and renewable energy, to citizens auditing their travel and carbon footprint, to solid waste management and waste reduction. Similar to the state climate action policy, will Mumbai get a city-specific climate action policy (compatible with the Paris Agreement goal as deemed by C40 cities)? Our state’s “Majhi Vasundhara” (climate change mitigation programme) actually focuses on local action for climate change. It [the programme] pushes for climate change action not just for Mumbai but also for each urban and rural local body, so that collectively we realise how important it is to curb our carbon footprint. Is there a need to revise existing development plans to be more climate resilient or curb future construction along the low-lying areas through sustainable development, factoring in issues such as coastal flooding, sea level rise and extreme weather events? It’s now time for us to move beyond just plans. We need to act. Plans for 2030 are too far away. With the number of climate change events occurring, it’s time for collective, quick action on mitigation and adaptation. How do you intend to keep the seamless balance between conserving the environment and wildlife while ensuring infrastructure development is not compromised upon? Both are needed and what brings both together is sustainable development. Every infrastructure work can be planned in a way that is sustainable. Infrastructure growth, urbanisation and industrial progress can go hand-in-hand with the environment. There are enough technologies, methods and incentives for that. For example, while Maharashtra will now cross over 1 lakh crore of investment this year itself, we have also protected a forest (Aarey) in a city like Mumbai, declared two sanctuaries and more than 10 conservation reserves. Similar to introducing climate mitigation and adaptation in the curriculum of school students, what would be your strategy to boost availability of more green, open spaces, and the city to adopt a more environmentally sensitive way of life? Awareness and action are important. Awareness can be generated through curriculum, elected representatives and common conversations. We also must encourage schools, industries, farmers and corporates alike to carry out certain green deeds and have some basic lifestyle changes. What is your vision for Mumbai from an environmental point of view by 2030? There’s a lot really to achieve in the coming years: better waste segregation at source, electric mobility, renewable energy dependence to be higher, more public transport options, sewerage treatment plants to help us re-use water, rainwater percolation and harvesting pits, urban forests, pro-sustainability infrastructure creation, formal housing from slums for a better lifestyle and pedestrian pathways to connect the last mile. The above is a list of the ongoing efforts and those that we need to strengthen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/climate-change-is-here-need-to-adapt-to-ways-to-handle-it-maharashtra-environment-minister-aaditya-thackeray/story-pP1xLgfmIahDezwbTmI3RP.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Realty check: Property sales in Mumbai Metropolitan Region down by 45%, launches by 61%||The Covid-19 lockdown has hit the real estate sector this year as both, the new launches as well as the sales of properties, have reduced drastically in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). According to a report by ANAROCK Property Consultants, new project launches had reduced by a staggering 61% as only 30,290 units were launched this year as compared to 77,990 launches in 2019. Similarly, the sales also came down by 45%. In 2019, 80,870 properties were sold in MMR last year, which fell to 44,320 units this year. According to ANAROCK’s chairman Anuj Puri, it was an unprecedented year, with the pandemic causing an all-round upheaval. “The ensuing lockdowns have caused the sector to come to almost a complete halt, with very few aspiring homebuyers making enquiries. Site visits were next to impossible, with buyers, developers and brokers uncertain of the [Covid-19] situation and remaining cautious. At the same time, all the development work came to a halt as migrant construction labourers made a beeline back to their hometowns. For a while, it seemed that Covid-19 was a death stroke to the sector,” said Puri. Around 7 lakh-9 lakh on-site real-estate workforce in MMR had returned to their home states after Mumbai emerged as one of the worst-affected Covid-19 hot spots in the country in April. His observations were backed by Nishant Deshmukh, managing director of real estate company Sugee Group. Deshmukh said it was one of the worst years for the realty sector. “It was a state of total paralysis,” he said. Experts said the return of the workforce to their home states and the monetary crises faced by the builders owing to loss of sales acted as a dampener for the sector. According to experts, the sales could have dipped further, but certain proactive steps such as reducing the stamp duty and cutting the interest rates gave some relief to the sector. Puri said the past few months even witnessed an improvement in sales. “The buyers were attracted by the ongoing discounts and offers, the prevailing lowest home loan interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts,” he said. The Maharashtra government on August 26 had decided to reduce stamp duty from 5% to 2% until December 31. The stamp duty from January 1, 2021, to March 31, 2021, will be 3%. The revision in the stamp duty helped boost the sales, experts have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/realty-check-property-sales-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-down-by-45-launches-by-61/story-ZjxKq3fMDGR2QWAlRzCaZM.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks petitioner to justify claim of actor Kangana Ranaut exceeding her constitutional right||The Bombay high court (HC) observed that actor Kangana Ranaut has fundamental rights under article 21 of the Constitution and had a right to express her views through tweets. The court was responding to a case in which a Mumbai-based petitioner advocate sought suspension of the actor’s Twitter account to show that the reasonable restrictions on her freedom of speech as per Article 19(2) of the Constitution are violated by her allegedly offensive tweets. The state reiterated its stand that the writ petition was vague and the remedy lay elsewhere in the form of a public interest litigation (PIL) and hence sought dismissal of the petition. The court then sought to know from the petitioner the grounds on which it could exercise its powers in the case and posted the case for further hearing on January 7. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the criminal writ plea by Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, was informed that the actor had not only hurt the Muslim community but had also caused him mental agony. “Free speech and hate speech are different. In my petition, there are multiple examples of how she has hurt many feelings. There are many cases filed in various courts against her. There is personal mental injury that I have suffered through her tweets,” submitted Deshmukh.When asked to respond, additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik submitted, “This petition either needs to be converted into a PIL or else so many people will start coming to court stating that they are hurt. People will read newspapers and start coming to court. Constitutional right and constitutional remedy are different. This is a vague petition.” He sought dismissal of the petition. The court last week had directed a petitioner lawyer to justify how his plea seeking suspension of Ranaut’s Twitter account could be treated as a writ plea and not a PIL as his claims were not personal but involved an entire community. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought to know from Deshmukh how his right to personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution had been violated. “Any individual can have this account. She also has the fundamental right to have an account and has a fundamental right to express her thoughts. So you have to show how your fundamental rights are breached? Unless the case comes under the reasonable restrictions, can we accede to your request? If you have to judge, what will you do?” observed justice Shinde. Justice Shinde further said, “Word against word, how can we go into this issue? We are not in a hurry to dismiss your petition. Take your time. We don’t want to discourage a young lawyer like you. Go through your points and make fresh arguments. On the next date, we will bring an end to this.” The court then posted it for further hearing on January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-petitioner-to-justify-claim-of-actor-kangana-ranaut-exceeding-her-constitutional-right/story-yLN9eWiB7zwxQ8fxENMSAK.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Students allege Mumbai University asked to submit PG exam forms in person; varsity denies claim||Postgraduate students of the University of Mumbai (MU) have alleged that applications for the winter semester exams have to be submitted by December 28 in person despite the Covid-19 situation and lockdown across the city. “The university should allow applications to be submitted by post or courier, given the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a student. A spokesperson for the varsity’s examination department said applications for examinations are submitted by the colleges to the university through an online portal. “A particular department or college may have asked students to submit applications physically,” said the official. Meanwhile, exams for undergraduate students are underway at colleges. Given the pandemic, the winter semester exams for both undergraduate and postgraduate students are being conducted online. According to the university’s instructions, exams for arts, science and commerce students are being held for 60 marks in multiple-choice question format.The official said exam forms were accepted offline by colleges and university departments only for those enrolled in old courses (annual pattern/CBGS pattern). “This is only for a few repeater students and few students of postgraduate/research courses. These students are required to submit the exam form at their respective college/departments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-allege-mumbai-university-asked-to-submit-pg-exam-forms-in-person-varsity-denies-claim/story-QMImETgT5RlvUWfkZMbzQM.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||UK flight ban: Stranded travellers from Maharashtra, other states worried||India announced a temporary ban on flights to and from the United Kingdom (UK) on Monday, leaving many Indian travellers in UK are worried about returning home. The ministry of civil aviation said all flights to and from UK would be suspended from December 22 to December 31. Last week, a new and more infections strain of Covid-19 was discovered in UK. At a press conference on Sunday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that London and surrounding areas would come under strict lockdown, following which many countries banned flights and ferries to and from UK in an effort to restrict the spread of the new strain. On Monday, the Union ministry of civil aviation temporarily banned flights between India and UK. International flights had recently resumed on certain routes under the Indian government’s air bubble scheme. Norman Schofield, a Pune resident whose 25-year-old son is in Birmingham said, “My son, who has travelled abroad for the first time, has been there from November to explore universities for higher studies. We had booked his return ticket [on Air India] for December 29 from London to Mumbai, on Monday. As parents, we are worried for him as he is all by himself. If severe lockdown is imposed, it will be difficult to stay longer.” Schofield said the airline’s call centre has not been able to help them change the date of travel. Delhi-based film producer Sudhanshu Pandey is in London at the moment. “I have been here since November and was booked to fly to Delhi on December 28, but due to the announcement by the Indian government, I am willing to fly back to India on Wednesday itself,” he said. Film industry professional Dipesh Patel said, “I am in charge of the 80 [member] crew who travelled with me and we were to return this week. While most of us hail from Mumbai, a few belong to Delhi and Kolkata. We do not wish to wait until December 31 as we fear that this suspension of flights may be further extended.” Despite these concerns, experts say the temporary ban on flights to and from the UK will have a negligible impact on tourist traffic. “Due to the current environment and quarantine rules, off-season tourism to UK in any case had not picked up.We foresee an increase in international tourism only in the summer of 2021, with normalcy [expected] by winter of 2021,” said Nishant Pitti, founder of online travel company EaseMyTrip. “We’re seeing faster growth and demand for domestic tourism, especially when international options are limited. Travellers are aspiring to travel and take a break and the focus will be on Indian destinations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uk-flight-ban-stranded-travellers-from-maharashtra-other-states-worried/story-koX9yPdhXmgySzh0WR7XTO.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Tunnelling work for Mumbai coastal road to begin on Jan 7||After several delays, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will finally begin the tunnel-boring work for the ₹12,721-crore coastal road project from January 7, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Monday. He also said that 17% of the work for the project has been completed so far at three sites (Worli, Amarsons Garden and Priyadarshini Park) even though the civic body had set a target of completing 30% of work by December. The tunnel boring machine (TBM), which is said to be the largest in India, will be used to create a 3.45-kilometre (km) twin undersea tunnel from Priyadarshini Park to Girgaum Chowpatty. BMC has completed the assembling of the parts of the TBM, it had purchased from China last year, at the work site at Priyadarshini Park in Malabar Hill. The machine arrived in April this year and was taken to the site in many dismantled parts on 17 trailer trucks.The tunnelling work for the underground section of the coastal road was delayed owing to the Covid-19 restrictions and also because BMC refused to seek help from China to assemble the parts, amid tensions on the border. While the entire coastal road was slated to be completed by October 2022, Chahal said that the project will now be functional by July 2023. “Substantial work has happened in the past couple of months. About 400-metre-long TBM (diameter of 39.6 feet) now stands fully assembled on the reclaimed land, and the tunnel-boring commences from January 7,” he said.A senior civic official said 175 acres of land under the Arabian Sea has been reclaimed so far, while the remaining 102 acres is being reclaimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tunnelling-work-for-mumbai-coastal-road-to-begin-on-jan-7/story-XU6MVw5dkc5j22Wce7UwII.html
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena-BJP fight to delay Mumbai’s Metro, transport infra upgrade?||After a brief gap owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and a year ahead of the civic elections, the ally-turned-foes – the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – are again involved in a tussle, this time over the city’s infrastructure projects, which could delay the much-needed transport upgrade. The big fight The BJP, which came to power in the state in 2014 riding on the development plank, is not leaving any opportunity to show that the decisions of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government – an alliance of the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – are anti-development, especially after the state’s decision to move the Metro car depot out of Aarey Milk Colony. The Thackerays and the Shiv Sena were invested in the ‘Save Aarey’ campaign and moving the car shed from the Aarey Milk Colony in Goregaon to save the wildlife and environment was one of the party’s poll promises. Over the past few weeks, the BJP-led Centre and state have been engaged in a legal battle over the ownership of the 45-hectare Kanjurmarg plot, the state’s alternative to Aarey for the car shed. The Centre moved court, terming the city collector’s order to transfer land for Metro illegal. The Bombay high court stayed allotment of the Kanjurmarg land for the proposed integrated Metro car shed project. In a tit-for-tat move, the Thackeray government then decided to carry out technical assessment to house the Metro depot on a plot in Bandra-Kurla Complex, which the state had given to the Centre for the bullet train project. Besides, Thackeray also met locals from Dahanu taluka in the neighbouring Palghar district, who are opposing the Centre’s Wadhawan port project, and expressed support for them. Change in stanceAmid this, Thackeray, in a public address on Sunday, softened his stance and called for a dialogue with the Centre and the Opposition BJP over the Kanjurmarg plot for the “larger public good”. Thackeray, in his address, said, “The unfortunate part is that the Centre has gone to court against the state about the Kanjurmarg land, saying it is a salt pan land. The state is only acting for the welfare of the city, and the Centre should do that too. These things can be sorted out through discussions…I am also ultimately a sevak of people, like PM Modi says he is pradhan sevak…You (the Centre) should serve the people instead of politicking and if you can’t do that you are not fit to be on the chair.” Political observers said Thackeray’s overtures to the Centre could have been triggered after the BJP painted the Sena as anti-infrastructure development and called its decisions ego-driven. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis called the government’s move to look at BKC for car depot a “childish” idea. After Thackeray’s appeal, the Opposition said it was willing to support the government, provided it gave up its insistence on Kanjurmarg land, as it would delay the Colaba-Bandra-Seepz Metro project by three years and escalate the project cost. Fadnavis said a government-appointed committee itself has ruled out Kanjurmarg plot and it must follow its recommendation. “The project is at such a stage that changing [its plan] now will create issues. The Centre will fully cooperate... Today the CM said that in the future more space would be required [for Metro-3 depot in Aarey]. It is not so, the car shed has been designed considering maximum capacity of the corridor. The entire change should be kept aside and Mumbaikars must be given this Metro line this [coming] year. We are with the government; the chief minister should announce and finish the project. There is no question of any credit war. He should immediately take a decision and take full credit for it, we have no issue with it,” Fadnavis said. Prep for pollsWith an eye on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections in February 2022, the BJP has begun work in Assembly segments and civic wards. The party had given a close fight to the Shiv Sena in the 2017 elections, bagging 82 seats in the 227-member BMC. After losing power in the state government, the BJP is expected to go strongly against the Sena to dislodge them from the BMC, where it has ruled for three decades. The BJP has the backing of non-Marathi, north Indian, and business-class voters and it could use the development agenda against the Sena’s Marathi manoos plank. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the ongoing issue is a “clash of corporate interests” through the two political parties. He said, “It can’t be said that development will happen if the car depot is made in Aarey and not in Kanjurmarg. However, the BJP will take advantage of this confusion created by the Sena-led government. It may not be the main issue, but development agenda could run parallel for the BJP. The Shiv Sena or the government needs to educate people why they took the decision to move the car depot.” He added that the BJP got “sensitive” after the government moved the car depot. “Aaditya Thackeray took a stand and stuck to it. The political leverage will be with the Shiv Sena,” Jondhale said. Infra needThe need for an additional mass transport system in Mumbai was identified in the early 2000s and action plans were drafted, chalking out a Metro network. In subsequent years, the city only has one 11.4-km functioning Metro corridor. With the construction of four Metro lines underway, it will still take a few years for Mumbai to fully recognise its dream of a Metro network. AV Shenoy, transport expert, said the political fight is only worsening matters. “There are only two ways to resolve the tussle. Either the Supreme Court can give directives to sort it out in a time-bound manner, keeping public interest in mind, or the state and Centre could back down from their rigid stands and find a middle ground. Maybe Sharad Pawar could mediate between the two entities,” Shenoy said. “People will not come out on the streets and put pressure. They may definitely show it in the civic elections. Ultimately, only people will suffer because of the fight,” said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-metro-dream-more-distant/story-prGyGaR4o2gvrjsmVpbHyL.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||WWF submits plan for Sukhna management||International non-governmental organisation World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) will be providing technical assistance to the UT administration to manage Sukhna Lake and has submitted a proposal for data analysis, field surveys on avians, socio-economic factors and activities centered around the wetland ecosystem.According to the proposal, WWF will work on five key components to manage the lake. It will review and help analyse all existing knowledge, information and data; provide “terms of reference for studies to fill the knowledge gaps, conduct field surveys (including socio-economic and avian studies and Rapid Assessment of Wetland Ecosystem Services),” said a UT administration official. It will also design stakeholder engagements, consult with them and plan capacity building programmes for them on wetland conservation. The drafting of different chapters of the Integrated Management Plan (IMP) and its finalisation will also be done under the aegis of WWF. The NGO will draw up guidelines to regulate activities such as boating, desilting, making water available in case of deficit rainfall, fishing, and maintenance of the lake. Being a knowledge partner of the administration, the WWF will not charge anything for the IMP, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wwf-submits-plan-for-sukhna-management/story-IWTUkYUwLjqqA3TnamSONN.html
22-12-2020||City||Ludhiana teen pulled up for drinking stabs sister||Chastised for coming home drunk, a 16-year-old boy stabbed his elder sister multiple times in Tibba Colony, Mundian Khurd. While the victim, Monika, 26, was attacked on December 18, the FIR was registered on Monday after police recorded her statement.Monika told the police that her husband died in a road accident about two years ago. She was now in a live-in relationship with a Ludhiana-based man and her minor brother was also living with her for the past two weeks.She said on December 18, her brother returned home around 9pm in an inebriated condition and started vomiting. She scolded him for coming home drunk, which enraged the teenager and he stabbed her repeatedly with a kitchen knife, before fleeing.Monika was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where she remains under treatment.ASI Jagjeet Singh said the minor boy stabbed his sister in the chest, arms and behind an ear. “She was unfit to record her statement for two days. We have now booked him under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-teen-pulled-up-for-drinking-stabs-sister/story-uhT0N3eAkRI2Fy316s4TbK.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Winter break from Dec 25-31 in PU affiliated, constituent colleges||Panjab University has declared winter break from December 25 to 31 for its affiliated and constituent colleges.A PU communication on the holidays for students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses was issued to heads of colleges on Monday after vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s approval.The colleges have also been informed that the semester examination of undergraduate courses and second year postgraduate courses will be held, tentatively, in the second week of February. The semester examination of first year postgraduate batches will be held in the second week of March.Most teachers were disappointed as they were expecting a two-week break. “We have competed the syllabus and are waiting for the exams. College teachers are also not working from home so a two-week break should have been declared,” said Inderpal Singh Sidhu, an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26. The Chandigarh education department is also likely to take a decision on the winter break in city schools soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/winter-break-from-dec-25-31-in-pu-affiliated-constituent-colleges/story-0uihNLa7RPFvklNOqf289N.html
22-12-2020||City||Two convicts among four nabbed in Ludhiana with 750kg poppy husk||The Khanna police arrested four drug peddlers after recovering 750 kg poppy husk from their possession on Sunday. Police said the accused had smuggled the contraband from Rajasthan in a truck and had hidden it under sacks of stone powder after cramming it into 50 gunny bags.They have been identified as Navjot Singh, alias Nanna, 30, and Amarjit Singh, 70, of Lopon village, Samrala; Sukhwinder Singh, alias Jung, 55, of Adarsh Nagar, Samrala; and Harmanpreet Singh, alias Gaggi, 30, of Ber Khurd village, Payal. Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the accused were arrested from near Beeja village following secret information. They were travelling in a truck when police stopped them for checking.While they claimed the truck was loaded with bags of stone powder, meant to be delivered at a factory in Ludhiana, a search revealed 50 bags of poppy husk hidden under the powder bags. The truck was impounded and the accused arrested.The SSP said Sukhwinder was already convicted in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) case and wanted in another drug peddling case. “He had secured parole in 2016 and never returned to jail since. Amarjit is also a convict in the same case and out on parole. Harmanpreet is facing trial in a case of liquor smuggling after his arrest with 50 cartons of illicit liquor on June 19. He is currently out on bail in this case,” the police official said.A case under Sections 15, 25, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at Sadar police station of Khanna. More important information is expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-convicts-among-four-nabbed-in-ludhiana-with-750kg-poppy-husk/story-hpOgu3Zq4PfKI6yg2ESglL.html
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||7 former PU senators move high court, demand polls||Seven former Panjab University senators (PU) have moved the Punjab and Haryana high court demanding senate elections.The plea filed by Keshav Malhotra and six others will be taken up by the bench of justice Fateh Deep Singh on Tuesday.The former senators, who want PU vice chancellor Raj Kumar; the university, Chandigarh administration and the Punjab government to be named as parties in the case, want the quashing of the August 15 orders of the V-C to defer the elections indefinitely. An appeal has also been made to set aside the October 16 communication of the UT administration asking PU to defer the elections.The senate term ended on October 31, but elections were not held this year for the first time since Partition to PU’s apex governing body, which has 91 members, of which 36 are nominated by the chancellor. The petitioners have alleged that certain candidates owing allegiance to the ruling political dispensation at the Centre in order to avoid an unsuccessful contest initially pressurised the university administration and their political bosses to defer the elections. They have now started another agenda for replacing the senate with a committee comprising representatives of the ruling political party who would be nominated by the office of the chancellor, also the vice president of India, through the home affairs ministry, it was alleged. According to the petition the V-C did not have jurisdiction to defer the election and should have brought the matter before the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-former-pu-senators-move-high-court-demand-polls/story-c6ybtzzO6FZouMrv9z0GaK.html
22-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Fugitive wanted in 2018 murder case found functioning as priest||Wanted in a murder case for the past two years, a fugitive was traced to a shrine in Jandiala Guru, where he was operating as a priest after securing a degree in theology while being on the run.The accused, Ajay Kumar, 30, of Ashiana Colony, Jassian village, and three others are facing a case of murder for shooting dead a commission agent (arhtiya), Gharjit Singh Chaudhary, on June 28, 2018.The other accused, Gaurav, alias Goru, Yograj and his brother, Vishal, are already behind bars. “Police received information that Ajay was living in a shrine in Jandiala Guru, following which a raid was conducted and he was arrested. He will be produced in court on Tuesday,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek.According to police, Ajay and his brothers-in-law Yograj and Vishal had provided an illegal weapon to Goru to murder Gharjit. While the other three accused were nabbed, Ajay had managed to evade arrest and was declared a proclaimed offender on August 20, 2019.“To avoid his arrest, Ajay fled to Palampur in Himachal Pradesh where he started pursuing a bachelor of theology degree. After completing the degree, he shifted to Jandiala Guru, where he started working as a priest,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Gurbinder Singh.Goru had gunned down Gharjit in broad daylight at the vegetable market on June 28, 2018. After his arrest, he had disclosed that he had procured the weapon from Ajay, Yograj and Vishal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-fugitive-wanted-in-2018-murder-case-found-functioning-as-priest/story-EiUfTKXkXcb7doR7uNmFNP.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Lok Nayak doctors, medical students want resumption of non-Covid services||Doctors and medical students from Lok Nayak hospital and associated Maulana Azad Medical College launched a sit-in protest outside the director office demanding that non-Covid services be restarted. The 2,000-bed hospital was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility block by block March through April. With the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) under control in the city, only 166 beds were occupied in the hospital on Monday. The interns, postgraduate students, and resident doctors who are supposed to be trained in their respective fields have been managing only Covid-19 patients. “A student has three years for post graduate training, almost one year in gone without us receiving any education in their respective fields. Those from the medicine and anaesthesia sections have been treating the most serious Covid-19 patients in the ICU. The rest – even those studying surgery — have been included in a central pool or Covid duty in other parts of the hospital,” said Dr Keshave Singh, president of the resident doctors association of the hospital. The hospital has about 2,500 doctors undergoing training – 1,250 studying MBBS, 250 interning after it, 600 post graduate students, 300 senior residents who work with doctors in their field, and 50 super speciality students. “Even the college is not open for MBBS students, who do not even need practical experience in the hospital. We have demanded that it be opened as MAMC and the University College of Medical Sciences run by the Delhi government are the only institutes to not have started classes so far,” said Dr Singh. He added that the doctors have been raising this demand since September. “There were some discussions on letting the students work in other Delhi government hospitals, but no one has been assigned so far. Recently AIIMS and PGI Chandigarh held their PG entrance exam, three of the top 10 spots went to interns from MAMC but they haven’t been given an internship completion certificate, as they have been treating just Covid-19 patients and their training is incomplete,” he said. Dr Rajan Sharma, National President, Indian Medical Association said, “The doctors need to get holistic training, they are not here to become Covid specialists. The doctors are first taught the basics in MBBS, then they go on to do post-graduation, then work with senior doctors in the field to gain experience before working on their own. If they miss any of it, we will have doctors who are not properly trained.” In addition, the first year post graduate students from the hospital were posted at Covid Care Centres and dispensaries. “They were supposed to treat Covid-19 patients, but what they are really doing is clerical work. They are wasting their precious time needed for training. We want the government to bring them back to the hospital and start the training,” said Singh. “Other non-teaching hospitals can be converted into Covid-19 hospitals with Lok Nayak managing only the very sick Covid patients. This will ensure that the teaching of one of the most prestigious medical college is not hampered for an entire year,” he said. The director of the hospital Dr Suresh Kumar refused to comment. However, a senior official said that the decision rested with the government. “The hospital already has submitted a plan on how to partially open the non-Covid services. Now, the decision has to be taken by the government. The fear is if there is a surge in the number of cases, how will it be managed,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lok-nayak-doctors-medical-students-want-resumption-of-non-covid-services/story-w2xo2rAl8sSCwI36dyPrjM.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi L-G Anil Baijal calls for continued testing even as daily cases dip below 1,000||Chairing a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Monday directed the city administration to continue with the increased testing and aggressive contact tracing, even as the daily number of fresh cases of came down to 803 — the first time in 126 days that the count has dipped below 1,000 — on Monday.The number of active cases also dropped below 10,000 for the first time in 138 days, since 9,897 infections were reported on August 4. As many as 62,440 tests were conducted on Sunday, as reported on Monday, in comparison to the average of 82,490 tests a day over the last week. With the government scaling up testing since December beginning, the positivity rate in Delhi has remained below 2% for seven consecutive days and below 5% for 19 days, as per the data shared by the Delhi government.The positivity rate stood at 1.29% on Monday. The city also reported 27 more deaths due to the viral infection, taking the total toll to 10,304. The L-G was also informed that district officials in Delhi have surveyed over 17.2 million residents so far for Covid-19 symptoms to assess the spread of the infection. Of the total, over 39,500 had cough, fever and other indicators of the viral disease.The L-G, who is the chairperson of DDMA, also reviewed the city’s vaccination plan, which the Delhi government is preparing as per directions from the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). The L-G was informed that district officials in Delhi have surveyed over 17.2 million residents so far for Covid-19 symptoms to assess the spread of the infection. Of the total, over 39,500 had cough, fever and other indicators of the viral disease.“Reviewed the preparedness for the roll out of Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi and advised the officials to work in close coordination with the Union @MoHFW_INDIA in this regard,” Baijal said in a tweet.“Appreciated the exemplary effort put in by all the stakeholders in effective management of #Covid19 while stressing the need for continued and sustained efforts towards higher testing, aggressive contact tracing and strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour especially in view of the existing weather conditions,” the L-G said in another tweet.A senior government official, who attended the meeting, said that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is the vice-chairperson of the DDMA, raised the issue of those coming from the United Kingdom. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal had urged the Central government to ban flights from the United Kingdom, where a new, infectious strain of the virus has been detected. “New mutation of corona virus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately,” Kejriwal had tweeted.The Central government on Monday afternoon announced the suspension of all flights from the UK, starting midnight on Wednesday till December 31.“Medical teams have been deployed to conduct RT-PCR tests at the airport on the passengers who are arriving till Tuesday. Also, quarantine centres in hotels in Aerocity have been readied for anyone who tests positive,” said the official cited above, on condition of anonymity.A second official said training of healthcare workers is underway in Delhi for administering vaccine shots to the people. “Around 400 doctors from different hospitals in the city have almost been trained for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Now, training for auxiliary nurse midwives and nurses, who would be the actual vaccinators, is beginning. ASHA and Anganwadi workers will also be trained in the next stage to spread awareness about the vaccine in their areas,” said the official, requesting anonymity.In order to check the spread of coronavirus in the national capital, the Delhi government had in November decided to expand the door-to-door survey to the entire city. The government had roped in several teachers of its schools to be part of the teams conducting the survey.“Till now, authorities have surveyed 17,210,020 people in Delhi, of which only 0.23% (39,583) had Covid-like symptoms,” the first senior official said.The L-G also directed officials to give priority to non-Covid patients and normal surgeries, as the coronavirus situation is improving in the city and most beds for Covid-19 patients are vacant. Orders to implement the L-G’s directive on non-Covid patients will be issued soon, a health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/l-g-calls-for-continued-testing-even-as-daily-cases-dip-below-1-000/story-yzjaWnikD7DvZea5zkO6SK.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Five held for duping customers of online shopping portals||Five persons have been arrested for allegedly cheating customers of online shopping portals of around Rs 27 lakh on the pretext of processing a prize for them, the police said on Monday.They posed as executives of online shopping platforms, told unsuspecting customers that they had won a car in a lottery, based on their shopping history, and cheated them of money on the pretext of seeking a processing fee for their prize, the Delhi Police said. According to Vijayanta Arya, the deputy commissioner of police (northwest), the gang purchased the data of customers from an online firm that maintains a database. “The gang purchased the data of each customer for anywhere between Rs 2 and Rs 10,” said the DCP. The police recovered eight mobile phones, 10 SIM cards, eight ATM cards and a database of customers from the gang of four men and a woman. The DCP said that the gang made about Rs 27 lakh in a month of operations. “We are trying to trace those who have been duped,” said the DCP. The officer said that the gang came under their radar after a man approached the Jahangirpuri police station earlier this month to allege that he had been duped of Rs 6,000 by a caller who posed as an executive of an online shopping portal. “The victim was told that on the basis of his previous shopping transactions, he had been selected for a lucky draw in which the reward was a car. The victim was given the choice of either collecting the car or getting a cash prize equivalent to the value of the vehicle. Either way, the customer had to pay a processing fee of R6,000,” said the DCP. The victim transferred the amount to the bank account number given by the caller, but could not seem to connect to the number again, following which he approached the police. The police pursued the bank account details of the suspect to crack the case. The DCP said that the arrested persons include those who lent SIM cards and that bank accounts were opened on fake identity proofs to carry out the crime. “The SIM card and bank account used in the fraud would not be used for a fortnight after each fraud,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-held-for-duping-customers-of-online-shopping-portals/story-RXWAkOyl21vEwDYXe2GWrJ.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||BJP to start outreach to pressure govt to pay Rs 13,000 crore dues||The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said they will launch a mass movement from December 25 to ensure that the state government releases the outstanding funds of the municipal corporations. According to BJP functionaries, party workers along with councillors and MLAs, will go door-to-door to tell the public about Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s efforts to “cripple” the civic bodies by not paying their dues. Some of the party’s MPs could also be present in the campaign. During the campaign, the party workers will demand payment of Rs 13,000 crore dues of the municipal corporations from Delhi government. The party said that the leaders of municipal corporations and BJP’s state unit leaders will stage a day-long “satyagrah” (protest) at the headquarters of the AAP on Tuesday for not releasing the dues. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that BJP workers will go door-to-door to demand Rs 13,000 crore dues of the municipalities and ask Delhiites to join this movement. “This fight is in the interest of the corporation employees as well as in the interest of the people of Delhi. In view of the corporation elections, the state government is trying its best to cripple the municipal corporation by not releasing dues,” Gupta said. He added that for 13 days, mayors and leaders of the municipalities sat on a dharna outside the CM’s residence but Arvind Kejriwal did not come out of his residence to meet them. In the campaign that will start from December 25, around 15,000 BJP workers along with 185 councillors, will go door-to-door and distribute pamphlets among masses, the party functionaries said. Naveen Kumar, Delhi BJP spokesperson, said that they will campaign until the government releases the dues to the three municipalities. “We will now take the matter to the public and start a campaign to corner the AAP at the ward level. We will also apprise them that how development work, such as construction of streets, lanes and drains and sanitation services, were getting affected due to non-payment of dues to the MCDs,” Kumar said. Hitting out at the BJP, however, senior AAP leader and party’s MCD in charge, Durgesh Pathak said that the BJP stood completely exposed in the Rs 2,400 crore scam and was hence trying to divert attention. “The BJP has got completely exposed about the massive corruption at the MCD. Now, they are using the taxpayers money to mislead the citizens of Delhi,” Pathak said. He further said that the BJP has unsuccessfully tried to “hide their corruption” by installing hoardings and posters all over Delhi. “Salaries could have been given to civic employees by using these crores of rupees properly. The BJP should immediately release the salary of their employees and stop dirty politics,” Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-to-start-outreach-to-pressure-govt-to-pay-rs-13-000-crore-dues/story-EOcOe8o9o63iK2hpubJC9I.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Mercury increases slightly, but cold respite may be short lived||Delhiites got a brief respite from the cold, as the minimum temperature in the city on Monday rose by around degrees Celsius. India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings show that on Monday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording of the city, was 5.5 degrees Celsius. This is three degrees below the season’s average. The maximum temperature was 22.4 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory was 3.4 degree Celsius, five notches below the season’s normal and also the lowest for the season so far. Scientists said that the spike in temperature was because of the passing of a western disturbance in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. “This marginal rise in the temperature was an impact of the western disturbance in the hills. By Tuesday, however, the temperature will start falling again and we expect it to drop down to around 3 degrees Celsius in the coming days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. Srivastava also explained that even though the western disturbance did not bring any rainfall in Delhi and the neighbouring towns, the moisture content in the air had increased, which also caused the pollution levels to go up. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Monday was 332, in the ‘very poor’ category. This was a few points higher than the AQI recordings of Sunday, which was 321, also in the ‘very poor’ range. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that the air quality might deteriorate further in the coming days as the temperature dips. “A gradual rise in minimum and maximum temperature is likely in the Delhi region. However, surface winds are likely to slow down and surface inversion is likely to form. A sharp deterioration of ventilation condition is forecasted for the next two days,” Safar analysis said. It added, “The AQI is forecasted to deteriorate to the higher end of the very poor category on December 22 and likely to stay in the high end of very poor on December 23 and 24.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-increases-slightly-but-cold-respite-may-be-short-lived/story-YcwFdMwlTchMZKAyFECOQM.html
22-12-2020||Education||Delhi scholars return to decrepit labs, ruined samples||Science research scholars and postgraduate students in the Capital, who have started to return to their institutions for the first time since March, have come back to find laboratories in disarray, equipment damaged, samples ruined, and their work severely set back — with financial losses possibly running into lakhs.Research scholars and postgraduate students of science and technology programmes started resuming, in phase, their work in labs after a nod from the University Grant Commission (UGC) in November. Earlier this month, PhD scholars from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) returned to the varsity after eight months, to find their laboratories in disrepair. For instance, in a TL/OSL lab (thermo luminescence/optically stimulated luminescence), used by research students of the Centre for the Study of Regional Development (CSRD), soil samples collected from different parts of the country have been rendered useless due to a termite infestation in the building.Ishita Manna, a PhD scholar who was working in the laboratory before the lockdown was announced towards the end of March, said the ruined samples may delay her thesis submission“Even though the UGC has granted a six-month extension for the submission of the PhD thesis, how will I manage to complete my research without the soil samples? We collect rare, varied soil samples from different landscapes such as the mountains, including the Himalayas, rivers, and desert, and find out their age. I had collected my samples from Beas Kund in Himachal Pradesh. We can’t go back there for at least the next few months because the roads are blocked due to snowfall,” she said.According to the students, the doors and cabinets in the lab are now infested by termites. “Moss and fungus have started growing on the walls. We don’t know how to resume our research work like this,” Manna said.Moshahid Alam Rizvi, who teaches in the department of Biosciences at Jamia Millia Islamia, said that the inaccessibility of labs in the earlier months of the lockdown had affected both equipments and research work. “In addition to damage to smaller equipments like CO2 incubator and Gel Doc System due to electricity fluctuation and absence of staff to monitor it, our ultra-deep freezers were also affected. These freezers are used to store sensitive chemicals, biochemicals and many live cell lines brought from other countries. The cost of financial loss can run into lakhs. A lot of ongoing research work shelved and frozen midway when the lockdown was announced have also been destroyed,” he said.The situation was no different at Delhi University. Ratul Baishya, who teaches at the university’s botany department said work was severely affected since all laboratories were closed till August at least.“While the postgraduate labs remained mostly unaffected due to because maintenance work after July, the lack of manpower affected individual labs running research projects. This caused a range of problems, from termites damaging books and furniture to the destruction of ecological samples that needed to be analysed within a fixed period. Researchers’ work has been set back by a year and now they have to repeat the entire process again,” he said.In June, a fire in the computer laboratory at Ram Lal Anand College destroyed around 40 computers. “Some of these computers were seven-eight years-old and needed to be replaced in any case. So, it is difficult to assess the losses incurred. Since there was no one in the college, there was thankfully no damage to life,” said Rajesh Gupta, principal of the college.A PhD scholar from the school of life sciences at JNU, requesting anonymity, said the students who returned a few months are still trying to repair the damage in their laboratories due to the prolonged closure, and desperately making attempts to recover their work.“Many scholars have lost their biological cell line samples (cells grown under controlled conditions) due to the breakdown of minus 80-degree Celsius freezers when the labs were shut. There was nobody to even check on them, so the students could not shift their samples to other freezers. It takes years to develop such samples. We don’t know how the students will do their research work now,” she said.While students have been alleging that their work has been destroyed due to the “callousness” of the university administration, JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said lab supervisors are responsible for the maintenance of the labs. “The supervisors have been allowed to open the labs and take stock of the situation for the last few months. If there has been some damage then the supervisors are responsible for them.”Milap Chand Sharma, Manna’s supervisor and president of the JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA), said, “The supervisors have been writing to the administration about the condition of the labs but there has been no support. In September, we wrote to the administration to allow us to check the laboratories but there has been no response.”Acting vice-chancellor of Delhi University PC Joshi said, “When the lockdown was imposed in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic, our laboratories had to remain closed without the monitoring present during regular days. The closure of labs for a longer period combined with problems like powercuts affected research work and our laboratories. But, things are now getting back on track as we have people to maintain the equipment in these labs.” A senior official from Jamia also added that they were in the process of getting some of their equipment repaired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scholars-return-to-decrepit-labs-ruined-samples/story-ObWNIaoB1yW74FyXPNRprJ.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers start relay hunger strike, UP Gate border blocked briefly||A relay hunger strike at Delhi’s borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla – that the farmer unions had announced a day earlier, started on Monday as the protest against the three farm laws entered into its 26th day. Farmer leaders said they have also urged the people of India to “beat thalis and other utensils at their homes” on December 27 (Sunday) and to boycott Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Mann ki Baat”. “We also request everyone to skip one meal on Wednesday to show solidarity towards our movement. Between December 24 and December 26, farmers will take their protests to toll plazas in Haryana and will make them free for all. On Sunday, we will be beating thalis while the PM addresses the nation through his Maan ki Baat programme,” said Manjeet Rai, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba). Except Ghazipur(Delhi)-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border — where hundreds of protesting farmers blocked the entire carriageways of Delhi-Meerut Expressway and its service roads for nearly an hour in the afternoon — the agitation on Monday continued to remain peaceful.Farmers at UP Gate said that the blockade was done to protest against the Uttar Pradesh administration that, they alleged, was stopping farmers at various places in the state and in Uttarakhand from marching to Delhi borders. The sudden closure of the carriageways going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi triggered traffic jams on Monday. The blockade happened around 3.30pm, but was cleared an hour later, following a meeting of officials of UP administration with the famer leaders. The other carriageway — Ghaziabad to Delhi — is blocked by protesting farmers since Day 1 of their protest. The movement of only emergency vehicles is allowed through that carriageway. At the Singhu border, 11 farmers, mostly leaders of different groups from Punjab, started the hunger protest between 9am and 11am on the main stage that is being used by the leaders to address the gathering. The same number of farmers sat on the relay hunger strike at the other borders as well, declaring that another 11 will replace the first group after 24 hours of fasting and this strike would continue till the government accepts their demands. “Through our relay hunger strike, we want to convey a message that the country’s farmers “annadata” (food provider/farmers) are fasting for their rights. This strike will continue,” said Gurbaksh Singh Barnala of Jai Kisan Andolan. Since the temperature saw a marginal increase on Monday, it provided respite to the farmers from the biting cold that they had been braving for the past few days. At many places, elderly protesters, who had been staying inside tents or tractor trolleys to avoid the cold, were seen sitting in groups under the sun, sipping tea and raising slogans against the government. The Singhu and Tikri borders are completely blocked for any vehicular movement for the last 26 days. Hundreds of trolleys, trucks and four-wheelers are parked on both the carriageways as well as the service roads at the Singhu border. The fleet of vehicles and tents on the roads of the protesting farmers extends to nearly 6-7 kilometres into Haryana, while concrete and iron barriers with barbed wires atop, containers, and sand laden trucks have formed three layers of blockade put in place by the police to stop the agitating farmers from moving into Delhi. Farmers write letters in blood to PMOn Monday, two separate NGOs from Punjab’s Ludhiana set up blood donation camps at the Singhu border. Some of the farmers were also spotted writing their names with their blood on white papers. Many of them also wrote letters in blood addressing the Prime Minister and requesting him to repeal the three farm laws. “Nearly 70 farmers have donated their blood till afternoon and wrote their names and letters to the PM. The lists and the letters will now be sent to the PM either physically or through post. We hope the government will understand our pain, which they have described in the letters with their blood, and scrap the farm laws,” said Taranjeet Singh Nimana, who runs Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Misson Sewa Society, one of the two NGOs. The blood donated by the farmers will be sent to various hospitals in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi to help the needy people, said Dr. Bhupinder Singh, who was leading a five-member team of doctors and nursing staff. Fire scareLater in the day, chief fire officer from Uttar Pradesh fire department Sunil Kumar Singh said that some dry grass and garbage caught fire in the forested area some distance away from the protest venue at the UP Gate border towards Delhi side in the evening. “We already have three-four fire tenders stationed at the protest venue. One of them was parked closed the place where the fire broke out. It doused the blaze within 10 minutes,” said the fire officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-start-relay-hunger-strike-up-gate-border-blocked-briefly/story-EuqDVKiyly7anYraVoIQEN.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Man cycles 470km from Tarn Taran Sahib to lend solidarity to protesting farmers||Dilbagh Singh,48, does not own a motorised vehicle or a piece of land. But he says he was extremely keen on joining the farmers protesting at Delhi borders. So, Dilbagh took his bicycle, packed some essentials and cycled 470 kilometres from his hometown in Punjab’s Tarn Taran Sahib to the Singhu border. “Mere paas jameen nahi par zameer to hai” (I don’t have a piece of land, but I do have a conscience). I was pained by seeing many of the famers from my hometown marching to Delhi in tractors and other vehicles. My conscience was not letting me sleep. So, I decided to join my brothers and sisters here at Singhu border. It took me four days to reach here on my bicycle,” said Singh, adding that he is a daily wager by profession and his family survives on his daily income.Standing next to his bicycle on which he carried his bedding, clothes, daily use items including utensils, Singh said that he only had R500 with him when he left his home for Delhi. The money, he said, was not enough for his long journey and he was concerned.“All my worries were gone because throughout my journey, many people extended their support by providing me meals and shelter free of cost, after they learnt about the cause for which I was cycling to Delhi. Most of those good Samaritans were farmers. Some gave me money as well to cover the journey’s expenses,” added Singh, who has been living with his mother and two children in Tarn Taran Sahib, after his wife passed away 11 years ago.A small banner tied around Singh’s bicycle mentioned his name, residential address, the kilometres he covered and the reason for his journey. Asked how his family members have been surviving back in his hometown since the sole earning member was at Singhu now, Singh said, “They will manage somehow. If they ate two rotis earlier, they can now cut it down to one. But I will not leave until the demands of the farmers are met,” he said.Four days ago, Satyadev Manjhi, a 60-year-old man from Bihar’s Siwan reached Tikri border after completing a journey of nearly 1,000 kilometres in 11 days on a bicycle to participate in the ongoing farmers’ protest against three new farm laws.On Sunday, three Punjab and Haryana-based biker groups also arrived at the Singhu border on their bikes to express their solidarity with the agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-cycles-470km-from-tarn-taran-sahib-to-lend-solidarity-to-protesting-farmers/story-ib7CgwXcRCTxhU9ROUw37O.html
22-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks cops to trace ‘missing’ Hindu woman who eloped with Muslim man||The Delhi high court has directed the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of Delhi Police’s crime branch to trace a Hindu woman, a B.Tech student, who apparently eloped with a Muslim man in November and got married in West Bengal.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar expressed shock that the local police did not registered a first information report (FIR) that the woman was missing on a complaint by her parents . A Nikahnama (marriage contract) of the couple sent by post to the police could not be verified by the station house officer of the Naraina Vihar police station, it was accepted as genuine by the police.Police said they received the post from an unknown address and are in the process of verifying the address and the authenticity of the document.The bench also said it cannot accept statements attributed to the girl as having been made voluntarily and would want them to be verified. “To satisfy our conscience, we would like that she be produced before us,” the bench said, adding that in case the woman is traced, she shall be brought to Delhi and kept at Nari Niketan at least for four days before the next date of hearing so that she is not under influence of either the petitioner, or the persons with whom she is stated to have eloped and gone,” it said.The court was hearing a habeas corpus plea by the father of the woman, contending that his daughter had been missing since November 7. In his plea, the father said that a Muslim man took her to Kolkata by train. He said the father of the man had also been missing since.The SHO told the court that an FIR was not registered because a Nikahnama was produced to show that the woman married the man. A status report by the police said the woman also informed her family members that she did not wish to be disturbed and that she was happy and safe wherever she was.“During our interaction with the SHO, Naraina — who is also present during this hearing -- he states that FIR was not registered since the Nikahnama has been produced... On our query, he states that the said Nikahnama could not be verified despite efforts..“We are shocked that even in this background, he did not think it proper to register an FIR and proceeded on the bald statement produced before him...This is complete dereliction of duty on the part of the SHO concerned,” the court said in its order of December 18.The bench, while transferring the investigation to the AHTU, also directed the SHO of the area to look into a potential threat to the woman’s family and asked that they be provided adequate security. “The mobile phone number of the beat constable of the area shall be provided to the petitioner and family members, and any call received from them shall be attended to and actioned without any delay,” the court said.The matter will now be heard on January 4, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-cops-to-trace-missing-hindu-woman-who-eloped-with-muslim-man/story-cuCeRdSctWZa8nNXfSKiRO.html
22-12-2020||Pune||83-year-old rider killed by garbage truck in Pune||An elderly man was killed by a city garbage truck on Monday morning.The deceased has been identified as Hiralal Motilal Lalwani (83) who was riding a non-geared two-wheeler at the time of the incident. The driver of the truck has been identified Ramlingh Haribhau Bedke (40), according to the police.“We have brought the truck driver. It is a PMPML-run garbage truck. The deceased man’s family members have taken the body,” said senior police inspector Brahmanand Naikawadi of Swargate police station.The head of the elderly rider was crushed by the garbage truck which went past him after it allegedly rammed into him, according to the police.Statements of the accused and the bystanders are being recorded by the police.A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code along with Motor Vehicles Act is being registered at the Swargate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/83-year-old-rider-killed-by-garbage-truck-in-pune/story-Qc6tVnqQbhuc2zKjfq5uPL.html
22-12-2020||Bhopal||Protecting Chambal Wildlife Sanctuary: Gun licences to be issued only after forest dept nod||The district administration will now have to take no-objection certificates from the Chambal forest department before issuing arms licences in the 222 villages located within a 10km radius of Chambal Wildlife Sanctuary in Bhind and Morena. According to the district administration, 22000 people have gun licences in Bhind, while in Morena, the number is 27000. “A letter has been written to collectors and superintendents of police of both the districts in this regard to curb the activities of the sand mining mafia in the Chambal Wildlife Sanctuary. Even old licences will be renewed after clearance from the forest department,” said Amit Bansal Nikam, divisional forest officer, Morena. “The forest department will check the background of applicant, his understanding towards the environment and his association with the sand mining mafia before giving NOC. This will be an important step to make people aware about the environment as many people don’t have any idea about the impact of sand mining on flora and fauna of the river,” said the DFO. Also Read: Women from Chambal stitch a success story, turn crisis into opportunity“The decision was taken due to an increase in gunfire attack at forest officers in the past a few years. The illegal sand mining mafia terrorises locals and unarmed forest officials with arms and now it won’t continue,” he added. In the past five years, more than two dozen incidents of the sand mining mafia opening fire have been reported from Bhind and Morena, according to police records of both districts. Morena district collector Anurag Verma said, “We have received a letter from the forest department and we will act accordingly. Earlier, we used to take clearance from the police department to check the criminal history of the applicant and now we will take NOC from the forest department too.” As many as 2,200 applications for new arms licences are pending in the district collectorate of Morena while 1,200 are pending in Bhind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/protecting-chambal-wildlife-sanctuary-gun-licenses-to-be-issued-only-after-forest-dept-nod/story-fsMcDkZZnoBGVYoXG8TyPI.html
