23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Educational institutes in Ludhiana learn a lesson in adaptation||The education sector underwent a complete transformation in 2020 as it substituted the age-old classroom with virtual classes and incorporated Zoom Classes, You Tube Live sessions, Doordarshan classes and pre-recorded lectures to its repertoire.After schools were closed in March in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, teachers and students had to upskill and embrace technology to ensure learning was not disrupted. The chasm between the rich and the poor was apparent as while private schools were able to use of technology to reach out to students, government schools sadly staggered behind, facing hurdles such as non-availability of smart phones and laptops among the student body, insufficient data packs and poor internet connections.To ensure no child was left behind, the state education department tied up with different radio and television channels so that government school students who did not have access to advanced technology could catch up. However, the measures fell short as they had to cater to a vast audience.Schools restarted for students of Class 9 to 12 in October, however, with infections on the rise, minimal attendance was recorded. Around 12 government schools had to shut down after a few teachers contracted the deadly virus.The sale of books and uniforms was also affected. Once the lockdown was lifted in June, the sales of books picked up but few people purchased uniforms even after schools reopened in October.HIGHSStellar resultsThe year 2020 will also be remembered for the students’ excellent performance in board exams. Many teachers and principals were also honoured for increasing enrolment in government schools.In the Class-12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) results, Gurveen Kaur, a humanities student at Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, scored a whopping 99.8%. In the CBSE Class-10 examinations, a student of the same school scored 98.6%. While government senior secondary school (GSSS), Rajewal, student Balwinder Kaur, who appeared in the Class-12 Punjab School Education Board Balwinder Kaur, scored 99.78% in humanities and stood first in the district.Gurpreet Singh Wadhwa ranked 23 in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced).Rural govt school wins awardSPS GSSS (boys), Gill, was adjudged second in the best school category during the second edition of the Ministry of Jal Shakti’s National Water Awards. The school was awarded for its outstanding efforts in the area of water conversation.Student wins national-level quizA student of GSSS, Jawahar Nagar, Jiya Seth, topped in a national-level online competition organised by Xplore and Vigyan Prasar.2,000 teachers and school heads honouredIn the last six months, state education secretary Krishan Kumar has applauded school teachers and heads for making efforts to increase enrolment in their respective schools. Appreciation letters were issued to them and many primary and middle school teachers were appreciated for using e-content.3 teachers get state award, DEOs receive administrative awardFormer district educational officer (DEO) secondary Swaranjit Kaur, DEO elementary Rajinder Kaur received administrative awards, while GSSS, Threeke, teacher Rapwinder Kaur, GSSS, Siyaar, principal Jatinder Pal Sharma and GPS ,Jargari, teacher Parvinder Kaur received state awards.LOWSProlonged parents’ protestThe year also saw large-scale layoffs and business losses, due to which many parents were unable to deposit their wards’ fee amid lockdown and demanded that the admission fee and hiked tuition fee be scrapped. Multiple parents’ associations remained at odds with the school administration for four months. The associations contended that several private schools were demanding that parents deposit fee and other charges during the lockdown despite the state government’s instructions to the contrary.Six show-cause noticesDespite directions from the education minister not to charge any fee during lockdown, the state education minister had to issue show-cause notices to six private schools. Later, the state education minister cancelled the no-objection certificates of three private schools for defying government instructions.School asked to close permanentlyAfter a private, unrecognised school, Gaurav Ghai Public School in Punjabi Bagh, Jawaddi, was found holding examinations despite the state government’s instructions, DEO elementary Rajinder Kaur ordered its permanent closure with immediate effect.Pre-schools shut downThe pandemic forced around 25 pre-schools across the city to shut shop, leaving teachers without a job. Facing an uncertain future and unable to meet fix expenses a number of playschools in Gurdev Nagar, South city, Pakhowal Road, Ghumar Mandi, Dugri and Civil Lines closed down.PSEB, SCERT goof upAround 10 students missed their Class 10 (open school) Punjabi examination due to Punjab School Education Board’s (PSEB) goof-up. The admit card issued to the students mentioned the examination time from 2pm to 5.15pm. However, the exam was conducted between 11am to 2.15pm at 20 examination centres across the district. In another mix-up, the SCERT uploaded the question paper for the National Talent Search Examination on their official website a day before the exam.ETT recruitment exam: 2 booked for personationTwo women were booked for cheating and personation after they attempted to appear for the elementary training teachers (ETT) recruitment exam using the same roll number. The accused were identified as Kiran Rani, a resident of Jalalbad, and Asha Rani of Faridkot. The incident was reported at Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious students, near Rose Garden, where the exam was being conducted for 301 candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/educational-institutes-learn-a-lesson-in-adaptation/story-BJvA1ec4IAFenLmsnNYxtJ.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh declares 5-day winter break in govt schools from December 28||Taking a U-turn from its earlier decision to not have winter vacation in government schools this year, the UT education department has announced five-day break from December 28. Schools will reopen on January 2. A circular regarding this was sent out by the district education officer (DEO) on Wednesday. This comes as a relief to many teachers who were complaining that they had been coming to school and taking online classes even during the lockdown. UT Cadre of Education Employees’ Union president Swarn Singh Kamboj said they had requested the director school education to provide a break to them as well as students. While students up to Class 8 have been attending only online classes, limited classroom teaching had resumed for Classes 9 to 12 about three months back.Cold wave, fog likely in cityIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a warning for cold wave conditions and moderate to dense fog in the city in the coming days.Cold wave conditions are likely to continue till December 26, after which cloudy weather can be expected. Light rain is expected in northern parts of Punjab but it is not yet clear whether Chandigarh will get any rain. However, with an increase in humidity, fog can be expected.Maximum temperature of the city went down from 22°C on Tuesday to 21.5°C on Wednesday, while minimum temperature dipped from 6.1°C to 5.7°C. In fact, minimum temperature continued to remain lower than that in Shimla (6°C).In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 19-20°C while minimum temperature will remain around 5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-declares-5-day-winter-break-in-govt-schools-from-december-28/story-tjE09pLES3p564b6XBEfCI.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Class 7 student ends life in Chandigarh||A 12-year-old boy was found hanging at his residence in Daria village. The Class 7 student was alone at home when he took the extreme step. The boy’s father is staying in Chennai for the last few years and he was living with his mother in Daria village. The incident came to light when his mother returned home and despite repeated knocks, he didn’t open the door. His mother broke open the door and found her son hanging with a ceiling fan. The boy was rushed to GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh where he was declared brought dead. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. Police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-7-student-ends-life-in-chandigarh/story-pfA87oGJnpkZ9do8vyDLNL.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Pre-book for tele-consultation at PGIMER||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has restarted online facility for patients to pre-book for tele-consultation.In the thick of Covid-19, the institute had suspended OPDs, and launched tele-consultation for non-Covid patients,which has gained popularity over time.PGIMER director Jagat Ram said the number of tele-consultation cards made per day has increased from around 500 to 1,600, which has led to need to increase the quantum of this service to meet the growing demand.To avail the facility, patients can visit pgimer.edu.in, click on the patient care services tab on the home page, followed by tele-consultation services and pre-registration for telemedicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pre-book-for-tele-consultation-at-pgimer/story-7SWZe4S6n8wUQLmaFxg0TL.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Night curfew dampens Mumbai’s Christmas, New Year eve plans||Mumbai’s Christmas eve and New Year’s eve celebrations will be severely hit this year due to the night curfew imposed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) amid the pandemic. The curfew will remain in force between 11 pm and 6 am till January 5. The development comes after several bars and restaurants in the city were caught flouting the Epidemic Diseases Act 1987, by not maintaining social distancing and closing down within government-issued timings. The night curfew was announced in Mumbai on Monday in line with the Maharashtra government’s decision amid concerns over the outbreak of a new strain of the coronavirus disease in the United Kingdom.Following this, restaurants, bars, pubs, eateries, and malls in the city can now remain open only up till 11 pm, even on December 25 and December 31. Gatherings of more than 5 people are not allowed at public places such as Marine Drive, Worli Seaface, Gateway of India, Bandra Bandstand, and other popular hangouts for families and youngsters from the city. Religious places of worship also received directives from the Mumbai Police on Wednesday, allowing no more than 50 people to gather at churches for midnight mass on Christmas eve and New Year’s eve. As per the directives, prayers cannot go on beyond 11 am to ensure night curfew is strictly followed, stated a circular from the Maharashtra government on Wednesday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the decision was taken as a precautionary measure considering a mutation of Sar-Cov-2, the virus causing Covid-19, found in Britain, which is believed to spread faster than the previous strains. He said people will have to be more vigilant for the next 15 days.On Saturday, December 6, the BMC had raided three nightclubs in the city, after a tip-off that they were functioning overnight on that weekend, at overfull capacity, without adhering to rules such as social distancing or wearing of masks. Following this, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had written to the state government to impose night curfew in Mumbai. However, the decision was temporarily stalled.However, Chahal said on Monday while announcing night curfew, “Even on Sunday night (December 20), our teams visited some nightclubs and found violations. This is why the decision of night curfew had to be taken. This is not a normal new year and hence we cannot have normal celebrations like every year. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated.”Also read: After joining BJP, Suvendu Adhikari called ‘traitor’ in hometown by TMCRegarding restrictions on outings at public places on new year’s eve, Chahal told Hindustan Times on Wednesday, “Gatherings of more than 5 people will not be allowed at public places.”However, Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of Police S Chaitanya told Hindustan Times on Wednesday, “For 31st night, there will be no exceptions. Only people who are allowed include staff from the essential services industry. Apart from this, curfew will be strictly implemented post 11 pm. Presently too, congregations of people are not allowed. There will be police patrolling to manage crowding, drunk driving, etc. Five and more people is just an indicator, but the point is crowd management. At public places, Mumbai police treats people gathered together as one big gathering, so police will ask people to leave.”For midnight prayers in churches on Christmas and new year’s eve, the government on Wednesday issued a circular directing religious places to hold prayers only till 11 pm, and not allow gatherings of more than 50 people at churches. Father Nizel Barret, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bombay said on Wednesday, “We received these instructions today. As per the earlier rules, a gathering of up to 200 people was allowed, till 11 pm. We had made all plans to adhere to these rules. After today’s instructions, we have hardly any time to prepare. We will have to find a way to allow only 50 people in the church for prayers.”However, restaurant owners associations have already presented their case to the municipal commissioner, requesting relaxation of timings on December 31. Gurbaxis Singh, president of hotel and restaurant owners’ association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “We had asked the BMC to relax timings even before curfew was imposed. Now we are following up. It is not logical to shut down at 11 pm, contrary to earlier timing of 11.30 pm. Moreover, on new year’s eve, this is very bad for business. Everyone wants to celebrate till midnight. If we are closing at 11 pm, no one will bother to come to the bars at all, and leave just short of midnight. They will opt for house parties, or will head out of the town.”Mumbaikars are opting to travel to other states to celebrate Christmas and new year this year. Shrikant Hande, 32, is travelling to Goa with his wife and friends to celebrate Christmas. “We were planning to go to Dubai this time as we travel to another country every year. But there are a lot of restrictions on international travel. So we planned to go to Goa, which is closer to home in case of an emergency.”Sanket Shingre, 27, travelled to Bir in Himachal Pradesh from Mumbai in the second week of December and will return in the first week of January. He said, “When we made the plans, the idea was to get away from routine as work from home due to lockdown had become very monotonous. At that time, the decision about night curfew was not taken. But we made a good decision to come out of Mumbai to celebrate the new year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/night-curfew-dampens-mumbai-s-christmas-new-year-eve-plans/story-1lthbulxxXdjKNajmwPwOK.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||12 Chhatbir Zoo staffers test positive for Covid-19 as 202 new cases surface in Chandigarh tricity area||Four people succumbed to Covid-19 while 202 tested positive in the tricity on Wednesday.Three of the deaths were reported from Mohali district, which also accounted for more than 50% of the fresh cases. Among 105 cases in the district, 12 are of Chhatbir Zoo employees. A range officer was the only one showing symptoms. Zoo field director M Sudhakar said: “We have been screening and testing employees on a regular basis after the zoo was thrown open to the public. Those who tested positive have been isolated and quarantined at home. None of the animal attendants and zookeepers have tested positive.” The district has recorded 17,726 cases and 334 deaths so far. As many as 15,768 patients have recovered, including 152 discharged on Wednesday. The number of active cases stands at 1,624.Chandigarh reported 82 cases, one death and 76 recoveries on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as an 82-year-old woman of Sector 15. With this, the toll has climbed to 313. Of 19,266 cases so far, 18,584 have been cured and 369 remain active.In Panchkula, 15 people tested positive, lowest this month, and no casualty was reported. The district’s infection tally stands at 9,792, of which 271 cases are active. While 9,382 patients have been cured and discharged, 139 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-chhatbir-zoo-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19-as-202-new-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-nmXsX8nVenbLimn0IdI1SN.html
23-12-2020||City||MC polls: Panchkula admn issues guidelines after campaigners give Covid norms the go-by||The administration on Wednesday issued instructed for campaigning for the Panchkula MC elections after finding that political parties and candidates had been lax in observing precautions by not wearing a mask and ignoring social distancing at events and congregations.With only two days left for campaigning, political leaders, especially mayoral candidates have held gatherings involving hundreds of people, wherein social distancing norms were disregarded and only a few were found wearing masks properly.A few pictures of these rallies where Covid-19 norms were given the go-by, reached the state election commissioner who then directed the deputy commissioner to hold another meeting with the candidates.“The election commission had issued Covid-19 guidelines and a meeting of all political leaders and independent candidates was chaired by the DC informing them to strictly adhere to the norms such wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Dalip Singh, state election commissioner.He said that action will be initiated against those violating norms. “The violators will be served notices, chargesheeted and fined under the National Disaster Management Act,” Singh added.Additional deputy commissioner and returning officer, Mohammad Imran Raza said, “Following the letter, the returning officer and assistant returning officers held a meeting with all candidates who have been given strict instructions to follow the norms.”DC caps public gatherings to 100 peopleIn order to curb the spread of the deadly virus, Panchkula DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued fresh guidelines which stated that only 100 people will be allowed to attend a meeting. He said that if the meeting is taking place in the ground, the number can be increased to 200.According to the guidelines, not more than five persons are allowed during door-to-door campaigning. Also, pregnant women, children below 10 years and elderly persons must not be a part of any gathering.The DC has appointed 12 duty magistrates to ensure voting is done in a peaceful and transparent manner. Each duty magistrate will look after areas of 10-12 polling booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-polls-panchkula-admn-issues-guidelines-after-campaigners-give-covid-norms-the-go-by/story-dnVvRapkcqd9n7nuRSifsJ.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn considering night curfew ahead of New Year’s Eve||Concerned over another wave of Covid-19 pandemic hitting the city in the wake of a new strain of virus discovered in the UK, the Chandigarh administration is deliberating upon imposing night curfew ahead of New Year’s Eve.UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “Midnight celebration parties may compromise Covid protocol and spread infection.” In the Covid-19 review meeting held on Wednesday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore decided to wait and watch the situation for a few more days before taking a final call.The night curfew might be imposed after Christmas, from 10pm to 6am, said another senior official, on the condition of anonymity. “Residents have to be extremely careful about the second wave of Covid-19 coming through persons returning from abroad. The new strain is extremely infectious,” he said.The administrator also decided to keep apni mandis closed for now, particularly in view of the new risk. The decision will be reviewed in the first week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-considering-night-curfew-ahead-of-new-year-s-eve/story-FxLhGvWBkOnV4iH7YttVUL.html
23-12-2020||City||Two Mohali cops arrested for loot bid at house in Sector 71||A day after two cops were booked for attempt to murder for allegedly barging into Sector 71 resident Naresh Kumar’s house and trying to rob him at gunpoint on December 20, the Mohali police on Wednesday arrested them. Their accomplice and mastermind has also been identified.Assistant sub-inspector Rashpreet Singh, who was posted at the Industrial Area police station, and constable Davinder Singh, posted at the Saneta police post, had committed the crime along with Vikas Sharma of Sambhalki village, Mohali.Vikas worked as a security guard at JTPL City, Kharar, where Naresh was the manager, said police. Vikas allegedly told the two cops that Naresh kept a lot of money and valuables at his house, and was driving the car used to flee after the crime. “We have arrested the cops and they will be produced in court on Thursday,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh. “They have been dismissed as they were found absent from duty during the time of loot and were also captured in CCTV footage recovered from the spot. The third accused has been identified and will be arrested soon.” In his complaint to police, Naresh Kumar stated that on December 20 around 9.30pm, the inverter of his house broke down. When his son Pranav came out of the drawing room to check the inverter, two unidentified men entered the house posing as DSPs of the excise department. They were in police uniform.One of them, later identified as ASI Rashpreet, pointed a pistol at him and asked him to hand over all gold and cash in the house. Meanwhile, they locked the door of the drawing room from inside. When Naresh became suspicious and asked for a search warrant and their identity cards, the duo allegedly panicked and started beating him up. Rashpreet hit him several times on the head with the butt of a pistol. Naresh read Davinder’s name on his badge when the constable tried to grab him by the arms. After the failed loot bid, they fled the spot in a car waiting outside. Naresh Kumar suffered injuries on his head and nose and was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali. A case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint), 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code besides under relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Mataur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-mohali-cops-arrested-for-loot-bid-at-house-in-sector-71/story-LkDTN65venXAZInDu6n1qJ.html
23-12-2020||City||Mohali admn to track, test UK flyers since November 25||Additional District Magistrate, Aashika Jain on Wednesday said that passengers arriving in India from the United Kingdom through Mohali International Airport would be tested for Covid-19, amid fears of the spread of a new and more infectious strain of the virus that has been detected in the UK.These incoming passengers would be tested and isolated in accordance with the Covid protocol. A standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued by the Centre in this regard. Divulging the details she said that a team has been deputed for tracing/testing of all international passengers who have landed at Mohali airport since November 25. The nodal officer of the said team will procure the passenger manifest list from international airlines and furnish it to tracing and medical teams who will follow to identify suspected cases. An institutional quarantine facility for suspected patients has been identified at Gian Sagar Hospital and officers have been deputed to look into places that may be provided as paid quarantine centres for those international travellers who wish to isolate in a private establishment. Meanwhile, surveillance and medical teams have been deputed at Mohali airport who would monitor international travellers and conduct screening/testing. To look into all the suspected cases and their contacts, the SARS Cov2 control room will be personally manned by the district epidemiologist and her team and will be supported by the district programme officer, added Aashika Jain. GMSH-16 quarantine facility for foreign returnees in ChandigarhThe health department has identified a separate isolation facility at Government Multi-speciality Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh, for foreign returned persons who are tested positive for Covid-19.The authorities have also started the process to trace the persons who have recorded their address, officials said.A list of around 15,000 people who have arrived in the country have been received, of which the officials are tracing the local residents for follow up on their health, officials said. While expressing concern over the new strain of the virus, which has been detected in the UK, UT administrator has directed the principal secretary (health) and director general of police to keep a track of eight travellers from the UK, who have been found positive at Amritsar. He has also suggested that PGIMER may also examine their cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-to-track-test-uk-flyers-since-nov-25/story-jI4voEQkIIU1Yc7VKUUAYL.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Confusion marks Day 1 of waste segregation drive in Chandigarh||Chaos and confusion marked the first day of door-to-door collection of segregated waste that was kicked off by the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Wednesday. Even as MC officials claimed to have achieved 30-40% segregation on the first day, in most sectors, residents complained garbage couldn’t be collected. As there was no schedule shared by the MC, residents mostly remained unaware of the vehicles’ movement. In some sectors, both MC vehicles and private garbage collectors came, while in some localities, only private collectors turned up. After failing to make much headway in segregating solid waste at source in the past three years, the MC started the drive in Sectors 1-30 on Wednesday, while other areas will be covered in a phased manner in the next couple of weeks. As of now, the MC is using around 100 twin-bin garbage collection vehicles, and in the next phases, another 300 will be put into service. These will replace private cart-based garbage collection. However, unlike them, MC vehicles don’t pick up garbage from outside the houses, and people have to come up to them and drop the waste. Issues aplenty, complain residentsSupriya Goyal, treasurer, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 28D, said: “The whole exercise was done in a most unprofessional manner. There was no prior information on when the vehicles would come. When they did arrive, they left in a hurry and we couldn’t hand over our garbage.”In some parts of Sector 22, the MC vehicle was accompanied with a couple of helpers. “Helpers picked up waste only if someone requested. They skipped the other houses where the occupants were not present,” said Vinod Vashisht, president, government houses society, Sector 22. Residents also questioned the timing of vehicles. “The vehicles came at an odd time when most people are at work,” said Pardeep Chopra, citizen welfare association, Sector 21. In some areas, the vehicles didn’t come at all, complained residents. “Though yesterday, a vehicle came to create awareness, today no vehicle turned up to pick up waste,” said RS Gill, president, RWA, Sector 8. At Modern Housing Complex, Sector 13, only existing private garbage collectors arrived, said Harshvardhan Pundir, a local. In some sectors, both turned up, but people preferred to hand over garbage to private collectors as they came up to the doorstep. Meanwhile, senior citizens and people living on upper floors complained of not getting enough time to reach the vehicles. MC chief holds review meetingUT administrator VP Singh Badnore, in a meeting held on Wednesday, directed MC commissioner KK Yadav to create awareness on the new garbage segregation arrangements. He said such practices have been successfully implemented in other smart cities and Chandigarh should not lag behind. Yadav also held a review meeting with senior MC officials in the evening. He said the vehicles will follow a tight schedule of 7am to 1pm. “We have directed the operators to drive slowly through the sectors,” he said. They will be given whistles from Thursday, which they are have to blow while passing in front of houses.The MC will also try to collect garbage from the doorsteps of elderly people and others who can’t come to the vehicles. “In some areas people were confused as existing garbage collectors also turned up. A group of garbage collectors also protested in Sector 7. The issues have been resolved,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/confusion-marks-day-1-of-waste-segregation-drive-in-chandigarh/story-XIWVj7yzAJk2OIKFBJmnSL.html
23-12-2020||Gurugram||RTA cracks down on overloading, illegal mining||The regional transport authority (RTA) of Gurugram has started penalising truckers for overloading mined stones in their trucks and dumpers. In a new initiative, the RTA officials have started the practice of offloading the excess mining stone, which is beyond the sanctioned load, and suspending the licence of truck drivers for three months, besides issuing penalties. Officials said that they have started imposing a fine of Rs 80,000 per truck for overloading, over the last two months. Officials said that earlier, truckers were let go after being penalised for overloading. However, the RTA has now started taking stringent action as overloading often leads to accidents on the expressways around the city. Most of the trucks, from Rajasthan districts, Tauru and Nuh, reach Gurugram through Mahendragarh, Nuh and Faridabad, and most of them are laden with illegally mined stones and stone chips from stone crushers in Faridabad, said officials. Shatrujeet Kapur, the principal secretary of the transport department of Haryana, had recently conducted a meeting of all RTAs in the National Capital Region on overloading and directed them to take stringent action on the issue. In the last two months, the Gurugram RTA has issued fines amounting to around Rs 2.75 crore, the highest among Haryana districts. In November, the Gurugram RTA issued 133 challans for overloading and collected a fine of Rs 96.16 lakh, while 289 other challans, pertaining to other issues, were also issued in the same month and the department collected Rs 53.33 lakh. A total of Rs 1.49 crore was collected by the RTA in November. Similarly, in December, the RTA issued 136 challans and collected Rs 72.62 lakh for overloading, while 310 challans were issued and fines of Rs 49.98 lakh were issued for other offences, taking the monthly total to Rs 1.22 crore from fine. “For last two months, we have been acting against overloading aggressively and fines of around Rs 2.75 crore have been collected, which is highest for any district across the state,” said Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram. She said that besides levying financial penalties, drivers have also started facing strict action. Elaborating on the process, she said that fines for overloading have failed to act as a deterrent. “We have started penalising the truck owners and have started suspending the licence of truck drivers for three months. We are offloading the excess item at the spot and the transporter has to bring in another truck to carry those items. With the help of a gas cutter, we are cutting the extra body of the truck, as per the specification under Motor Vehicles Act,” said Yadav, adding that the objective is to discourage transporters and drivers from overloading and illegal mining. The police also said that illegal mining operations have been taking place in the Aravallis for over two decades. In November 2019, IPS officer Amitabh Singh Dhillon, who is also the director general of mines and geology department of Haryana, had put together a special enforcement team to crack down on illegal mining in the Aravallis. The state was divided into two parts and two police officials were given charge of each. While the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Rajesh Phogat has been given the charge of the Sonepat region, ACP Preet Pal Sangwan is in charge of curbing illegal mining in Gurugram and Nuh. The police said there are five villages in the Tauru belt that are under the scanner. The teams deployed in the area said families have trained women and children to surround police teams during raids to create an opportunity for illegal acts. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that locals, including women, block the road and lie down with children to stop police from entering the village. The police have deployed 25 teams in 14 districts for monitoring illegal mining activities in south Haryana. The state has collected a total fine of Rs 60 crore since December 2019 from truckers. A total of 3,500 vehicles, including tippers, trucks, tractor-trolleys and earthmovers, have been seized by the police between December 2019 and December 23, 2020. This number also includes 88 vehicles seized in December from Gurugram and 1,235 across South Haryana. Sangwan said that during the anti-mining operations, several police officers have been attacked by truck drivers ferrying illegal material and more than 50 police vehicles have been damaged. Over four dozen cases of attempted murder have been registered against such drivers over the last six months, said the police. The National Green Tribunal(NGT) in 2019 had ordered that all confiscated vehicles be released only after recovery of at least 50% of the showroom value of such vehicles. “Besides, the confiscated vehicle owner will also have to pay a royalty fee, the value of the mineral loaded on the vehicles, along with Rs 10,000 fine, for the vehicle to be released,” said Sangwan, adding that the state has also been suffering severe revenue losses because of the illegal mining activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rta-cracks-down-on-overloading-illegal-mining/story-5ra6ImkN5nDE8rzqs3EsDI.html
23-12-2020||Gurugram||Lift-and-loot gangs target commuters on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway||Lift-and-loot gangs have once again started resurfacing on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway despite the arrest of eight people in July. The police said, while earlier these gang members used to target office-goers after office hours but the new modus operandi is to offer lifts early morning when people are waiting for public transport. The police said the gangs have been targeting commuters on a 14-kilometre stretch between Shankar Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk, from where 12 incidents have been reported this year. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that young men find it easy to dupe commuters as they know that the condition of public transport is poor across the city and working people are still opting for private or shared cabs. “We have already busted six gangs this year and arrested 16 people. However, cases are still on the rise and, every week, at least three such cases are reported from different areas. Young and unemployed men from Nuh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have been arrested for robbing people after offering them lift. During investigation, they have revealed that they formed gangs inside the jail,” he said. The police said most of the cars used in crime are either stolen or robbed by them. They change the registration number plate to mislead police, and after committing crimes, change the car. The police said they have recovered CCTV footage from six spots and two of the suspects have been identified, who are history-sheeters. KK Rao, commissioner of police said that the expressway is popular among the commuters, who flag down private cabs, which charge them less money as compared to cabs. The suspects adapt new modus operandi after every few months to mislead the police and try to use different stretches but easy targets are available on expressway. “In the recent cases, the modus operandi was to offer a shared ride to men waiting at Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk and Signature Tower on NH48, mostly on their way to office in Delhi. Instead of going to Delhi, the gang takes a U-turn after Shankar Chowk and starts threatening the victim to hand over their belongings . They hardly drive for a kilometre before attacking the victim and rob them of cash and valuables,” he said. In five cases, the gangs members were cab drivers and were registered with cab aggregators. The police said with the amount they rob they invest in buying cars after making the down payment. On Tuesday, a Rohtak resident boarded a cab from Iffco Chowk for Faridabad around 8.30am. He said he was carrying ₹2.95 lakh to purchase a new car from Faridabad. “When I boarded swift Dzire, four men were already seated. After going ahead for a few kilometres, they started assaulting me and snatched my wallet, mobile phone and money. Later they pushed me out of the car near Mahipalpur flyover in Delhi and told me not to report the incident to police, said Naresh Kumar, the victim. A case under Section 392 (robbery) was registered at DLF Phase-2 polcie station on Tuesday, said the police. In October, a 52-year-old Satish Kumar, sub-postmaster of Chanakyapuri was assaulted and robbed of ₹27,000 after he boarded a cab from Iffco Chwok. Kumar said that the suspects were in their early twenties.The police have now deployed mufti-clad officers at different locations to nab the accused. “We have increased patrolling along the expressway. In the meantime, we urge people not to take shared rides,” said Rao. The police are yet to make an arrest in all the eight cases between July and December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lift-and-loot-gangs-target-commuters-on-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-tVUrC9vwnVXeTlHV4BvhGM.html
23-12-2020||Gurugram||34 wanted persons held by city police this year, 328 arrests in all||At least 34 wanted persons, involved in crimes across Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, have been arrested this year by the Gurugram police. The police in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had announced monetary rewards totalling Rs 40 lakh for their arrests, data released by Gurugram police on Wednesday revealed.According to police records, four “hardcore criminals” were arrested and seven were injured in police encounters this year. In all, 328 people were arrested this year, including for crimes such as snatching, carjacking and thefts. The police say these arrests resulted in the resolution of nearly four dozen cases of loot, robbery, dacoity, extortion, murder, and snatching.Gangsters such as Pawan Nehra, Rupender alias Nanha, Shahid alias Polo, Imran, Usman, Sombeer, Praveen alias Panna, Rohit alias Lambu, and Sonu alias Prabhat, who carried rewards from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 25,000 for their arrests, were arrested this year.The police have also begun extensive search operations to arrest Sube Singh, a former gang member associated with Kaushal, who is currently in Hisar jail.The police said that while they have been successful in arresting the kingpins of major gangs, many are still operating and have been involved in major crimes this year. “We have booked 350 history sheeters and arrested 34 gangsters this year. The major crackdown came after we arrested the elusive gangster Pawan Nehra. It was not an easy task,” Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao said.The police said that during the pandemic, they had started preparing a database on the gangsters and their relatives, which helped them trace their locations. The crime teams had also taken note of their hideouts and their mobile numbers were surveilled.“During the lockdown, wanted persons were arrested from their hideouts as well as during their visit of family members. We kept a close watch on their friends and relatives, where they tried to take shelter. We carried out operations based on tips and intelligence reports. We have arrested 350 criminals of 50 gangs and have solved over 455 cases. These criminals were wanted in connection with dozens of dacoity, murder, attempt to murder, extortion and robbery cases in the state,” Rao said.The police said they are currently identifying persons involved in petty and unorganised crimes like carjacking, vehicle lifting, house thefts and snatching in the city. The station house officers of 41 police stations and police posts across the city have been asked to take stern action against offenders and to keep a close vigil on those who have completed their jail sentences and are living in the areas under their jurisdictions.This year, the Gurugram police arrested 368 proclaimed offenders, 93 bail jumpers and one parole jumper.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that 2020 has been a fruitful year for the Gurugram police. There have been at least five incidents where police managed to arrest gangsters who were wanted for serious offences.“On October 6, the crime unit of Sector 39 had arrested three criminals after a shoot-out from Sohna and 14 days later, on October 20, the crime unit of Palam Vihar had arrested Sombeer alias Chand alias David, of Jind in Palam Vihar area. In November, four criminals who were wanted by the police were also arrested after an encounter, wherein a gangster, identified as Rohit alias Lambu, died during treatment. On December 7, four criminals were arrested after a long chase from Rajasthan border, in which another, identified as Mamman alias Manoj, suffered a gunshot injury and died undergoing treatment,” he said.While releasing the data, Rao said that in 2019, 136 cases of snatching causing hurt were reported and this number has decreased to 41 this year. The police said that there is a 70% decrease in snatchings and 29 of the 41 cases this year have been solved. Last year, 4,084 vehicle thefts were reported and this has decreased to 2,658 cases this year, of which 537 have been traced. Vehicle thefts reduced by 37%, said Rao.Last year, 1,252 cases of burglaries were reported and this year, the number has reduced to 787, of which 249 have been solved. Police said that during the pandemic, houses were locked and thieves took advantage of the situation. Despite this, there has been a dip of 37%, said Rao.The number of dacoity cases has also decreased by 35%, from 17 in 2019 to 11 this year, said police, adding that the number of murders has dipped from 103 in 2019 to 82 this year, of which 64 have been solved.Rao said seven gangs, consisting of 23 members, involved in murders were arrested and Rs 22 lakh recovered from them. “We have arrested 56 people of 24 gangs who were involved in vehicle lifting and Rs 67 was recovered from their possession. Around 22 people of nine gangs were arrested for snatching incidents and Rs 19 lakh recovered from their possession,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/34-wanted-persons-held-by-city-police-this-year-328-arrests-in-all/story-XOOX8qKVYLQq65m8h3Ra8L.html
23-12-2020||Gurugram||Cabinet okays municipal body for Manesar||The Haryana cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod for constituting a civic body for Manesar, the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), with 29 villages to come under its ambit. The new corporation will cover an area of 124.32 square kilometres, according to the statement issued by the state administration.These 29 villages are among the 39 that were earlier proposed to be included under the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). In a state cabinet meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, it was decided that villages of Kasan, Khoh, Naharpur Kasan, Nawada, Fatehpur, Dhana, Baskulsa, Bas Haria, Kankrola, Bhangrola, Dhorka, Wazirpur, Badha and Sikanderpur Rampur will now be included under MCM.The MCM will also oversee the areas of Shikohpur, Nakhrola, Bar-gujjar, Naurangpur, Meoka, Hayatpur, Sehrawan, Nainwal, Kukrola, Jhund Sarai 1 and 2, Fazalwas, Gopalpur and Garhi Harsaru.As reported by HT earlier, these areas fall along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway and include new Gurugram sectors, which have been developed in revenue estates of these villages. The MCM will cater to a population of over 300,000.Sunder Lal Yadav, sarpanch, Sikanderpur Barha, and the president of district sarpanch association, said, “Under the new corporation, the development of the area will be fast-paced. At least 29 villages will be within the limited jurisdiction of the MCM. Villages will get more attention now, with better utilisation of resources.”In November, Khattar had announced setting up a civic body for Manesar, which is an automobile manufacturing hub. In a meeting held on August 22, the MCG decided to bring its jurisdiction around 39 villages. However, residents of some of these villages protested this, as they preferred operating under the panchayat system.Residents of developing sectors beyond Kherki Daula have opposed their inclusion under the Manesar civic body. They want the government to set up a Greater Gurugram corporation, rather than clubbing them with Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cabinet-okays-municipal-body-for-manesar/story-bORlSs1uqpSxll9TusEkXJ.html
23-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram more polluted than Manesar this winter||The neighbouring industrial township of Manesar, despite having a heavy presence of factories and other industries, has been recording cleaner air than Gurugram this winter, as per official data recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board in its daily air quality index (AQI) bulletins.The difference in air quality between the two cities has become more pronounced this month. While Gurugram has seen just two days of moderate air in December so far, Manesar has recorded seven days of moderate air and one day of satisfactory air, which Gurugram had none of. Manesar’s average daily AQI for December up to Wednesday comes to 239, indicating poor quality air, while the same for Gurugram comes to 279, also in the poor category, but a full 40 AQI points higher. Experts speculated that this discrepancy is due to favourable meteorology, which may be helping disperse pollutants away from Manesar and toward Gurugram, under the influence of prevailing northwesterly winds.These averages, however, do not capture the daily differences in air quality between the two cities. On any given day going back to October 1, Gurugram’s AQI is 30 to 50 points more than Manesar’s. In the past three months, there have only been 10 days when Manesar had worse air than Gurugam, as per the CPCB data. Moreover, on days when winds changed direction and began originating from the east, for instance between December 9 and 11, Manesar reports a higher AQI than Gurugram city. On December 9, Gurugram’s AQI was recorded at 296 (poor), while Manesar’s was 311 (very poor). On December 11, while Gurugram’s AQI was 256, Manesar’s was 288. Similarly, a change in wind direction was also observed on November 31 and December 1, and subsequently, Manesar had recorded worse air than Gurugram. Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said, “There are multiple factors at play here, and understanding them may be able to help plan local strategies to mitigate air pollution in both locations. The pattern that we are seeing this winter is that Manesar is the least polluted on a majority of days, followed by Gurugram, then Delhi, and then Noida and Ghaziabad. It will take a dedicated study to provide evidence for this claim, but it’s very likely that northwesterly winds are transporting pollutants from the east to the west. Manesar and Gurugram are benefiting from their favourable positions.”Moreover, experts and officials pointed out that Manesar is a less dense urban agglomeration then Gurugram, allowing pollutants to be easily dispersed. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), also said that Manesar may be at an advantage due to its proximity to the Aravalli mountain range, which acts as a pollution sink.“During summer months, Manesar typically records higher AQIs than Gurugram due to presence of orange and red category industries, which are highly polluting. Then, in winter months, Gurugram becomes more polluted. A source apportionment study for the region has been in the pipeline for some time. Once completed, it will give us a clearer explanation for these differences,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-more-polluted-than-manesar-this-winter/story-JhfBG97LEiSmXWYELBf49N.html
23-12-2020||Gurugram||District admin to surveil 113 returnees from UK||The district health department will monitor 113 passengers who arrived in Gurugram from the United Kingdom over the last four weeks, to identify coronavirus cases and especially those infected with a new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Increasing the surveillance measures, a senior health official said that contact tracing exercise has been initiated to quickly trace immediate contacts, who might have developed symptoms.On December 22, the Haryana director of general health services wrote a letter to the deputy commissioner and chief medical officer of the district, calling for enhanced surveillance, containment and other safety measures to tackle the phylogenetic cluster of SARS-CoV-2 variant in the district.Since Gurugram is in close proximity to the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi and has a substantial population that travels internationally, compared to other districts, the health department has been directed to quicken the pace the contact tracing exercise. The letter stated that any interjection of the SARS-CoV-2 variant virus through passengers with air travel history could pose a critical risk for pandemic management in Haryana.“There are at least 113 people who have travelled recently (to the UK) from November 25 to December 20. Our teams will contact them and collect samples if detected with symptoms,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“Considering the new strain of the virus, the samples of the suspected cases will be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genomic sequencing through spike gene-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR),” he said.Daily calls will be made to the 113 persons to monitor influenza symptoms, such as fever, cough and cold, over the last 28 days.According to the Central government guidelines, as a part of immediate steps, travellers who are found positive on arrival have to be sent for institutional quarantine or to isolation facilities set up by the district administration. Those who do not test positive will also be advised to isolate themselves at home for seven days and to be monitored medically.For surveillance and follow up measures, RT-PCR test would be administered after seven days of their arrival. In case if any person develops symptoms after seven days, they have to be tested through RT-PCR. If found positive, they would be tested between fifth and tenth day, as per the ICMR guidelines, using the RT-PCR kits.On December 21, India suspended all its flights to and fro from the UK between December 23 and December 31 to check the transmission of a new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-admin-to-surveil-113-returnees-from-uk/story-r6pCvyS5aq9apGyQYWhOFP.html
23-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand assembly passes umbrella university bill which was returned by Guv for reconsideration||On the third day of the winter session of assembly, Uttarakhand assembly passed Uttarakhand University Bill, 2020, which was returned by the Governor for reconsideration earlier this month. The bill, aimed at governing all universities in the state under one umbrella law, was passed by the state assembly in September this year and later sent to the governor for her consent. However, she had returned it to the government on Saturday with some observations/points for reconsideration by the state government. The bill was, however, not included in the agenda of the House in the morning but was added during the meeting of the business advisory committee after lunch. An official of the education department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “As per the Governor’s observations, some of its points were reconsidered including one on the selection process of vice-chancellors. Now, with the change made, the process of selection will go through the government but its consent is not necessary.” Also read: Summit called off due to Covid, mutually agreed, underline India, Russia“She had also asked to keep the retirement age of vice-chancellors at 65 instead of 70 mentioned in the bill. It has, however, been kept 70 only without any change,” said the official. Parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said, “The House has passed six bills, including the Uttarakhand University Bill, 2020, with some changes as per the Governor’s observations while returning it to the government.” The new law is aimed at bringing all government and private universities of the state under one umbrella and all institutes under these universities will follow the same rules. The state has 11 government universities and 18 private universities which are all governed by their own rules, thus having different norms of functioning. It would replace the Uttar Pradesh University Act, 1973, which has been in force since Uttarakhand’s formation in 2000. The act was conceptualised last year in August by state higher education minister after the department received several complaints regarding high fee charged by private universities and other demands by such institutes. The new act aims to help remove the irregularities that are currently there in the governance of different universities of the state, paving a path for better educational standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-assembly-passes-umbrella-university-bill-which-was-returned-by-guv-for-reconsideration/story-nkSePr3IbLdlmOyZl8OXOL.html
23-12-2020||City||GMADA hands over water supply to Mohali MC||Ending the disparity in water and sewerage user charges in Sectors 66 to 69 and 76 to 80 from January 1, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) on Wednesday handed over operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage to municipal corporation whereby all sectors in its jurisdiction will be charged uniform user charges. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed by the XEN’s of both departments, informed cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who is also the MLA from Mohali. This is a matter of huge relief to the residents of Sohana, Kumbra, and those of other localities falling in Sector 66 to 69 and Sectors 76 to 80 who were paying relatively much higher user charges as levied by GMADA. Pertinently, GMADA charges Rs 10 per 1000 litres on average while the MC charges around Rs.1.80 for the same quantity of water. Hence, “This MoU will result in an annual saving to the tune of approximately Rs.7 to 8 crores for the residents of the said localities,” said Sidhu. ‘Mohali being developed as model city’He said that Mohali is being developed as Model City in terms of development. The developmental works in residential complexes, colonies, markets and parks are in full swing. Over Rs. 3.5 crore has been spent on the internal development of various residential societies. Works worth Rs 60 lakh are underway in the Housefed Apartment while another Rs 40 lakh has been approved for additional works. Similarly, funds for additional works at Joginder Vihar and Guru Teg Complex have also been approved, he said while adding that the state government is the first to initiate internal development of residential societies The minister further informed that open-air gyms are to come up in every big park of the city and a resolution has been passed by the civic body to commence setting up 20 open-air gyms in the city. He flagged off a tractor and eight water tankers with the capacity of 4000 litres each at the Municipal Bhawan in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-hands-over-water-supply-to-mohali-mc/story-Z9hTZXyPuNuMYdW0fuZZhJ.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Retired BSF personnel dupes 10 of Rs 34.5 lakh on the pretext of army recruitment in Ludhiana||Three people, including two retired BSF personnel, were booked on Tuesday for duping 10 people of Rs 34.5 lakh on the pretext of getting them recruited in the Indian Army.The accused have been identified as Sukhdeep Singh from Barmi village and Mani Bhushan Panday and Avadh Bihari from Uttar Pradesh. Sukhdeep and Panday are retired BSF personnel.The case has been registered based on the complaint of one of the aspirants, Visakha Singh, a resident of Jalaldiwal village in Raikot.He said that he met Sukhdeep in 2016 who promised to get him and nine others recruited in the army. Sukhdeep also introduced them to Panday.Later, Sukhdeep took them to a training academy in Nashik, where they were kept in a hotel for a month. However, the aspirants got anxious when they were denied entry into the army cantonment area.Sukhdeep then introduced them to Bihari who promised them that the recruitment process will take two more months. Thereafter, Sukhdeep took the youngsters to Nashik four more times.Visakha said that Sukhdeep had shown him and the other aspirants a fake list in which their names were mentioned. However, when they approached the cantonment with the entry letters, they found out that the documents were fake.Meanwhile, Sukhdeep settled in Lucknow. When the families approached Sukhdeep’s father and asked him to return the money, he denied having any links with his son.In 2018, the families approached SSP rural, and demanded action against the accused. After a two- year- long inquiry, the police registered a case against the accused trio under Sections 420 and 120- B of the IPC.“We are collecting more evidence against the accused and the trio will be arrested soon,” said investigating officer Syed Shakeel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/retired-bsf-personnel-dupes-10-of-rs-34-5-lakh-on-the-pretext-of-army-recruitment-in-ludhiana/story-oYmHvcq8CIzATNodHxBn8L.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana civic body heads for choppy waters as garbage-lifting company hands its notice||At a time when the municipal corporation (MC) is struggling to meet the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT’s) solid waste management mandates, the civic body has found itself facing another unexpected quandary with the A2Z company, which was responsible for lifting and processing waste in the city, serving its termination notice. The company will continue to meet its obligations till February 4, after which the MC will be on its own. Come February, it will fall on the civic body to make alternate arrangements for door-to-door garbage collection for 30 of the city’s 95 wards, lift garbage from around 45 secondary dumping points and run the static compactors and the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant at the main dumping site.The fallout In August, the NGT’s monitoring committee directed the MC to submit a ₹10-lakh bank guarantee with the Punjab Pollution Control Board, which was to be encashed if the civic body failed to ensure door-to-door collection of waste and source segregation before November 30. The deadline has passed but the MC is yet to complete the projects. While the NGT is yet to take action against the civic body, the company’s decision has put the MC in hot water. This may impact Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings, as the Union ministry’s inspections may take place in the initial months of 2021.However, at present, the civic body is not in a position to take up garbage lifting responsibilities. An MC official, on condition of anonymity, said, “On an average, around 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city on a day-to-day basis. The company has deployed over two dozen tippers for shifting the garbage from the secondary dumping sites to the main dump at Tajpur Road. However, the MC does not have the infrastructure to deal with solid waste and officials must think on their feet to find a solution to the predicament.” Delayed payments forced company’s hand Though the civic body has served multiple notices to the company for improper functioning, company officials said the MC too had failed to honour its part of the deal. A company official, who did not wish to be named, said, “One of the primary reasons for handing in the notice was the civic body’s delay in making monthly payments of around ₹1 crore, which is ‘tipping fee’ for transporting garbage to the main dump. No payments have been made since June.” “The civic body also failed to arrange a buyer for RDF is generated at the plant. It was us to process the entire waste generated in the city and process RDF, despite the paucity of shortage space. MC to explore legal optionsMC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the civic body was looking into the legal aspects of the situation. “If required, the MC will take care of solid waste management in the city. Further action will be taken after discussing the issue with mayor Balkar Sandhu,” said Sabharwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-civic-body-heads-for-choppy-waters-as-garbage-lifting-company-hands-its-notice/story-3GePDRrwTlDFsoR8biVp2N.html
23-12-2020||City||GLADA enlists 35 defaulter colonies, urges residents to stop buying plots||With the realtors of 35 colonies situated in different parts of the district failing to meet the formalities and submit the pending fee, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) have put the names of the colonies in the list of defaulters and asked the revenue department to stop registry of land there.The GLADA authorities said that they would be conducting a meeting with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ensure that no new power connection is issued in these colonies.The officials said that the realtors had submitted the initial fee and got the licenses issued from GLADA but had failed to submit the rest of the amount, which runs in crores. A few of these colonies were established two decades back. The colonies are situated in Dhandra village, Phullanwal village, Manssoran village, Jagraon, Khanna, among other areas.GLADA’s additional chief administrator (ACA) Bhupinder Singh said, “GLADA has been issuing notices to the realtors but, they have failed to submit the pending amount. Now we have asked the revenue department to stop the registry of land in 35 such colonies. We will also be conducting a meeting with the PSPCL to ensure that no power connection is issued in these colonies.”“ The list of defaulters has been uploaded on the GLADA website and residents have been urged not to purchase plots in these colonies. More colonies can be added to the list in the coming days if the realtors fail to pay the pending amount,” he added.MC to snap sewer connectionsThe MC said that if the realtors fail to submit the pending amount in 15 days, the sewer connections of their colonies will be snapped.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that the sewer connections of many colonies whose colonizers had failed to pay the pending fee, are already attached with the MC lines, and MC will snap those if the defaulters failed to make the payment within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glada-enlists-35-defaulter-colonies-urges-residents-to-stop-buying-plots/story-pllVrS4ob70tnUGLiQzYyH.html
23-12-2020||City||Evicted tenant dies by suicide in Ludhiana ; 4 booked||A 40-year-old man, who was forcibly evicted from the house he had been renting for 12 years, died by suicide on Tuesday. The victim, Parminder Singh, swallowed pesticide tablets in a bid to end his life. He recorded the shocking incident on his phone and shared the recording with his friends and relatives. The recording has been widely shared since his death. A day after his death, police booked the landlord Harmel Singh, his son Parvinder Singh, his wife Narinderpal Kaur and an accomplice Pardeep Singh, all residents of the Jattana village, for abetment of suicide .The victim’s wife, Ranjit Kaur, said, “Three days ago (December 20) our landlord, Harmel, threw all our belongings out of our house. He was accompanied by a few men. Only our 16-year-old son was present when the house was forcibly vacated.” Collaborating her story, their neighbour, Gurdeep Singh, said, “When Parminder returned home, he was visibly shocked to find his belongings, valuables, and furniture scattered across the street.” Ranjit told the police that her husband then asked Harmel to return ₹5 lakh, which Parminder had given to the accused’s younger brother in 2018 for buying the house.Harmel told Parminder that his brother had died a year ago and he was unaware of any transaction that might have taken place between them, Ranjit said. Parminder then urged Harmel to either return the money or get the sale deed of the house registered in his name. However, Harmel refused to do either, she told the police, adding that Parminder was disturbed by Harmel’s refusal to honour the transaction. On the same day, Parminder consumed the tablets in a vacant room and sent the video to his family. Upon receiving the video, his family rushed him to the hospital where he succumbed on Tuesday. Station house officer (SHO) Sukhwinder Singh said all four accused had been booked and a search was on to arrest them. A case was registered under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused have been absconding since the incident.HELPLINESIf you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/evicted-tenant-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-4-booked/story-v6S9SAHCbgNZ4JpoXtjv0L.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Widening of Ludhiana’s BRS Nagar Canal bridge: Taken by surprise, commuters fume over bottleneck||A day after the sudden barricading of the 500m stretch from Pakhowal Road Canal Bridge to Hero Bakery Chowk to facilitate construction of the rail over bridge (ROB) and road under bridge (RUB) caught commuters unawares, the municipal corporation and irrigation department kicked off a project to widen one of the two BRS Nagar Canal bridges on Wednesday, much to motorists’ dismay.A bottleneck has been created on the site with two-lane traffic diverted to a single bridge. Earlier, only one-way traffic was allowed on both bridges. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu flagged off the project and traffic snarls were witnessed on the site soon after. Ashu said the width of the bridge will be increased from the existing four metres to nine metres. The project, which is being undertaken under the Smart City Mission, will approximately cost ₹1.4 crore. Authorities say the bridge will be reconstructed within 50 days. A popular demand Residents have been clamouring for widening of the bridge since March, 2019, after four youngsters, including two siblings, were killed after their car plunged into the Sidhwan Canal after crashing into one of the railings of the bridge. The police had said the accident had taken place due to overspeeding. Nonetheless, residents demanded that the railing of the bridge, which is made of bricks, should be strengthened to stop vehicles from plunging into the canal in case of a mishap. ‘Unsound timing’While maintaining that the project was much needed in view of the increasing traffic congestion in the area, locals derided the timing of the undertaking. A commuter said, “The MC should have delayed the project as construction is already taking place on Pakhowal Road and Ferozepur Road. The flow of traffic has already been disrupted on Ferozepur Road due to the ongoing elevated road project and the closure of a 500m stretch on Pakhowal Road has also triggered traffic snarls in Sarabha Nagar and Model Town Extension area.” Punjab Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma said,”The civic body should have properly scheduled the construction projects as movement of traffic has already been hit on Ferozepur Road, Malhar Road, Pakhowal Road.”Meanwhile, Ashu urged the residents to take alternative routes and cooperate with authorities, saying once completed, the projects will ensure smooth movement of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/widening-of-brs-nagar-canal-bridge-taken-by-surprise-commuters-fume-over-bottleneck/story-hfuwgreVOHzcwuBzhvNWRK.html
23-12-2020||Kolkata||After joining BJP, Suvendu Adhikari called ‘traitor’ in hometown by TMC||Four days after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, former Bengal minister Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday was branded a “traitor” and his family was targeted at the first Trinamool Congress (TMC) roadshow and rally at Kanthi, his hometown in Bengal’s East Midnapore district, since the defection. Before the rally, there was a clash between the BJP and the TMC workers in the district’s Ramnagar area. The rally was organised by Akhil Giri, TMC lawmaker from Ramnagar and a known detractor of Adhikari. Adhikari’s followers announced that he will hold a counter-rally at Kanthi on Thursday. Adhikari avoided the media. On Tuesday, Adhikari addressed his first rally as a BJP leader alongside party’s state president Dilip Ghosh in Burdwan district. Accusing the TMC of being involved in smuggling of cows, coal and sand, he said, “If the TMC returns to power it will start an illegal kidney trade as well.” The ruling party hit back on Wednesday on Adhikari’s own turf. Also read: Summit called off due to Covid, mutually agreed, underline India, Russia“Suvendu is no strongman in Bengal politics. He lost the first assembly and Lok Sabha polls. He won his first assembly election from Kanthi South in 2006 but only after his father, the incumbent, vacated the seat. He was given two important portfolios in the cabinet. What more did he want? He is a traitor. Kanthi is not the kingdom of any family,” TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said at the rally.Roy even called Adhikari Mir Zafar, the general who betrayed Shiraj-ud-Daulah, Bengal’s last independent nawab who was defeated by the East India Company in the Battle of Plassey in 1757. The battle marked the launch of British rule in India. On December 19, Adhikari and six other TMC legislators, a TMC Lok Sabha member, three MLAs from the Left and Congress and at least 20 other district-level leaders of the ruling party joined the BJP at Shah’s rally in Midnapore town. This marked the biggest defection of elected TMC leaders in the run-up to the assembly polls due in about five months.For months, the dissident leaders had voiced their grievance against Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and election strategist Prashant Kishor, who was roped in by the party last year after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. “A few days ago, I organised a meeting where Abhishek and Kishor were present. Suvendu told Abhishek in front of me that he had nothing to say against Abhishek. After joining the BJP, Suvendu called him an extortionist. Who does he think he is?” Roy told the crowd. Though Suvendu Adhikari is the only member of his family to join the BJP, his father and two brothers were conspicuous by their absence at the rally. TMC workers who walked past their home in the heart of Kanthi town shouted slogans and called them traitors. Suvendu Adhikari represented East Midnapore’s Nandigram seat where a long land movement helped Mamata Banerjee oust the Left Front government in 2011. His resignation from the state assembly was accepted by the speaker on Monday. Adhikari’s father, Sisir Adhikari, is the eldest among the TMC’s Lok Sabha members and has been Mamata Banerjee’s close associate since the party’s birth in 1998. Sisir Adhikari and his elder son, Dibyendu, represent two Lok Sabha constituencies in East Midnapore. The youngest son of the family heads the civic body in Kanthi town. Scoffing at Wednesday’s rally, the state BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “How many people in that crowd were from Kanthi? The crowd was ferried from Nandigram.”Incidentally, no senior BJP leader is scheduled to attend Adhikari’s rally on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-joining-bjp-suvendu-adhikari-called-traitor-in-hometown-by-tmc/story-g2F8gvXOUPC9hJVUNvuwcP.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Trident T20 cup cricket tournament: Amandeep Club upsets Punjab Blues by 41 runs||An opening partnership of 139 runs between Rohan Marwaha and Abhay Chaudhary helped Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar, beat the star studded Punjab Blues by 41 runs on Wednesday during the Trident T20 cup cricket tournament on the grounds of the Hara Cricket Academy .This victory will keep their hopes alive of qualifying for the semi-finals of the tournament. Both openers were instrumental in the team scoring 187/3 in 20 overs. Sagar supported them with 22 in 13 balls.Punjab Blues, chasing a mammoth total, started losing wickets at regular intervals and were bowled out for 146 in 19.4 overs.Abhay Chaudhary was declared man of the match for his knock of 96 runs in 70 balls.In the second match played on the grounds of GRD Academy, Punjab Reds beat Patiala Colts HRCF team by 61 runs. Patiala won the toss and decided to field. Punjab Reds scored 162/8 in 20 overs.In reply, the opposition could muster only 101 in 19.5 overs.Prabhsimran Singh of Punjab Reds was declared man of the match. This was second consecutive win for Punjab Red and they are on top of their group with four points.Prabhsimran Singh of Punjab Reds was declared man of the match. This was second consecutive win for Punjab Red and they are topping their group with four points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trident-t20-cup-cricket-tournament-amandeep-club-upsets-punjab-blues-by-41-runs/story-sABbNj4TrogPWNEr7ZLnIM.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||‘RT-PCR test for those who came from abroad after Dec 9’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said people who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should undergo Covid-19 test. Those who arrived in UP from abroad after December 9 must undergo RT-PCR test. Arrangements should be made for isolation and treatment of people who show symptoms of Covid-19, he said while reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high-level meeting at his Lok Bhawan office in Lucknow. The chief minister asked officials to keep all systems effective for Covid-19 treatment and a strict vigil in view of the new strain of novel coronavirus disease. He expressed satisfaction over UP conducting highest number of Covid-19 tests in the country and said that testing work should be continued expeditiously. UP was in second place in terms of per million tests and hence the number of per million tests being conducted in the state should be increased. The state is testing one lakh patients per million, he added. Also read: Summit called off due to Covid, mutually agreed, underline India, RussiaThe chief minister said work for vaccination should be carried out in a time-bound manner. “Work for storage of vaccine, maintaining cold chain and transportation should also be done within the given time period and training of vaccinators should be carried out actively,” said the CM. He said arrangements at Covid-dedicated hospitals should be made up to the mark. Doctors/specialists should take regular rounds of the wards and sufficient availability of medicines and oxygen, et cetera., should be maintained, emphasised Yogi. He also said that work for setting up medical colleges should be expedited in 16 districts that did not have a medical college by now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rt-pcr-test-for-those-who-came-from-abroad-after-dec-9-yogi-adityanath/story-0gLNDB2aZBy1ugEAPH7L0M.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal asks officials to start distributing e-health cards at earliest||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to start the distribution of e-health cards at the earliest and implement the health information management system (HIMS) by mid 2021.Under HIMS, various features such as a web portal and a mobile app will be launched to store database of health details of the residents of Delhi.In a meeting to review the ambitious HIMS project, Kejriwal asked officials to finalise the tender for issuing of the e-health cards and select a vendor by February 2021, said a Delhi government statement. The Delhi government has planned to issue QR code based e-health cards to the people of the city to identify and track demographic and basic clinical details of individuals. The residents of Delhi will be mapped for all eligible schemes and programmes through the card that will be integrated with HIMS, said the statement.Physical cards with QR codes will be distributed to each person after physical verification. Also, a provision will be made for issuing modified or duplicate cards at the request of the people, it said. The HIMS will be implemented by August 2021 in all the Delhi government hospitals, it said. The system seeks to target the healthcare delivery process by integrating all the patient care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management, and backend services and processes, it said. “The chief minister directed the officials to ensure that the tender of the health card is finalised at the earliest and the vendor is selected by February 2021. He also instructed to ensure that the distribution of the health cards is started at the earliest,” said the statement.The health department officials said work is being done according to schedule. The vendor will be selected by February 2021 and the system will be implemented by August 2021, it said. Health Minister Satyendar Jain  expressed satisfaction over the “speedy” work on HIMS, e-health card, and healthcare helpline, and directed officials to complete the project within the given time frame. Health department officials said that about 46 companies participated in the pre-bid conference of HIMS on December 21. The request for proposal (RFP) of the project has been procured by 25 companies and some more are in the process.  The last date for submission of bids and bid evaluation is January 19, 2021, while the vendor selection process is February 20, 2021. The selected service provider company will maintain HIMS till January 2026, it said. A centralised centre will be set up to implement the system. In the first level, the centre operator will receive people’s calls and messages.  The operator will give the relevant information to the caller and finally a report will be made, it said.  In the second level, the Delhi government doctors and an expert will give the patients an appointment. In case of emergency, they will immediately accept the calls of the patients, to resolve their issues, added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-asks-officials-to-start-distributing-e-health-cards-at-earliest/story-4Iok0D3WSzbx2LCiPnqrpJ.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||CM directs Covid tests for those who came to UP from abroad between Nov 25-Dec 8||Amid concerns over a new variant of the coronavirus detected in the United Kingdom, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that those who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should undergo tests for detection of Covid-19.Those who arrived in UP from abroad after December 9 must undergo RT-PCR test, he told officials at a review meeting.India has suspended all passenger flights connecting the United Kingdom from Wednesday till December 31 or till further orders in the wake of the emergence of a mutated strain of the virus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban.The Union Health Ministry also issued a standard operating procedure advising states to ensure that passengers coming from the UK should undergo RT-PCR test and be isolated in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive.“We have to remain alert keeping in mind new strain of coronavirus. All those who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should be tested and compulsory RT-PCR test should be done for those coming after December 9,” the chief minister was quoted as saying in a statement.Adityanath said Uttar Pradesh stood at second place in terms of Covid-19 testing and asserted that awareness drive about preventing the spread of the viral disease should continue.He also directed officials to make effective arrangements for maintenance of cold chains in view of the anti-coronavirus immunisation drive which would begin as soon as a vaccine gets emergency use authorisation in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cm-directs-covid-tests-for-those-who-came-to-up-from-abroad-between-nov-25-dec-8/story-2dlt62Op9dUPniFSftUn7L.html
23-12-2020||Kolkata||Mamata interacts with protesting farmers in Delhi, assures TMC’s support||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday spoke to farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre’s new agriculture laws and assured them that her party stands by them, a TMC leader said.A five-member delegation of TMC MPs, comprising Derek O’Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque, also met the farmers there to support their protest against the new farm laws.“Our party supremo spoke to protesting farmers over the phone. Some of them requested her to visit the ‘dharna’ sites. She assured them that the party supports their demand,” a TMC leader said.Thousands of agriculturists, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the Centre’s reform measures for over four weeks at various border points of Delhi and demanding that the laws be repealed.They were on a day-long ‘relay’ hunger strike on Monday at all sites of protest on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.“Please come and join our dharna it will give us more strength, said a farmer on the phone to Mamata Banerjee. A 5 member delegation of All India Trinamool Congress MPs visited Singhu border again to express solidarity with protesting farmers. Bengal CM spoke to multiple groups,” O’Brien said on Twitter.Earlier this month, the ruling party in West Bengal had sent a delegation there and Banerjee also interacted with the agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-interacts-with-protesting-farmers-in-delhi-assures-tmc-s-support/story-QSbUNYtSOy0iMnGAmyLcsI.html
23-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC seeks state’s reply on suggestion to ban UK tourists during Mahakumbh||Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday directed the state government to file a reply on the suggestion to ban entry of tourists and pilgrims from the UK during the four-month-long Mahakumbh fair which will begin from January. The development comes in the wake of the surfacing of the new strain of Covid-19 virus in the UK. The court also directed the state government to file a reply on the suggestion of imposing a night curfew on Christmas, New Year and on January 1 in Nainital district. The suggestion was made by the Covid monitoring committee of Nainital. The court’s direction came while hearing a bunch of PILs on Wednesday. The PILs have been filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. The HC hears these PILs related to the Covid-19 situation in the state on every Wednesday. Mahakumbh will begin from January 1 and conclude on April 28. The first Shahi Snaan (royal bath) of Mahakumbh will be held on March 11 (Shivratri), second on April 12 (Somwati Amavasya) and the third on April 14 (Baisakhi Mesh Poornima). Before the epidemic, over 12 crore pilgrims were expected to participate in the four-month-long Mahakumbh mela. However, now, given the epidemic, it is not clear yet how many pilgrims would turn up. Also read: Ready for talks if govt comes up with a concrete proposal - Farmers unionShiv Bhatt, counsel of Sachdanand Dabral said that during the hearing on Wednesday, these suggestions were made by some advocates and by Nainital monitoring committee. “The court was apprised that Dehradun district administration had already banned public celebrations on Christmas and New Year,” he said On November 24, the Uttarakhand government had stated that it was planning to allow pilgrims to attend Mahakumbh only after undergoing a Covid-19 test. On September 23, the HC had directed the state government to appoint monitoring committees in all 13 districts of the state to check the condition of treatment facilities for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals, quarantine centres and COVID care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-seeks-state-s-reply-on-suggestion-to-ban-uk-tourists-during-mahakumbh/story-ll76z5xIBxEy4ORMowhNxO.html
23-12-2020||City||Haryana arhtiya association slams IT raids on commission agents, to go on strike on December 25||Agitated over raids and notices being served by the income tax department to commission agents, the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiya Association has decided to observe one-day strike on December 25.All members of the association have decided to keep their shops shut and there will be no trade in mandis of the state. The commission agents will also hold protests in grain markets.Ashok Gupta, president of Haryana Ahrtiya Association, said since the government has failed to create a rift between farmers and ahrtiyas to suppress the agitation, it is now adopting cheap tactics to harass commission agents by conducting income tax raids. He said the ahrtiyas will continue to support the farmers in their agitation.Vikash Singhal, state secretary of the ahrtiya association, said some commission agents from Haryana were also served notice from the income tax department without any irregularity. The ahrtiyas have termed the IT notices as a pressure tactic of the Union government to end the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-arhtiya-association-slams-it-raids-on-commission-agents-to-go-on-strike-on-december-25/story-4Cr593zEWdkkjnVupaAA4O.html
23-12-2020||City||Civic body polls will decide future of politics in Haryana: Hooda||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said civic body elections in the state will decide the future of politics in Haryana.Speaking at a meeting in Rewari for party candidates in fray for the municipal council polls, Hooda said the elections present an opportunity to voters to teach the BJP-JJP government a lesson. “People shattered the BJP’s arrogance in the Baroda by elections, we will see a similar trend in the municipal elections. Every section of the society wants to get rid of the existing government and wants to bring back the Congress in the state. The process of change will begin with local body elections,” he said.The former CM said farmers are agitating on the Delhi borders for nearly a month but instead of addressing their problem, the government is ignoring one of the biggest farmer movements in the history of the country. “Instead of fulfilling its responsibility regarding SYL, the BJP is only engaged in theatrics. The Hansi-Butana canal was built during the Congress government but the BJP did not take a single step to bring water in it. We built Dadupur Nalvi Canal but the BJP filled it up. The decision of the Supreme Court came in favour of Haryana four years ago but the state government did not take any action. The people of Haryana now understand both policy and intent of the BJP and this is why farmers, workers, traders and other segments will not fall for their tricks,” he added.Hooda, who came to seek votes for Congress president candidate for Rewari municipal council Vikram Yadav, said people remember the work carried out under his leadership. “New railway lines were laid in Rewari, hospitals, universities, mini secretariats were constructed. People know the difference because the BJP government has done nothing for people of Rewari,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-body-polls-will-decide-future-of-politics-in-haryana-hooda/story-61agVSvOp0Au7wEFMPD6PN.html
23-12-2020||City||Farmers hold ‘kisan panchayat’ rally at Fatehabad, submit memorandum to BJP MLA||The farmers on Wednesday held a ‘kisan panchayat’ rally at Fatehabad and submitted a memorandum to MLAs part of the BJP-JJP government asking them to extend support to the peasants’ agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws.Mandeep Singh, state president of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “We have submitted memorandums to MLAs of the BJP-JJP government to show solidarity with us. In Fatehabad, we have submitted a memorandum to local BJP MLA Duda Ram and asked him to stand with us in this fight,” he added.BJP MLA Duda Ram said he stands in solidarity with farmers and is hoping that the government will resolve the issue in the next two to three days. “I have full sympathy with the agitators and our government will break the deadlock. Our government is committed to protect farmers’ rights,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-hold-kisan-panchayat-rally-at-fatehabad-submit-memorandum-to-bjp-mla/story-a5EUDGsv1vSc2q9xqNNzlM.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet meet: Haryana govt approves Delhi-Panipat rapid transport system||The Haryana cabinet on Wednesday approved the implementation of Delhi-Panipat Corridor of Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS). The length of the Delhi-Panipat Corridor of RRTS is 103km and it will have 17 stations, including six in Delhi and 11 in Haryana. An official spokesperson said the construction and commissioning of the RRTS will be undertaken in two stages—Sarai Kale Khan to Murthal, including Murthal depot (58.28km) and Murthal to Panipat, including Panipat depot (44.74km). The cabinet approved gross contribution of ₹4,699 crore as the state government’s share towards the project cost. It also nominated administrative secretary, town and country planning department as nodal officer for signing of agreements and other related documents with NCRTC for implementation of the project. Apart from this, the cabinet also authorised the chief minister to approve any changes or modifications, if they arise during consultation with NCRTC or Government of India for removing difficulties and bottlenecks in implementation of the RRTS project.New enterprises and employment policy approvedThe Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy that aims at attracting over ₹1 lakh crore investment and generating 5 lakh jobs was also approved by the cabinet. The policy will focus on establishing Haryana as a competitive and favoured investment destination and building a resilient economy on the back of robust industrial growth, an official spokesperson said.The policy takes cognizance of emerging trends in supply chain, electric mobility, agri-tech, green manufacturing and climate change and healthcare and pharma and other new avenues for growth. In order to ensure timely delivery of services to the investors, 41 new services will be included in the Haryana Right to Services Act, 2014 and the single window system will be further strengthened with the integration of additional 36 new services. Keeping in view balanced regional growth, the state has been divided into four categories blocks (industrially developed, intermediate development, industrially backward areas and industrially most backward areas) based on industrial development. This policy places a special emphasis on development of the MSME sector and their business growth. It envisages bringing up a paradigm shift from being a regulator to a facilitator of MSMEs. To reduce the cost of doing business in the state and enhance industry competitiveness , the policy offers an array of attractive fiscal incentives to MSME, large, mega and ultra-mega enterprises. “The Ultra-Mega and Mega and Cluster projects as defined under this policy will also be considered by Haryana Enterprises Promotion Board (HEPB) for special package of incentives,” said an official. Common cadre for Group-CThe cabinet also approved Haryana Group-C employees (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2020 with the objective of creating a common cadre, equal promotion opportunities and stability of tenure. Under this move, a common cadre will be constituted for the Group-C employees of all the departments so that they get equal opportunities for further promotion and can be transferred from one department to another under online transfer policy on completion of prescribed tenure or earlier. Amendments in Affordable Housing PolicyThe cabinet approved amendments in the Affordable Housing Policy, 2013, increasing the maximum area limit of project from 10 acre to 30 acre while the minimum area limit for setting up of affordable group housing colony has been reduced from 5 acre to 4 acre. An official spokesperson said although the minimum area norm is being reduced from 5 acre to 4 acre, the coloniser will provide the community building as per the norms prescribed for 5 acre. As per the amendment, the commercial area has now been increased from 4% to 8% of Net Planned Area. The existing provision of providing 0.5 Equivalent Car Space (ECS) will continue to remain mandatory and non-chargeable. The coloniser will be allowed to provide additional 0.5 ECS parking space per dwelling unit, which will be optional, against which it can allot one car parking space for each dwelling unit. The coloniser will be allowed to recover not more than 5% of the cost of flat against such allotment of car parking space. In cases where licenses under AHP 2013 already stand granted and building plans stand approved without availing the optional 0.5 ECS per dwelling unit parking space, the colonisers will be required to submit the consent of at least two thirds of the allottees as per the rules.New MC for Manesar The state government has decided to constitute a new municipal corporation (MC) at Manesar in Gurugram district by including 29 villages adjoining it. The 29 villages of Manesar (rural and urban), Kasan, Khoh, Naharpur Kasan, Nawada, Fatehpur, Dhana, Baskusla, Basharia, Kankrola, Bhangrola, Dhorka, Wazirpur, Badha, Sikanderpur Rampur (situated in the revenue estate of Shikohpur village), Shikohpur, Nakhrola, Bar-Gujjar, Naurangpur, Meoka, Hayatpur, Sehrawan, Nainwal, Kukrola, Jhund Sarai (Viran), Jhund Sarai (Abad), Fazalwas, Gopalpur and Garhi-Harsar will be included in the limits of the newly created Manesar MC. With the inclusion of these villages, the required criterion of minimum population of three lakh will be fulfilled. The total area of the new corporation will be 124.32 square km, according to the present boundaries. At present, there are 87 municipalities in Haryana, including 10 municipal corporations, 19 municipal councils and 58 municipal committees. Faridabad metropolitan authority to be RTA for city bus services The Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority will now act as the regional transport authority (RTA) for city bus services to be operated by the Faridabad City Transport Services Limited. The government approved the proposal of the department to declare the authority as RTA to specify the routes/areas for the grant of stage carriage permits. It will also issue a time table, working hours of the crew and parking places in respect of the city bus service to be operated by Faridabad City Transport Service Limited. The development authority will act as the RTA exclusively for the Faridabad City Transport Service Limited in respect of the operation of its city bus services in Faridabad. Panchayat tax at 2% of electricity bill The state government has decided to levy “panchayat tax” that will be 2% of the electricity bill. The new tax will be imposed on people within the limits of gram panchayats across the state. It will be applicable on electricity consumed by anyone except agriculture consumers and government. The CM said this move is expected to generate over ₹100 crore revenue. The panchayat tax will be collected by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and paid in the same manner as if it was electricity duty payable to the state government and same will be remitted to the concerned gram panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabinet-meet-haryana-govt-approves-delhi-panipat-rapid-transport-system/story-GB7vH7sdaJRukIezPcI2EL.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Over 1,500 landed in Mumbai from UK, other countries since Tuesday; none found infected yet||Two days after the state government announced new rules for flight passengers arriving from the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East, about 1,688 passengers have landed in Mumbai since Tuesday. Since no Covid-19 tests are being conducted for asymptomatic passengers at airports, none have been found to be infected with the virus so far. Senior civic officials have confirmed that passengers with Covid-19 symptoms have not been identified.Of 1,688 passengers, 745 have been quarantined in private hotels across the city arranged by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). A senior BMC official confirmed that no symptomatic passengers have been found so far.He said, “None of the passengers are going through Covid-19 tests at the airport and will only be tested during their time in quarantine. The ones that are being quarantined in Mumbai will go through RT-PCR test on the 5th and 7th day of their stay. If they test positive, they will be immediately shifted to one of the municipal Covid centres.”Also read: India submits 9-point plan for WHO reformsAccording to the BMC data, 745 passengers, of the 1,688, have been quarantined in private hotels in Mumbai, whereas 602 had connecting flights to other states and have been sent there. The rest 339 are from other countries that have been stamped on their hands for home quarantine.The BMC had announced on Monday that flight passengers from the United Kingdom, Europe and Middle Eastern countries will compulsorily be quarantined for seven days after they land in Mumbai. Their stay may increase to another seven days if they test positive for Covid-19.As per BMC’s protocols, all symptomatic passengers from the UK will be shifted to Seven Hills Hospital at Andheri and the ones from Europe and Middle East countries will be moved to GT Hospital at Fort directly from the airport. Passengers that don’t show any symptoms will be quarantined at hotels. The passport of the passengers will be deposited at the hotels and can be retrieved when they are discharged from the quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-1-500-landed-in-mumbai-from-uk-other-countries-since-tuesday-none-found-infected-yet/story-ZF6CIBi52rBFi5OfWTR8jM.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir’s ‘Jan Rasoi’ to serve lunch at Rs 1 in East Delhi||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir will launch ‘Jan Rasoi’ canteens that will serve lunch to the needy at Rs 1 in his parliamentary constituency of East Delhi. The cricketer-turned-politician will inaugurate the first such canteen in Gandhi Nagar on Thursday, followed by another in Ashok Nagar on the Republic Day, his office said.“I have always felt that everybody has the right to healthy and hygienic food irrespective of caste, creed, religion or financial condition. It is saddening to see the homeless and destitute not being able to get even two square meals a day,” Gambhir said.The MP has planned to open at least one ‘Jan Rasoi’ canteen in each of the 10 assembly constituencies in East Delhi.“The ‘Jan Rasoi’ at Gandhi Nagar, one of the biggest wholesale garment markets in the country, will be a full modern canteen which will provide lunch to those in need for just Re 1,” according to a statement from his office.It will have a capacity to seat 100 people at a time but due to the Covid-19 pandemic only 50 people will be allowed at present, it said.The lunch will comprise rice, lentils and vegetable curries.The project is being funded by Gautam Gambhir Foundation and the MP’s personal resources, and has no government support, the statement said.Some states run canteens which provide subsidised food to the needy but the national capital has no such facility where low priced good food is made available to people, Gambhir said.“During the lockdown too, we witnessed thousands of migrant labourers being forced to leave the city due to lack of food and other basic resources,” he said.The BJP MP said it was his vision that every person in Delhi gets healthy food and clean water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gautam-gambhir-s-jan-rasoi-to-serve-lunch-at-rs-1-in-east-delhi/story-KBIEKlWXXnQ8sDZMA14rHK.html
23-12-2020||Noida||Noida airport region drew Rs 7,617 crore in investments amid pandemic: Report||Not withstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the region surrounding the upcoming Noida International Airport has got investments worth Rs 7,617 crore this ongoing fiscal including those from some “big ticket” Fortune 500 firms, a top government official said. From April till December, industrial plots were allotted to 911 companies which are expected to create 1.91 lakh jobs in this region in western Uttar Pradesh, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) CEO Arun Vir Singh told PTI in an interview. Singh, also the CEO of the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), cited the figures as he asserted that the mega greenfield project has triggered massive infrastructure development including road and rail connectivity in Uttar Pradesh’s Jewar region -- around 70 km from the national capital. Jewar, which falls along the Yamuna Expressway, would be connected to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and also have a metro link to Greater Noida besides the ambitious high-speed Delhi-Varanasi Bullet Train having a stoppage at the Noida airport, he said. “All this will be ready before the first flight takes off which is expected in December 2023 or January 2024,” Singh told PTI. He said the DPR (detailed project report) of the airport mentions a station for the stoppage of a bullet train that is proposed between Delhi and Varanasi, while a metro rail line is also approved for connectivity from Greater Noida to Jewar. “There will not be any separate direct metro line from Delhi airport to Noida airport,” he clarified. Besides the rail connectivity, he said, Jewar is being connected by road to Haryana’s Ballabhgarh, which falls on the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. “The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has agreed for this 30-km road project and talks are underway between the state governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for acquisition of land on this route to connect Jewar and Ballabhgarh,” he said. “An interchange has already been approved on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and work will soon begin on that,” he added. He said the YEIDA, which manages development along the 165-km-long Yamuna Expressway, allotted 911 plots for industries from April till December this year despite the pandemic and the lockdown. “Altogether investments worth Rs 7,617 crore have been made in the region during this 8-9 month period. This has led to creation of 1.91 lakh jobs in the region. These include investments from some big ticket companies which feature in Fortune 500,” Singh said, but declined to name the companies which have made investments. He asserted that with the proposed infrastructure and connectivity this region, the Yamuna Expressway region will be among the best for investment in the country in times to come. “The airport at Jewar is going to be the biggest airport in India and the second biggest in Asia,” he said. “Our tag line says: ‘The future is here’ and we are working with the same belief and confidence under the guidance of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-airport-region-drew-rs-7-617-crore-in-investments-amid-pandemic-report/story-2lfUupS4RjX4mbY71CVySJ.html
23-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Had no option’: Man murders woman in Kolkata hotel, leaves note||A woman in her early twenties was found murdered inside a second-floor room of a hotel at New Town in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Tuesday evening, police said.Police found a hand-written note in the room, apparently, written by the murderer. The note, written in Bengali, read, “I did not want to kill you but had no option.”A broken bottle of alcohol was found at the scene of crime. The hotel staff discovered the body and informed the police. Also read: Agriculture minister says hopeful farm unions will discuss govt’s requestThe woman checked into the hotel with a man at around 1 pm. They ordered lunch around 2 pm. Security camera footage showed the man leaving the hotel around 4 pm. The man and the woman had claimed to be husband and wife.The victim and the man claimed to be residents of West Midnapore district. The police have started a manhunt.The staff members opened the door with the master key when nobody responded to repeated knocks on the door. The couple had told the staff that they would vacate the room around 7 pm. Officers of the newly set up Technocity police station did not want to comment on the progress of the ongoing investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/had-no-option-man-murders-woman-in-hotel-in-kolkata-outskirts-leaves-note/story-TUPMA8t2kUR9xWEpg3MKpI.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Kolse Patil: I’m under MVA government surveillance, but will hold Elgar Parishad||Former high court judge justice (retired) BG Kolse Patil has accused the state government led by Uddhav Thackeray of keeping a watch over him and his social activities while stressing that he will once again organise the Elgar Parishad this year ahead of the Bhima Koregaon anniversary on January 1, 2020. Kolse Patil said, “Wherever I go the state police follows me. They click my vehicle pictures. They come to my society and question my driver. They do it deliberately to tarnish my name as a bad man. Earlier, security was provided to me by the then Fadnavis government. Once the new government came to power, my security was withdrawn.” Patil further said that he was organising the Elgar Parishad at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch in Pune where the venue fees of Rs 40,000 have already been paid despite having no permission from the local authorities. “We have already booked the hall, paid the charges and sought permission from the police for holding the anti-caste meet. We will invite speakers who are progressive and speak against fascism. If the police don’t give us permission, then we will go to the high court,” Kolse Patil said. Earlier, the former high court judge had questioned the state government for withdrawing security in a Facebook post. Kolse Patil had written in a post, “Why are the police seen following me at my public meetings? Retired Supreme Court judge PB Sawant and retired justice Kolse Patil were the conveners of the first Elgar Parishad held on Dec 31, 2017. The next day, violence broke out in the village of Bhima Koregaon during the annual gathering of Dalits on the occasion of the bicentenary of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon Bhima. According to the charge sheet, Maoist forces were behind organizing the conclave and funded the meet. As many as fourteen academics and activists have been arrested from various parts of the country for suspected Maoist links in connection with the case which has been taken over by the NIA from Pune police. The police had in their charge sheet stated, “The speeches at the conclave, held on December 31 last year to mark the 200th anniversary of the Koregaon-Bhima battle, had fuelled the violence a day later.” Patil said “It was I who was instrumental in the defeat of the BJP government in the state before the formation of the present government. Whichever government comes to power, it is the RSS which rules the country. The new government and ministers are not aware of how the system works. We will keep spreading awareness of creating an equal society based on the principles of Chhatrapati Shahu-Phule and Ambedkar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kolse-patil-i-m-under-mva-government-surveillance-but-will-hold-elgar-parishad/story-0MLYGNwCA5tb3m0i2AfPFJ.html
23-12-2020||City||Kashmir: Jaish-e-Mohammad module busted, 6 arrested||Police on Wednesday claimed to have busted Jaish-e-Mohammad module and arrested six persons.Police said that 42 Rashtriya Rifles and 180 BN CRPF along with J&K Police busted a terror associate network of the Jaish-e-Mohammad group that was involved in grenade-lobbing incidents in Tral area of Awantipora and Sangam area of Anantnag District. The police have identified the arrested persons as Aijaz Ahmad Bhat of Larow Tral, Umer Jabar Dar of Wagad Tral, Suhail Ahmad Bhat of Dogripora Awantipora, Sameer Ahmad Lone of Dar Ganie Gund Tral, Mohd Amin Khan and Rafiq Ahmad Khan, both residents of Handoora Tral.Also Read: Gupkar sweeps Valley, BJP largest in Jammu“Incriminating material, including explosive substance, has been recovered from their possession. All the recovered materials have been taken for further investigation and to probe their role and complicity in other terror crimes,” a police spokesman said, adding that preliminary investigation revealed the arrested men have been in contact with Pakistani handlers and have targeted security forces by lobbing grenades in the recent past. “They (arrested person) have also been involved in pasting of threatening posters of election boycott in Tral area.”Police has registered cases against the arrested persons in Tral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-jaish-e-mohammad-module-busted-6-arrested/story-Horpcvi4r9FLNrRkjLXTHP.html
23-12-2020||Pune||UK-bound flyers hit by ban on flights||The Central government’s decision to suspend all flights originating from the United Kingdom to India until December 31, 2020, has impacted plans of some people wanting to travel between the two countries during Christmas vacation and for other emergency reasons. The travel plans of Mayuresh Dharmadhikari, a Mumbai resident who is currently pursuing a post-graduate degree in the UK wanted to return home following surgery, went awry due to the suspension of flights. The aviation ministry on Monday suspended all passenger flights connecting to the UK from Wednesday (December 22 midnight) until December 31 in the wake of the emergence of a mutated variant of Covid-19 in Britain, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban. Dharmadhikari, who went to Britain last year, is pursuing his MSc in finance and investment banking at the University of Hertfordshire. “I have my Air India ticket booked from London to Mumbai on December 25. I woke up in the morning (local time) with news that all flights have been cancelled and there is no option to fly to India. It was very urgent for me to fly to Mumbai as I underwent surgery last week and due to the Covid-19 situation here, there was no response from the National Health Service (NHS),” he told PTI through a text message on Monday. Dharmadhikari said he tried to contact the Indian High Commission and the airline staff but did not succeed. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/uk-bound-flyers-hit-by-ban-on-flights/story-o2vYpG9EOM3Alay55KyseP.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Quarantine, RT-PCR test mandatory for passengers from UK, Middle East||Following the lead of state government, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued a circular with guidelines for quarantine of international passengers coming in from the Middle East and Europe. The passengers have been advised to undergo a compulsory institutional quarantine and a compulsory RT-PCR test. The guidelines come in the wake of the distinct phylogenetic cluster of SARs-CoV-2 which is believed to be more transmissible than the current strain of the virus. These guidelines are applicable to all passengers arriving at Lohegaon international airport from the Middle East and Europe (including transit passengers), irrespective of further travel plans, till further orders. The PMC, in its circular issued on Tuesday, has stated that the Sars-Cov-2 virus is spreading and growing rapidly in the United Kingdom (UK). While all the flights coming in from the UK have been suspended temporarily by the Government of India, under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act 2005, the following guidelines to be followed at the Lohegaon international airport as a measure of caution to prevent the spread of the new strain of the Coronavirus in Pune. Pune airport has regular flights from Dubai and also other countries. Testing facilities are also available for domestic flights coming in from Delhi, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Goa. The guidelines state that all the passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries should be subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost, in the nearby hotels, for seven days. If the passenger is found symptomatic on arrival, then he will be shifted directly to Naidu Hospital for future evaluation and treatment. On arrival, no RT-PCR test will be conducted, but the test will be conducted between the fifth and seventh day at the hotels, at the cost of the quarantined passengers. If the test is found negative, the passenger would be discharged from the institutional quarantine after five to seven days with the advice of seven days mandatory home quarantine. If the test result is found positive but the passenger is asymptomatic then s/he will continue at the same hotel in quarantine or at the Covid-19 Hospital for 14 days. The PMPML has been asked to make arrangements for the transport of all passengers coming in from these countries to the hotels. The passports of all the passengers will be dropped off at the hotel and returned at the time of discharge. The arrangement for the testing of these passengers will be made through linking of private laboratories to the quarantine hotels and the same will be charged to the passengers. PPE Kits will be provided to immigration officers as well as everyone working at the airport by Pune International Airport Authority. Passengers who travelled to the UK (in the last 15 days) must report to PMC helpdesk at 020 - 25506800 /01/02/03). BOX A total of 2,059 passengers from Delhi, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Goa were tested since November 25 of which 27 tested positive for the infection A total of 16 hotels in various locations in the city have been identified for compulsory institutional quarantine with the cost ranging from Rs 1,600-Rs 4,480 for single occupancy per day A total of 21 laboratories have also been identified for testing, cost for which will be borne by the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/quarantine-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-passengers-from-uk-middle-east/story-mthjdkW2p8P5ZWw40vjEpJ.html
23-12-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh government halts services of 14-year-old Deendayal Mobile Hospital||Madhya Pradesh National Health Mission (NHM) has halted the operations of 14-year-old Deendayal Mobile Hospital, introduced to provide quality health facilities in remote areas of the state, after it was found that fake patient bills were being generated, a state health department official said.There are 144 Medical Mobile Units (MMU) under Deendayal Mobile Hospital in rural areas of the state to provide tertiary health care to remote areas where basic health facilities are not available. In an order, NHM director Chhavi Bhardwaj said, “Ziqitza Health Care Limited had been give the responsibility of operating Deendayal Mobile Hospital’s vehicles equipped with all the necessary medical services to provide emergency treatment to people residing in remote areas. But the health department has been receiving complaints against the mobile hospitals for a long time.”Also Read: MP govt tightens law against food, drug adulteration amid Interpol warning on fake Covid-19 vaccine“The company was asked to improve the facilities of the mobile hospitals several times but nothing happened. Now, serious irregularities have been found in the services. The state government has decided to stop the operations with immediate effect,” reads the order. According to an officer of the state health department, the mobile medical units were operating without doctors and staff nurses. Many hospitals were found unequipped with machines. During inspections, officers of the health department also found fake entries of villagers who never used the mobile hospital as patients. “The health department officials have been inspecting the services of mobile hospitals in every district in the past six months and found grievous irregularities. The health department sent a show-cause notice to the company in the first week of December and asked them to reply within a week. The decision of halting the services was taken on Monday after the health department officials didn’t find the reply satisfactory,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.Every month, National Health Mission paid Rs1.75 lakh for the operation of MMUs. Ziqitza Health Care Limited project head Jitendra Sharma, “We have received the order. The management is looking into the matter. If the health department finds some irregularities, we will improve them.” MP health department minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said, “The step was taken to improve the health facilities in MP. Now, mobile hospitals with better facilities will be introduced.” The opposition attacked the BJP-led state government for failing to provide health facilities effectively. MP Congress Committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “Instead of improving the facilities, the state government blamed the company and stopped an important facility. More than a company, the state government is responsible for irregularities due to a weak monitoring system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-government-halts-services-of-14-year-old-deendayal-mobile-hospital/story-fAp7F4J6hYvYpdrkD5XOzJ.html
23-12-2020||Pune||‘There has just been no real development in the past three years’||Why did you want to merge with the PMC? We had approached the court and filed a public litigation to include 34 fringe villages in PMC limits. After that, the state government had filed an affidavit in the Bombay high court that state will merge villages, step by step. In 2017, the state merged 11 villages in PMC limits. The reason was gram panchayats are not capable of providing basic facilities to the increasing population in villages. These villages are fully urbanised and the gram panchayats are helpless when it comes to development. What kind of facilities have you got from the PMC in the last three years? We were happy when we were included in the PMC. We thought, now we will get basic facilities. However, there is no substantial development in the last three years. We got two representatives for a huge 81 square km area. The water problem remains the same. There is little improvement with the roads.What are the reasons for the slow development? These villages haven’t got adequate representation in the PMC. At present, there are only two corporators who are representing the area. They have not got enough money for development. The corporation estimated Rs 2000 crore for development of these villages. However, the PMC has allocated less than Rs 100 crore in the last three years||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/there-has-just-been-no-real-development-in-the-past-three-years/story-AQQhZHIxxz0hsr58S6JgzO.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Expanding Pune: Merger to what end? 11 villages live the reality||PUNE If the recent announcement of the merger of 23 areas – described in the government records as villages - into the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, has left local residents upbeat, they need to pause; and look at their surrounding neighbourhoods. Eleven areas were included in the Pune civic limits in 2017 with the hope that it will finally taste the fruits of development.Basic amenities continue to elude these 11 villages. The state of public amenities, according to locals in these villages, now a part of the PMC, has remained unsatisfactory even after three years.Villages like Kharadi, Ambegaon, Dhanori and Keshavnagar, which have been merged into Pune, have localities that don’t even have basic infrastructure, like a drainage system. Will the PMC be able to do justice to the 23 new areas that will be merged in the next few months? Especially given that the development of the 11 areas merged in 2017 remains only on paper. “We were hoping that the PMC will resolve our basic problems such as water, roads and drainage. However, nothing has changed. We are getting water every alternate day for only an hour,” says Satish Shirwale, a resident of Keshavnagar. According to Shirwale, while development hasn’t taken place, people have been forced to pay additional property tax post the inclusion into PMC. Located on the eastern part of Pune, Keshavnagar has population of 30,000. In 2019, PMC aimed to collect at least Rs 150 crore through property tax from the 11 areas, which has seen massive development given their proximity to city and relatively cheaper land prices. Another resident of Keshavnagar, Sheetal Kanoje, says the corporation had failed to develop amenities like roads and play grounds. “It is like living in a village within the city limits. For us, Pune’s city is converting into a smart city and we still live in a village lacking basic infrastructure.” Two years after the merger of these areas, PMC conducted a bypoll, when two corporators were elected to represent this large area with a population, as per the 2011 census, of 2.78 lakh, which has now reached four lakh. These areas cover approximately 81 sq kms.The corporators claimed that with inadequate funds, development in these areas has become difficult, while the state government has not even started a development plan for these areas. Ashwini Pokale, corporator of Dhayari, part of the 11 merged villages said, “There are a lot of basic problems that remain the same after three years of the merger. We have not seen development. There are no good roads, water supply, drainage or garbage collection. In the city area, PMC spends around Rs 10-15 crore per year in small wards. The corporation spent around Rs 25 crore in the big areas of the 11 merged villages, but the funds are little when the total area is considered. They did repair existing roads in some villages.” While the PMC has sanctioned Rs 100 crore in 2019 in its annual budget for the merged villages, the civic body has not yet been able to spend it to carry out basic development like roads, water, garbage, street lights and healthcare. Abhishek V Barve, a resident of Blue Springs Society, Ambegaon Khurd, said, “For the last three years, the corporation has given excuses that they don’t have enough money for development. The corporation is charging property tax which is more than the gram panchayat taxes. We are ready to pay taxes, but we want basic facilities. However, we are not getting it yet.” Located on the southern part of Pune, Ambegaon has grown exponentially with multiple real estate projects. It is also adjacent to the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, which attracts heavy traffic. Recently, the central public works department undertook the widening of the Katraj-Navale bridge which passes through Ambegaon. Residents like Mangesh Joshi, an engineer, said the road widening will help decongest traffic, though issues of garbage and sanitation need to be addressed in Ambegaon, where he recently purchased a flat. Ambegaon was just another village on the outskirts of Pune’s city limits until 1999, when it became one of the few villages to be incorporated within the Pune municipal limits. Seventy-five per cent of this area was incorporated then, and the remaining part, which was still under the gram panchayat, was merged in 2017. Ambegaon has mostly developed as a residential hub for the middle class who wish to move in to larger spaces at affordable rates. Ganesh Dhore, another corporator representing Phursungi, says, “Corporation is collecting taxes for the last three years. However, they have not provided the service that we want. Most of the villages receive water through tankers. In some parts of the village there is alternate-day water supply. Garbage collection and disposal is another big problem. Corporation has repaired some main roads. One village gets hardly Rs 2 crore for development. In this year, due to Covid-19, a tender of only Rs 70 lakh has been floated so far.” Namdev Gavali, a resident of Lohegaon says, “We are still living in a village. We are not part of Pune city as we are lack basic facilities. Pune is becoming a smart city, and we are struggling to get water. We are live in an apartment, but face garbage collection and drainage problems. We haven’t seen any significant change in our life after merging with the PMC.” Lohegaon, like other areas merged in 2017, enjoys an urban-rural mix; the benefits of urbanisation and mountains on the outskirts as a boundary, with a highway passing through the area. Thus, developers and builders from Pune and Mumbai have strategically built large residential complexes offering a variety of choices from simple, to lavish homes. The 2017 mergerThe decision to merge 11 areas was part of a 2014 notification issued by state government to originally include 34 areas in the PMC. Accordingly, the state facilitated the merger of 11 areas in 2017, expanding Pune. Now the state has given the nod for 23 more areas to be included in PMC limits. Still waiting for PMC’s development“We are still living in a village. We are not part of Pune city as we lack basic facilities. Pune is slowly becoming a smart city, and we are struggling to get water. We live in an apartment, but face garbage and drainage problems.” Namdev Gavali, Lohegaon“In last three years, we are paying only property tax to PMC. We are still waiting for basic facilities like water, road and drainage. We have to get water from private tankers. We heard that PMC has decided to implement a 24x7 water supply project, but, I don’t know when we will get water.” Vijay Jadhav, Undri“The corporation had failed to develop amenities like roads and play grounds. It is like living in a village within the city limits. For us, Pune’s city is converting into a smart city and we still live in a village lacking basic infrastructure.” Sheetal KanojeKeshavnagar“Corporation is collecting taxes for the last three years. However, they have not provided the service that we want. Most of the villages receive water through tankers. In some parts of the village there is alternate-day water supply. Garbage collection and disposal is another big problem. ” Ganesh Dhorecorporator, Phursungi“For the last three years, the corporation has given excuses that they don’t have enough money for development. The corporation is charging property tax which is more than the gram panchayat taxes. We are ready to pay taxes, but we want basic facilities.’ Abhishek BarveBlue Springs Society, Ambegaon Khurd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/expanding-pune-merger-to-what-end-11-villages-live-the-reality/story-QUOnCsDOadSy6Yq1RTrNRM.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Five steps to: Online RTE (right to education) admission||The RTE Act was started in April 2010 and the online registration process starts in the month of January. This year, process has been delayed due to Covid and is still onSTEP 1: Parents need to register online. Application number and password will be communicated to you on your registered mobile numberSTEP 2: Fill up the child’s and parent’s details; also locate the address while filling up the application form to list schools within one-three km from your place of residenceSTEP 3:Upload all necessary documents; then confirm your admission and take the printed application along with the required documents to a help desk, the location of which will be provided online. They are physical helpdesks at schoolsSTEP 4:RTE admission lottery will be announced online; parents can check their application status onlineSTEP 5:Once the name of the child comes in the lottery, parents need to approach the school administration, submit required documents and complete the admission process.While filling up the online form, parents have to use the Google map to locate their home and accordingly give a preference of the schools that exist withing one-three km from your house. If parents are not able to locate their home on the map, they can use a nearby landmark locationMukund Kirdat, education expert, said, “The RTE admission process is easy and simple to understand and follow, but often, due to technical errors parents face issues. Each parent applying for the admission process should first read the admission manual given on the official website.”To register visit: https://rte25admission.maharashtra.gov.in / https://student.maharashtra.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-steps-to-online-rte-admission/story-zivot0549XfRfqDBJBRwXM.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Faridabad metropolitan authority to be RTA for city bus services||The Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority will now act as the regional transport authority (RTA) for city bus services to be operated by the Faridabad City Transport Services Limited. The Haryana government has already declared the Faridabad City Transport Service Limited to act as the state transport undertaking within the jurisdiction of the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority. The BJP-JJP coalition government on Wednesday approved the proposal of the department to declare the authority as RTA to specify the routes/areas for the grant of stage carriage permits. It will also issue a time table, working hours of the crew and parking places in respect of the city bus service to be operated by Faridabad City Transport Service Limited. The development authority will act as the RTA exclusively for the Faridabad City Transport Service Limited in respect of the operation of its city bus services in Faridabad. “This decision will lead to coordinated transport services in Faridabad,” an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/faridabad-metropolitan-authority-to-be-rta-for-city-bus-services/story-HwyHTplcKLpWm1VulJ2fLO.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||Those who don’t want to see farmers happy, misleading them: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the continuation of farmers’ protests despite the government’s attempts to clear their apprehensions on the new agri laws shows cultivators are being “provoked and misled” by the Opposition. “It is being said repeatedly said that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will not be abolished but farmers are still getting misled on this. It is being said again and again that the ‘mandis’ will not end. The prime minister has said mandis are being connected with technology, but farmers are being misled on this as well. What kind of politics is this?” Adityanath said. Addressing a program organised on the 118th birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, the chief minister said, “In order to bring prosperity to farmers, the government has made extensive reforms and brought the new farm laws. But those who did not like progress and development of the country and happiness on the face of the farmers are misleading and provoking them.” Taking a dig at the Opposition, he said, “These (opposition parties) will not allow things to be done in the interest of farmers. The government is working in a dedicated way for the farmers and after Independence, no government at the Centre, except the one led by the BJP, has brought so many schemes in the interest of farmers.” The chief minister alleged that people who do politics in the name of farmers become silent on their issues when they come to power. “In former PM Chaudhary Charan Singh’s area, Ramala sugar mill was awaiting revival for the last 30 years. I thank the Minister of Sugarcane, who arranged for the daily crushing of 50,000 quintals of sugarcane last year under the expansion of the mill,” he said. Adityanath said the central and state governments are working with full commitment for the interests of farmers. “The government’s commitment is clearly visible on every occasion. In UP, about 16.5 per cent of the country’s population lives, but due to the hard work of farmers, this state contributes 21 per cent to the total food production of the country,” he said. He said, “We already have four agricultural universities. Recently, a central agricultural university was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Jhansi.  Presently, 89 Krishi Vigyan Kendras are working in the state with a resolve to double the income of farmers with the help of new concepts and new techniques.”      Earlier in the day, the chief minister garlanded a statue of Chaudhary Charan Singh and paid tribute to him. He also felicitated many progressive farmers and provided tractors to some of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/those-who-don-t-want-to-see-farmers-happy-misleading-them-up-cm/story-SBquCzq7B8FRfgK8OpIpUI.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Pune- the hero with a thousand faces||There is no great agony of holding an untold tale of glorious times inside you! Our very own city of Pune holds that fascinating personal story within it.In my capacity as an indologist and historian, I appoint myself as its biographer and take on the task of “sutradhara”, thus, narrating this story through a series of write-ups. Beyond academic studies, technical reports, analytical information, town planning maps and cultural festivals, there is so much more to our collective dwelling place we call home, the dearest Pune. Through this column, I urge to you to wear your detective hat and embark on this journey of discovery of Pune.The history of Pune can be traced back to prehistoric times when first man/woman might have set foot on this land and made it home. Throughout the course of history, Pune has been growing, changing and has been influenced by nature, various rules, cultural processes, development ideas and socio-economic factors. It would not be wrong to say that Pune is not a monolith. There are many “Punes” residing in the present Pune city. Every stone in the corner, pit dug for new construction, monument raised, and bridge built, areas developed and erased, have a bearing of how the city is shaped. What we lack in text, documentation or oral history, is fulfilled by the presence of historical artefacts and heritage structures. These physical aspects in the form of caves, forts, building, temples, wadas, and monuments bear living, yet silent testimony, to the history of the city. We are quite fortunate to find these scattered signs and symbols in our neighbourhood, which point to a distant past or bring forth an interesting fact. This is not just about physical manifestations, but even ideas, reforms, movements, wars, historical and cultural events, have a bearing as to how the city operates today. Pune has a rich history of documenting history and some of the important movements of nationalistic history writing were born in Pune. Through studying contributions of important research institutions working in faculties of Archaeology, History, Indology, Anthropology, Ecology and multidisciplinary sciences, we can put together a far more complete and colourful picture of Pune. So, the protagonist or the hero of our story is Pune. And as famous mythology professor, Joseph Cambell, may put it, it is a hero with thousand faces and multiple identities. The landscape of Pune was occupied way back over few thousands year ago, but the first name Pune has been referred to (afaik!) in a copperplate grant of Rashtrakuta (the dynasty associated with excavation of world famous Kailas at Ellora) king Krishna I, dated to October 16, 758. Pune is referred to “Punya” and a district like headquarter (vishaya) presiding over few thousand villages. We shall see more about it in due course, but the take away is the root and word “Punya” (ṇ and not n- as an ardent Punkar would point out!) which translates to sacred. In subsequent references in other copperplates, Pune has been called Punak-vishaya. In early medieval Pune, it is being referred as Punyeshwar after the temple of Punyeshwar. A 15th century disciple of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu (the famous saint from Bengal), Gurudas, describes it as Punyanagar and praises the knowledge and scholarship of the pathshalas (learning centre for Sanskrit scriptures) of Pune. It was renamed for a brief period between 1703-1707 to Persian Muhiyabad by Mughal Emperor Aurangazeb after his own name, Muhi-ud-Din, to commemorate his grandson, Muhi-us- Sunnat according to some scholars. It was medieval Kasbe Pune of the 17th century where Kasba meant a settlement of artisans. It was rechristened “Poona” and “Poonah” under British rule. In cultural context, it is always called as Punyanagar, Punya-kshetra or Punyanagari. Over the years, it has also amassed many epithets such as “Pensioners’ Paradise”, “ Cycle city”, “Oxford of the East”, “Vidyeche Maherghar” (the maiden knowledge hub) , cultural capital of Maharashtra, “Educational hub”, “ IT City”, “Automobile City”, “City of Trees and Hills”, and so on. Each of the above represents the peculiar yet special aspect of Pune’s identity. If you read newspapers (which you are right now!), you might have come across some such as these - “City of Traffic” , “ City of Two-Wheelers” , “Most Polluted City”, “City of Accidents”, all with distinct negative connotations. The recent uncontrolled urbanised development in the city has huge role to play here. But, as we change for better and live up to the name of the “original” smart city, we need to take stock and look back to trace how much our city has lived through. So, welcome everyone on this exciting and yet humbling joy ride we undertake - ‘The Pune Saga’! Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sutradhara-s-tales-pune-the-hero-with-a-thousand-faces/story-2n4kI3NK4v1t7zKixPC18M.html
23-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand proposes ex-gratia to dependents of martyred army, para-military personnel||The Uttarakhand government, on the second day of winter session in Assembly, tabled Uttarakhand Martyr’s Dependent Ex-gratia Grant Bill, 2020 to provide a one-time ex-gratia for livelihood to dependents of soldiers of armed forces and paramilitary forces in future, killed in war or border skirmishes. The bill was tabled by Parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik along with four other amendment bills in the House. The bill proposes to “provide one-time ex-gratia for livelihood in future to dependents, widow (veer naari), parents of soldiers of defence forces and paramilitary forces killed in war, border skirmishes and internal security, of Uttarakhand state”. “In case of a married martyr, 60% of the ex-gratia amount to be prescribed by the government from time to time, would be given to his widow while the remaining 40% would be given to his parents. If parents are not alive then the entire amount would be given to his widow,” as per the bill. “Similarly, if his wife is not alive, then 60% of the amount would be given equally to his children and remaining to his parents. If both are not alive, then the entire amount is to be given to his dependent children. If the martyr is unmarried, then the full amount would be given to his parents,” states the bill. The government also tabled four amendment bills including Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for economically weaker sections) (amendment) Bill, 2020, Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Selection Commission (amendment) Bill, 2020, The Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Land Revenue Act, 1901) (amendment) Bill, 2020 and Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Medical Education University (amendment) Bill, 2020. Also Read: Uttarakhand conducts highest-ever weekly tests with over 99,000 Covid-19 samplesUnder the Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for economically weaker sections) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the government proposes to make a provision of filling any vacancy reserved for economically weaker sections, in case it is not filled due to non-availability of a suitable candidate, then allowing for picking a suitable candidate belonging to the general category in any recruitment year for the vacancy. Similarly, under the Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Selection Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the government has decided to authorise the aforementioned body as a selection agency for recruitment to the group-C posts governed by the Uttarakhand Police Act. Minister Kaushik, while speaking to the media persons after tabling of the bills, said, “The debates on all these bills would be held on Wednesday by extending the session followed by an all-party meeting on the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-proposes-ex-gratia-to-dependents-of-martyred-army-para-military-personnel/story-wEwYewRQmQMSlVken67PLK.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet approves municipal corporation for Manesar||The Haryana government on Wednesday decided to constitute a new municipal corporation (MC) at Manesar in Gurugram district by including 29 villages adjoining villages in it. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh. The 29 villages of Manesar (rural and urban), Kasan, Khoh, Naharpur Kasan, Nawada, Fatehpur, Dhana, Baskusla, Basharia, Kankrola, Bhangrola, Dhorka, Wazirpur, Badha, Sikanderpur Rampur (situated in the revenue estate of Shikohpur village), Shikohpur, Nakhrola, Bar-Gujjar, Naurangpur, Meoka, Hayatpur, Sehrawan, Nainwal, Kukrola, Jhund Sarai (Viran), Jhund Sarai (Abad), Fazalwas, Gopalpur and Garhi-Harsar will be included in the limits of the newly created Manesar municipal corporation. With the inclusion of these villages, the required criterion of minimum population of three lakh will be fulfilled. The total area of the new corporation will be 124.32 square km, according to the present boundaries. At present, there are 87 municipalities in Haryana, including 10 municipal corporations, 19 municipal councils and 58 municipal committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cabinet-approves-municipal-corporation-for-manesar/story-VnE6qLyg9hfrIMHAlNu8mM.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Head constable suspended for misbehaving with rape victim’s parents in Jhajjar||A head constable at Jhajjar city police station was placed under suspension for misbehaving with the parents of a five-year-old rape victim who went to the police station on Sunday night to lodge a complaint in connection with the crime. The father of the victim is a migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh. Jhajjar deputy superintendent of police Rahul Dev said head constable Anil Kumar was suspended and an inquiry recommended against home guard Rohit Kumar to dismiss him from his service. “The parents of the victim had accused the policemen of not cooperating with them and rather misbehaving when they reached the police station to inform them about the incident,” he said. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has urged his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar to take stringent action against the guilty. A day earlier, the 27-year-old accused, also a labourer, was sent to judicial custody. Labourers had blocked the main road of Jhajjar on Tuesday, demanding capital punishment for the accused. The Madhya Pradesh government sent its additional director general of police (ADGP) to Jhajjar to extend monetary aid of Rs 4 lakh to the victim’s family. The DSP said that the accused was a history-sheeter with eight cases against him in Haryana and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/head-constable-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-rape-victim-s-parents-in-jhajjar/story-LekVZmg1wzrd0tn9rFlZjN.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||Coming up: Grand office for Akhilesh Yadav in Azamgarh with an eye on 2022||The Samajwadi Party will build a sprawling and grand camp office for its national president Akhilesh Yadav in his parliamentary constituency of Azamgarh. It will also be known as the Purvanchal office of the Samajwadi Party. The foundation laying ceremony of the camp office will take place after Makar Sankrati on January 14. SP’s Azamgarh district unit president Hawaldar Yadav said whenever Akhilesh visited Azamgarh, a large number of party workers came to see him. Due to space crunch at circuit house or wherever he stayed, it was inconvenient for party workers to meet him. Therefore, the Azamgarh unit of the party recently held a meeting and decided to build an office for the national president in Azamgarh. “A group of people, including diehard supporters and workers of the party, have come forward to donate around one acre of the land in Anwarganj for the proposed office of the SP national president,” said Hawaldar Yadav. He added that the process of land registry would be completed soon. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Two die, 13 fall sick after ammonia gas leak in Iffco-Phulpur plantInitially, there is plan to make four rooms and a big meeting hall. Two rooms, one for office purpose and another for private use, will be made for the party president. The office will be ready before June 2021. After the office is built, there will be no space crunch. During his visit to Azamgarh, Akhilesh will stay in the office and meet party workers conveniently. Yadav said the proposed office was around 6 km off Maduri airstrip. After construction of the office in Azamgarh, Akhilesh Yadav’s visit to his parliamentary constituency would certainly increase. According to a party insider, the party office is being made in Azamgarh keeping in view, the mission 2022. The party chief’s office will help cover all the assembly constituencies in eastern UP districts, including Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Varanasi, Ballia, Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Sonbhadra, Mau, Bhadohi, and Mirzapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/coming-up-grand-office-for-akhilesh-yadav-in-azamgarh-with-an-eye-on-2022/story-2p1CELqC7CiVIuGghIgKTL.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra lifts restrictions on amusement parks, water sports, tourist places||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday allowed amusement/entertainment parks, water sports parks and tourist places outside containment zones to restart operations as a part of its unlock measures.The order issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said water sports and other activities like naukavihar (boating) will be allowed outside containment zones. The administration will take into consideration the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the central government.Similarly, entertainment/amusement parks, including indoor gaming places, have been given the green signal. Also Read: Covid-19 immunity lasts at least 8 months, hope for longevity of vaccinations: StudyAll these places had closed down in March following the Covid-19 lockdown.There have been mixed reactions to this move. “At a time when the government is imposing restrictions like night curfews and the threat of Covid-19 still remains, it is a wrong step to reopen these amusement parks. It will only result in the increase of infections,” said Nagma Khan Hashmi, a media professional.According to Fahim Batliwala, proprietor, Simca Advertising, “Amusement parks employs thousands of people who are now in dire straits after months of lockdown, so this should help. However, all precautions like wearing masks and social distancing need to be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-lifts-restrictions-on-amusement-parks-water-sports-tourist-places/story-NnbaMxFd7FLiaLTKKClkUN.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Three of family die by suicide over monetary dispute in Punjab’s Gurdaspur||Three members of a family died by suicide over a monetary dispute at their house in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district on Tuesday night, police said on Wednesday. The police said that the victims, a 42-year-old sugarcane juice seller, his 38-year-old wife and their 16-year-old daughter, posted a video on social media blaming nine people, including relatives, for driving them to take the extreme step. The accused include the wife’s brother and sister-in-law with whom they had a monetary dispute. In the video, the wife claimed that her brother had sent the Celphos tablets, asking them to kill themselves. She said the aim of sharing the video was that people should know about the nine people and avoid them. She appealed for justice after their death. Dhariwal deputy superintendent of police Kulwinder Singh Virk said a case was registered for abetment to suicide against the nine accused. The bodies were sent to the Gurdaspur civil hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-of-family-die-by-suicide-over-monetary-dispute-in-punjab-s-gurdaspur/story-5Xreggs8DoOE4f8svCmfRL.html
23-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to amend laws to punish fraud credit cooperative societies||Rajasthan government will amend relevant laws to enable effective action against credit cooperative societies in the state found duping investors. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked officials to bring appropriate amendments to ensure punishment to criminals and protect investors’ hard earned money. The CM instructed that the special operation group (SOG) and the cooperative department should take effective action against the culprits to prevent a repeat of incidents of cheating and corruption in cooperative societies functioning. He said that the state agencies should also coordinate with central agencies on this matter. Gehlot stated that more than 75,000 complaints have been received against various cooperative societies, which shows the gravity of the issue. “We have a dual obligation to send criminals to jail on one side and to restore investors’ money,” he said. Also Read: Rajasthan: Farmer agitation gains support at Shahjahanpur borderHe said home, cooperative, finance and other related departments should develop a system in the state that discourages unregulated (irregular) deposit schemes, thereby putting an end to money-grab schemes run by illegal societies promising high interest rates. He also asked for running an awareness campaign to educate people. Additional Director General of SOG, Ashok Rathore, said more than 1500 cases related to fraud by cooperative societies are registered with different police stations of the state and the SOG is also investigating several cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-amend-laws-to-punish-fraud-credit-cooperative-societies/story-g2lMAzrDkYgdg3xmvZKrKK.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Chilla and Ghazipur borders remain closed||Delhi’s border crossing points with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur continued to remain closed on Wednesday because of the farmers’ protest even as the traffic police have suggested alternative routes for motorists.Those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh have been advised to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND, and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected.The police have continued checking at these points to ensure protesting farmers do not sneak in. This has slowed down traffic.Also Read: Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmersDelhi’s border crossing points into Haryana passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, and Saboli and Mangesh too remain closed.The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other points such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-chilla-and-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed/story-fkz1Eeup7ICfkzUBDNXmTI.html
23-12-2020||Patna||Bihar woman throws hot tea on cop, arrested||A woman tea vendor was arrested in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur town from the campus of the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in connection with an attack on the in-charge of the SKMCH police outpost late Monday evening.The woman vendor, identified as Sarita Devi, a native of Rasulpur Salim village under the Bochaha police station, had allegedly thrown steaming tea on the face of the outpost in-charge, Suman Jha, on Sunday evening, when the officer, along with two aides, reached the tea kiosk for removing encroachments from the campus.Sunil Razak, station house officer (SHO) of Ahiyapur police station said the arrest was made only after an FIR was registered with his office on the statement of Jha against the woman and two of her associates for allegedly making a potentially fatal attack on him.“The woman has been arrested, while two of her associates are still absconding. Raids are on to nab them. They will be arrested soon,” Razak said. Jha was referred to the Patna Medical College and Hospital on Monday morning after his condition deteriorated, he said.On being contacted over his cell phone, Jha said he had gone to remove encroachment from the eastern gate entrance and its nearby places after getting information about illegal tea and snacks kiosks.Also Read: When Prince of Wales came to Patna, first medical college was named after himHe said he was acting on the basis of a written complaint made by the principal of the SKMCH, Dr Vikas Kumar, about illegal shops in the campus causing many problems to the patients, their attendants, doctors and other medical staff.“When I reached Sarita’s kiosk and questioned her, she got infuriated. She first hurled abuses and later threw hot tea on my face. I fell down there and was taken to the emergency ward by the campus security personnel,” Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-woman-throws-hot-tea-on-cop-arrested/story-FFBFBx8VPll9xm8styAccO.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College director Dheeraj Sanghi resigns, cites personal reasons||Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, director Dheeraj Sanghi has resigned citing personal reasons. He submitted his resignation to the secretary, technical education, Chandigarh administration, Sarpreet Singh Gill, which has been approved. Sanghi, 54, joined PEC from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, in January 2019. His term was to end in January 2024.He will be serving the notice period till March 31, 2021. When contacted, he said, “I want to go back to Kanpur.” His stint at the institution saw PEC climb up in rankings among engineering institutes of the country. With a blend of experience in administration, academics and research, Sanghi joined PEC on lien from IIT Kanpur. At IIT Kanpur, he was a professor in the department of computer science and engineering and had been dean, academic affairs, from 2011-14. Graduating from IIT Kanpur in 1986, he received his doctoral degree from University of Maryland College Park, US. Passionate about technical education in the country, his research interests include computer networks and network security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-director-dheeraj-sanghi-resigns-cites-personal-reasons/story-PWf9Z8qyjifckyQ3WnAvQN.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||Noida, Ghaziabad among 5 UP cities with worst air quality in country||While the mercury drops, Uttar Pradesh continues to reel under bad air quality. Five cities of the state top the pollution chart of the country, as per the data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday. Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad in west UP recorded the worst air quality in the country with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 458. Kanpur in central UP recorded an AQI of 452, while Greater Noida, Meerut and Noida recorded AQIs of 450, 446 and 437 respectively.The state capital of Lucknow recorded an AQI of 412. An AQI above 401 is considered to be severe which not only affects healthy people but severely harms those with pre-existing breathing issues, children and the elderly, as per the CPCB.The AQI of UP cities has recorded a spike since last week.Particulate pollutants like PM2.5 and PM10, along with vehicular and industrial emissions, comprise major pollutants that contribute to higher AQIs. According to experts, cold weather also leads to higher AQIs.Also Read: Air Quality Commission directs switching over of all industries in Delhi to PNGThe Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board has largely been ineffective in controlling the spike in air pollution, experts said.Though the board has issued directions to districts and other government bodies suggesting ways to improve the air quality, the measures have failed to show results. District authorities have also been unable to check air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/noida-ghaziabad-among-5-up-cities-with-worst-air-quality-in-country/story-zm2ddhsRin4MS8X0gZ6ETJ.html
23-12-2020||Bhopal||MP govt plans Sanskrit only play schools to promote language and tradition||From the next academic session, every district in Madhya Pradesh will have a playschool, where mode of education would be Sanskrit, state education minister said on Tuesday.MP school education department is going to introduce first of its kind playschools, being developed on the concept of a chain of Chinese playschool, where students of class LKG and UKG will be taught speaking, etiquettes, shlokas and names of different objects in Sanskrit language only. “Instead of LKG and UKG, the classes will be known as Arun and Uday. A government school in every district is being developed for teaching Sanskrit to students. Sanskrit is the mother of all languages. Learning Sanskrit will open the minds of students. It will promote both language and Indian tradition and culture,” said school education department minister, Inder Singh Parmar. The minister said the MP State Open School Education Board (MPSOSEB) and Yoga guru Ramdev’s Maharishi Patanjali Sanskrit Sansthan will take care of the syllabus, infrastructure and appointments at the playschools. “The schools are being developed in a way that working parents can leave their 3-4 years old kids at the school at 9 AM and can take them back in the evening. Teachers with knowledge of both Sanskrit and child psychology will be appointed by the government,” said an official of the school education department, who did not wish to be named. Raising a doubt on the viability of this project and the future of the students, educationist, Pankaj Prajapati said, “I have serious doubts about the viability of this project. Why will parents send their kids to a Sanskrit school if they don’t want to see their kids working as priests or lecturers of Sanskrit?,” he asked. “It is good to promote and teach additional languages but to teach only one language- Sanskrit-- used by priests only to perform Hindu rituals, sounds insensible. How will these kids interact with their parents because most of the people don’t know Sanskrit,” said Prajapati. Also Read: MP govt tightens law against food, drug adulteration amid Interpol warning on fake Covid-19 vaccineMaharishi Patanjali Sanskrit Sansthan Director PR Tiwari, who proposed this project to the department, said that the perception of Sanskrit as the language of the priests was part of the problem.“This is the problem with people that they associate Sanskrit with priesthood only. Sanskrit is the mother of all languages because a large number of body parts including the palate, tongue, teeth, lips and nose are in use while speaking Sanskrit. It is not merely a language but a skill, to develop a good sense of speaking,” Tiwari said. “If kids start talking in Sanskrit, it will be very easy for them to learn other languages including French, Spanish, Mandarin and others. In Arun and Uday classes, we will teach everything only in Sanskrit. More than writing, we will prefer speaking in Sanskrit. The languages including Hindi and English will be introduced to these kids in class 1,” he added. The state government has also announced to develop one locality in every district as a Sanskrit colony, where sign boards, nameplate and other things will be written in the Sanskrit language. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has spoken about promoting Sanskrit on several occasions. In 2017, he announced making Sanskrit a compulsory subject in all schools from class 1 to 12 but the school education department failed to introduce Sanskrit in the primary schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-govt-plans-sanskrit-only-play-schools-to-promote-language-and-tradition/story-jekU1jXzwKmZtV2CW4YF7J.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||At 15.8 degrees Celsius, Mumbai records lowest temperature of the season so far||As temperature in the city dropped further, there was a nip in the air on Wednesday morning. Setting the record for the lowest temperature this season, the Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a temperature of 15.8 degrees Celsius.While the temperature at Santacruz was 2.2 degrees below normal, the Colaba station recorded a minimum temperature of 19.6 degrees Celsius, barely 1.6 degrees above normal. KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD, said that this was the lowest temperature recorded at both stations this season. “This is the second consecutive day when temperatures dropped. It is slightly more windy today,” he said. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in December 2019 was 16.4 degrees Celsius. The year before that, lowest minimum temperatures had dropped to 14.4 degrees Celsius. Also Read: Most cities in northwest India record ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ airTemperatures are likely to remain low for the next couple of days, according to IMD. Meanwhile, with winter conditions persisting, air quality has deteriorated further.As opposed to an air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator-- reading of 183 (moderate) on Tuesday, Wednesday recorded an AQI reading of 200. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. The AQI in Navi Mumbai was recorded at 341, which falls under the very poor category. Bandra Kurla Complex recorded an AQI of 337. Experts from SAFAR said that poor air quality in the winter season is a routine phenomenon and can be attributed to the change in wind directions. “As wind starts flowing from the land instead of the sea, pollution levels increase because the air coming from the land is more polluted,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-15-8-degrees-celsius-mumbai-records-lowest-temperature-of-the-season-so-far/story-9LLBdXa0uvCTkvSLlzbd9H.html
23-12-2020||City||DDC polls: National Conference wins 25 of 140 seats in Jammu, BJP emerges as largest party||Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC) has won 25 of the 140 seats in the Jammu region of Jammu & Kashmir in the District Development Council (DDC) elections. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) swept the polls in the Kashmir Valley. The six-party grouping was led by the NC in the first major direct polling exercise in the region after the scrapping of its special status in August last year.People’s Democratic Party (PDP) of another former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, which is also a part of PAGD, could win only one seat in the Jammu region’s Nowshera.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged as the largest party in Jammu with 71 seats while the Congress won 17, Jammu & Kashmir Apni Party three, Panthers Party two seats, and Bahujan Samaj Party one.Also Read: Gupkar sweeps Valley, BJP largest in JammuThe BJP fielded central ministers such as Jitendra Singh and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi for campaigning in the eight-phase polls and managed to win three out of 140 seats in Kashmir.In a tweet, NC leader Omar Abdullah said on Tuesday, “I understand the temptation to over play the 3 seats the BJP has won in the valley but why underplay the 35 wins/leads of the @JKPAGD in Jammu province. We aren’t Kashmir based parties, we are political parties with strong support in both Kashmir AND Jammu.”I understand the temptation to over play the 3 seats the BJP has won in the valley but why underplay the 35 wins/leads of the @JKPAGD in Jammu province. We aren’t Kashmir based parties, we are political parties with strong support in both Kashmir AND Jammu.BJP’s spokesman Anil Gupta called the results a “victory for democracy” and a “slap” for those who were saying Kashmiri people had lost faith in democracy after scrapping the special status. “The BJP did well all across Jammu & Kashmir...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-conference-wins-25-of-140-ddc-seats-in-jammu-as-bjp-emerges-largest-party-in-region/story-XMZr7KaDZ4wSirkVEA1BOJ.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Two die, 13 fall sick after ammonia gas leak in Iffco-Phulpur plant||Two officials working at an ammonia plant at the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (Iffco) plant in Phulpur died while 13 others fell sick following a gas leak late Tuesday night, officials said.Four workers were admitted to the city hospital after their situation deteriorated. They are now stable, officials added.According to Iffco PRO Vishwajeet Srivastava, the leakage took place around 11pm on Tuesday at the PF-1 unit; it was controlled and stopped later on.As per reports, the PF-1 unit of Iffco plant, located around 25km from Sangam city in the trans-Ganga area of the Prayagraj district, developed an issue and ammonia gas started to leak. An official, VP Singh, 47, who was present on the scene, went to repair it and was exposed to the leaking gas. Seeing him in trouble, another official Abhhay Nandan, 57, rushed to his aid and was also exposed. By the time others on the scene got the two out, the gas had spread, affecting a dozen others. Experts of Iffco then arrived and managed to stop the leakage, officials added.Senior district administration and police officers, including SP (trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal, circle officer Ramsagar and SDM Yuvraj Singh and Iffco unit head Mohammad Masood also rushed to the spot to help with rescue efforts. They rushed the sick to the hospital on the Iffco campus and later shifted seven of the personnel to a hospital in the city, where two officials, VP Singh and Abhay Nandan, died, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-two-die-13-fall-sick-after-ammonia-gas-leak-in-iffco-phulpur-plant/story-59LkdfM7qZbEEMWm6qddVM.html
23-12-2020||City||Chhattisgarh government issues new SOPs for travellers from UK, RT-PCR test must||In a view of the new strain of coronavirus emerging in the United Kingdom (UK), the Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday issued fresh SOPs (standard operating procedures) for people travelling to the state from the UK.“People, who are coming to Chhattisgarh from the UK via airplane, train, road or other way must undergo RT-PCR test while entering the state. If they test positive then the travellers should be kept in Covid centres/quarantine centres. And SOPs should be followed for contact tracing,” a press release issued by the state government stated. The release also stated that after the patient recovers from the disease, he/she should stay in home isolation for at least 14 days. Also Read: Covid test must for those who came to UP from UK after Dec 7“The information of the SOPs should be prominently displayed at airports and should be strictly followed,” it said. Flight services from UK to India have been suspended till December 31 as a precautionary measure to contain the new strain of coronavirus. On December 20, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson informed the public that a new variant of the coronavirus has been found in UK. He tweeted, “Given the early evidence we have on this new variant of the virus, and the potential risk it poses, it is with a heavy heart that I must tell you we cannot continue with Christmas as planned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-government-issues-new-sops-for-travellers-from-uk-rt-pcr-test-must/story-pTuGTmTib5IBn83fbitfGJ.html
23-12-2020||City||MC elections: Panchkula admn sets up 275 booths in 20 wards||To ensure safe voting during the time of pandemic, the administration has set up 275 booths across 20 wards so that no more than 1,000 voters visit a booth on the day of voting, December 27.The deputy commissioner of Panchkula, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, informed that the number of booths has been increased and adequate arrangements to facilitate voting have been made.There are 1,85,707 voters—98,323 men and 87,316 women—who are likely to cast votes on polling day.Ahuja said that since ward 3 had 12,929 voters, it had the highest number of booths, 19. There are 18 polling booths in ward 7 with 10,982 voters; ward 11 has 12,231 voters; and ward 12 has 10,575 voters.The least number of booths, that is eight, are in ward 6 with 6,301 voters and ward number 15 with 5,699 voters.There are nine booths in ward 1, ward 2 has 11 booths, ward 4 has 17, ward 5 has 16 polling booths; there are 13 booths in ward 8, 16 in ward 9 and 17 in ward 10.Ward 13 has 13 booths, ward 14 has 11 booths, ward 16 has 14, and there are 12 polling booths in ward 17. Wards 18, 19, 20 will have 10, 13 and 14 polling booths, respectively.The administration has launched a helpline 0172-2590000 for residents who want to register complaints regarding the MC elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-elections-panchkula-admn-sets-up-275-booths-in-20-wards/story-V9QAYNglmkbRxrWlsv5zfK.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||Covid test must for those who came to UP from UK after Dec 7||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to test all people who have arrived in the state from the United Kingdom after December 7 for the new variant of Covid-19 virus that has spread rapidly in the UK. Chief ministerYogi Adityanath has also asked for tracing and quarantining all who came from abroad in the past 15 days, as part of safeguarding against the new and more infectious strain of the virus. The CM gave the instructions while reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high-level meeting at his Lok Bhawan office in Lucknow on Tuesday. “The test is compulsory for people who came to UP from the UK, whereas people who have come from other European countries will be tested, if they have symptoms of the coronavirus infection. All the travellers coming from the UK and European countries will have to stay in home quarantine for 7 to 10 days,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare. Travellers to the state from abroad have been requested to download ‘Mera Covid Kendra’ app on their mobile to locate the nearest sample testing center run by the state government or they could contact the helpline-18001805145, the CMO office or the Covid command centre for testing, added Prasad. CM Yogi Adityanath asked authorities to also ensure that private laboratories did not charge more than Rs 700 for conducting RT-PCR tests in the state. A fee of Rs 900 may be charged, if the test sample was collected from the residence of the person being tested, he added. Also Read: Noida farmers march in support of new bills, traffic comes to a halt at Greater Noida ExpresswayThe state government will take legal action against overcharging by private laboratories, said Amit Mohan Prasad, ACS, health and family welfare. Expressing satisfaction over Covid recovery rate of 95.68% in the state, the CM asked for efforts to further improve the figures. “There should be elaborate publicity of the e-sanjivani app to ensure that maximum number of people get benefitted from the online medical consultation service. The number of those using the app has reached three lakh,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-test-must-for-those-who-came-to-up-from-uk-after-dec-7/story-9Nd2QXJ6S7AfGi6JidicXM.html
23-12-2020||City||Dip in antenatal care registration from 98% to 78% alarming: Mohali ADC||Taking a serious note of the significant dip in cases for antenatal care (ANC) registration, Aashika Jain, the additional deputy commissioner (ADC), has directed the civil surgeon of Mohali to ensure maximum ANC registration followed by 100% institutional deliveries.Jain was presiding over a meeting with the health officials at the District Administrative Complex, Mohali.“The fall in ANC registration from 98% to 78% is alarming; we need to reach out to the relevant segment of pregnant women who need to be counselled on antenatal care,” she said. ANC registration helps keep a tab on recognition of pregnancy-related complications/ailments and in extension of subsequent treatment. This is crucial to contain maternal mortality, Jain added.She also cautioned expectant mothers against the myth of Covid exposure in hospitals and informed them that government hospitals had helped Covid positive mothers deliver healthy babies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dip-in-antenatal-care-registration-from-98-to-78-alarming-mohali-adc/story-11SP2OMM6VVdvdH0p70jcL.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality continues to be ‘severe’||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the "severe" category on Wednesday morning, with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) reading reaching 435 at 7am. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall AQI reading of Delhi on Tuesday was 418, in the "severe" zone. Even though the city’s air quality had been showing a downward trend for the last few days, this was a major deterioration from Monday’s 332, in the "very poor" category. Before this, Delhi"s air quality had reached the "severe" zone on December 5, when the overall AQI reading of the city was recorded 404. Also Read: Air Quality Commission directs switching over of all industries in Delhi to PNGThe pollution levels showed a steady increase from Tuesday morning, when the average hourly AQI reading deteriorated from 352 at 7am to 377 at 12pm, before rising above the 400-mark. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists warned that the forecast does not show any significant improvement in wind speed till December 26, which means that the pollution levels are also expected to be on a rise. The temperature is also forecasted to dip and reach around 4 degrees Celsius in the next two days, IMD said.On Tuesday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for the city, was 5.3 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal. The maximum temperature was 23.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-dips-to-severe/story-Da7QGnjzyj1rgEsKBuNruI.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula MC elections: Congress releases 20-point manifesto||Promising overall development in the city, the Congress party on Tuesday released its 20-point manifesto for the upcoming municipal corporation elections of Panchkula that are scheduled for December 27.The manifesto was released by Haryana Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja’s political adviser Ram Kishan Gujjar in the presence of Chander Mohan, the former deputy chief minister of Haryana, mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia and other leaders.The first priority of the party, as per the manifesto, will be to properly manage and control the Covid-19 pandemic. The document also talks about facilitating and strengthening e-governance in both rural and urban areas through e-contact centres.The party also promises provision of 24-hour natural and clean water by processing the water of Ghaggar river. Transfer of dumping site and landfill out of residential areas, beautification of drains running in sectors 2, 4, 12 and 12A of the MDC area and Panchkula have also been promised.Rehabilitation of slums, shelter to stray animalsThe manifesto talks about providing sufficient habitat for stray cattle and dogs, and either rehabilitation of slum areas including Rajiv Colony, Indra Colony, Khadag Mogul and Bir Ghaggar or upliftment of the poor by allotment of land available with the MC.Additional fire-fighting services for rural areas and sectors, maintenance and beautification of public parks, construction of broken roads and streets are other promises.To enhance security in the city, the party promises deployment of vehicles, installation of CCTV cameras, security gates in each ward, and increasing police patrol.For the comfort and safety of the elderly, the party has talked about building shelters and old age homes in the villages, provision of mobile dispensaries with modern facilities, and appointment of constables for their protection and assistance.Digital library, community centresAlong with installation of a modern library with digital equipment and e-book lending system, the party promises to provide the community centres for free to all resident associations and people in the municipal corporation for festivals.Better connectivity to sectors 20 and 24, and better road connectivity among Panchkula, Chandigarh and Zirakpur with the construction of new roads from Peer Muchalla to the airport have also been promised.Former deputy CM Gujjar said that the residents’ votes and Upinder’s experience will give Panchkula MC an unlimited growth.Congress hits out at BJPIn its manifesto, Congress party has levelled allegations on the Bharatiya Janata Party for not completing development projects in the city: “The BJP could not complete the cow-shelter in Sukhdarshanpur village, which was started in 2017, the construction of dumping ground, queue shelter and railway overbridge in Sector 19, or even provide 24-hour facility of clean water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-elections-congress-releases-20-point-manifesto/story-vi80mZozriwvidcZpSLAKJ.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||MC elections: Himachal CM seeks votes for BJP in Panchkula||The chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, Jai Ram Thakur, visited Panchkula district to woo voters for the Bharatiya Janata Party in the upcoming elections of the municipal corporation.Thakur addressed the gathering at Khatauli village in Barwala, where he sought votes for Kulbhushan Goyal, BJP’s mayoral candidate and candidates from wards 19 and 21 Vijay Rani Budhiraja and Satbir Chaudhary.Thakur praised the Haryana government for bringing the cases of Covid-19 under check: “Had the cases not declined, we would have been seeking votes via video conferencing.”At another event, Kulbhushan Goyal attacked the 20-point manifesto of the Congress party. He said that Congress candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia remained in power for five years and did nothing except write letters.“Today, when there is a BJP government at the Centre and in the state, and Panchkula MLA and Vidhan Sabha speaker are also of the saffron party, in such a situation, it is necessary to have the BJP mayor in the municipal corporation, so that the wheels of the Panchkula development vehicle will run simultaneously,” he said.Goyal, while addressing various gatherings in sectors 16, 10 and in villages of Panchkula, appealed residents to vote for the BJP for all-round development of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-elections-himachal-cm-seeks-votes-for-bjp-in-panchkula/story-nYzrZocxYmG4GMC5Szl12J.html
23-12-2020||City||Repealing laws not a solution, but govt ready for amendments: Hisar MP||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, whose father and former Union minister Birender Singh is openly supporting the farmers’ agitation, said that repealing the new agricultural laws is not a solution but amendments can be made. Speaking over the phone, Brijendra Singh said the farmers are demanding a written assurance on the continuation of minimum support price (MSP) and agriculture produce market committee (APMC), and the Union government is ready for amendments. “Repealing the laws is not a solution because farmers have not seen the impact of these laws yet, so they can’t say if it will be positive or negative. Home minister Amit Shah has clearly said the government is ready to propose amendments related to fee structure in notified APMCs and stricter provisions to safeguard farmers’ land rights,” he said.Speaking about the MSP system, he said, “It is good for farmers having large landholdings. But for farmers owning four-to-five acres, it is difficult to save money even after selling crops on MSP. Our government will have to make a system so that farmers can sell their produce with value addition.”On farmers’ demand to bring a law on the MSP, Brijendra Singh said it would be very difficult for the government to purchase all crops on MSP.When asked to comment on his father’s decision to support the farmers, Brijendra said he shared his father’s viewpoint as both are farmers.“My father has retired from electoral politics and he is doing what his soul and mind directs him,” he said.Brijendra also slammed the khap bodies for their decision to socially boycott BJP-JJP leaders who are supporting the new farm laws. “We know about the vested interests of the persons issuing such orders. Khaps should only work for social change, they should not indulge in politics,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/repealing-laws-not-a-solution-but-govt-ready-for-amendments-hisar-mp/story-RLNH7HUoACJ1GcyqkbfzTP.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray puts Maharashtra officials on maximum alert against new virus strain||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed the state administration to be on maximum alert to prevent the spread of a new strain of Covid-19 found in the United Kingdom (UK) and some other countries. On Tuesday, the state government put passengers coming from South Africa on the watchlist, apart from Europe and Middle East, who will be put in mandatory institutional quarantine facilities for 14 days.City and district administrations have been asked to keep Covid-19 facilities ready and ramp up testing. District collectors have been given powers to impose night curfew to curb revelries, considering the end of the year. They, however, have to take prior permission from the state government. It has also issued an alert to all airports and seaports about the possible threat of the strain’s spread.Thackeray also directed the state administration to make wearing of masks mandatory and penalise those violating the rule. The directives were issued in a meeting called to review precautionary measures, considering a mutation of Sars-Cov-2, the virus causing Covid-19, found in Britain, believed to spread faster than previous strains.Meanwhile, Maharashtra crossed the 1.9 million mark for Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Its tally stood at 1,902,458. The toll reached 48,876 as 75 casualties were reported. Of them, 42 were in the past 48 hours, 16 were in the last week and the remaining 17 deaths were from the period of before last week, the health officials said.As the state is recording fewer cases, it is taking more days to complete 100,000 cases. From 1.8 million to 1.9 million cases, it took only 26 days, a significant increase from the eight days to go from 1.4 million to 1.5 million, showed state data.“In the backdrop of discovery of a mutant virus, we cannot take the risk of being negligent. It is found that the mutant is spreading much faster than previous strains. Considering this, the state administration will have to be more vigilant. You will have to do more hard work. Ensure adequate supply of oxygen, ventilators and medicines. Develop isolation and quarantine facilities and be prepared keeping in mind the fast spreading variant,” the chief minister directed the officials in a meeting attended by all the divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners, police officials and senior officials from various departments.He asked the state task-force to study if there is any genetic mutation and change in Covid treatment protocol, considering the mutant virus. He also asked local bodies to contact those having comorbidities in their jurisdiction and ask them to take all the necessary precautions.The chief minister further directed to coordinate with other states such as Delhi and others to ensure that any international travellers entering Maharashtra from any other state can be traced.“Masks are playing a significant role in protecting a person from Covid-19 infection, be it the old strain or the new mutant. Hence, wearing of masks should be made mandatory and those found not violating the protocol should be penalised,” Thackeray said.Maharashtra has been maintaining a low number of Covid-19 cases for almost two months. It has been 18 consecutive days since the state is reporting fewer than 5,000 cases.The active cases in the state have further reduced to 58,376 and its percentage against the total number of patients reached 3.06% till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-puts-maharashtra-officials-on-maximum-alert-against-new-virus-strain/story-xt1WIK6vulaLPznggNuYUI.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-based NGO asks Maharashtra govt to act against environmental violators||Vanashakti, a city-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) has highlighted the need to prioritise and properly register first information reports (FIRs) against those violating the Environment Protection Act (EPA) in a letter it has sent to the principal secretary (environment), divisional commissioner and all collectors. According to the NGO, authorities are getting FIRs registered by lower rank officials, which are subsequently quashed at magistrate courts because they are legally invalid. Vanashakti has appealed that only designated officers should register cases. In its letter, Vanashakti has said that according to EPA, a collector is empowered to register an FIR and under section 19 of the Act, further sub-delegation is not permitted. Other than a collector, those authorised to register FIRs according to the EPA are the head of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB); regional officer of MPCB; secretary of the environment department; and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Read more: Uran civic body dumps waste in mangroves, allege green activists“We have as part of the Wetlands Grievance Redressal Committee and Mangroves Protection Committee time and again highlighted the fact that FIRs filed by circle officers of the revenue department are not valid in a court of law. Yet this practice continues year after year and day after day. None of these FIRs stand the test of law,” wrote Vanashakti in its letter, adding that these invalid FIRs end up indirectly enabling those violating EPA.A recent example is the case from last month in which an area circle officer filed an FIR in Kalwa Police station related to Kharigaon toll plaza region, following a complaint of dumping on wetlands, coastal regulations zone (CRZ) and mangroves area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/green-violations-mumbai-based-ngo-approaches-state/story-rMKMAptfVhyP9xzrKxzm0H.html
23-12-2020||City||Protesting farmers show black flags to Haryana CM in Ambala||Farmers and activists affiliated to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Charuni) protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws on Tuesday waved black flags, shouted slogans and allegedly blocked Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s cavalcade near Maharaja Agrasen Chowk in Ambala. BKU leaders, however, condemned the incident and disassociated itself from the incident. Senior BKU leader Harkesh Singh Mohri claimed that ‘miscreants’ or ‘outsiders’ were involved in the incident and that the union’s protest was cut to maintain peace. “We had planned to oppose all events of the CM today, but due to this, we decided to end our protests to maintain calm,” he said.Khattar had come to Ambala to address public meetings in support of party’s mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. Later, addressing a rally, the CM said, “Elections are going on and everyone has the freedom to express themselves, but a handful of people say that they won’t allow the chief minister of the state to talk. This is shameful. We have restrained ourselves, we have allowed their gatherings, but we will not use force. All the opposition parties here including Congress, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) and Haryana Janchetna Party (HJP) – are involved in such activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-farmers-show-black-flags-to-haryana-cm-in-ambala/story-P2Va0NHnr56GAjDpJZtlFO.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana puts in place its Covid-19 vaccine rollout plan||Haryana health department will set up a state-level Covid-19 vaccine store in Kurukshetra and four regional stores in Hisar, Gurugram, Kurukshetra and Rohtak as the state gears up for the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in a phased manner starting from Health Care Workers (HCWs). The department has also identified 22 district-level vaccine stores and 659 cold chain points, according to Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (ACS) health. To ensure that the vaccine reaches every district, the health department has arranged 22 vans (insulated) for transportation across the state. The health department has uploaded the data of nearly two lakh HCWs from both private and government sectors on CoWIN portal, apart from identifying 1,800 vaccination session sites and mapping more than 5,000 vaccinators for the process of administering the vaccine. Arora said the Haryana government has meticulously prepared the vaccine rollout plan and is all set to introduce it. He stated that the platform of existing universal immunisation programme of state with enhanced capacity is being used for Covid-19 vaccine. The Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from HCWs. The vaccination will be done at fixed session sites, mapping of session sites are in progress, he added. “As per the Government of India guidelines, the vaccination will be done on election model with the involvement of other departments,” said Arora. On the availability of cold storages, he said the state has sufficient cold chain space to meet out additional requirement for Covid-19 vaccine. Arora said prior experiences of managing huge campaigns like Measles-Rubella (MR) have been an asset and will help the department in formulating practical plans. All districts have been instructed to create additional dry space for storing logistics and majority of the districts have already created extra space for the same, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-puts-in-place-its-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-plan/story-rKevXM04Dv93CVdiipNUvJ.html
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 36-year-old man ends life||A 36-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, hanged himself to death at his home on Tuesday evening. The deceased’s family members said that he locked the room and hung himself from the hook of the ceiling fan. Then, they broke the door open, and removed the body. Police rushed him to GMCH-32 where he was declared brought dead. Police said the deceased was an alcoholic and his wife had divorced him. His 10-year-old daughter was staying with him. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-36-year-old-man-ends-life/story-2JF4le6BzkZr3vrNGsFCTI.html
23-12-2020||City||Pandemic reduces Gita Mahotsav into an online event||The raging pandemic has reduced Haryana government’s International Gita Mahotsav to a mere online show this year. Unlike previous years when the celebrations used to carry on throughout the month, this year, the annual extravaganza has been limited to a week’s time and only few programmes, such as International Gita Webinar, online Gita Path, among others are being held. Every year lakhs of devotees converge on to the Brahma Sarovar, where several rituals, including lighting of diyas and chanting of mantras, are carried out during Gita Mahotsav; but this time, gatherings have been prohibited.For the benefit of devotees, the Kurukshetra Development Board, which organises the event, has made arrangements for livestreaming of key ceremonies, but the response to this has so far been poor.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We are livestreaming key events this year, but there don’t seem to be many takers. Only about 600 people watched the ceremony through our Facebook page on Tuesday. Our official YouTube channel has only 300 subscribers, of which only 15 people watched the evening Maha-aarti, said Praveen Kumar, a Kurukshetra-based trader, said people are not interested in religious festivities. “The Saras craft mela is the actual crowd-puller of the event. As this is not being held, the response has remained dismal this time,” said Kumar. Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary member secretary of the Kurukshetra Development Board, said, “Yes all the programmes are being streamed online due to Covid19 restrictions.” Chhabra, however, skipped the question about the poor online response from people.The Gita Mahotsav gained attention with the Manohar Lal Khattar-led Bharatiya Janata Party government in the state spending crores of rupees every year to promote the teachings of Bhagwad Gita worldwide. Programmes used to be organised in foreign countries, and dignitaries from various parts of the country and abroad used to visit the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pandemic-reduces-gita-mahotsav-into-an-online-event/story-1Du6DOZ6TkAXbY2TSGNsBJ.html
23-12-2020||City||Rs 9.70 lakh looted from bank’s customer service point in Panipat||Unidentified miscreants looted Rs 9.70 lakh at gunpoint from the customer service point of HDFC bank at Bhawana Chowk in Panipat city on Tuesday morning.As per the police, masked miscreants entered the customer service point and held the owner hostage at gunpoint while grabbing the money. They then fled on their motorcycles. Closed-circuit television cameras on the premises captured the entire event.The owner, Mukesh Bajaj, said that the incident took place around 9am when he was alone at the centre. He said there were four men in all; while three of them barged in, the fourth one waited outside. Karnal deputy superintendent of police Virender Saini said special police teams have been formed to investigate the robbery and FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-9-70-lakh-looted-from-bank-s-customer-service-point-in-panipat/story-jQdmwyQtq9gEKLI4w6cX9L.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police arrests 5 for planning to avenge matka king Suresh Bhagat’s death||The quick detection team of the Mumbai crime branch has arrested five persons, including Vinod Bhagat, brother of slain matka king Suresh Bhagat, for allegedly conspiring to kill his sister-in-law Jaya and her younger sister.Police claimed that Bhagat had allegedly given ₹60 lakh contract to his friend Basheer Suleman Begani alias Mamu to eliminate Jaya and her younger sister. Police are still looking out for Begani, who is currently said to be in Manchester City, England.Preliminary probe revealed that Bhagat wanted to avenge the murder of his brother Suresh, who died in an accident on Alibag-Pen road in 2008. Later, it was revealed that the accident was planned by Jaya to eliminate her husband, Suresh.Read more: Matka king murder: Wife, son, four others get life sentenceThe others arrested by the quick detection team include Mohammed Anwar Sabbir Darji, 31, Mohammad Javed Islamuddin Ansari, 41, Maqsood Maqbool Qureshi, 35, and Rambeer Naresh Kumar Sharma alias Pandit, 39, all native of Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh. Inspector Nandkumar Gopale of unit 9 received a tip-off that two persons had come to the city from Uttar Pradesh, with firearms in their possession, to kill women from Ghatkopar. Gopale’s team then nabbed Darji in Khar Danda area on December 18.The police team recovered two pistols and six live cartridges from Darji, who told police that he was instructed to kill two women in Ghatkopar and revealed the identity of his associates, Ansari and Qureshi, said joint commissioner of police, Milind Bharambe of the Mumbai crime branch.While scrutinising the Darji’s phone police found pictures of Jaya and her sister. A police team was then sent to Bijnor to arrest Ansari and Qureshi. They were arrested on December 21. They revealed that they were instructed by Sharma to kill Jaya and her sister and were promised ₹60 lakh for executing the plan. Accordingly, they also recced the area, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan. The accused even took pictures and made videos of the women during the recce. The murder was planned in February and during the inquiry, Vinod Bhagat’s name cropped and he was arrested on December 21, said Pathan. Police then arrested Sharma who revealed the name of Begani who had already paid ₹14 lakh to Sharma in advance.Sharma, Begani and Vinod Bhagat were arrested by Gujarat police in 2012 for planning to kill a Matka operator Ghanshyam Tuliya, said another crime branch officer.Suresh Bhagat died in an orchestrated accident, planned by his wife Jaya Bhagat and son Hitesh. A case of rash driving was registered in the local police station but after the family raised an issue the case was transferred to Mumbai crime branch. The Mumbai crime branch unearthed the conspiracy and learnt that Jaya had given a contract of ₹45 lakh to her friend Suhas Roge, a member of Arun Gawli gang, to kill her husband to control the Multi-crore Matka (gambling) business. Roge then gave the contract to Borivli resident Harish Mandvikar to execute the plan. Mumbai crime branch arrested Suresh Bhagat’s wife Jaya Bhagat, her son Hitesh, Harish Mandvikar and others. The session court convicted six people including Jaya and Mandvikar to life imprisonments in the Matka King Suresh Bhagat murder case in 2017. Jaya came out on bail last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrests-5-for-planning-to-avenge-matka-king-suresh-bhagat-s-death/story-V9qlGiipRX7KXNNpfAxHOM.html
23-12-2020||Bhopal||MP govt tightens law against food, drug adulteration amid Interpol warning on fake Covid-19 vaccine||Expressing concern over the Interpol’s warning on fake Covid-19 vaccine, the Madhya Pradesh government has decided to amend laws to ensure life imprisonment to those found guilty for food and drug adulteration, state home minister said. Home minister Narottam Mishra disclosed the information on the state government’s decision after the state cabinet meeting held virtually and chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday. Briefing journalists about the state government’s decisions, the home minister said, “The government is committed to checking adulteration effectively. Chief minister is monitoring the government’s action against adulteration. We have two to three regions in the state where adulteration in food and milk is reported (regularly).” Also read: India, Japan sign deal to boost cooperation between steel industriesThe home minister said, “There has been an Interpol warning on fake Covid-19 vaccine. In Gwalior, two to three cases of (adulteration in) plasma were reported recently. We will not allow anyone to play with lives of people. That’s why the government has decided to enhance the quantum of punishment from 3 years to life imprisonment.”Similarly, the state cabinet approved a proposal from the law department to award five years of imprisonment to those found guilty for selling food, medicines, beverages beyond their expiry date. Notably, in the first week of December, the Interpol warned law enforcement agencies across the globe that organised criminal networks could try to advertise and sell fake Covid-19 vaccines physically and on the internet.In an ‘Orange’ notice issued to all 194 member countries, the Lyon-based international police cooperation body warned agencies to prepare for potential criminal activity concerning “the falsification, theft and illegal advertising of Covid-19 and flu vaccines”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-govt-tightens-law-against-food-drug-adulteration-amid-interpol-warning-on-fake-covid-19-vaccine/story-3QM6h2BV7fQ1wTXp3B2APO.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: Indrani Mukerjea objects to convict’s uniform, moves court||Indrani Mukerjea, who is being tried for murdering her daughter, Sheena Bora, has moved the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court for exemption from wearing a green saree - a uniform for convicts lodged in prisons across Maharashtra.Mukerjea is lodged in Byculla jail since her arrest in August 2015, in connection with Sheena Bora murder case.On Tuesday, Mukerjea’s lawyer Gunjan Mangala approached the special CBI court with a plea that Mukerjea be permitted to wear regular clothes and she should not be asked to wear the green saree.Mangala informed the court that recently Mukerjea was asked to wear a saree, to which she objected, pointing out that she was an under-trial prisoner and not a convict.The court has now asked prison authorities to submit a reply to her plea by January 5.Sheena Bora, 24, was allegedly strangled in a car by Indrani Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna in April 2012. Her body was later burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-indrani-mukerjea-objects-to-convict-s-uniform-moves-court/story-Bz0oN6aDmjBJ4DBxcZH9pM.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||At 16°C, Mumbai records lowest temp of season||The city on Tuesday recorded season’s lowest temperature. The suburbs experienced a cooler winter morning as the Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees below normal. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius. Temperatures are likely to remain low for the next couple of days, according to a forecast by the IMD. This is the lowest minimum temperature recorded this winter following a mercury drop on December 7 when minimum temperature dipped to 17.4 degrees Celsius. The temperature recorded on Tuesday was also lower than the minimum temperature of 16.4 degrees Celsius recorded last year during winter. The maximum temperature at Santacruz was 32.3 degrees Celsius, 0.2 degrees above normal and at Colaba was 30.2 degrees Celsius, 1.5 degrees below normal. Read more: Air quality dips in Mumbai as cold wave continues in northern IndiaKS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD, said that the short spell of winter in Mumbai was finally here. “It is a routine weather phenomenon as temperatures usually drop during this time of the year. There is a chill in the breeze,” said Hosalikar. While air quality had improved slightly on Monday, it deteriorated on Tuesday as temperatures dropped and the city breathed moderate quality of air. The air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator- of 183 (moderate). The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. The AQI in Navi Mumbai was recorded at 331, which falls under the very poor category. Bandra Kurla Complex had the worst air quality with the AQI measuring 336. Experts from SAFAR said that poor air quality in the winter season is a routine phenomenon and can be attributed to the change in wind directions. “As wind starts flowing from the land instead of the sea, pollution levels increase because the air coming from the land is more polluted,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-16-c-mumbai-records-lowest-temp-of-season/story-9Bw6dUDiYJ8GNVYhCy7JHP.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds Maharashtra government’s scrapping of regional reservation in medical admissions||In a landmark order, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has held that the Amended Rules-2020 implemented by the state on September 7, which did away with regional reservations in Maharashtra for admissions to undergraduate courses in medical studies, is valid. The court observed that after the introduction of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which is based on the concept of one nation, one examination, and aims at providing admissions to students on merit only, regional reservations were a contradiction, and hence the state decision is valid. The bench also noted that while regional reservations were the need as per a Supreme Court (SC) judgement in 1986, with development and advancement, regional reservations would be counter-productive. A division bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant Kulkarni, while hearing petitions filed by eight students aspiring to pursue medical education, was informed that the September 9 decision of the government to set aside regional reservations was not valid as it was announced after the admission process started, and should be set aside.The regional reservation condition was introduced by the previous government in 2016 wherein medical colleges in a particular region had to reserve seats in the ratio of 70:30, wherein 70% of seats would be reserved for students from the region, while the remaining 30% could be open for admission to students from other parts of the state and outside the state as well. The condition was introduced mainly to benefit students from the Marathwada and Vidarbha region.While canvassing their challenge to the Rules which were amended on September 9, the advocates for the petitioner students submitted that as the admission brochure had mentioned 70:30 reservation, amending the rule in between would cause serious loss to the aspiring students. The ​advocates also submitted that the decision to amend the rule was not taken following due legislative process. They also submitted that while other reservations were still in force, amending the rules to simply discontinue the 70:30 reservation was a volte foce fine by the state which had whole-heartedly supported regional reservation in 2016.However, senior advocate and special counsel for the state Anil Anturkar opposed the claims of the petitioners and submitted that the amendment was introduced before this year’s NEET exams, which is the only standard accepted by all authorities for admission to medical and dental courses. Anturkar further submitted that the state’s decisions in 2016 and 2020 are based on the situation existing at the relevant time. He also submitted that a similar decision for government colleges was taken earlier and the same was being implemented for private colleges. Intervenors in the petition concurred with Anturkar’s submissions and said that the 70:30 rule was detrimental to the backward students from the Marathwada and Vidarbha region.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that there was no perversity in the state’s decision. “The Amendment Rules-2020 do not appear to be against constitutional mandate nor [do they] override the stipulation under any statute. The purpose of Amendment Rules-2020 was to end regional merit and the state merit is given priority. The person getting better marks would get precedence in admission to the medical courses. Such consideration does not appear to be deficient of intelligible object,” said justice Gangapurwala in the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-maharashtra-government-s-scrapping-of-regional-reservation-in-medical-admissions/story-55N6L9kGOsHm9vdFR24RPL.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Ground realty check: More FSI to create more homes in Mumbai Metropolitan Region?||Even as the state recently introduced the Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (UDCPR) to change the face of the real estate sector in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it may not be so easy, considering the massive slowdown, claim experts. What it means The UDCPR promotes uniform development regulations across the state and grants liberal Floor Space Index (FSI) which could translate into massive construction largesse for builders. Through the new rules, the state government expects the supply of homes, especially affordable ones, to increase significantly, leading to reduction in prices of houses. The Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI), the association of builders, even went on to announce that the move was a gamechanger in the realty sector as they will now double the construction of affordable houses – from 5 lakh units currently in construction to 10 lakh. “Lakhs of people will now own a house,” said Deepak Garodia, president, MCHI-CREDAI. These units are in the range of ₹4,000-₹5000 per square feet. Current scenario One of the reasons for unveiling the UDCPR was to reduce the pressure on Mumbai and boost the realty market in places like Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli and Raigad region, where the realty rates are lower compared to Mumbai. However, realty experts have debunked this claim. Construction of houses in far-off suburbs will ease the pressure only if people get the infrastructure to move there, they say. “FSI hike in just a concept of real estate and mass housing will not make much headway till the corresponding infrastructure is not developed. People will not be incentivised to purchase houses till mass transport in these areas is improved,” said Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm. He gave an example of the Metro projects saying there is still no clarity on them in areas beyond the Mumbai region. Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, dismissed any possibility of mass housing projects in the current market, when the unsold inventory pile-up, with the builders in the MMR, excluding Mumbai, is approximately1.82 lakh houses. “Builders are facing monetary crises and will not buy land nor undertake projects till they exhaust their current inventory,” said Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras. However, the prices may reduce. “As we get more area, we will able to construct more, which will give us more leverage to reduce prices,” said Rajesh Prajapati, director, Prajapati Group. Real estate expert Ajay Chaturvedi said builders never pass on the benefits to the buyers. “The history of Mumbai realty market has shown that despite a periodic hike in FSI, the prices have only increased and never decreased,” said Chaturvedi. He also blamed the current insecure job market in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic for the state of the market. “The recent lockdown has resulted in massive job losses, especially among the middle and labour class, and they are not in the position to buy these low-cost houses. They are, after all, the target buyers,” said Chaturvedi. Buyers, too, are reluctant to go to far-off places. Vaibhav Khamkar, who works as a driver in a private firm in Parel travels five km for work from his Wadala home. “I prefer living in my Wadala slum than staying in an apartment in far-off places like Karjat or Shahpur. I will spend hours crushed in packed trains and even my family life will be disrupted,” said Khamkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ground-realty-check-more-fsi-to-create-more-homes-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-NHgTGMYiut6yYIWsIXRytJ.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Make teachers, students a priority for Covid-19 vaccine: Maharashtra teachers||Teachers across the state have requested the Maharashtra government to prioritise them for the vaccine drive against Covid-19 that is likely to start soon in the country.Over the last few days, several representations have been made by teachers and educational bodies, requesting the government to vaccinate teachers and students. “In several parts of the state, schools have reopened in the last few months. Since many students do not have access to the internet and mobile phones, they would want to attend physical school. We thus request the government to add teachers and students to the list of beneficiaries for the vaccine,” said Anil Bornare of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) teachers’ cell.Earlier this month, the Early Childhood Association, a body of preschools in the country, had also urged the government to vaccinate school teachers and preschool educators.An official from the state education department said, “The decision about vaccination will be made by the Central and state government, and we cannot comment on it.”On December 14, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) urged governments worldwide to prioritise teachers in the vaccination process. “UNICEF is calling for teachers to be prioritised to receive the Covid-19 vaccine, once frontline health personnel and high-risk populations are vaccinated. This will help protect teachers from the virus, allow them to teach in person, and ultimately keep schools open,” read its official release.On November 23, nearly 15,000 schools across various parts of Maharashtra reopened for students. Schools in cities like Mumbai and Pune, however, remain closed for students at least until December 31, as per the decision of the local civic bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/make-teachers-students-a-priority-for-covid-19-vaccine-maharashtra-teachers/story-RJVRngO5vt2Wdgj0eorVPI.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Petition in Delhi HC to block Libgen, Sci-Hub||Three global academic publishing powerhouses have approached the Delhi high court claiming copyright infringement against online repositories that provide free access to paywalled research, in what may become a significant intellectual property rights case in India. Elsevier, which published the Lancet and Cell journals among 2,500 others, Wiley, which publishes 1,700 journals, and the American Chemical Society, one of the world’s largest scientific societies that also publishes the prestigious Journal of the American Chemical Society, have filed the petition. The petitioners have asked the court to order the blocking of Sci Hub, which stores nearly 84 million articles and papers, and Libgen, which claims to host nearly 80 million pieces of research. Both of the sites are widely used in India by students and researchers to access and download paywalled research. The petitioners have also sought a direction to various internet service providers, the department of telecom and the ministry of electronics and information technology to issue orders to block Sci Hub and Libgen. “The defendant websites actively encourage viewing/downloading of original literary works for which the plaintiffs have exclusive rights. Therefore, the defendant websites are liable for contributory infringement of copyright,” the petition read. No date for hearing has been set by the high court yet. Sci Hub and Libgen have lost similar cases in a number of other countries, such as the US. This case, if it goes forward, can present an important question of not just piracy but also access, said experts. “Many smaller educational institutions, independent researchers, and activists - especially in developing countries such as India - cannot afford access to expensive journals because top-tier research is often behind high paywalls. In this situation, sites such as Libgen and Sci hub have been beneficial. Simply banning such sites will not solve the problem of piracy. A fairer and more equitable system of academic publishing and access needs to be set up before such actions are taken,” said Vidya Subramanian, a researcher at Harvard University and a post-doctoral fellow at IIT Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/petition-in-delhi-hc-to-block-libgen-sci-hub/story-17M94CYb38MWbm2NgP6IXN.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai commuters relieved as fare hike of taxis, autorickshaws postponed; Union seeks government aid||Commuters can heave a sigh of relief as the decision to increase fares of taxis and autorickshaws which was expected to be announced on Tuesday has been postponed by the authorities.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority (MMRTA), in its meeting held on Tuesday, postponed the decision which was expected to increase the taxi and autorickshaw fares by ₹3 and ₹2, respectively.“We felt that it was not an opportune time to raise the fares,” said an MMRTA official on condition of anonymity.There are indications that the fare for taxis will increase to ₹25 from the current ₹22, while rickshaws will see a hike to ₹20 from the current ₹18.Commuters expressed happiness over this move. “People are inconvenienced by the Covid-19 pandemic and any fare rise in the current scenario will hit them badly. It’s good that MMRTA officials took note of this,” said social activist Gaurang Damani.AL Quadros, leader of the city’s largest taximen’s union – Mumbai Taximen’s Union – has expressed disappointment over this postponement. “Taxi drivers are suffering as there has been no fare hike in the last five years, while the corresponding costs like CNG (compressed natural gas) prices and vehicle maintenance have increased substantially,” he said.Another drivers’ association, Shiv Vahutak Sanghatana chief Sharif Deshmukh said that drivers suffered great hardships during the lockdown. “All drivers are in loss and cannot sustain themselves. A major portion of their income goes on paying off their loans,” said Deshmukh.However, Mumbai Autorickshaw Union leader Shashank Rao said that instead of a fare hike, a financial package needs to be given to the drivers. “This is not the right time to burden the commuters. Instead, the government should offer financial help to the drivers and waive off their loans,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-commuters-relieved-as-fare-hike-of-taxis-autorickshaws-postponed-union-seeks-government-aid/story-X0D633SVgJpnGkjrQgYGxK.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses bail to Mumbai-based producer booked for raping actress||The Bombay high court last week rejected the anticipatory bail plea of film producer and director Sudeep Saha, who has been booked by Santacruz police for allegedly raping and blackmailing a Hindi and Bhojpuri actress and also filming her intimate moments with another producer, using a spy camera.Santacruz police had booked Saha on July 22, based on a complaint lodged by the actress. She said she was in touch with Saha over phone and WhatsApp, as he had offered to cast her in his movies.She alleged that in July 2016, he called her at a hotel on Juhu Tara Road under the pretext of giving her a role and sexually assaulted her. Thereafter, she alleged, he continued a physical relationship with her on the false promise of marriage. In December 2017, he got a song picturised on her and released it on an electronic platform.She said thereafter, there were frequent quarrels between them and during the period, Saha showed her their intimate pictures. She claimed that after she realised that he was already married, she started maintaining distance from him, but he threatened to make the photographs public and coerced her to continue the relationship till May 2019.In between, she and her mother had purchased two separate flats from Saha, and she had started residing at the flat. She added that between December 2019 and January 2020, she signed a contract for five films with a producer from Kolkata, but Saha was unhappy with that and had threatened that producer.In April 2020, the complainant was shocked to receive photographs from the Kolkata producer’s wife, capturing the complainant’s intimate moments with the producer at her Mumbai flat. Thereafter, she took a search of the flat and found a spy camera installed in the electric boards of her bedroom and hall.In this backdrop, Saha had sought anticipatory bail contending that the FIR itself made it amply clear that it was a case of a consensual relationship. He sought the protection of pre-arrest bail, claiming he had cooperated with the investigation and already deposited his mobile phone and laptop with the investigating agency. Thus, he claimed, his custodial interrogation was not necessary.Justice Sarang Kotwal, however, refused to accept the producer/director’s claim. The judge said initially, it could have been a consensual relationship, but subsequent consent obtained under coercion, was no consent in the law and therefore, the offence of rape was made out against Saha.Justice Kotwal was more annoyed with Saha’s conduct in recording private, intimate moments of the complainant without her knowledge.“The matter of spy camera is a cause for concern,” said justice Kotwal. “Even before installing a spy camera in Deep Tower, her private moments were captured on video. There is no explanation as to why the spy camera was installed in Deep Tower without knowledge of the informant. The recording was sent to the wife of the other (Kolkata-based) producer. That producer was also terrorised. The conduct of the applicant (Saha) is dangerous to the first informant,” said the court while rejecting the pre-arrest bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-bail-to-mumbai-based-producer-booked-for-raping-actress/story-1tgcQuWwra98hfqweZYkCL.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Pratap Sarnaik-Topsgrup case: MMRDA denies allegations of irregularities in security contracts||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has termed as baseless the claim of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik got kickbacks from Rahul Nanda, chairman and founder of Topsgrup security services provider in awarding security contracts by MMRDA.MMRDA said the allegation of irregularities in providing 500 security guards by TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) to the authority was baseless. The authority said it had never had the strength of 500 security guards at any given time in three shifts in a day.MMRDA revealed this in its response to the questions of the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police, which is conducting a parallel investigation into the complaint against Rahul Nanda made by his company’s former vice-chairman Ramesh Iyer.MMRDA’s letter of December 17 to deputy commissioners of police (DCP) EOW stated that there was no financial misconduct on its part while awarding contracts to the company for security services and making payment to the guards. All these works were done through a tendering process per the rules.The letter stated that between 2013 and 2020, many companies had participated in the tender process. Six companies were recognised in the tender process, and TGSSL was one of them. TGSSL was appointed for providing manpower to guard MMRDA’s estate and properties by following due process of law.“Time-to-time inspection had been made to inspect the total strength deployed at respective sites. There is a set mechanism in place for inspection of the sites to verify attendance, losses/damages, encroachment, etc. The security guards who had shown absent till the last day have been fined,” MMRDA’s letter stated.ED had arrested Sarnaik’s close associate Amit Chandole and TGSSL managing director M Shashidharan, alleging that Topsgrup had obtained contracts from MMRDA in collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means. These illegal manoeuvres aimed to get undue benefit by inflating bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Sarnaik used to get 50% of the profit earned of the said contract through Chandole, ED had claimed in its remand application.It added that in 2014, a contract was signed by TGSSL with MMRDA under which 350 to 500 guards were to be deployed at MMRDA sites monthly. Out of the same, only 70% of guards were deployed. However, the billing was done for all the guards as per the contract and the wage details were submitted to MMRDA for 100% of the contract vałue.EOW is probing cross complaints of Nanda and Iyer. Nanda has alleged that Iyer and other employees siphoned off the company’s money, while Iyer claimed that Nanda, through his company, indulged in massive misconduct and financial irregularities worth ₹175 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pratap-sarnaik-topsgrup-case-mmrda-denies-allegations-of-irregularities-in-security-contracts/story-j4CqJgYdkzc9nPQTMSr2JO.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Reconsider plea of twin sisters for NORI certificates: Bombay HC orders Centre||Bombay high court last week directed the Union health and family welfare ministry to reconsider plea of twin sisters, both MBBS, seeking No Obligation to Return to India (NORI) certificates to enable them to settle down in the United States of America and pursue careers in research.Though the Centre has stopped issuing NORI certificates to doctors, to stem brain drain, the division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav directed the Union ministry to examine the request of the twin sisters, Avani and Aditi Vaishnav, given their wish to pursue careers in research in the US and not to practice medicine.Both of them had moved HC after the ministry of education rejected their applications for NOC to get NORI certificate in June 2020, primarily because of the Union health and family welfare ministry’s policy of not issuing NORI certificates to doctors.Their petitions state that both the petitioners have completed their MBBS courses from a private medical college in Navi Mumbai and have also completed their one-year internship in 2017. Their entire family has applied for family immigration to the US and their parents and sister have already received their green cards in August / September 2019.Their counsels pointed out to HC that the twin sisters had sought review of the education ministry’s decision on the ground that both of them were already engaged in temporary research assignments in the UD and wanted to pursue careers in research, and neither of them wishes to practice as doctors. But, the review was dismissed without considering the fact.Advocate Rajshekhar Govilkar, who appeared for the central ministry, opposed the petition on the ground that the central government has as a matter of policy decided to stop issuing NORI certificates to doctors.HC, however, found force in the submissions advanced on behalf of the twin sisters, especially the December 2016 decision of the HC relied on them in Dr Sunil Noothi’s case, arising out of similar circumstances.The bench noted that in Dr Noothi’s case HC has held that the policy decision of not issuingNORI certificate to any doctor to stem the brain drain of doctors and to cope up with the acute shortage of doctors in India, cannot be applied to a medical graduate who does not wish to practice medicine.“It is obvious that even if he resides in India, he is not going to render his services to the citizens of India as a doctor because of his inclination in research work,” HC had observed in Dr Noothi’s case.Noticing that the HC has in the December 2016 judgment made a clear distinction between the medical practitioner and a research scholar, the bench headed by justice Jamdar directed Union health and family welfare ministry to reconsider the case of the twin sisters in terms of the December 2016 HC judgment and take a fresh decision on their plea by January 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reconsider-plea-of-twin-sisters-for-nori-certificates-bombay-hc-orders-centre/story-T0eP1w0HESazGOBjdqmdwJ.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||New Covid-19 variant: Maharashtra government imposes stricter rules for those travelling from Europe to Mumbai||Passengers coming from Europe, Middle-East, South Africa, as well as through flights that have halts in Europe, will have to undergo a mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine after landing in Mumbai, according to a standard operating protocol (SOP) issued by the Maharashtra government on Tuesday, amid reports of the new strain of new coronavirus. Besides, they should test negative in RT-PCR test before discharge from the quarantine. Those who are found symptomatic will be shifted to a Covid hospital of the Mumbai civic body. No passenger will be allowed home quarantine. South Africa was added to the list on Tuesday. By Tuesday afternoon, a total of 590 passengers had arrived in three flights from the United Kingdom and none of them were found to be symptomatic, said civic officials. “All passengers will be screened for presence of symptoms and if found symptomatic, shall be subjected to RT-PCR testing with all precautions. Symptomatic passengers shall be sent to identified hospitals in the city and get admitted and should be treated accordingly. All other passengers shall undergo 14 days of mandatory paid institutional quarantine on arrival. These passengers shall not be allowed outside the designated quarantine facility before 14 days, in any condition,” states the SOP that will be applicable for passengers and staff of flights arriving from Europe, Middle-East countries and South Africa in Maharashtra. The order issued by the chief secretary has directed the airport authority to develop dedicated facilities for disembarkment, screening and immigration of these passengers at a distance from other flights. It has cautioned the authorities to prevent passengers coming from the above mentioned places mixing with other passengers at the airports. Similar instructions have been given for staff of the airlines ferrying passengers from these countries. Officials said the state took the decision considering sudden emergence of a fast-spreading variant of Covid-19 in the United Kingdom, which is believed to be up to 70% more transmissible than the original strain is a cause of concern. It has been reported that a distinct phylogenetic cluster of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected. The state has directed municipal corporations concerned to make separate arrangements for carrying the passengers to the institutional quarantine facilities. Besides Mumbai airport, which has a significant number of travellers coming from Europe and Middle East, Pune and Nagpur airports in the state also have flights from these places. The state government has also instructed the authorities concerned that the screening and quarantine of passengers should be done aptly without raising any panic, or any differential behaviour towards passengers. It has asked to take utmost care towards increasing the awareness of the passengers and the airport staff to the new threat. The psychological aspect of the situation should be managed very diligently so as to improve the compliance of the staff and passengers towards following the guidelines, states the order. It has asked to identify a separate area at the far end of the airport terminal for receiving flights from countries in Europe, the Middle-East and South Africa. The area should have adequate air-bridges so as to receive the flights in a staggered manner, to avoid overcrowding. It should have adequate separate, immigration, luggage and customs centers along with a separate set up of APHO for screening and testing of these passengers and airline staff. The staff of the aircraft should be kept in an isolated area following the necessary preventive measures. They should not be allowed to enter the terminal, states the order. The flow of passengers in the airport premises should be such that they should not in any way get mixed with the passengers coming from other flights or other staff, the state government directed. It has also asked the airline staff to ensure that the passengers disembarking from the above-mentioned lights are wearing a proper fitted mask, and have sanitised the visible part of their hands thoroughly. In case any passenger is not wearing a mask, it should be provided to them, it added. The state has further directed the civic bodies for daily monitoring of the passengers at the institutional quarantine facilities through Aarogya Setu app or by a health team. In case any passenger develops symptoms of Covid-19, he or she should be shifted to a specially designated hospital for treating the new strain of virus. Also, if any passenger tests positive on RT-PCR, he or she should be considered to be infected with the new strain and should be immediately shifted to the designated hospital for further management. The state government has also issued an alert to all seaports about the possible threat of the spread of new strain of coronavirus. 590 people arrive from UK In order to accommodate foreign passengers at institutional quarantine, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is planning to arrange 20,000 rooms in city’s private hotels by this week. By Tuesday afternoon, a total of 590 passengers had arrived in three flights from the United Kingdom. More than 300 passengers have been shifted to the private hotels and the data of the rest is being updated by the BMC. None of the passengers have been found to be symptomatic. The last flight of UK passengers, with about 250 passengers, will arrive in Mumbai by Tuesday midnight. Senior civic officials said that no Covid test will be conducted on arrival, but on the fifth to seventh day while they are at the hotels. “A private agency will be arranged for Covid testing and the cost for the tests will be borne by the passengers,” an official said. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Our plan is to arrange nearly 20,000 rooms in hotels across the city. A team of civic officials is already working for that. Just like earlier, we will partner with the hotels and not take over them for quarantining passengers. Both luxury and budget hotels will be available as options and the cost of the stay will be borne by the passengers.” More than 4000 rooms have been arranged by the BMC so far. As per BMC’s protocols, all symptomatic passengers from UK will be shifted to Seven Hills Hospital at Andheri and the ones from Europe and Middle-East countries will be shifted to GT Hospital at Fort directly from the airport. Passengers that don’t show any symptoms will be quarantined at hotels. The passport of the passengers will be deposited at the hotels and can be retrieved when they are discharged from the quarantine. The state government also issued a notification empowering district collectors to impose night curfew if they feel it necessary to contain the epidemic. It means districts getting more cases may be imposed with night curfew. However, the district collectors will have to take prior permission from chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. The state government on Monday declared a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 for the next 15 days. The night curfew will be imposed in major cities (municipal corporation areas) across the state. It has also clarified that night curfew means a gathering of more than five people will be prohibited between 11pm and 6am till January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-covid-19-variant-maharashtra-government-imposes-stricter-rules-for-those-travelling-from-europe-to-mumbai/story-vkib7SQLToSrNXhNfZSnJI.html
23-12-2020||City||Seeking OTS policy, traders stage protest against state government in Ludhiana||With the state government failing to announce a one time settlement (OTS) policy for disposing off pending VAT assessment cases since 2014, members of various trader associations staged a symbolic protest against under the banner of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal at Chauri Sadak in old city area on Tuesday.  They stated that if the government failed to announce the policy in 10 days, then they will organise statewide protests. They also rued that the state government and sales tax department were harassing them by issuing notices for cases pending since 2014, that too when businesses are already reeling under losses due to the pandemic. Beopar mandal chairman Pawan Lehar and general secretary Sunil Mehra said that four meetings of the cabinet had been held after the CM announced that an OTS policy would be rolled out, but the government had failed to provide any relief. Mehra said,”If it isn’t announced in 10 days, agitations will be held across the state, even outside the houses of cabinet ministers.”The traders also demanded that the professional tax and power bills for the lockdown period should be waived off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seeking-ots-policy-traders-stage-protest-against-state-government-in-ludhiana/story-PwljpwZPsAdnysstWP1tYM.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt starts tracking, testing all flyers into the Capital from the UK since November 25||The Delhi government on Tuesday said it has started tracing passengers who arrived in the national capital from the United Kingdom since November 25, amid fears of the spread of a new and more infectious strain of Covid-19 that has been detected in the UK. The government has also started door-to-door tracking of passengers who returned from the UK. The government had earlier decided to track and test all arrivals in Delhi from the UK over the past two weeks, an order that was tweaked late in the evening based on the central government’s guidelines. All these arrivals will be tested using the gold standard reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method by district surveillance teams. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that nearly 7,000 passengers flew into the city from the UK in the last two weeks.But, senior officials later said the number of passengers who actually reside in Delhi would be much lower. A health official said separate isolation wards for the UK returnees who test positive, as per the latest Central government SOP, is being built in at least three Covid-19 facilities - the Sardar Patel Covid Centre and hospital in Chhatarpur, Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital .Passengers will also be given the option of paid quarantine facility. Senior officials in the New Delhi district administration said Aloft hotel in Aerocity is going to be notified as the paid institutional isolation facility for the UK returnees who want to opt for it. “In the last two weeks, about 6,000 to 7,000 people landed at the Delhi airport from the UK. This includes passengers who travelled to other places like Punjab, Uttar Pradesh or Haryana after landing in Delhi. Our teams have started a door-to-door survey to check on fliers who are residing in Delhi. They are being requested to self isolate themselves in their homes for seven days,” he said. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said as of now the exact number of passengers who are still residing in the Capital after arriving from the UK since November 25 is not known because the addresses and phone numbers are still being sent by the airport authorities, which is relayed to the districts immediately. “The revenue department has been compiling this information from the civil aviation ministry and the immigration authorities. The lists have been territorially segregated district-wise and allocated to survey teams of the districts area-wise for surveillance and testing/tracking,” he said.Jain said during the house-to-house survey, passengers are being asked about their health and the visiting medical teams check for Covid-19 like symptoms.“Unlike usual Covid-19 cases, where an asymptomatic or mild patients are allowed to get treated under home isolation, if a UK returnee tests positive then s/he will have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine. All samples of those who test positive will also be sent for genome sequencing. If the result of that comes as per the new strain then the person will continue to be under institutional quarantine for 14 days until he/she tests negative,” said a senior government official. A member from one of over 700 surveillance teams in the city said the east district so far has identified 24 passengers who arrived from the UK and are residing in the district. “But contact tracing is very difficult. Some phone numbers are invalid. Some addresses are given of Delhi but the person has moved out of the city. There are only 24 passengers we found who are actually staying in east district. They are being tested and checked for symptoms,” said the official. Health minister Satyendar Jain, urged everyone to wear a mask when stepping out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-tracking-testing-all-flyers-into-the-capital-from-the-uk-since-november-25/story-9hUu6c9u7l7xKf2tx99suI.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Trio on motorbike booked for two gunpoint robberies within 15 minutes in east Delhi||Three persons on a motorbike robbed two persons — a journalist and a chartered accountant from Nepal — of their mobile phones, cash and other belongings at gunpoint within 15 minutes of one another and a distance of 400 metres in east Delhi’s Shakarpur after Monday midnight, the police said.The chartered accountant received stitches on his forehead after being allegedly attacked with the butt of the gun by the robbers. The 27-year-old journalist, who works with the multimedia team of a news agency, suffered bruises to his hands as he fell after allegedly being pushed by one of the robbers, according to a colleague of the journalist, a reporter who covered the two robberies on behalf of the news agency.The deputy commissioner of police (east), Jasmeet Singh, said that two separate cases of robbery were registered against unknown persons at the Shakarpur police station. “We have formed teams to identify and nab the suspects. They will be caught soon,” said DCP Singh.The first robbery took place around midnight, when the chartered accountant, who is from Nepal, identified by his first name Tribhuwan, had gone to meet a relative. He lives in a rented home at Shakarpur.According to the reporter who covered the issue, Tribhuwan was returning to his flat when three men on a bike waylaid him and asked him to part with his belongings at gunpoint. “Tribhuwan told me that he resisted the robbery attempt and he was attacked with the butt of the gun, causing multiple injuries to his forehead. The robbers took away his mobile phone and a bag containing Rs 1,000 cash and credit cards,” said the reporter.Nearly 15 minutes later, the same set of robbers waylaid the journalist while he was walking to his flat after being dropped by the office cab. The journalist told his colleague that as he saw the robbers taking out a gun, he tried to run. “One of the robbers pushed him, because of which he fell to the ground and suffered minor injuries. The robbers robbed him of his mobile phone and the bag containing his office ID card. They did not take his iPhone,” the reporter said.Officials associated with the probe said that CCTV cameras installed around the two crime spots were being examined to get clues about the suspects.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/trio-on-motorbike-booked-for-two-gunpoint-robberies-within-15-minutes-in-east-delhi/story-GdLGSR5KFww7EEdP3FlJEN.html
23-12-2020||Lucknow||Five burn to death after Yamuna e-way car crash||Five people of a family who were travelling in a car were burnt to death when their vehicle caught fire after hitting a truck on Yamuna Expressway, near Khandauli toll plaza in Agra district, on Tuesday morning. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of five people and directed the officials in Agra to reach the spot to supervise relief work. “The accident took place in wee hours of Tuesday at about 4.30am when the car moving towards Noida collided with a container coming from opposite side and caught fire. Those inside the car could not move out and were charred to death,” said Babloo Kumar, the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Agra. Officials said that a fire brigade was called to the spot immediately, but it was too late to save the people in the car. The driver of the container fled the site on foot, following the collision. According to police, it was tough to identify the bodies as they were badly burnt and their faces were unrecognisable. Later, the identities of the five were established as Murli Manohar Saroj (35), of Alamganj in Lucknow, his wife Seema Devi (32), cousin Manju Devi (30) and mother-in-law Sirtaj (58). The driver, Sandeep of Unnao, was also killed in the incident. The 165-kilometre-long Yamuna Expressway, connecting Agra with Noida, was inaugurated in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-burn-to-death-after-yamuna-e-way-car-crash/story-0O4icXC91GOLfGhAF3EDGO.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Govt threatens action against officers not following protocol on live WhatsApp location||The women and child development department of the Delhi government in a recent order said that several of its officers were found to be “reluctant” in complying with a protocol that requires them to share live WhatsApp locations in a group to register their attendance and field visits.In an order, issued on December 17, the department has also threatened to take action against erring officials, including penalising for “insubordination”, and entrusted a deputy secretary-rank officer with the responsibility of preparing a weekly list of erring officers from this Friday, said a senior government official.On October 15, Delhi’s women and child development (WCD) minister Rajendra Pal Gautam had issued directions that required officers in the department to register daily attendance by sending WhatsApp locations in a particular group – after coming to office in the morning and leaving office in the evening. The same protocol was also to be followed for field visits.Senior officials said that the directions were issued in the light of complaints regarding absence of officials from public offices and skipping field visits. The government has plans to implement the same protocol across several departments in 2021 to increase efficiency, said the official quoted above.On December 17, the government had issued another order which flagged “reluctance” by officials and “non-compliance” of the directions issued by the minister on October 15. It further threatened to take action against erring officials including action for “insubordination”.“Some of the district officers have shown reluctance in sending live location on the WhatsApp group. The secretary (department of WCD) has taken a serious view in the matter and also shown displeasure at the non-compliance of the directions issued by the minister,” said the December 17 order that HT has seen.It further said, “Hence, all district officers are directed to post their daily arrival and departure attendance through live location as well as field visits location, failing which it would be assumed that the officer is not attending to his or her duty, and further action would be initiated against them for insubordination.”Action against insubordination can include measures such as temporary suspensions and transfers, said a government official.Gautam said, “This is an initiative which is aimed at boosting efficiency in public officers, starting with those under the WCD department. We need cooperation in this regard from officials of all ranks without any compromise. Action will be taken in case of non-compliance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-threatens-action-against-officers-not-following-protocol-on-live-whatsapp-location/story-70KG538mLRGR1sAjfvjNLI.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Dedicated corridor, mandatory Covid tests for all fliers from the UK at IGI||Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport has set up a dedicated corridor for the movement of passengers arriving from the United Kingdom, after the government made it mandatory for such travellers to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the airport. To ensure that the passengers from the United Kingdom are segregated from others on their arrival, their immigration clearance, baggage collection and customs clearance has been expedited and is being completed under supervision. Only five, of the total 470 passengers from the United Kingdom who arrived at Delhi airport since Monday, have so far tested positive and have been sent to hospitals. The rest have been advised seven days home quarantine, officials said. India, on Monday, had suspended all flights to and from the United Kingdom (UK) between December 23 and December 31 in order to stop the arrival of a new strain of Sars-Cov-2 that spreads faster. The government mandated all passengers who arrive from the UK on Monday and Tuesday, to take an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the airport, with only those who test negative being allowed to go home. While two incoming flights landed at the Delhi airport on Monday night and early Tuesday morning , two more arrived late on Tuesday. The flights that arrived on Monday night and Tuesday morning were Air India’s AI 162 and British Airways BA143, respectively, both from Heathrow airport in London. Doctor Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings diagnostics, that is conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, confirmed that only five passengers had tested positive. “The testing was completed around 5pm on Tuesday. None of the rest tested positive or showed any symptoms. They were all advised a seven-day home quarantine,” she said. Agarwal added that it took them 4-5 hours to get the reports. “Meanwhile, the passengers were sent to the lounge. A guitarist was there to entertain them and they were served with chocolates and refreshments. Genestrings Diagnostics has already been conducting RT-PCR tests of passengers but for Tuesday we had to double our staff strength. There are two more flights scheduled for Tuesday – one carrying 240 passengers while another has 274 passengers on board,” she added. The passengers were charged a total of Rs 3,400, that included Rs 800, the standard charge for an RT-PCR test in Delhi. The rest was lounge charges. DEDICATED CORRIDOR AT THE AIRPORT Airport officials said that as soon as the passengers entered the terminal after crossing the aerobridge, they were divided into batches of 20-25 and were escorted through a dedicated corridor by the Central Industrial Security Force personnel in PPE kits. Sachin Badshah, deputy inspector general (IGI Airport), CISF, said a separate corridor has been set up for the passengers arriving from the UK so that there could be adequate social distancing with other passengers at the airport. “The dedicated corridor helps expedite the immigration clearance, baggage collection and customs clearance for these passenger who are then escorted by our men to their designated waiting area where they wait for their turn to be tested,” Badhsah said. The designated waiting area is a lounge that has been set up specially to accommodate these passengers inside Terminal 3 by airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd). An official from the airport said seating arrangements have been made keeping social distancing in mind with basic facilities of washroom, drinking water available for the passengers. From here the passengers are moved to the testing facility built in the multi-level car parking building right in front of T3. Outside the terminal, the Delhi police teams were also present. Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said police personnel ensure that no passenger manages to leave the airport premises without getting tested. “We ensured adequate deployment to make sure that everyone is mandatorily tested as per the government’s order and that there are no law and order problems,” Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dedicated-corridor-mandatory-covid-tests-for-all-fliers-from-the-uk-at-igi/story-lXtgtuIAredgU4IJM1j6oJ.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Govt to create surveillance site for testing vaccines||The Delhi government, in collaboration with the department of biotechnology, is creating a 52,000 -strong surveillance site in north-east Delhi’s Gokulpuri area. This would be Delhi’s first surveillance site that can be used for community-level vaccine trials, surveillance of emerging diseases, or predicting outbreaks. “The department of biotechnology is currently in talks to see whether the trial of an upcoming Covid-19 vaccine can be conducted in the surveillance site, once we have collected enough data over the next few months,” said Dr Pragya Sharma, head of the department of community medicine at MAMC. The trial site will encompass households in Gokalpuri, Sanjay Colony, Ganga Vihar, and Gokulpuri village. The department of biotechnology has developed at least 11 such vaccine trial sites across the country. Such trial sites allow the researchers to study the number of infections at a community level after being administered a vaccine. Currently, many of the vaccine trials being conducted are hospital-based, where the volunteers are asked to register with a particular site to participate in the trial. Over the next three years, researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College will collect demographic data of each and every person living in the area, including details like how many people live in a house, their health condition, and their economic situation, among others. All the details collected will be mapped on a satellite image of the area, along with detailed information. The project is headed by community medicine expert Dr Nandini Sharma, who is currently the head of the medical college. “The map will have a complete health profile of people in that region. This is very helpful for detecting any novel outbreaks, like Covid-19, if there is a sudden increase in atypical symptoms. Or, detecting an outbreak early on, if the doctors in the area start seeing an unusual increase in say for example diarrhoea. Currently, our department is collecting the baseline data. However, a site like this will be a resource for health researchers forever,” said Dr Sharma. The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a video address at the inauguration said that it was a great step being taken for the health care of the people in the area. Dr Nandini Sharma addressed the people of the area and requested them to provide accurate data to the volunteers who come to their houses. 82,000 tests, 939 fresh cases, positivity rate 1.14%Delhi on Tuesday conducted over 82,000 tests for coronavirus disease, in which 939 people tested positive, as per the daily health bulletin. The new cases remained below the 1,000-mark for two days in a row. Fewer than 1,000 cases a day was last reported 127 days ago on August 17. The city has since seen two surges in cases in September and in November, with the November spike being the worst when 8,593 cases were reported in a single day. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – dropped to 1.14% on Wednesday, which is the lowest since the Delhi government started giving daily data on the number of cases and tests since April beginning. So far, the lowest positivity rate was 1.16% recorded on April 6. With fewer tests, the positivity rate wasn’t consistent then, with a daily positivity rate of 8.84% being recorded the very next day. The current decline, however, has been sustained. Delhi has reported a positivity rate of less than 2% for eight days now and below 5% for 20 days. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control if the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for over two weeks. The city also reported 25 deaths due to the infection, taking the city’s total toll to 10,329.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-create-surveillance-site-for-testing-vaccines/story-5Z1ODjQkN406m8UTX0uSmO.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||MCD funds tussle: BJP stages protest, AAP holds padyatra||Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Adesh Gupta, along with mayors of the three municipal corporations and other leaders of the party, on Tuesday staged a protest outside the headquarters of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg demanding the government release Rs 13,000 crores dues of the municipalities.Gupta said that the protest is to fight for the rights of sanitation workers, doctors, nurses, health workers, teachers.“Delhi CM (Arvind) Kejriwal is sitting on the funds of corporations. He should ask the government officials to immediately release Rs 13,000 crore due funds to the MCDs,” he said.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation said that the Delhi government is “wilfully” not releasing the dues to make corporations “financially crippled” so that it could neither do any development work for the citizens nor can pay salaries of employees on time.“We will continue this fight till the Delhi government releases the funds. The AAP is playing politics by not releasing the funds of the corporations so that they can take advantage of it in the upcoming corporation elections,” Prakash said.But senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said that the BJP-ruled MCD has not placed their claim of Rs 13,000 crores in front of the court, while on the other side the Kejriwal government through an affidavit has clearly mentioned that it has released all requisite funds for civic bodies till December 31.“A recent court order regarding the clearance of the pending salary of MCD employees has no mention of this imaginary Rs 13,000 crores which the BJP claims that the AAP government has to pay to the MCDs. To defame the Kejriwal government and to divert the attention from the Rs 2,500 crore scam of the MCD, the BJP is lying to people and blaming the government. The BJP must immediately stop such dirty politics and release the salaries of employees,” Pathak said.Pathak also said that on Tuesday nearly 20,000 AAP volunteers conducted “Padyatra (march)” in all 272 wards against scam of Rs 2500 crore in municipalities.He said that AAP workers met the people in all 272 wards and told them about the “misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crores” in the BJP-ruled MCD. “We are visiting every house to expose the BJP and its misdeeds in front of the people of Delhi. We told them about how the BJP-ruled MCDs has completely ruined Delhi and how the BJP has made the MCDs bankrupt,” Pathak said.The Delhi unit of the BJP has refuted allegations of the Rs 2500 crore scam. The north civic body’s mayor Jai Prakash had denied the allegations and called it a diversionary tactics by the AAP instead of paying the dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcd-funds-tussle-bjp-stages-protest-aap-holds-padyatra/story-bYi74LpJvaUP9YPKO1nz6L.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality dips further, touches ‘severe’ zone||Delhi’s air quality took a turn for the worse on Tuesday, dropping into the ‘severe’ category, with the Met department predicting that pollution levels will stay high in the coming days due to slow winds and low morning temperatures.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) on Tuesday was 418 as of 4pm, down sharply from 332 (very poor) on Monday. Before this, Delhi’s air had touched the severe zone on December 5, when the overall AQI was 404. Pollution levels showed a steady Tuesday morning onwards, when the average hourly AQI deteriorated from 352 at 7am to 377 at noon, before it crossed the 400 mark later in the day. At 7pm, the average AQI touched 426, with many monitoring stations clocking pollution levels above 450. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research division, said winds had calmed down completely for a few hours on Tuesday morning. Apart from this, he said, the air got worse due to a weather phenomenon called ‘inversion’, because of which pollution-carrying air dropped closer to the surface. “Around noon, we observed that because of inversion, the pollution that was floating higher up in the air suddenly dropped and settled closer to the ground. This was the primary reason behind this severe drop in the air quality,” Soni said. IMD scientists also attributed the spike in pollution levels to low wind speeds and the increase in moisture levels in the air, after a western disturbance passed by on Sunday. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the average wind speed on Tuesday was 6kmph — not strong enough to disperse pollutants. “The wind speeds have been low and there is an increase in moisture in the air, which is also holding the pollution particles down closer to the ground,” Srivastava said. He also warned that the forecast does not show any significant improvement in the wind speed till December 26, which means that pollution levels are also expected to be on a rise. The temperature is also forecast to fall and reach around 4 degree Celsius in the next two days, IMD said. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, considered the official recording for the city, was 5.3 degree Celsius, three below normal. The maximum temperature was 23.9°C. Meanwhile, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday observed that the industrial sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region, as it directed all industries in the Capital to switch over to Piped Natural Gas (PNG). The commission reviewed the progress of switching over of industries operating in Delhi to PNG during a meeting attended by representatives of the state government, Gail, and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL). The commission, headed by former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty, directed IGL to ensure PNG supply to all identified industries in Delhi by January 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality/story-PyUuJ9mi2DN9RL1dr2p0sJ.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Satyendar Jain says MCDs not providing their expenditure details to govt||Delhi urban development Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the three municipal corporations (MCDs) “have denied” to share “any details” on their incomes and expenditures with the Delhi government. “The three MCDs have been asked to give details regarding all their income and expenditure of last one month, but all the three MCDs have not responded to the same. The people of Delhi need to know the details regarding the public exchequer and where has it been spent as they are the taxpayers,” Jain said in a statement on Tuesday. The demand by the state urban development department to furnish the revenue and expenditures of the MCDs comes at a time when the mayors of the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled civic bodies have been demanding Rs 13,000 crore as “payable dues” from the Delhi government. However, the Delhi government has repeatedly denied the allegation and has stated that all dues have been paid to the civic corporations. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has even asked the BJP rules MCDs to take legal recourse if they feel the Delhi government actually owes them Rs 13,000 crore. “We asked them about their finances. But the MCDs are just refusing to provide any details on the same. This is a clear indication that the BJP-led MCD is trying to hide their accounts due to some misappropriation. It is the right of the people to know the details regarding their money and the MCDs must be transparent with the public exchequer,” Jain said.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “We have been giving all the details to the committees of the Vidhan Sabha. This is a lie that we denied giving any details to the government. They don’t want to give our dues of Rs 13,000 crore and are hence levelling new allegations daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/satyendar-jain-says-mcds-not-providing-their-expenditure-details-to-govt/story-J5Vi8VtMgN53MNDS31oc4I.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Govt to decide on reserving 80% beds in pvt hospitals today||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi High Court that a discussion on a new strain of Covid-19 in the United Kingdom (UK) was taken up in a recent meeting on deciding if reservation of 80% beds for Covid patients should continue in the city’s hospitals. The government further told the court that due to the current evolving situation of a new Covid-19 strain, the government order of reserving the beds would be reviewed on December 23.In an affidavit filed by advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, has said that the new strain of the virus had been discussed in the meeting on December 21 and a committee has been constituted to look for the formulation of a graded strategy of de-escalation.It said that the expert committee — comprising Dr VK Paul, Dr Randeep Guleria, Dr Nivedita from ICMR and Dr SK Singh, director of NCDC — was closely monitoring the present developments .“Therefore, the expert committee suggested that a committee may be constituted to look into the graded strategy of de-escalation, keeping in view, the current evolving situation and keeping the required regional balance of availability to Covid Care,” the minutes of the meeting read.“Accordingly, a committee has been formed to submit their recommendations within two days, on the basis of which the government order dated September 12 will be reviewed,” the affidavit read.The affidavit was filed in a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers, through advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, which had challenged the September 12 decision of the Delhi government to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the high court on September 22 by a single judge bench.Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, but refused to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government then approached the Supreme Court against the two orders. But the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the HC order and asked the government to seek relief from the high court.On November 12, a division bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad vacated the stay considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city at that time.On the last date, the Delhi government had told the court that more than 80% of the ICU beds in the 33 private hospitals were occupied and sought 10 more days to review the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-govt-to-decide-on-reserving-80-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-today/story-pLuCIgsZ4crPIeMAIs2QKO.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks home department to withdraw all lockdown cases against labourers||State home minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the government has issued directions to withdraw all FIRs and complaints registered against migrant labourers for alleged violation of lockdown norms.“As per the directions of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, necessary instructions (have been) issued to (the) home department to withdraw all FIRs/complaints lodged during lockdown against migrant labourers,” Jain tweeted.Jain’s office however could not immediately provide data on the number of FIRs and complaints registered against migrant labourers during lockdown.A senior official in the home department said the FIRs and complaints relate to several cases registered during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown — implemented on March 25 — which witnessed several instances of people getting booked not only for violation of social distancing norms but also for stepping outdoors for activities not enlisted as “essential” in the government’s then-applicable Covid-19 guidelines.The first few days of the lockdown witnessed massive crowds in Anand Vihar and Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, largely comprising migrant labourers and their families, looking for buses to head to their villages and towns, with train services suspended. While several of them managed to get into packed buses, others decided to walk hundreds of miles. Thousands of migrants were also lodged by the government in temporary shelters set up in schools and eventually sent home through special trains in a phased manner.“There are cases and complaints concerning migrant labourers stopped by enforcement agencies at Anand Vihar, in city borders and important junctions, and in localities across Delhi when they were found to have left for their hometowns and villages in large groups. There are also several instances of FIRs and complaints registered after confrontation between enforcement agencies and migrants spotted on roads and public spaces looking out for food,” said the official, who did not wish to be identified.“The government can withdraw the pending complaints on their own, but to quash FIRs, they shall have to move court. We have already sought legal help on the matter,” said the senior government official.“Delhi Police have been sympathetic and considerate towards the migrant labourers. Elaborate stay and food arrangements were made for the migrant labourers during the lockdown period, when they were facing employment problems. Arrangements were also made at Anand Vihar for their smooth passage to return home without any law and order issue. Delhi Police have been dealing sensitively with the cases registered against them during the lockdown period,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-asks-home-department-to-withdraw-all-lockdown-cases-against-labourers/story-5x7FcrFKBAThK7h5754koL.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expressway in protest against UP govt for stopping their counterparts||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws for the past 27 days blocked all carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border for nearly 10 hours on Tuesday, in a protest against the Uttar Pradesh government for allegedly stopping farmers from marching towards the border.Around 5pm, the farmers cleared one carriageway, allowing vehicles to move from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi.The border blockade disrupted vehicular movement between Delhi and Ghaziabad, as traffic snarls spilt to other border points and connecting roads in Delhi as well as Uttar Pradesh.As the farmers blocked the border around 7am without prior notice, motorists travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi through the expressway during the morning rush hour were stuck.At 7.37am, the Delhi Traffic Police used its Twitter handle to update the public about the closure of the carriageways at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border. Delhi Police’s public relation officer, Anil Mittal, said that the carriageway leading to Ghaziabad was closed for traffic, as farmers blocked the roads at the UP Gate border.The carriageway leading to Delhi from Ghaziabad has already been closed for the last few days due to the farmers’ protest. “Traffic was diverted from Nizamuddin Khatta, Akshardham, and Ghazipur Chowk for onwards journey towards Ghaziabad via Anand Vihar, Apsara and Bhopura borders,” said Mittal.It was the second time since Monday afternoon that the expressway was completely blocked by the farmers. The nearly hour-long blockade on Monday was cleared after the officials of the UP administration assured the farmers that nobody would be stopped from going towards the borders.Rajveer Singh Jadhon, the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (UP unit), said that the UP government has been harassing farmers in the state and those coming from Uttarakhand, by stopping their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles in different places.Jadhon said that despite assurances, nearly 35 trolleys and 50 four-wheelers ferrying farmers were stopped at Rampur and Pilibhit on Monday night. “The police personnel misbehaved with the farmers and forced them to return. We blocked the UP Gate border with our tractors to express our protest against the UP administration and demand the release of farmers. We cleared one carriageway for vehicles going to Ghaziabad after the farmers were allowed to move towards Delhi,” said Jadhon.The border remained closed between 7am and 5pm on Tuesday, following which the carriageway going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi was opened after a meeting between farmer leaders and officials of the UP administration, who assured that the farmers, who had been stopped at Rampur, Pilibhit and Bilaspur, were allowed to move towards the UP Gate border.Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range), of the Uttar Pradesh police, said, “The carriageway was vacated by the protesters and we have assured that all their issues will be taken up. They were demanding that their vehicles must not be stopped from approaching the UP Gate from other areas in UP. But we have to take up checks to ascertain that no anti-social element gets in. We discussed with other officers and got the issue resolved. The carriageway was vacated around 5pm.”The Singhu and Tikri borders, where thousands of farmers are protesting, continued to remain shut while one carriageway of the Delhi-Noida link road at the Chilla border is open for vehicles entering Delhi from Noida. Motorists going to Noida are being diverted to other borders such as Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli and Dallupura.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-block-delhi-meerut-expressway-in-protest-against-up-govt-for-stopping-their-counterparts/story-P8T5m8uonmmizIM8BqbadN.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Forest dept pulls up municipal agency over synthetic tracks at Nehru Park||The Delhi forest department has sent a notice to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for constructing a 22-metre synthetic jogging track at Nehru Park, which is identified as a deemed forest by the forest department. Senior forest department officers who did not wish to be named said that the unauthorised construction will have to be removed failing which they would take legal action. Deputy conservator of forests (south division), Amit Anand, issued a notice to the NDMC on December 17 stating that Nehru Park is a deemed forest, which means that any non-forest activity, such as construction is not permitted and also in violation of the Forest Conservation Act (1980). The order has also cited a 1997 Supreme Court judgment that prohibits such activity in a deemed forest. The notice was issued following a complaint filed by environmentalist Bhavreen Kandhari on December 7, bringing the forest department’s attention to the violation. HT has seen a copy of the notice.NDMC, as a pilot project, created a 22-metre long synthetic jogging track in the park around seven months back. However, early this month the municipality started work on adding another 2.5 kms of this track citing “positive response from the public”. The work on this was underway and has been stopped after the civic agency received the notice. The notice issued to the NDMC read, “...Nehru Park is located within a ‘deemed forest’ and any non-forest activity, means the breaking up or clearing of any forest land or portion thereof for any purpose other than re-afforestation, is a violation of the Forest Conservation Act.” “...the NDMC is directed to furnish within 60 days of receiving the notice, why a complaint should not be filed in court,” the notice added. In Delhi’s context, “an area above 2.5 acre having a density of 100 trees per acre as well as stretches of along roads and drains having a length of one kilometre,”is considered a deemed forest. Any construction activities in such area requires permissions from the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change under FCA. Such work also requires the usual permissions under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. Nehru Park, which is located in the diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri, was inaugurated in February, 1965 by then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, and is spread across 80 acres. A senior forest department of the official said that it is mandated under the FCA act that the erring agency be given time to respond to the official notice. However, along with an official response, NDMC will also have to remove the tracks that have already been laid out. “Any activity that will disturb the ecology of a marked deemed forest is prohibited. Permissions need to be taken from the Centre and forest department for it. It is high time land-owning agencies such as NDMC are held responsible for their actions,” the official said. However, a senior NDMC official explained that the jogging track was constructed for the benefit of scores of walkers and joggers who visit the park through the day. The municipality had been receiving complaints of users getting hurt on the uneven surface of the park’s older albeit natural track. BM Mishra, secretary NDMC said the ecology of the park was not hampered in any way during the construction of these tracks. “Nehru Park is popular among walkers and many senior citizens come to walk here. There are stones, uneven surface and dusty patches in the existing track, which not only create problems for walkers, but also contribute to dust pollution in the area. By creating a synthetic track, we have tried to provide a better walking and jogging facility for users without disturbing any greenery in the park. We will examine the forest department notice and respond accordingly,” Mishra said.Environment lawyer, Aditya Prasad, said government agencies consider the environmental aspects before undertaking infrastructure development. “Nature blindness is a serious phenomenon and it is spreading like wildfire. It is appalling that despite Delhi experiencing such high pollution levels for the most part of the year, government agencies do not understand the importance of protecting trees. Destruction of trees in an urban context has a direct and proportional impact on air pollution. I wonder if the next generation will be able to forgive this apathy,” Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/forest-dept-pulls-up-municipal-agency-over-synthetic-tracks-at-nehru-park/story-l7dti5utnKpVoqhcBpKmSK.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Ex-Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan claims being assaulted inside Mandoli prison||Former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan — who has been arrested in connection to the north-east Delhi riots and charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — on Tuesday told a city court that she was assaulted by inmates at Mandoli Jail. Besides, Jahan, a few other accused also alleged that they are being discriminated and harassed.Jahan told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that this is the second incident within one month when she had been assaulted and she was under immense stress due to the continuous physical and verbal harassment.“ In the morning today at 6:30 am, they (the inmates) beat me up and abused me verbally. One of the inmates even slit her hand so that I am punished based on a false complaint. I have given a written complaint also. They keep calling me a terrorist,” she alleged.The former Congress leader claimed that she has been facing harassment in jail for the past four months and had requested that she be shifted to Tihar, but the request was denied due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Appearing for Jahan, her counsel, advocate Pradeep Teotia, contended that previously too she had been beaten up, following which one of the inmates was shifted to another jail.Following this, ASJ Rawat directed the jail authorities to take immediate steps to ensure Jahan’s security and ensure that she was not harassed further. The judge also sought a detailed report from the prison authorities on Wednesday detailing the steps that have been taken and to mention if shifting Jahan to another jail was required.During the proceedings, the Assistant Superintendent of Mandoli jail confirmed the incident and said that necessary steps have been taken.To this the judge told the jail official, “She (Jahan) seems to be in a state of utter fear. Please talk to her immediately and understand the situation. File a detailed report about the steps taken to allay her.”It also directed the prison authorities to produce her before the court on Wednesday through video conferencing.Advocate Rizwan, appearing for suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, claimed that most of the accused in the north east Delhi riots cases were facing discrimination in prison, either by the inmates or the jail authorities.He further alleged that the accused have been the accused have been declared as “terrorists” before conclusion of the trial. To this the judge said, “An accused is an accused, not a convict.”Along with Jahan, Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha also claimed that his family members have been trying to have a meeting with him through video conferencing but their requests have not been approved yet. Tanha also alleged that he has been repeatedly called “terrorists” in prison.Tanha’s counsel, advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, said previously when several of the accused had said they have been given basic things in prison, the court had sought a report from the jail authorities but the report has not come yet.Another accused Athar Parvez told the court that since the case is a sensitive one, so he should be shifted in a separate cell.The court said that he will look into the matter and pass a detailed order. The matter would be now heard on January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ex-congress-councillor-ishrat-jahan-claims-being-assaulted-inside-mandoli-prison/story-ltMQoMNjrdmqbOejGMJS0H.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up committee to decide on de-escalating Covid-19 facilities||With hospital beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients turning vacant, the Delhi government has set-up a four-member committee to make recommendations for de-escalating the services. The four-member committee includes the special secretary (health) Udit Prakash Rai, director general of health services Nutan Mundeja, Dr Suneet Kaur from the National Centre of Disease Control, and the head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, professor Anant Mohan. Delhi has over 18,700 beds earmarked for the treatment of patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), of which 5,100 beds are intensive care unit (ICU) beds, with and without ventilators. At present, only 15.2% of the total beds and 26.1% of the ICU beds are occupied, as per data on the government’s Delhi Corona app.The committee has been asked to submit its recommendations by Wednesday evening. Despite the government scaling up the number of ICU beds, the occupancy had reached over 86% in November, when Delhi saw its third and highest surge in the number of cases. The committee has been asked to study the current trends in admission and discharge of Covid-19 patients to make recommendations on whether the number of ICU beds should be de-escalated at this point. The terms of reference for the committee state, “...the de-escalation recommendations strike a harmonious balance between regional and locational access across all categories of hospitals and the need to have buffer capacity for patients from neighbouring states.” The recommendations would pave the way for freeing up ICU beds in private hospitals for services other than Covid-19. In November, when the number of Covid-19 cases was on the rise, 75 private hospitals in the city were asked to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for treating Covid-19 patients. The Delhi government had issued the order to 33 large private hospitals on September 12, during the previous surge in cases. However, the decision was challenged in the high court and a stay was issued. The stay was then vacated when the cases started rising in November and the Delhi government subsequently asked 42 other hospitals to also reserve 80% of ICU beds. “There is a hearing of the petition in the court tomorrow. Unnecessarily, the Covid-19 beds are lying vacant. The occupancy is hardly about 40%, whereas the non-Covid beds are running full and many surgeries and complex procedures were being delayed for the want of ICU beds,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India), who had challenged the Delhi government order earlier. Besides, de-escalation will also bring respite to the students from Maulana Azad Medical College and University College of Medical Sciences, as their training has been hit due to the lack of regular patients. The Delhi government had converted the associated Lok Nayak Hospital and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital into Covid-only facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-committee-to-decide-on-de-escalating-covid-19-facilities/story-VRAXkgZjZhE92PkxH2Ml0M.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||A surprising outcome at Singhu: Farmers pick up cooking skills||Before joining the ongoing farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s Singhu border on November 27, Hardeep Singh, a farmer from Salana village in Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib district, did not know any cooking. Today, the 32-year-old is a part of a 20-member team cooking meals twice a day for hundreds at the spot.“My uncle has some experience because of the langars (community kitchens) we organise back home. We follow his lead here. In three weeks, I have learnt how to make vegetable curries and dal (lentils) of different kinds,” he said. “Back home, it was the women in our family who cooked, while we worked the fields. They could not join us here due to inadequate facilities. So we had to make our own meals.”Singh doesn’t claim to have mastered the art though.“Our focus is not on ensuring taste. We are here to fight for our rights and are happy eating whatever we make,” he said.Singh’s langar is among the many small ones that have come up at the site. The groups source ingredients from their villages and as such they exist only till their stock lasts after which they’d go back home to return with more. They usually serve around 100 people at a time.The cooks’ day begins at 6 am when the air is still very chilly. The morning meal is usually various Indian breads with chickpea curry; for lunch they’ll have rice with dal and seasonal vegetables; dinner will likely see rotis accompanied by what was made for lunch with yet another batch of freshly-cooked curries. There are also larger langars organised by various trusts and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) which serve over 1,000 people round the clock. On why they didn’t eat from these langars instead, 23-year-old Karnal farmer Manpreet Singh, who is part of another small langar group, said: “Many underprivileged people also eat at those langars. If we too join them, maybe they won’t have enough food. Isn’t it then better to cook multiple langars?”Manpreet, however, hasn’t told his family what he has been doing, which, at the moment, was kneading dough for more than 300 rotis. “If I tell them, they might ask me to do it for them back at home as well,” he said, sheepishly. “I am still learning how to make proper dough.”Gurpal Singh, 47, a farmer from Bhandal Bet village in Punjab’s Kapurthala district, whose group cooks for around 70 people, said, “Whenever we video call our family while preparing the meals, they get excited. My wife is happy that I have learnt how to cook. Now I can help out when she is sick or has to spend some time at our relatives’ place.”Gurpal said that many farmers among them called their wives and mothers for recipes or observed other groups preparing the meals. “Initially, we messed up the rotis. But with practice, we have gotten good at it. Now we make all kinds of stuffed parathas (fried flatbreads) including potato, cauliflower, fenugreek leaves, and other vegetables.” His friend Jaspal Singh, 38, said, “My nine-year-old daughter is most excited about it and wants me to make them for her when I return.”Kuldeep Singh, a 35-year-old farmer from Usmanpur in Punjab’s SBS Nagar district, said that some of the farmers also had a practice of cooking during the agitation that had been going on in Punjab since the three farm laws were passed in September.“We have a team of about 50 people who make food throughout the day. We have divided the roles according to the capabilities that we have managed to gauge in these past few months. Almost 90% of these farmers did not know how to cook before the agitation and have only picked it up now,” said Singh, a member of Kirti Kisaan Union, which feeds more than 1,000 people every day at their langar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-surprising-outcome-at-singhu-farmers-pick-up-cooking-skills/story-TkoyMOOHBMGapgucATIC4M.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Tamil Nadu farmers lend support to Singhu protesters, say ready to join agitation||A delegation of Tamil Nadu Farmers Protection Association said on Tuesday that hundreds of farmers from Tamil Nadu were ready to join the protest at Delhi’s borders if the government did not roll back the three farm laws. The leaders said that hundreds of farmers from the south Indian state have planned to drive to Delhi in tractors by next week, educating people about the lapses and harms of the new farm bill on their way to join the movement in Delhi.The 12-member delegation from Coimbatore that had come to visit the farmer groups who have been camping at Singhu border since November 27, said the farmers’ demands are legitimate and the central government cannot turn a deaf ear towards them.Nalla Gounder, coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Farmers Protection Association, said there were protests against the bill in Tamil Nadu also in small groups.“Since the protest in Delhi by our farmer brothers from Haryana and Punjab is growing stronger, we want to add to the number and boost their morale. I am myself a farmer and we are well aware of the harms of the new bill. We support the demand for it to be repealed. If the government continues to act deaf towards our demands, hundreds of farmers from Tamil Nadu are ready to fuel the ongoing protest,” Gounder said.The coordinator said 200 farmers had booked train tickets to come to Delhi but they were stopped by the state government. “12 of us have come today by air and we ensure more our men will join in days to come,” he said.Easan, another farmer leader who had come to Delhi from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu, said at least 100 tractors are ready to start moving towards Delhi by next week. “On our way to the Capital by road we will spread awareness about the farm laws. Each tractor will have at least 10-12 farmers,” Easan said.Welcoming the support, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharita Kisan Union, Ludhiana said they were delighted to see farmers from other states coming out in support. “A major protest against the bill was also organized today in Maharashtra. They even contacted us and assured us of their physical presence if need be. We are delighted to have witnessed such a massive response to our movement that will benefit farmers in the India regardless of which state they come from,” Lakhowal said.The farmers’ agitation overall remained peaceful on Tuesday as it entered its 27th day. The farmers at the Singhu border spent their day mostly delivering speeches from the central stage, raising anti-farm law slogans, singing songs, raising banners, cooking and distributing langars.Senior police officers also said that their deployment at the border remained as usual. “The protest remained peaceful on Tuesday with no untoward incident reported from any part of the Delhi’s borders where the farmers have been camping since last month. We maintained our deployment of the security personnel and the situation is being closely monitored,” said a senior police officer from Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tamil-nadu-farmers-lend-support-to-singhu-protesters-say-ready-to-join-agitation/story-NJO5ZquA9ixxYpDRxqMcWP.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Police invokes night curfew in Pune||A day after the state government imposed a night curfew in Maharashtra, Pune police issued its curfew orders for 15 days starting Tuesday night.Curfew will be in force from December 22, 2020 to January 5, 2021.Officials from the district administration said they are working on a plan to adhere to the government guidelines in areas adjoining the city limits given that latest order applies to municipal limits. According to the order signed by Ravindra Shisve, Joint Commissioner of Pune police, the movement of people on the city streets, under curfew orders, will be restricted between 11pm and 6am. The order was originally issued on Tuesday, two days before Christmas eve and over a week before New Year’s Eve, in order to prevent crowding during the season in view of possible spread of the Covid infection. “As part of efforts to contain the spread of Covid, state government has extended the lockdown until December 31 based on the amended notification issued on November 27… With reference to Monday’s order, additional restrictions have been imposed in the municipal Limits across the state,” Shisve stated in his order. Essential services which were exempt during the earlier lockdown days, will continue to be exempted from the curfew during the next two weeks as well, as per the order. For everyone else, action under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code will be initiated if found violating the curfew. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said the administration will ensure that there is no crowding even in areas outside the municipal Limits. The original order by the state government is applicable to municipal corporations. However, considering the possibility that revellers may attend parties outside municipal limits, administration is taking appropriate steps, said Deshmukh. “We have considered all these aspects and necessary steps will be taken. We also discussed this issue today with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-invokes-night-curfew-in-pune/story-cEZ2MstEwrMsmqdUeztdxH.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Pune sees season’s coldest day at 8.1 degrees Celsius||The city’s night temperature dipped to 8.1 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, making it season’s coolest day so far. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), Pune noted the air quality index (AQI) of Pune as moderate on Tuesday. Safar officials said that if the temperature continues to drop and the wind is calmer, AQI may worsen. They said that the pollution levels may remain moderate in the coming few days. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), the night temperature drop is likely till December 27. “We have forecasted a moderate air quality on Tuesday for the city. The lead pollutant was PM 2.5 (refers to atmospheric particulate matter (PM) that have a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometres, about 3% the diameter of a human hair). The forecast for Pune remains moderate air quality for the next few days. The air pollutants are trapped which continues to show higher than usual AQI in Pune,” said Safar officials. “If the wind speed decreases further with a consistent drop in temperature, there is a likely possibility that the air pollution in the city may increase. But the present conditions in wind speed and decreasing temperature will prevail in the next few days which will keep the air quality to moderate,” said Safar officials. Cold weather to continue IMD has forecasted that the day and night temperature in the city will remain below normal in the coming few days. On Tuesday, the night temperature was 2.7 degrees Celsius less than normal. That is, the expected temperature on Tuesday was 10.8 degree Celsius, but it was reported to be 8.1 degrees resulting in icy cold nights in the city. The day temperature on Tuesday was reported to be 27.6 degrees Celsius. This was 1.1 degrees less than normal. The expected temperature for Tuesday was 28.8 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature in the state was at Parbhani in Marathwada at 7.3 degrees Celsius. “Parts of Vidarbha may witness cold wave on December 24 and December 25. The night temperature in Pune will not be more than 11 degrees Celsius this week. Whereas the day temperature will also remain 29 degrees Celsius or less,” said IMD. Mercury count City--Night temperature on Tuesday (in degrees Celsius) Parbhani--7.3 Gondia-- 7.8 Pune--8.1 Nashik--8.4 Mahabaleshwar--11.3 *Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-sees-season-s-coldest-day-at-8-1-degrees-celsius/story-k492xeW3KFTAxOEs2YQhDM.html
23-12-2020||Pune||Pune hoteliers miffed at night curfew timings; want it to start at midnight||After the state government, on Monday, announced a night curfew from December 22 onwards, the hoteliers’ association is upset with the decision. “Already our business was down for more than six months and had somewhat started gaining momentum. And suddenly yesterday, this order came, of a night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am. This will certainly affect our business by 15 per cent. So far, we were able to recover by 40 per cent of pre-Covid business. Now, it will again go down and especially during Christmas and the year-end time, when mostly people are out till late celebrating,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association. “Now our demand is that if they want to have night curfew it’s fine, but at least change the timings. It should start from 12 midnight, to 6 am, so atleast we can do some business. We are now going to send our demand letter to the chief minister, Pune city municipal commissioner and Pune police commissioner. Already, we close our hotels by 11.30 pm daily, as per government norms, and it takes half- an-hour to wind up the things and customers take time to reach home,” Shetty added.Meanwhile, the Hotel and Restaurants Association of Western India, had last week demanded an extension of hotel timings till 1.30 am. “The hotel and restaurants business has started to gain some business, but going forward, extension of time is needed. Customers usually come after 9 pm for dinner and closing down immediately in the next couple of hours is not serving any purpose. Also, if time is extended, then social distancing will be improved as people will come in at different timings,” said association president Sherry Bhatia. On other hand, traders in Pune are not complaining. Fatechand Ranka, president, Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP) said, “There is not such impact on traders and shop owners in Pune due to night curfew. All our shops close down by 9 pm. There won’t be any problem for us.”Bhushan Mane, owner of a restaurant on Sinhagad road said, “I started a month back and was looking forward to doing good business during Christmas and the year end. I had purchased more goods and hired four people extra looking at the response which we get during the night time. Now if we have to close early by 10pm or 10.30pm, it takes half hour to clean and wind up, so there won’t be any business. State government has to rethink this decision and start the curfew at 12 midnight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-hoteliers-miffed-at-night-curfew-timings-want-it-to-start-at-midnight/story-4M0hwtGpV7cVJytrC8uGaP.html
23-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s night curfew at cities to begin today: All you need to know||Maharashtra has announced that a seven-hour night curfew would be put in place across all cities and municipal corporation areas in the state. The curfew from 11pm to 6am is being imposed from Tuesday, December 22, 2020, for 15 days until January 5, 2021.What caused the curfew?A high-level meeting called by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray decided to implement the night curfew across cities in the state. Two main reasons have been stated by the government for the move.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that occurrences of violation of social distancing norms have been observed in Mumbai. To avoid an increase in Covid-19 cases during the oncoming new year celebrations because of these violations, the curfew has been put in place. “This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated,” he said.ALSO WATCH | New Covid strain: Passengers in Mumbai from UK sent to institutional quarantine Also, the rapid increase in Covid-19 cases in the UK after the outbreak of a new mutation of coronavirus has also caused concerns globally. The Maharashtra government has said that the move is a precautionary measure and has also asked the people to remain vigilant for the next 15 days.What are the new rules?Chahal explained the difference between a total lockdown and a night curfew as “ While in a lockdown, individuals cannot step out of their homes. In a curfew, more than 5 people cannot assemble outside during the specified hours. So, offices that function overnight or something like dairy transportation can still operate. Taxis, cars and auto-rickshaws will also run just like before.”Also read: Mumbai civic body prepares blueprint for Covid-19 vaccine driveHere are new changes implemented due to the night curfew:• All cities and municipal corporation areas will be under night curfew for 7 hours from 11pm to 6am starting from December 22, 2020, until January 5, 2021.• More than five people can not assemble outside during the curfew. However, offices, taxis, car and auto-rickshaws are allowed to operate in the night following the existing norms.• All travellers arriving at Mumbai airport from European countries and the Middle East would be placed under institutional quarantine.• The travellers are allowed to leave for their homes upon completion of the quarantine period. Also, RT-PCR Covid-19 test for these travellers would be taken on the fifth or the seventh day.• People from other countries apart from Europe and the Middle East would be prescribed a home quarantine.• Temporary institutional quarantine facilities near airports and hotels would be arranged by the municipal commissioners.• Air travel between India and the UK was suspended on Monday and all flights that are already scheduled to arrive would carry nearly 1,000 passengers, who would be transported to 2000 hotel rooms arranged for them. Passengers showing symptoms of Covid-19 would be transferred to the GT Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-night-curfew-at-cities-to-begin-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-NRJRgKYomkV2SY7ug5VWxK.html
