25-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC sentences school teacher to 20 years for sexually assaulting three minors||Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has reversed the acquittal of a school teacher on the charge of sexually assaulting three of his minor girl students and sentenced him to 20 years rigorous imprisonment, without any parole or furlough leave in the first decade of his jail term.The bench of justice ZA Haq and justice Amit Borkar convicted the teacher, Gopal Janbandu, primarily on the strength of the testimony of the survivors.According to the prosecution, on December 2, 2017, one of the three survivors informed her mother about intermittent sexual assaults being committed by the teacher on her and two other students from her class, during school recess. The women then spoke to parents of the two other girls and they lodged police complaints.Jalbandu was arrested and prosecuted. The prosecution examined 12 witnesses, including the three survivors, but on January 5, 2019, an additional sessions judge at Gondia acquitted the teacher of all the charges levelled against him - rape under section 376 of Indian Penal Code and penetrative and aggravated sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012.The survivors had in detail explained their ordeals while testifying before the special Pocso court. But, special court disbelieved them and acquitted the teacher, saying the cumulative effect of their testimonies was that the teacher sexually assaulted them simultaneously, which according to the trial court was highly improbable.The state government had moved HC, appealing against the acquittal. Acting on the appeal, HC disapproved the trial court’s approach, saying its conclusion was based on misreading testimonies of the survivors.“This approach of the learned trial judge in disbelieving victim girl of 10 years, in our opinion, is a gross case of perversity,” said HC. “The reason for brushing aside the testimony of the victim, who had gone through the trauma of aggravated sexual assault shows complete insensitivity on the part of the learned trial judge,” the bench added.HC, on the contrary, found that the evidence of the survivors inspired confidence and was even corroborated by the evidence of some other witnesses in the case, and reversed the teacher’s acquittal. The court convicted him for rape and aggravated penetrative sexual assault and sentenced him to 20 years imprisonment.HC also imposed a fine of ₹1.80 lakh on the teacher, Gopal Janbandu, and directed that the fine amount be recovered as arrears of land revenue from him if he fails to pay the fine amount. The teacher will not get furlough or parole even during the remaining term, if the fine is not recovered, even as arrears of land revenue.HC also disapproved the trial court’s view that the presumption of guilt under section 29 of the Pocso Act comes into play only when the prosecution proves its case beyond reasonable doubts. HC said the view was erroneous and the presumption comes into play as the prosecution proves foundational facts. “This finding by the trial court is based on a complete misconception of law on sections 29 and 30 of the said Act,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-sentences-school-teacher-to-20-years-for-sexually-assaulting-three-minors/story-EWAJ2l9HjHKKsXZ2IRT9ML.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Long weekend leads to traffic snarls on Mumbai-Pune expressway||The Mumbai-Pune Expressway witnessed slow traffic movement on Friday as citizens from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) left for a holiday amid the three-day-long weekend owing to Christmas. Residents left for nearby getaways such as Pune, Alibag, Lonavala and Mahabaleshwar to enjoy the holiday. Many others left for their native places in Raigad, Satara, Ratnagiri, among others. On Friday, traffic congestion started mainly near Khalapur, Khopoli and some other places in Raigad. Subhash Pujari, assistant police inspector of the state highway traffic, said, “Usually, a large number of people travel outside the city at night on the eve of a long weekend. However, because of the night curfew imposed by the government, people left their homes on Friday morning.” The traffic movement was extremely slow after 9am as more vehicles hit the road.“The problem was mainly on the Mumbai-Pune lane. There were no traffic congestions on the Pune-Mumbai lane. The traffic department had to deploy extra manpower to tackle the situation, which got better after 3pm,” said Pujari. “The Mumbai-Pune Expressway usually witnesses more traffic every Saturday and Sunday. This time, however, the situation got worse as citizens have a long weekend ahead,” said a senior officer from Raigad police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/long-weekend-leads-to-traffic-snarls-on-mumbai-pune-expressway/story-C4WnaJh7xgoMzgDyEXO3GK.html
25-12-2020||City||Former Himachal CM Shanta Kumar, kin among 304 test +ve for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 304 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 54,058 while the death toll mounted to 890 as three more patients succumbed to the virus. Of the new cases, 62 were reported in Mandi, 52 in Kangra, 51 in Solan, 38 in Shimla, 22 in Hamirpur, 20 in Kullu, 18 in Una 13 in Bilaspur, nine in Lahaul-Spiti, eight in Chamba, six in Kinnaur and five in Sirmaur. There are 4,347 active cases in the state whereas the recoveries have reached 48,774. As many as 623 people were cured on Saturday. The recovery rate has crossed 90%. Till date, 7,22,290 tests have been conducted in the state. Meanwhile, veteran BJP leader and former chief minister Shanta Kumar and his family have tested positive for Covid-19. As per the health department, Kumar, his wife, son, daughter-in-law, granddaughter and personal assistant have tested positive.Shimla remains the worst hit district with 9,887 cases followed by Mandi at 9,444 and Kangra 7,475. Solan has 6,238 cases, Kullu 4,320, Sirmaur 3,117, Bilaspur 2,788, Chamba 2,771, Hamirpur 2,736, Una 2,653, Kinnaur 1,297 and Lahaul-Spiti 1,211.UK returnee told to inform authoritiesKangra chief medical officer Dr GD Gupta has requested the people who have returned from the UK recently to inform the district administration on 1077 toll free number and self-isolate at home. RT-PCR tests of such people will be conducted by the health department, he said, urging hotels and home-stay units to inform the authorities about arrival of guests from the UK.Dr Gupta said that the health department had received a list of 21 people with travel history to Britain. “Of theses, five have returned, 16 are at home and healthy. The department is making arrangements for conducting the RT-PCR rests of six people who came to India after December 8,” said Dr Gupta.He said that even after a negative RT-PCR report, it is mandatory for these people to remain in home isolation for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-himachal-cm-shanta-kumar-kin-among-304-test-ve-for-covid-19/story-mm4DjTiPq9fAAgehAf06kO.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||4,000 farmers from Maharashtra reach Delhi||Farmers from Maharashtra reached Delhi on Friday afternoon to join the farmers who have been staging protests against the Centre’s farm laws on the Delhi border. The farmers, under the banner of All India Kisan Panchayat (AIKS), started from Nashik on Tuesday. As they reached Shahjahanpur, they got a rousing welcome from the protesting farmers. Organisers said about 4,000 farmers from Maharashtra have reached the venue. They started sloganeering against the central government, asking for withdrawal of the farm bills. Ajit Navale, general secretary, AIKS (Maharashtra), said, “People on the way arranged for food and other facilities. They cheered and supported our agitation.” In around 250 vehicles, the farmers travelled for four days, covering 1,266km and crossing states such as Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. They are hailed from 21 districts of Maharashtra, including Thane, Palghar, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Navale said they are all determined to fight to the finish. “We will not budge till these discriminatory and anti-farmer laws are repealed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-000-farmers-from-maharashtra-reach-delhi/story-EC4OoLQBoIMYI1vIbUfKQL.html
25-12-2020||City||284 new Covid cases in J&K, one fatality||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 284 fresh coronavirus infections and one death, pushing the total case count in the UT to 1,19,628 and fatalities to 1,861. After many months, Jammu witnessed zero deaths.Officials said 140 people tested positive and one succumbed to the virus in Kashmir and while 144 cases were reported in Jammu division.They said that 1,14,354 people have recovered in the UT so far after 409 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 95.50 percent. There are 3,414 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 36.67 lakh.A total of 1,175 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 686 in Jammu.In terms of fatalities, December has already recorded 166 deaths while cases so far this month have reached 9,120 at 380 average cases per day.There were 15,434 infections in November as compared to 19,619 cases in October. The month of September had recorded a steep rise in cases to reach 37,372 from 17,339 infections in August.Srinagar tops the case tally with 24,996 cases and 444 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 23,339 cases and 350 deaths.Till date, 8.61 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 17,687 in home quarantine, 3,414 in isolation, and 27,858 under home surveillance. Besides, 8.11 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/284-new-covid-cases-in-j-k-one-fatality/story-6sSDwfvE7bSRVEAP4jdsUM.html
25-12-2020||City||Independents join Apni Party, Omar says one of 2 won DDC polls on NC mandate||Hours after Apni Party declared two recently elected independent district development council (DDC) members from Shopian entering its fold on Friday, National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah alleged that one of the candidates had won on the NC ticket and symbol.“Two DDC victorious candidates from Shopian district join Apni Party. Altaf Bukhari welcomes them into Party-fold,” announced Apni Party while posting the pictures of the independent candidates along with party president Altaf Bukhari.So far, three independent candidates — two from Shopian and one from Srinagar districts — have joined Apni Party. With this, the party now has four members in the 14-member council, the highest any party has in Srinagar district.However, the NC leadership has blamed the administration for forcing independent candidates to join Apni Party.Taking a dig at newly elected members of Apni Party, Omar tweeted that one of them got elected on NC mandate. “This explains why our leaders in Shopian district are being put under “preventive arrest” by the police. J&K police and the administration are facilitating horse trading and defections. The woman shown here joining the BJP’s B-team contested and won elections on a NC mandate,” Omar wrote.Omar went on to tweet that the administration was playing partisan to help the ‘ruling party’.“Shame on this administration for playing partisan politics to curry favour with the ruling party and their stooges. These parties couldn’t win seats so now they are using money/muscle/threats and government coercion to make up the numbers. So much for “democracy has won!” Omar said.The NC has also alleged that two prominent leaders have been arrested in south Kashmir and Bandipora district as the administration is trying to influence independent candidates. Three PDP leaders were arrested by the police a day before the results of DDC polls were announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/independents-join-apni-party-omar-says-one-of-2-won-on-nc-mandate/story-A9RrU8gNjGJzfWF2iOJ5aI.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Over 120K people ‘lose’ jobs during Covid-19 pandemic in Gautam Budh Nagar||NOIDA: As many as 2,500 companies in Gautam Budh Nagar have been declared defaulters for not depositing provident funds of their employees after the Covid-19 outbreak in March this year, indicating that over 120,000 people in the district have lost their jobs between March and October, officials of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) said. According to the data provided by regional office of EPFO in Noida, the number of provident fund accounts, in which contributions were deposited, was nearly 771,000 in February this year. Regional provident fund commissioner (zone 2), Sushant Kandwal, said that the number of PF accounts, in which contributions were deposited, has gone down to a little over 650,000 in October. “Contributions have not been made to as many as 1,20,673 PF accounts as compared to February. Even the difference between the amount deposited in February and October in PF accounts of Noida region is over Rs 23.22 crore,” he said. Entrepreneurs also agreed that decline in PF contribution indicates that people have lost their jobs during the pandemic. Lalit Thukral, chairman of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said that most of the industrial units in GB Nagar district are still running with limited capacity and the maximum strength of a unit is not more than 50% in any unit. “We’ve not fired any of our employees, not even at the time of complete lockdown. Most of our workers, who preferred to go home leaving their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic, have not resumed their duties yet. It is very natural that PF deposits are directly proportional to number of employees,” he said. Echoing similar views, Neeraj Prakash, who runs an apparel export company in Noida, said that the number of employees has started increasing in all industrial units. “I hope that once the units start running with full strength, there will be a huge surge in employment and PF contributions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-120k-people-lose-jobs-during-covid-19-pandemic-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-qMkm2lvuiJZmbuotSmt64J.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Segregated waste collection in Chandigarh remains plagued with issues||The municipal corporation’s door-to-door segregated garbage collection process continued to be plagued with problems on the third day after its start on December 23.Even as the MC officials assured that the people manning the garbage collection vehicles would pick up trash from the doorsteps, the residents complained that in most sectors this didn’t happen.Dr OP Verma, president, resident welfare association of Sector 20, said, “The vehicles kept plying in the sector, but very few people came out to dump their garbage. The announcements were being made from the vehicles, but people manning the vehicles didn’t come to the doorsteps to collect garbage.”In some areas, residents complained that MC vehicles didn’t even turn up. Colonel Gursewak Singh (retd), adviser of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said, “At Modern Housing Complex, Sector 13, no MC vehicles came to collect garbage.”Some garbage collectors have started working with the MC manning the vehicles. Meanwhile, another section continued to collect the garbage from people’s houses.Shemsher Lohitya, president, Akhil Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangathan, said, “Our members collected garbage from many areas like sectors 8, 9, 10, 16, 27 and 28. People preferred us over the MC vehicles.” He added that the vehicles mostly returned empty as people didn’t use them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/segregated-waste-collection-in-chandigarh-remains-plagued-with-issues/story-qokTc9ybsWSpxTq5LquCHK.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Gzb health team struggles with 35 from UK: 30 wrong addresses, 5 refuse test||Thirty travellers from the United Kingdom (UK) had given wrong addresses, while five others refused to give their samples for Covid-19 testing, said Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO).A new variant of the virus, VUI-202012/01, was detected in the UK earlier this month that was found to be highly transmissible. The state government in its standard operating procedure (SOP) had directed directed that those who have arrived from that country between November 23 and December 8 had to be in 28-day isolation and tested using the RT-PCR method if they showed symptoms. Those who came later would need to be tested mandatorily.Health department officials said that they had a list of 231 confirmed travellers who mentioned Ghaziabad as their destination address, but 76 of them were not found as they had either left for their home districts or even returned to the UK. “Of the 231, people our teams traced 221 out of which samples of 110 have been collected so far while samples of 111 are pending. Of the 110 samples tested, we have received 26 test reports and all were negative. Of the 111, 76 travellers will be cross-notified to their home districts. With the pending 35 we have major issue as five of these were found at home and have outrightly denied giving any samples. The addresses of other 30 could not be traced as they are wrong,” said Dr NK Gupta, CMO. The department had initially received a list of 334 travellers who had a Ghaziabad address. “Of the 334, there was double entry of 103 names. So, after removing them, we got the list of 231. Now, we are left with no option but to give the names of 35 persons to the police who will intervene and will also track people whose addresses could not be found,” Dr Gupta, added. The UP government has already laid down set of SOPs and have laid special emphasis on tracking of those travellers who have returned from UK on December 9 or thereafter. As per the SOP, such people will mandatorily get tests done through the RT-PCR method and will stay in home quarantine. Once their tests turn positive, they will be isolated in facility and a part of their sample will also be sent for genome sequencing to figure out if they are infected with prevalent variant of Sars-Cov-2 or the latest variant, VUI-202012/01. The health department has already come up with separate isolation wards at Sanjay Nagar and Santosh Medical hospitals while the private hospitals have also been asked to come up with a separate facility isolation ward for travellers whose RT-PCR test indicates positive result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gzb-health-team-struggles-with-35-from-uk-30-wrong-addresses-5-refuse-test/story-FwFudxeSRuoKxlU6esWlzJ.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Short supply of rapid kits hits overall testing in December, affects focussed testing as well||The Covid-19 focussed testing activity in the district has taken a hit as health department officials said that they are facing “short supply” of rapid antigen kits. The focussed testing is getting done in areas having high caseload on directions of the state government. The official records also indicate that the overall daily average testing by rapid kits is the lowest in December.In the first 20 days of the focussed testing drive taken up in December in high caseload areas of Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and Raj Nagar, among others, a total of 20,400 tests were conducted with the help of rapid antigen kits and yielded 226 positive cases. However, during the initial three days of the drive, the health department conducted on average about 1,420 tests per day and later the rapid antigen tests fell down to an average of 1,038 tests per day. In the last two days of the period, the department could conduct only 282 average tests per day. “The short supply of rapid antigen kits has affected the focussed testing as well as the overall testing. Whenever we send vehicles for procurement, we get only 5,000-6,000 kits which get exhausted in 3-4 days. There is a short supply of and we are trying to increase our RT-PCR testing instead,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named. Apart from impacting the focussed testing, the shortage of rapid antigen kits has also affected the overall testing in December.The use of rapid antigen kits was started on June 26 and the department conducted 1,493 rapid tests in that month. According to the district health department data, a total of 59,765 rapid antigen tests (with daily average of 1,928) were conducted in July, 51637 (daily average 1,666) in August, 72904 (2,430) in September, 69553 (2244) in October and 66900 (2230) in November. The figure has dropped down considerably to just 34,679 tests in first 24 days of December, with the daily average of 1,445, which is the lowest. On the other hand, the focussed testing through RT-PCR method is almost consistent with an average of about 520 tests per day. During the first 20 days of December, a total of 10,403 RT-PCR tests were conducted which resulted in 244 positive cases. “In December, there has been considerable decline in number of new cases. Since rapid kits are in short supply, we are now focussing that majority of testing gets conducted through RT-PCR method which has more sensitivity. So, we will now make use of rapid kits in cases where immediate results are required, like in cases of deliveries or patients having symptoms,” said Ajay Shankar Padney, district magistrate. The experts said that more rapid kits should be procured and the testing should not be allowed to drop down for another couple of months. “More testing, especially the focussed testing, should continue with the help of rapid antigen kits and the number of tests should not be allowed to drop down. Rapid kits give fast results, while in Ghaziabad it generally takes 2-3 days to get RT-PCR test reports,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “If the test results of RT-PCR can be turned around to a day or less, then increasing the RT-PCR tests will be more feasible. Otherwise, rapid antigen tests should also be taken up and more stocks should be procured,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/short-supply-of-rapid-kits-hits-overall-testing-in-december-affects-focussed-testing-as-well/story-xU8wQynvPJQw7D1aZrp0gL.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Worker hangs self in factory’s washroom||A 45-year-old worker allegedly hanged himself from the grille in the washroom of a factory where he worked in Noida Sector 63 on Thursday afternoon. Ankur Aggarwal, addl DCP, Noida Central, said that the victim was a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad. The victim’s wife also reached the spot soon and alleged foul play in the case.Jitendra Deekhit, SHO Phase III police station, said that the body was sent for an autopsy. “There was no evidence of murder,” he said. No complaint had been filed in this case. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-worker-hangs-self-in-factory-s-washroom/story-cMFfLIzsTizzbkteWDTrWJ.html
25-12-2020||Noida||NIAL, Greater Noida authority set for board meetings on Dec 30||The Greater Noida authority will have a board meeting on December 30 where it is expected to approve important proposals related to the development of infrastructure and civic facilities in the city. On the same day, Noida International Airport Limited (Nial) too will have its annual general board meeting (AGM) that will be chaired by the Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary RK Tiwari. “Our annual general board meeting arrangements are being done as it will happen on December 30. We will share details on decisions on the day of the meeting is over,” said Arun Vir Singh CEO of NIAL.Alok Tandon chairman of the Greater Noida authority will chair Greater Noida board meeting and also the Noida Power Corporation limited board meeting, of which he is the chairperson, at sector Knowledge Park-IV. The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan has directed all departments to prepare the agenda to be discussed at the board meeting. This would include the expansion of Greater Noida, land acquisition, development of parks and others, said officials.“All departments of the authority are doing their preparations for the board meeting,” said Deep Chandar additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The CEO has directed the land, horticulture; civil, engineering, property and circle officials to prepare agendas that will be discussed before the board before the proposals gets approved. As per the rules the authority discusses all crucial agendas with the board and if the board approves the agendas then it goes ahead to implement these agendas on the ground. The authority board takes all important decisions related with policy and even routine matters, which are complicated, said officials. Once the board approves these agendas the authority sends the same to the UP government for approvals. Once the UP government approves these proposals subsequently the authority implements these agendas at the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nial-greater-noida-authority-set-for-board-meetings-on-dec-30/story-mshIUthGBeEU09Q0Cv25uO.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida launches plot scheme for schools, religious buildings||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority on Friday launched a plot scheme for schools, religious buildings and other institutional purposes, said officials. The plots are available from 1,000 square metres to 40,470 square metres in different areas that include sectors 2, 3, 36, 37, Omicron 1 and 2 , and Knowledge Park 3 and 5, among others.There are 29 institutional plots available under this scheme. The authority has decided to allot these plots via online interview after the applicants submit their proposals of buying the plots, the officials said.The interested applicants can apply online for the plots from December 25 to January 20, 2021, to take part in the scheme. The rates will be in the range of Rs 12,000 to Rs 66,000 per square metre, depending on the area, the officials said. “After receiving applications, the authority’s institutional department will call the eligible applicants for an interview so that names of successful allottees can be finalised. The authority will select the successful applicants only after detailed scrutiny of their applications,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.All details pertaining to this scheme are available at official portal www.greaternoidaauthority.in. The applicant will have to deposit 10% of total plot cost with the application.Apart from this, the authority has also launched a scheme of industrial plots. These plots are available in size from 2,000 square metres to 20 acres in sector Ecotech 10. There are 21 industrial plots available under this scheme.The industrial plot scheme is an open-ended one. It means there is no closing date until the authority manages to allot all plots successfully. The brochure for this scheme will be available from 11th of every month and the applications will be submitted by end of every month. Once the applications are submitted, the authority will scrutinize the documents and then allot the plots via online interview to eligible candidates, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-launches-plot-scheme-for-schools-religious-buildings/story-UBwSDygzvvVHK1jbBgiIJI.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Transport department launches drive for reflective tapes on vehicles||Noida: To cut down on accidents at night, the Gautam Budh Nagar transport department has launched a drive to ensure all heavy and commercial vehicles must have reflective tapes. These tapes play an important role in road safety during the foggy weather conditions, the officials said, adding that there is a fine of ₹10,000 for vehicles violating the rule. Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (enforcement), said that during the winter, fog reduces visibility and often leads to accidents. “We have launched an enforcement and awareness drive to paste reflective tapes on the vehicles. We are also advising people to drive carefully during the inclement weather,” he said. The move comes in the wake of some accidents on the Yamuna Expressway in the past few weeks. Tiwari said that the reflective tapes are designed to enhance visibility in low light and night conditions. “When the back lights of vehicles do not function properly, the reflectors play an important role in alerting commuters driving in the same direction,” he said. The transport official said that the department will soon organise a camp near Phool Mandi in Phase 2 as a number of heavy commercial vehicles visit the place. Gautam Budh Nagar has around 7.34 lakh vehicles registered. The district transport department has 4,50,159 two-wheelers, 2,11,853 four-wheelers (private), 2,210 two-wheelers (commercial), 14,392 cabs, 17,720 goods carrier, 18,393 autos, 5,045 e-rickshaws, 3,206 buses, 1,332 school buses, 490 ambulances, 7,291 tractors and 2,730 other vehicles registered with it. All the commercial vehicles need reflective tapes. Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that the traffic police have also planned the enforcement drive for reflective tapes. “We will coordinate with the transport department and conduct the programme jointly,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar had recorded 162 deaths and 205 injuries in 317 accidents from March 1 to September 15 this year. During the same period in 2019, 278 people died while 486 people were injured in 653 accidents in the district. “The fall in accidents and fatalities this year is due to coronavirus outbreak as many have restricted themselves indoors,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-transport-department-launches-drive-for-reflective-tapes-on-vehicles/story-25xzQhsnumPMZFmXL53wqL.html
25-12-2020||Noida||On Christmas day, Noida and Ghaziabad breathe worst quality of air in country despite improvement||After suffering “severe” level of air quality for the last three days, Noida’s air quality improved slightly to read “very poor” on Christmas due to faster winds on Friday. However, despite the improvement, Ghaziabad and Noida continued to be the top-two cities in the country with the worst. Greater Noida was the fourth most polluted and neighbouring Bulandshahr was third of the 127 cities mapped on Friday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale from 0 to 500, on Friday was 386, as against 441 and 462 on Thursday and Wednesday, respectively. Greater Noida’s AQI was 376 as against 448 on Thursday (when it was the most polluted city in the country) and 476 on Wednesday. The Ghaziabad AQI was 391, as against 440 a day earlier and 472 on Wednesday. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The India Meteorological Department forecasts better ventilation and wind speed on Saturday and Sunday leading to further improvement. “The wind speed on Thursday reached up to 18 kmph during the afternoon, while for the entire day it was around 15 kmph on an average. Which is better than 4-5 kmph a day earlier. The wind speed may pickup on Saturday as well leading to further improvement but will soon start falling towards the year end,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The fine particles or pollutants PM2.5 levels improved on Friday yet they were 4.5 times higher the safe limit against 7 times a day earlier. On Friday, PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida was recorded at 224.63 microgrammes per cubic metres against 350.18 units on Thursday. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 247.31 units against 355.48 microgrammes per cubic metres a day earlier. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad on was 284.83 units against 364.56 microgrammes per cubic metres a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 units. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to improve over next three days. “The overall air quality has improved to the Very Poor category as forecasted. AQI is forecasted to improve to the middle-end of the Very Poor category on 26th and 27th Dec, and likely to further improve on 28th December,” said the SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/on-christmas-day-noida-and-ghaziabad-breathe-worst-quality-of-air-in-country-despite-improvement/story-6ceTJ8OjtX2U4taGKeOTyI.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Cold wave likely for two days, says IMD||Noida: Noida is likely to experience cold waves for next two days on Saturday and Sunday as the mercury is likely to dip.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the early morning and night temperatures will fall below the season’s average, however, the day time temperatures will hover around 21 to 22 degrees Celsius therefore there will be no cold-day. “The mercury may drop due to speedy icy cold north-westerly winds. However, due to another western disturbance, the wind speed may change for two days on Sunday onwards, leading to slight rise in mercury for Monday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added however that cold waves will return from December 29 onwards. “There is possibility of moderate fog for next two days,” he added. On Friday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 7.2 degrees Celsius against 7.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature on Friday was 21.6 degrees Celsius, against 21.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. Meanwhile, the average minimum for NCR was 4.6 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was recorded at 22.4 degrees Celsius, as recorded from Safadarjung observatory. According to IMD, the minimum and maximum temperature on Saturday are likely to hover around 4 degrees and 21 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cold-wave-likely-for-two-days-says-imd/story-A7a4CZIoMRsJUz3HInd7sI.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Dengue cases in Chandigarh remain below 300 for second consecutive year||The number of dengue infections in the city dropped by 8% this year and the absolute number remained below 300 for a second consecutive year, official data shows.The cases of dengue reported in the city had seen a spurt in November; 46% of the total 262 cases of the mosquito-borne viral disease came in the same month. The number, however, decreased to 30 in December.Compared to the 286 cases last year, the figure stands at 262 till December 25.The pattern of the last six years shows that dengue cases are unevenly reported through the year, and the cases begin to rise after September and reach a peak in November and thereafter see a downfall in December.This year, as many as 19 cases were reported in September followed by 89 cases in October, which went up to 121 in November. Last year, too, a similar trend was reported with 30 cases being reported in September followed by 82 and 124 in the months of October and November, respectively.However, compared to 17 cases in December last year, the number of cases are touching 30 so far this month.“The cases would have decreased further if the employees involved in the fogging process had visited the homes and checked for possible sources like coolers, tyres, refrigerator plates etc. Even though there was stiff resistance, fogging was carried out in all possible manner especially in the vulnerable areas,” a senior official of the UT health department, wishing anonymity, said.Most of the dengue cases were reported from Manimajra and Bapu Dham Colony, officials said.“The life-cycle of the mosquito starts in the later parts of August and September and reaches the adult stage in November when they bite the most. Additional reason for the spike in November is that conditions are most conducive inside the houses due to relatively high temperature,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director of the UT health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dengue-cases-in-chandigarh-remain-below-300-for-second-consecutive-year/story-22YpFSopvZl1uen2oGyzLN.html
25-12-2020||Noida||After PM’s address, more farmers join protest at UP Gate to continue agitation against farm laws||On the day the Prime Minister released the next instalment of financial benefits under the ‘PM Kisan Samman Nidhi’ through video conferencing, farmer protesters at UP Gate reiterated their demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab are part of the ongoing agitation at UP-Gate since November 28. Coinciding with PM Modi’s programme, Union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Piyush Goyal was in western UP’s Hapur district and said that some of the opposition parties were trying to mislead the farmers over new laws. “When every trader, industrialist or a businessman is free to sell their product across the country or outside at any time or at any price, why should farmers remain in restrictions about where to sell and when to sell. So, these laws have tried to free farmers from old practices and want to give them freedom so that they get proper price. I remember that the day the ordinance was passed, newspapers in UP reported that Baba Tikait had demanded similar changes 27 years ago and these have been fulfilled by PM Modi,” Goyal told gathering in Hapur. ‘Baba Tikait’ refers to Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) founder leader Mahendra Singh Tikait. The BKU has major influence on farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and its leaders ate also spearheading the ongoing protest at UP-Gate. Many Union Ministers, MPs were sent to different areas to join events coinciding with PM’s programme. “Some opposition parties are trying to mislead farmers and some wrong powers are putting farmers in dark and trying to spread misinformation. These laws will give more opportunities to farmers and old practice will not be touched. Entire country, especially the farmers in UP, have accepted the laws while people are trying to mislead farmers in an area. I hope people will understand,” Goyal said. Gaurav Tikait, a young farmer leader who is also son of BKU national president, Naresh Tikait, countered Goyal’s statements about ‘Baba Tiakit.’ “Chaudhay Sahab (Mahendra Singh Tikait) said that everyone should be able to sell his crop anywhere. Why not the government brings out one rate and one law on MSP? It should be one nation, one crop and one rate. For instance, if a farmer from Muzaffarnagar can get a good price, why will be go to other cities. Also, there is no point in saying that the agitation is run by opposition parties, this way they will lose their voters just because they want to favour corporates. We voted for them and outcome of this movement will impact next elections,” he said at UP-Gate. BKU’s state president, Rajbir Singh Jadaun, said that the government nowadays sees everything in political perspective. “They did not call us political when they wanted votes. The DBT amount transferred to farmers is not ‘Ehsaan’ (favour). The amount should increase and should be respectable. The situations 30 years ago were different. There are groups who have surfaced recently and supporting the new laws. It should be checked who are these people and whether they are farmers or not,” Jadaun, added. Hundreds of BKU volunteers joined the protests at UP-Gate on Friday and their leaders said that hundreds of more tractor-trolleys were on way to join the protest from Uttarakhand. Despite call for talks, the farmers have maintained that they want repeal of three new laws. At least six talks between the farmers’ leaders and government representatives have so far failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-pm-s-address-more-farmers-join-protest-at-up-gate-to-continue-agitation-against-farm-laws/story-mgbc4kwdzMHdACo9Z60OYL.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh celebrates low-key Christmas||Residents of the city on Friday celebrated a low-key Christmas amid the pandemic this year as various churches of the city adopted a slew of measures to ensure that people could come pray while maintaining Covid-19 protocol.The Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19 was decked with lights while people could be seen entering the church in a long queue. Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, said, “We conducted a morning service at 8.30am. The same service was also carried out in Hindi at 10am along with a mass.” He added that he had asked many people to pray from home and to celebrate the festival as simply as possible.At the CNI Church in Sector 18, general secretary Parkash Masih said, the morning service was held online this year, and in the afternoon people came to church just to pray for a few minutes: “Instead of lunch, we prepared sealed portable handouts for people to take home.” The service was performed by Reverend Denzal Peoples.Midnight mass was also organised in a staggered manner to ensure crowding doesn’t take place. Instead of one midnight mass at the Sector 19 church, three services were held at 5.30pm, 7pm and 9pm on Christmas Eve.The Tricity Churches Association also organised services throughout the tricity. President Lawrence Malik said all churches said a special prayer for all Covid warriors who had worked throughout the year.At Jeevan Parivartan Kendra Church in Maloya, pastor Bashir Gill conducted the service and special programmes were organised by children and women there.Service on New YearAfter Christmas, the churches will also be organising special services for New Year’s Eve, but the timing of the services is likely to be changed. As per Bishop Ignatius, there won’t be a midnight service on New Year’s Eve, instead services will be held in a staggered manner on December 31. On January 1, too, two services will be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-celebrates-low-key-christmas/story-YPUJDgO9yFwyO2PnyBDVcL.html
25-12-2020||City||Chairman, director of Dwarka private school summoned as accused in connection with minor’s sexual assault||New Delhi: A Delhi court has summoned the chaiman and director of a private school Dwarka, as accused in connection with the sexual assault of a four-and-a-half-year old girl in 2017 by her classmate of the same age.The court emphasised that it was their responsibility to ensure that all classrooms had CCTV cameras in accordance with the guidelines of the Delhi government’s directorate of education. The incident, according to the chargesheet, had taken place inside a classroom but there was no evidence, in the absence of CCTV cameras.The court said “there has been a prima facie neglect by the chairman towards his duty in installation of the CCTV cameras” as it rejected the investigating officer’s decision to not make the duo as accused for want of sufficient evidence.Additional sessions judge Purva Sareen directed the chairman and the director to appear before the court on February 24 next year after the mother of the child victim had filed a protest petition against the supplementary charge sheet filed, where both were not named as accused for lack of sufficient evidence.The judge, in their December 24 order, said “it goes without saying that if a parent sends a child to the school, the school authorities have to ensure the safety and security of the child”.“In my considered opinion, it was also a responsibility of the chairman and the director to ensure that all the guidelines of the directorate of education which had been made compulsory for the safety and security of the children had to be followed and as the classroom had no CCTV cameras and the same was against the guidelines,” the court said.On September 15, 2017, the DoE had made it mandatory to install a sufficient number of CCTV cameras in school premises so as to mandatorily cover all classrooms, labs, corridor, parking, library, vacant rooms, areas outside washrooms and all isolated areas. The order was passed to ensure 360 degree coverage of the entire school premises.The city government had also directed that the CCTV camera should be functional around-the-clock, along with a recording facility of minimum 15 days or above.The court noted that as per the final report of the police, the CCTV footage of only the ground, main gate and corridor were given to the investigating officer by the school.“Other this footage, no other footage was provided by the school and as per the final report filed by the IO, no CCTV had been installed in the school which was against the DOE recommendation,” the court said.According to the FIR filed by the victim’s mother, the girl had complained to the school teacher through a text message of the sexual assault on her daughter by her classmate on November 17, 2017 inside the classroom.She had alleged that she had informed the school authorities who allegedly did not cooperate with her and instead asked her to give a written complaint. Since her daughter’s pain did not subside, she rushed her to a hospital where she was treated as well as a medico-legal case made. A police case was then registered.The mother alleged that there was no class teacher or even an helper, or help, in either the classroom or washroom at the time of the assault. She said her daughter’s delayed exit from the classroom, as she saw in CCTV footage, corroborated the sexual assault allegation.No charge had been invoked against the boy since the juvenile justice law gives complete immunity from prosecution to children below seven years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chairman-director-of-dwarka-private-school-summoned-as-accused-in-connection-with-minor-s-sexual-assault/story-OtvU8WQfMn8RqGNPeRm3zL.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Charitable institutions to be exempted from property tax: Chandigarh MC||The municipal corporation (MC) is in the process of bringing in a policy to exempt charitable organisations and institutions from paying property tax.Under the policy, the buildings and lands of non-profit organisations that undertake charity work will be exempted, provided their property is not being used for any commercial activity. The MC charges property tax at the rate of ₹10 per square foot from institutional buildings.“Institutions that are involved solely for public causes and for the benefit of the society, with no motive of profit generation, should not be burdened with tax liabilities,” said an MC official, privy to the development.The MC gives property tax exemptions to the economically weaker sections, defence personnel and veterans, widows, differently-abled people entitled for benefits under the I-T Act and religious institutions (except areas being used for commercial activity).MC panel recommendationsThe matter was placed before the MC House’s tax assessment committee for the first time on September 12, 2019, and was approved.The recommendations of the committee were placed before the MC General House in its meeting held on November 26, 2019. But the House considered and deferred the agenda.Again the matter was placed in the tax assessment committee on December 18, and the committee unanimously decided to exempt charitable institutions.Certain conditions for the institutions to avail the exemption were, however, laid down.Must be registered under Charitable Endowment ActThe committee stated that such an institution should be registered under the Charitable Endowment Act. The institutional building must have the benefit of deduction under sections 12AB and 80G of the Income Tax Act.No commercial activityThe exemption will be given only if there is no commercial activity being carried out from the premises of an institution seeking such an exemption. The institution would also have to give an undertaking to the MC that no commercial activity was being carried out. If at any stage any commercial activity is noticed, the institution will be liable to pay full tax from the date of exemption.The agenda for giving exemption to charitable institutions will now be placed before the MC General House for its approval on December 31.In 2019-20, the MC had collected ₹52 crore in tax, covering over 80% assessees across all categories. This year, the MC has already crossed its target of ₹49 crore in property tax collections, and has revised it to ₹54 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/charitable-institutions-to-be-exempted-from-property-tax-chandigarh-mc/story-Ocr8BkpPJZaFStEydcMxXI.html
25-12-2020||Dehradun||FIR against IIT Roorkee director, 4 others for ‘financial fraud’ worth crores||The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate court of Roorkee in Haridwar district has ordered the police to file a case against the director of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee and four other staffers for alleged “financial fraud” in scholarships, central grants and construction money. The order was passed by the court on Wednesday while hearing a petition filed by a former IIT staffer Manipal Sharma who alleged that IIT director Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi, Manish Shrikhande, dean of IIT’s Sponsored Research & Industrial Consultancy (SRIC), Jitendra Dimri, assistant registrar (SRIC), Dhiraj Upadhyay, junior assistant (SRIC) and Rajesh Kumar clerk (SRIC), committed financial fraud worth crores for over more than a decade by siphoning off the money of grants and other aids to their bank accounts. Sonika Srivastava, in-charge media cell, IIT Roorkee, in a media statement on behalf of the institute said, “The matter is already being investigated by the police and the institute had already lodged a complaint against one of the accused Upadhyay in June this year for siphoning off Rs 1.05 crore to his bank account.” Also read: ‘FASTag fee collection reaches Rs 80 crore per day’ - NHAI“The police have also questioned the accused assistant registrar in its probe. The institute would continue to extend its full support to the police in the investigation,” she said. Manipal Sharma alleged that, before getting retired on July 31 this year after 37 years of service at the IIT, he raised the issue before the administrators for taking action on it but they didn’t pay any heed to it, instead behaved improperly against him. It was then he filed the petition before the court to seek action. HT has a copy of the three-page order. The Roorkee Kotwali police station, which has been directed by the court to register a case, is, however, yet to register a case. Rajesh Shah, station house officer, Roorkee Kotwali said, “The order was received from the court on Thursday. However, we are yet to register a case as we are examining the order. The directions would be followed soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/fir-against-iit-roorkee-director-4-others-for-financial-fraud-worth-crores/story-g4uRPeWS5vLzD12Nei7SYM.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers block second carriageway of NH 48 after police stop them from entering Haryana||Farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Jaisinghpur Khera to protest against the new farm laws on Friday blocked the second carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur national highway after Rewari police prevented them from crossing the border. One carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur national highway has been occupied by protesting farmers since December 13. Protesting farmers had earlier announced that they would start proceeding towards Delhi on Friday, signalling their intent to further escalate the ongoing agitation. However, amid heavy police presence and barricading, farmers could not enter Haryana as planned. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September this year. They fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of corporations and put an end to the minimum support price MSP on important crops. In order to join the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, and Gujarat had started proceeding towards the national capital earlier this month, but were stopped by the Rewari police at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Since then, they have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for the past 13 days. On Friday, over a thousand farmers from Maharashtra also reached Jaisinghpur Khera and joined the agitation. “Hundreds of farmers from Maharashtra also reached here in the morning while we were preparing to march towards Delhi. When all the farmers started walking towards Delhi, the Haryana Police installed barricades on the other carriageway of NH-8 to prevent us from moving forward. In response, farmers are now peacefully camping on the other carriageway as well. We will sit here till the Haryana government allows us to move forward,” said Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan. Farmers said that they were going to Delhi in protest against the new laws in a peaceful manner, but the Haryana government was blocking their way. “Our aim has always been to reach Delhi. The Haryana government has been blocking our path. We will protest peacefully till we are allowed to move to Delhi,” said Madhav. With both the carriageways of the national highway being blocked, the Gurugram police is diverting traffic headed towards Jaipur from Delhi at Bilaspur and Kapdiwas Chowk. The blocking of road also led to heavy congestion and the city police had to divert traffic to adjoining link roads from the national highway. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), said that the traffic movement was slowed down on expressway on Friday as both the carriageways near the Rewari border connecting to Rajasthan were blocked. “Protestors who wanted to head towards Delhi had gathered near the expressway,” said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-block-second-carriageway-of-nh-48-after-police-stop-them-from-entering-haryana/story-s1IqwP8AUb4yvjw5FxvqII.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||21 pvt hospitals added as Covid-19 vaccination sites||At least 21 big private hospitals of the city will be designated as session sites for Covid-19 vaccination, according to district health department officials. These sites will be in addition to 58 sites already identified by the department for inoculation of the vaccine. Officials said that the number of session sites will increase further as spacious locations at block level are being identified.“More than 32,000 health care workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase. In all likelihood, they will be vaccinated at these hospitals,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “The other 58 sites are mostly schools, community centres and community health centres. More such sites are being traced where crowd can be easily managed, while maintaining social distancing,” said Singh, adding that vaccination is likely to place three days in a week without affecting the routine immunisation programmes already running.According to him, private hospitals have also been designated as Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) centres.An Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) is an untoward medical occurrence following immunisation, which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine, as defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO). There are three categories of adverse events. Minor AEFI includes common reactions like pain and swelling at the injection site, fever and irritability. Second is severe AEFI which can be disabling and rarely life threatening but do not lead to long term problems, while the serious AEFI can require hospitalisation and may cause death. Serious cases are extremely rare since vaccines are introduced only after meeting stringent safety guidelines during vaccine trials. As per Covid-19 vaccine guidelines, beneficiaries are to observed at the session site for 30 minutes post-vaccination to detect, manage and treat immediate adverse reactions, if any. For this an AEFI management centre has to be identified in each block, which will be linked with the session site. At the session site, the vaccine beneficiaries will be counselled about these events.“These private hospitals will serve as AEFI centres. Also, they will be linked with other session sites in their nearby areas to tackle cases of adverse events,” said Singh, who was part of the meeting with AEFI committee members on Friday. The district level AEFI committee was revamped on December 7, increasing its strength from 12 members to 16 members. Expert in neurology, cardiology and pulmonology have been included in the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/21-pvt-hospitals-added-as-covid-19-vaccination-sites/story-UWm2evXB0tTTcRkRfMLplN.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||Sarpanch booked for negligence after five-year-old drowns in Sector 64||The Gurugram police have booked a village sarpanch for negligence after a five-and-a-half year old girl drowned in Medawas village in Sector 64 on Thursday. The family of the girl alleged that the sarpanch did not get a boundary wall constructed following which the girl, who was playing outside the house, fell in the pond, said police. According to the police, they received a call from hospital that a girl had died due to drowning, following which a team from Sector 65 police station visited civil hospital. The body was sent for post mortem. Satish Kumar, father of the deceased, said that he drives an auto-rickshaw and has been living with his wife and four children in the village for the last many years. On Thursday when he returned from work around 12.30 pm, he found his younger daughter missing. “I asked my wife about the children and she said they are playing outside. Around 12.45pm all children returned home, but Madhu was nowhere to be seen. I went out in her search and found her struggling to stay afloat in the pond,” he said. Kumar said he raised the alarm and shouted for his brother. They jumped inside and fished the girl out. She was still breathing “We took her to a private hospital in Badshahpur, where doctor declared her brought dead,” he said. The pond has no boundary walls and the villagers have several times requested the sarpanch to get it constructed as its risked the lives of children playing in the area. But all their requests apparently fell on deaf ears, the father of the victim alleged. A case under section 304 A(causing death by negligence) was registered against Brahm Prakash Tyagi, village sarpanch at Sector 65 police station on Thursday, said police. Tyagi said that the families are living on unauthorised area adjacent to the pond and authorities have multiple times asked them to vacate the area. “Police have booked me for negligence but I played no role nor was I in the village when the incident took place. This is shocking that a sarpanch is held responsible for anyone’s death in the village. The parents should equally be held responsible and when they knew there is no boundary wall, why did they allow their child to play there,” Tyagi said. The body was handed over to the family members after the post mortem, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sarpanch-booked-for-negligence-after-five-year-old-drowns-in-sector-64/story-6IMNq5OmnEmxC9KXpldR6M.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||Health care officials collect samples of 191 returnees from the UK||The district administration had till Friday collected samples of at least 191 travellers from the United Kingdom (UK), of the 438 who arrived in Gurugram after December 9, for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect a new strain of Sars-Cov-2, which is said to spread faster.The Central government had on December 21 banned all flights to and from the United Kingdom in light of discovery of the new strain of the virus. The Centre had later issued guidelines that mandated tracing of monitoring of all travellers who arrived in the country from November 25 and compulsory RT-PCR testing of everyone who arrived after December 9.The district health department has also directed private labs to directly collect samples from homes when approached by any suspected case having a travel history to the UK.The state health department on Thursday night received a comprehensive list of 695 travellers who arrived in Gurugram from the UK in the last four weeks. Of these, at least 438 travellers arrived after December 9 and over 257 people arrived between November 25 and December 8. Of the 438, the health department has to collect samples of 359. The health teams are also in the process of identifying those who arrived before December 9.Officials, however, did not share much information about it. “After removing duplication from the list of 438, there are 407 travellers who are under monitoring,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. “Of these, 48 belong to other states or districts but had given a Gurugram address. Their names have been shared with the state government. Out of the remaining 359, seven are Nigerians who arrived as medical tourist and are currently undergoing treatment for an illness in a private hospital,” said Yadav.Following the recent Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare, the district health department will have to monitor cases through calls or visits, and collect samples if they develop symptoms like cough, cold, fever or breathlessness for 28 days from the date of arrival from the UK.Yadav also directed all private labs to collect samples from homes, if approached by anyone who has recently arrived from UK. “They are also told to share list of these cases to the health department every day. Besides, private labs will have to preserve one milliliter of all samples collected,” said Yadav. In case a person tests positive, additional sample can be sent for genome sequencing to CSIR – Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-care-officials-collect-samples-of-191-returnees-from-the-uk/story-aCzo9aZoiNTINOaMK7jSPK.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||How Gurugram celebrated Christmas this year||The residents of Gurugram celebrated Christmas with caution owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The residents welfare associations (RWAs) decorated the society entrances and club houses. Picnics were organised in the parks, while residents wore Santa costumes and distributed gifts to children. Many residents went to farm houses, where special lunch buffets were organised for children. Painting competitions were held and few societies also organised team games for residents. The celebrations adhered to necessary safety measures, said members of RWAs. Residents of all age groups were seen dressed in their best attire to celebrate the day at various societies, such as Vipul Greens on Sohna Road, DLF Phase 2, Fresco Apartments in Nirvana Country and Sector 57. In keeping with the joyous spirit of the season, Central Park residential society celebrated Christmas in the open space. Amid Covid-19, the celebrations adhered to utmost safety measures and precautions. Social distancing norms were observed where the families were seated in groups with tables arranged at a distance from each other. Meals were served at buffet stations to ensure contactless dining, said RWA members and residents. At Vipul Greens women chefs cooked and baked winter special dishes. “We did not organise any party at club house but decorated the area. Children played games and wore red and white costumes. Candies were distributed among the security guards, “ said Kavita Ambwani, member RWA. Nilesh Tandon, president RWA of Fresco Apartment in Nirvana, said that they had decorated the area and surprise gifts were exchanged by residents. “Many residents had planned surprise messages for their friends on social media and women had baked plum cakes for neighbours,” he said. DLF Phase 2 residents, on the other hand, observed Zero Waste Day. “A man dressed as Santa spoke to the residents about waste segregation and composting,” said Gaurav Wahi, former president, DLF Phase 2, RWA. The churches in city were decked up and shopping malls were awash in festive colours. On MG Road, Sohna Road and Golf Course Road residents thronged the Christmas bazaars. Galleria market in DLF City Phase-4, Sector 14 and Huda markets also organised Christmas-special programmes for shoppers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/how-gurugram-celebrated-christmas-this-year/story-gtXm800HgGTqPfO30xDm5L.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||City air continues to be ‘very poor’ for fourth day in a row||Air quality in the city remained “very poor” for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, recording 302 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was a marginal improvement from the previous day’s recording of 361 in the same category. The level of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s primary pollutant, was 427.8 µg/m³ on Friday, as per the data recorded by the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally owing to slow winds and poor ventilation but remain in the “very poor” category on Saturday. Air quality is expected to stay in the upper end of the “very poor” to “severe category” on Sunday. Subsequently, air quality is likely to remain in the “very poor” category over the next five days. Experts attributed the marginal improvement in air quality to stronger surface winds, which aided ventilation thereby resulting in improvement in air quality. On Friday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 6.5 degrees Celsius — a slight decrease from Thursday’s 6 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Friday was recorded at 21.1 degrees Celsius, a degree below 22.3 degrees Celsius the previous day. The maximum temperature is expected to stay around 23 degrees on Sunday while the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 6 degrees, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast. Dense fog is expected to prevail in the morning hours followed by clear skies during the day as per the forecast. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said that winds blowing at eight to ten kilometres per hour could have aided the improved movement of pollutants.As per the IMD’s official bulletin issued on Friday, isolated dense fog over Haryana is likely in the morning hours on Saturday. Further, an active Western Disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains of northwest India from December 27. Dense fog conditions over Punjab and Haryana are likely to improve further under the impact of the Western Disturbance, stated the bulletin. Kuldeep Shrivastava, heads of the IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said that the approaching Western Disturbance may cause light rain in Delhi-NCR on December 27 following which temperatures were likely to fall again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-continues-to-be-very-poor-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/story-ScYHnSTwpdVPwoHy7FUkZJ.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to convert Sector 23 market into a polythene-free zone||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is looking to turn the Sector 23 market into a polythene-free zone. This is the first public area in the city where the MCG is trying out such an initiative.As per MCG officials, the market has more than 120 shops and 60 street vendors, who cumulatively use around 40 kilograms of polythene every day.For this transformation, MCG has distributed more than 9,000 bags in the market, all sourced from its recently opened cloth bag bank. Further, officials have also been deputed at the market for enforcement measures.“The process for converting Sector 23 market into a polythene free area has started. In the first stage, all shopkeepers have been sensitised about the issue. They have been told that any polythene use will invite penalties. We have already distributed the first round of cloth bags to shopkeepers and street vendors for this purpose,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission, MCG.Located just near the Delhi border, the Sector 23 market has restaurants, eateries, jewellers, electronic, clothing, daily need shops, among others. People living in the sector, residents from Palam Vihar and Bijwasan in Delhi are also frequent visitors to the market.Kumar further said that the MCG will declare the market as polythene-free by next month and have already deputed staff in the market to keep constant vigilance. He said that after the market is declared polythene-free, MCG will carry out surprise checks at random to ensure the shopkeepers are not violating their orders.In addition, depending on the size of the bag, the shopkeepers will have to pay a nominal fee to the MCG’s cloth bag bank for procuring the same. As per MCG officials, the price of their cloth bag varies from ₹3 to ₹20, depending on the size.“Simultaneously, we are also looking to limit the use of plastic in the market. In the initial phase, only single-use plastic would be permitted, and gradually a complete ban will be enforced. We are adopting this shift in a steady manner so that shopkeepers have enough time to adapt to the changes,” said Kumar.MCG officials said that the Sector 23 market area will serve as a pilot project for turning any public area into a polythene-free zone. Based on their learning, this model will then be replicated to markets across the city, with localised modifications, said MCG officials.“Replacing cloth bags with polythene has been seamless. Both of them can be used for carrying items. If the MCG offers us a convenient alternative to plastic bags, we will incorporate the same. Otherwise, it will be a major hassle for us,” said Deepak Kumar, an eatery owner in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-convert-sector-23-market-into-a-polythene-free-zone/story-qiTWzAXgC59wkaPaNIa9jO.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||GMDA releases final mobility management plan for Gurugram||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority earlier this week published the final Comprehensive Mobility Management Plan (CMMP) for the city — a year behind deadline — after a draft version of the same received the chief minister’s approval during the GMDA’s authority meeting two weeks ago. The CMMP, which is based on traffic and transport surveys conducted by the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) in New Delhi, proposes long and short term interventions to improve mobility in Gurugram between the years 2021 and 2041.These interventions will be rolled out in four phases, with Phase 1 lasting until 2026, Phase 2 until 2031, and Phases 3 and 4 to be completed by 2041. The CMMP has 10 broad sections addressing the mobility concerns like regional connectivity enhancement, non-motorised transportation, public transport (or mass transit), intermediate public transport (such as autos and cabs), road network improvement, parking, freight management, road safety, travel demand management, and traffic signal management.Noting that nearly 66 percent of all traffic in Gurugram is Delhi-bound passenger traffic, the CMMP emphasizes the need to “develope strong regional linkages by mass transit system to enhance the regional connectivity for passenger movement” in and around Delhi-NCR. Solution for this have been presented in the form of the upcoming orbital rail corridor (from Kundli to Palwal), which has a proposed halt in Manesar, as well as the upcoming RRTS system from Delhi to Alwar, which will pass through Gurugram.The plan also mentions the need to enhance road connectivity in the region. “From the regional road network connectivity point of view, major traffic from Delhi and beyond is still dependent on NH-48 and MG road as there are no other connections developed. There is a need to develop the links between Delhi and Gurugram as the traffic share is also very high,” states the CMMP, which is available on the GMDA’s website.As such, new links like Dwarka expressway link between Delhi and the NPR road in Gurugram, a link road between Sectors 115/114 and Sectors 108/106, a link between NH48 to Old Delhi Gurugram road, between NPR to Sector 114, between Nelson Mandela road in Delhi and MG road in Gurugram has been proposed. Apart from this an outer ring road is to be developed along the GSPR, to enhance connectivity with Faridabad.Regarding the link between NH-48 (near Ambience Mall) and Mehrauli-Gurugram Road, it has been noted, “The resident advisory council of GMDA and some other citizen groups have expressed a concern about the environmental impact of this link as it may pass through or about the Biodiversity Park. It is recommended that at the detailed project report stage, the environmental impact assessment be taken up in detail and necessary mitigation measures be adopted for the proposed road link.”Yet another significant proposal is the creation of a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) for Gururgam. “There are too many organisation involved in transport operations in the city. Everyone from the GMDA to Haryana Roadways to Delhi Metro to the MCG is involved in some capacity. There is a need to make them seamless, which is why this step has been proposed,” explained an official in the GMDA’s mobility division.“It can be observed that owing to different organizations being responsible for taking up various transport systems related activities in Gurugram its co-ordination becomes exceedingly difficult thereby devoid the citizens the benefit of an integrated transport system development. Hence there is need of an umbrella organization like UMTA to take up this responsibility of urban transport sector development,” states the CMMP.VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, could not be contacted for a comment on Friday. However, the GMDA official quoted above said, “The UMTA will come under the GMDA’s purview, with the CEO acting as chairman. A separate Mobility Planning and Management Unit will also be constituted as the technical arm of the unifying authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-releases-final-mobility-management-plan-for-gurugram/story-Ou0UzR4vfBM9Iw45qiqJtO.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||Flying squad, excise department conduct raids on pubs, bars and liquor vends||The chief minister’s Flying Squad and officials of the excise and taxation department on Thursday and Friday nights raided more than 10 pubs and bars and 10 liquor shops in the city after receiving information on violations, said officials. The Flying Squad formed two teams, consisting of eight officers from excise and taxation department, along with their own squad members. The teams were led by an inspector and a sub-inspector during the raids. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department, said that on Thursday night, they received several tip-offs that pub, bars and restaurants across the city were operating beyond the permissible time limit. The liquor shops were also violating excise rules and regulations. “Many pubs, bars and restaurants have paid extra fees to the excise and taxation department to operate beyond midnight, but they were taking advantage and were operating till early morning. In some establishments parties were underway in full swing when we raided,” he said. There are nearly 350 pubs, bars and restaurants and 187 liquor shops across the city. As per rules, bars, pubs and liquor shops are only allowed to open until midnight. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s Flying Squad, said that they had conducted a reconnaissance of the areas, such as Sector 29, MG Road, Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road, before carrying out the raid. “We started raiding after 1am and found that many of the pubs and bars were still operational. The establishments were still taking entries despite the fact that their licence time was valid until 1am. They were serving liquor to the guests and had promised to entertain them until early morning,” he said. Budhiraja said they had also received several complaints against open drinking in the city. He added that they have formed special teams that will conduct raids to crackdown on people drinking in public spaces. He said that anyone who is found consuming alcohol in public will be arrested on the spot. Another major concern is the open flouting Covid-19 regulations by people present at the bars and pubs. Officials said that the areas where people flout Covid-19 norms have been identified and they plan to start raids from Friday night. Budhiraja said these checks will be in addition to the regular checks that are carried out at the markets and other public places on a daily basis. “The liquor shops were closed but the salesmen were selling from below the shutter and were operational throughout the night,” he said. The teams visited popular spots like Sector 29, Cyber Hub, Horizon 1 and Sohna Road, which are hubs of restaurants and bars and are frequented by thousands on a daily basis. Four pub and bars, along with four liquor vends were challaned, said officials. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC), said that their assistant excise and taxation officer (AETO) and inspectors were present with the squad. “We have sent the challans to the headquarters in Panchkula. Our teams have challaned the establishments for violating the excise policy. Appropriate action will be taken against them,” she said. Singh said the annual license fees for a pub and bar is ₹18 lakh and for every additional hour ₹10 lakh extra has to be paid. The pub, bar and restaurants can operate until 3am with ₹30 lakh additional licence fees. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that any establishment found violating Covid-19 regulations will be sealed and the persons concerned will be booked. “We are also planning to announce a monetary reward for people giving information on violations,” he said. The police teams are deployed in all public areas in plain clothes and are keeping a close watch on people not wearing masks. Those violating the rule are being fined ₹500 on the spot, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/flying-squad-excise-department-conduct-raids-on-pubs-bars-and-liquor-vends/story-iciyrbvYTIdXhDm6Wp8uYI.html
25-12-2020||Gurugram||How pandemic impacted civic work, pollution control in Gurugram||For the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic not only affected its external operations but also its internal functioning. On two consecutive days in August this year, the city witnessed heavy waterlogging – a phenomenon that was second only to the infamous Gurujam in 2016. A major reason for this was the delay in starting the preparations for the monsoon season that left the city vulnerable to heavy rain. Later in the year, the civic body also sacked 557 outsourced employees — the highest in its 12 years of existence. Officially, the reason for sacking was administrative in nature. But those privy to the matter said that the ousting was meant to offset the financial crunch caused by its declining revenue. With the pandemic raging across the city, the civic body’s field visits also reduced. Consequently, enforcement measures on key issues, such as the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures, saw a major dip as compared to the last year. Cleaning of drains Normally, around late March, the MCG starts floating tenders for the upcoming monsoon season. The process of floating tenders, receiving bids and finalising a contractor usually take around two months to complete. By May, on-ground work for desilting of drains starts. However, this year, the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to curb the spread of Covid-19 deeply impacted the civic body’s preparations for the monsoon season. All MCG officials received an internal order to solely focus on ensuring that essential municipal services, such as sanitation, water, sewage and streetlights continue to operate uninterrupted while some staff members were reallocated for medical, shelter, and food supply services. It was only in late April, that the matter for allocating e-tenders for the upcoming monsoon season was raised during a meeting between senior MCG officials and councillors. The MCG only started the tendering process in May, at a time when cleaning operations on-ground should have already started. In many areas in the city, tenders were only allocated to contractors as late as July, when the monsoon season had already arrived. In fact, in some parts of the city, tenders for cleaning up drains were never floated altogether and some of the drains were left completely uncovered. Even in areas where tenders were allocated, work progressed at a snail’s pace as contractors faced a massive workforce shortage. A large number of migrant workers had returned to their home towns during the lockdown. The time taken for cleaning one leg of a drain, which used to take around 15 days, doubled, and the city’s preparedness was 40-45% weaker than it usually is when the monsoon arrived. The city was worst hit by rains on August 19 and 20, when a heavy downpour clogged the drains and left the city’s seven underpasses inundated and most of the roads under water. Such was the extent of the poor monsoon preparedness that it took officials more than 30 hours to clear the rainwater from the DLF Phase 1/Phase 4 underpass. 557 employees sacked Over a four-day period in September, the civic body sacked 557 of its outsourced workers deputed at its various wings. This was the highest number of terminations carried out by the MCG since its formation in 2008. The official reason cited by the civic body was that the workers were found to be in “surplus” to requirement. However, officials privy to the matter said that declining revenue prompted the civic body to take off 557 workers of its payroll. The MCG’s main source of income is property tax collection. Each financial year, the MCG nets around₹300 crore through property taxes. At the start of the financial year, MCG managed to collect only a paltry sum of₹12 lakh in April and May cumulatively. On average, MCG has monthly revenue of₹15-20 crore through property taxes. Although the MCG’s property tax collection started faring better from May onwards, the loss of revenue for two months led the civic body to explore various cost-cutting measures. Decline in Grap enforcement With its officials reducing field visits amidst the Covid-19 outbreak, the enforcement and vigilance measures regarding violation of environmental norms also took a hit. So far this year, the MCG’s issuance of fines for Grap violations has come down by 58%. As per official MCG data, between October 15 and December 1 this year, the MCG had issued only 267 fines for Grap violations. For the same time period last year, the civic body had issued 643 fines. The drop in Grap violations was even more startling, given the fact that MCG this year had increased its vigilance measures. In October, the MCG formed civil defence teams assigned with the task of surveying and monitoring Grap violations. It also started the city’s first air lab for analysing the data for the city’s 24 air quality monitors and accordingly alerting enforcement wing officials on-ground whenever a spike in localised air pollution levels was observed. Some common violations of Grap measures include open waste burning or large-scale construction activities. Additionally, the MCG also set deadlines for its officials to address civic complaints related to Grap violations. The MCG set a four-hour deadline for its officials to address any complaint related to garbage burning and uncovered construction materials and a 12-hour one for any matter pertaining to construction and demolition waste (C&D) waste. “Despite the setbacks and the complications arising from Covid-19, the MCG has remained committed to improving the city’s infrastructure and has prioritised the safety and health of the public in general. Our main aim this year was on executing operations to limit the spread of Covid-19 and provide food and medical aid to people who were the worst-hit by this virus. We also ensured that essential civic services remained available throughout the year. Even though non-essential civic matters will become secondary for a limited time period in the upcoming year, the MCG will ensure that the city continues to develop and operations gradually return back to normalcy,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/how-pandemic-impacted-civic-work-pollution-control-in-gurugram/story-Okry3DGziObNJrwDnETgQM.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||No Covid casualty reported, 106 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity reported no Covid-19 death on Friday, while 106 people tested positive.Mohali district reported 48 cases, followed by 36 in Chandigarh and 22 in Panchkula. Mohali’s total has reached 17,849, of which 1,530 cases are active. While 15,984 patients have recovered, including 67 discharged on Friday, 335 have died.Chandigarh has reported 19,345 cases so far, of which 345 are active. While 314 patients have died, 18,686 have recovered, including 52 discharged on Friday.In Panchkula, 9,848 people have tested positive so far, of whom 9,471 have been cured and 140 have died. There are 237 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-covid-casualty-reported-106-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-c5CO9fIrOilN9rYJsBbJZM.html
25-12-2020||City||Campaigning for MC elections ends in Ambala||Electioneering for the municipal polls came to an end in Ambala on Friday evening, with various political parties holding road shows, rallies and door-to-door campaigning.On the last day, BJP MP Manoj Tiwari led a huge road show with mayoral candidate Dr Vandana Sharma, while Congress’ Meena Aggarwal stuck to door-to-door campaigning and public meetings. On Sunday, a multi-cornered contest awaits 1.87 lakh voters, as the ruling BJP-JJP coalition and the Congress face a tough fight from parties floated by former ministers — Venod Sharma (Haryana Janchetna Party ) and Nirmal Singh (Haryana Democratic Front).The BJP is banking on development projects undertaken by its two-time sitting MLA Aseem Goel and has promised more such projects with the help of the state and central governments.The Congress is banking on the support to its state chief Kumari Selja, who is a two-time Lok Sabha MP from Ambala. The party was in majority in the last corporation (2013-2018), but the then mayor Ramesh Mal shifted to the BJP in 2019.Venod Sharma’s wife Shakti Rani Sharma and Amisha Chawla of the HDF are also eyeing the mayor’s seat. The results will also decide the future of their parties.Others in the fray include BSP, newly floated Ambala Vikas Manch and an independent candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/campaigning-for-mc-elections-ends-in-ambala/story-Gukfd5q8X7rPLEp7yvBRHP.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Night temperature to rise in Chandigarh in coming days||Even as minimum temperature dipped to 4.4°C on Friday, the weatherman has predicted that it will rise to up to 9-10°C in the coming days. A western disturbance will be active in the region on Sunday, with light rain likely in the city. It will be followed by cloudy skies, which will make the nights warmer, but decrease the day temperature by a notch or two.Maximum temperature was recorded at 20.2°C on Friday, down from 21.5°C on Thursday. It will remain in the range of 19-21°C in the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-temperature-to-rise-in-chandigarh-in-coming-days/story-Al5THaSywl5Us1oCJLW6tN.html
25-12-2020||City||Campaigning ends for MC elections in Panchkula||Campaigning for the civic body polls came to an end in Panchkula on Friday evening, with the two major parties in the fray holding road shows and several meetings to woo voters. Though there are six candidates fighting for the mayoral post, the contest is mainly two-cornered — between the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party.The voting will take place on Sunday, when about 1.89 lakh people will decide the fate of former mayor and Congress candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, real estate developer and BJP nominee Kulbhushan Goyal and four other mayoral candidates, besides electing 20 councillors from among 83 in the fray.The Congress had won the first MC election with a thumping majority in 2013, and Ahluwalia remained the city’s first mayor till 2018. However, as the BJP came into power in Haryana in 2014 and its leader Gian Chand Gupta got elected from Panchkula, infighting between the mayor and MLA hit the city’s development.Goyal has been reminding voters about these development pangs during Ahluwalia’s tenure, while asking them to choose a BJP mayor, as the party is in power in the state and at the Centre. Goyal, who moved to the BJP from INLD just two years ago, is also reminding people of works carried out by Gian Chand Gupta more recently in the city. On the last day of campaigning in various sectors and villages, he also claimed support of various social organisations and independent candidates.Meanwhile, the Congress has put its faith in Ahluwalia yet again, due to her “dedication” towards the city in the past tenure, even as the decision was disliked by some in the party. Congress national spokesperson and general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday addressed a rally at Khatauli village and said Ahluwalia had worked hard as the mayor for Panchkula’s development. Earlier in the day, some social organisations also extended their support to Ahluwalia.Who campaigned, issues they took upThe BJP was quite proactive when it came to starting the campaign, holding meetings at booth levels, setting up of the IT and media cell, and even announcing candidates and its manifesto before the Congress.It fielded its top leaders from the region, including Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his Himachal Pradesh counterpart Jai Ram Thakur, to campaign for the candidates. Khattar touched upon the ongoing farmers’ protest, calling it a “tamaasha” and putting his faith in the “intelligent people” of Panchkula to understand the issue and vote for the BJP. Other leaders who campaigned included Captain Abhimanyu, Om Parkash Dhankar and Vinod Tawde.The Congress, on the other hand, roped in party’s state chief Kumari Selja and former deputy chief minister Chander Mohan to head the campaign in the city. The main focus were rural voters, who were urged to vote for change. The burning issue of new agricultural laws was raised daily.The party targeted the BJP, raising questions on delayed projects, which were started in 2017 and are still incomplete. Its manifesto carried a list of such projects, included animal shelter and dumping ground. The two things that remained common between the two parties during the campaign was that both sought votes in the name of development and both gave the go-by to Covid-19 safety norms.1,400 cops to keep vigilThere are 275 polling booths in 20 wards, of which 98 are hypersensitive and 30 are sensitive.As many as 1,400 police personnel and 23 patrolling teams have been deployed to ensure peaceful polling.There will be barricading at 20 places, and no one is allowed to stand within 100 metres of polling booths. On Saturday, the election eve, the road from Rally Chowk to Sector 12A and the road leading towards women’s college, Sector 14, will remain closed from 9am to 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/campaigning-ends-for-mc-elections-in-panchkula/story-YjMY5fBCbx3yqada6DbC0M.html
25-12-2020||Kolkata||PM Modi misleading people with ‘half-truths’: Mamata Banerjee hits back||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday alleged Prime Minister Narendra Modi is misleading people with half-truth as she referred to the benefits of the Centre’s farmers’ schemes, which the BJP claims the state government is not extending to its farmers.“Today, PM showed apparent concern for farmers through televised address instead of proactively working to resolve their issues. While he publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of West Bengal through his PM Kisan Yojana… the fact is he is trying to mislead people with half-truth,” the West Bengal chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “The fact is the Modi government has done nothing to help West Bengal. They are yet to release even a portion of the Rs 85,000 cr of outstanding dues that includes unpaid GST dues of Rs 8,000 crore,” she added.Prime Minister Modi on Friday addressed a virtual event to release over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. During the event, the prime minister also raised questions regarding the West Bengal government’s stand on the scheme intended to help farmers.“Today, I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers in West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long,” news agency PTI quoted the Prime Minister as saying.Mamata Banerjee tried to deflect the accusation levelled against her by PM Modi by saying that the Centre should release part of the outstanding dues so that the state can address its issues.The Trinamool Congress-led government in West Bengal has faced criticism from the BJP for not implementing Centre’s schemes like the PM-KISAN and Ayushman Bharat. Earlier this month, Union home minister Amit Shah during his two-day visit to West Bengal targeted the chief minister and said that her party is paying off extortionists and anti-social elements with money sent by the Centre.Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who has several times over the past year criticised the Trinamool Congress regime in the state, also weighed in on the implementation of the PM-KISAN in the state on Friday. Dhankhar said, “It’s a matter of concern for me that farmers of West Bengal could not benefit from Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. As Governor, I have repeatedly approached the chief minister regarding this issue but none of my letters was answered.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pm-modi-misleading-people-with-half-truths-mamata-banerjee-hits-back/story-EqoqbT9xaKVlQwYlwO1sVJ.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||PM SVANidhi Yojana: Banks to organise camps to help vendors in Ludhiana get loans||With vendors facing problems availing loans under the PM Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi Scheme (SVANidhi Yojana), municipal commissioner Pardeeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with vendors’ associations and representatives of different banks on Thursday evening. It was decided that the banks will now organise camps to help vendors get loans. Officials said that only vendors who register with MC can get Rs 10,000 loan under the scheme. So far, 8,100 vendors have submitted their application.President of Rehri Phari association, Tiger Singh, said, “The vendors are facing problems in availing the loans under the scheme. Due to this, we approached the MC commissioner.”During the meeting, the vendors also demanded that MC should establish vending zones in the city at the earliest. The local bodies department has notified 64 vending zone sites in the city in the first phase of the project. The project has been hanging fire for over six years. “We are conducting meetings with the representatives of different banks to facilitate the availing of loans by vendors under the scheme. As the local bodies department has notified the vending zone sites in the city in the first phase, a meeting in this regard will be held in the next week, so that the process can be initiated,” Sabharwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-svanidhi-yojana-banks-to-organise-camps-to-help-vendors-in-ludhiana-get-loans/story-WTMEbBdCrupsk7gfMV64oJ.html
25-12-2020||City||Christmas cheer for Ludhiana students through carols, virtual party||The Covid-19 pandemic has dampened the Christmas celebrations everywhere, but private schools in Ludhiana kept the festive cheer alive on digital platforms. The majority of schools conducted online sessions for students and asked them to participate in different activities to celebrate the festival. Several private schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education organised online theme-based parties, sang carols, decorated Christmas trees, screened a movie on Jesus Christ, prepared cakes, made craft articles to celebrate the occasion. The students shared their enthralling pictures and videos of performing various activities with their class in charge. At Green Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, Ludhiana, the authorities organised virtual Christmas celebrations with great fervour and vivacity. The students of pre-nursery to Class 8 participated in activities such as X-Mas tree decoration, Christmas mask craft, card making activity, etc. A Class 3 student Anvi said, “I enjoyed participating in the activities and was happy that the school authorities came up with the idea of celebrating Christmas virtually with the students.”While students of Classes 1 and 2 of BCM School, Basant Avenue, Dugri Road showed a lot of enthusiasm in celebrating Christmas online. The boundless joy of celebrating the festival virtually was visible on the faces of the children and they displayed their talent by participating in different activities. School principal, Vandna Shahi said, “The theme-based virtual party was a big hit among students in which they danced and participated in fun-filled activities.” During the Covid times, the celebration of this festival brought cheer and charm among students of HVM Convent Senior Secondary School. Children decorated their Christmas tree with bells, stars, lights and teachers celebrated the festival during an online session. Children wore colourful attires, decorated Christmas trees at their home, and sang songs with their teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/christmas-cheer-for-ludhiana-students-through-carols-virtual-party/story-Cb9Ex1vSCKZ7A1B9b9ealM.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC submits proposal to shift dairy units out of city||The high-powered committee chaired by mayor Balkar Sandhu has sent a new proposal to the state government which states that owners of dairy units have agreed to shift out of the municipal corporation limits with certain conditions regarding change of land use (CLU) of the sites where the dairy complexes are currently located.In October, the committee had recommended that the dairy units should not be shifted from the city, and the existing dairy complexes be upgraded to stop dumping of waste in the Buddha Nullah. A meeting of the committee was held at the mayor’s camp office on Friday in which deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also took part. It has been proposed that a certain portion of land owned by farmers in dairy complexes be transferred to Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) to develop commercial pockets, while the rest will remain with farmers, and the land use be changed to commercial category. Sandhu and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and his relatives also own dairy units in the Haibowal dairy complex. “The proposal was also discussed with principal secretary of the local bodies department AK Sinha during his recent visit to the city. If the government accepts the latest proposal then we will proceed with planning the entire project,” Sandhu said. The project to shift the dairy units at Haibowal and Tajpur Road dairy complex is hanging fire for a long time. It was proposed as the dairy units dump cow dung and dairy waste in the Buddha Nullah.There are over 500 dairy units in the two dairy complexes and around 200 scattered units in different parts of the city. The sewer lines in city areas also get choked due to dumping of dairy waste.MLA (Ludhiana east) Sanjay Talwar has also demanded that MC take the final decision regarding shifting of dairy units as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-submits-proposal-to-shift-dairy-units-out-of-the-city/story-6fzB18JwFKBwBYIGG81YgP.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Thapar trust calls for direct approach road to martyr’s house||Members of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust have threatened to go on hunger strike if the administration fails to acquire land for the construction of a direct approach road to the ancestral house of martyr Sukhdev Thapar in Naughara area from Chaura Bazar by January 26, 2021The members rued that they have been running from pillar to post for this project since 2012. They said that around 40 yards of land has to be acquired and the state government had also sanctioned Rs 1 crore for this in the past. But, officials are delaying the project, which is not acceptable, they added. President of the trust, Ashok Thapar, said, “If the approach road is constructed, then it will be a tribute to the martyr, as the public will come to know about the his ancestral house at large. Currently, the visitors have to move through narrow streets.” Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “We have not received any communication from the trust in this regard recently and I cannot comment on the status of the project without going through the case file. I will look into the matter and required steps will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhdev-thapar-trust-calls-for-direct-approach-road-to-martyr-s-house/story-MI9UweGDrMqDTCYDUOUcIM.html
25-12-2020||City||Punjab State Level Talent Search Exam to be held on January 3||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has decided to conduct the Punjab State Talent Search Exam (PSTSE) on January 3.The examination was earlier scheduled for December 13 but was postponed by the council due to Guru Tegh Bahadur Martyrdom Day that falls on December 19.A letter regarding the same was issued by council director Jagtar Kulria on Thursday evening. PSTSE is conducted annually by the state government for students of Classes 8 and 10 to provide financial help. A total of 5,561 students have registered online to appear for the exam. The district education department has set up 26 examination centers in the district to conduct the exam. As per the council, the roll number, timing of the exam, and centres will remain the same. New admit cards will not be issued. This move by the council will give extra time to students to prepare for the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-state-level-talent-search-exam-to-be-held-on-january-3/story-0ewpIDWUCAgwe8I7rjNznK.html
25-12-2020||City||Awareness drive to stop dumping waste in Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah||With the municipal corporation (MC) planning to commence an awareness drive to stop residents from dumping solid waste in the Buddha Nullah from Saturday, the state project director of Swachh Bharat Mission on Friday conducted a door-to-door drive to raise awareness.The MC team visited different areas alongside Buddha Nullah at Hambran road and also issued a challan to five residents for dumping waste in the stream. They were warned that strict action will be taken against them if they are caught dumping the waste in the nullah again.Puran Singh met college principals and NSS/NCC cadets for involving them in the awareness drive.On Friday, Singh also revisited the vendor who was challaned on Thursday for using disposable thermocol plates. The vendor has now started using steel utensils. MC officials Harpal Aujla and Maheshwar Singh said that the MC has deployed 60 marshals/swachhta monitors to stop the residents from dumping the solid waste into the nullah. The door-to-door awareness drive by NCC cadets and MC teams will commence on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/awareness-drive-to-stop-dumping-waste-in-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah/story-a5476UgnQS9UaHdiMS4p8I.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Man killed in broad daylight on Gangadham street in Pune||PUNE: A man was arrested by the Pune police after he cut a person to death and injured another on a street in Gangadham area on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Saleem Mehboob Shaikh (24) Lake town SRA building while the injured was identified as Tohsif Shaikh (27) Rolling Meadows, Kondhwa, according to the police. The arrested was identified as Anil Kachravat (40) who lived in a godown in Gangadham area where the murder was committed around 11am. “The deceased and the arrested man were known to each other. That day he went to Kachravat and asked to either buy him alcohol or give him money to drink alcohol. He had done this before as well. Due to that, he picked up an iron-rod-kind of weapon used for centring work and hit him near the neck causing a stab-like wound that caused his death,” said senior inspector Sunil Zaware of Bibwewadi police station. The injured, who was accompanying the deceased, tried to intervene when Kachravat hit him on the head. He is undergoing treatment, according to the police. The injured owns a garage and is a resident of Kondhwa while the deceased man is an out-of-work waiter and cleaner. The accused also worked as a waiter at a restaurant which was shut due to lockdown, but the owner of the restaurant provided financial help, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Arms Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-killed-in-broad-daylight-on-gangadham-street-in-pune/story-J8MjteJJdbXuZnBmhMPgIL.html
25-12-2020||Bhopal||‘Will bury you 10-feet deep’: Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan warns mafia||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday warned mafia elements he will bury them 10 feet deep if they don’t leave the state.Chouhan was speaking at a Good Governance Day event, organised to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.“Leave Madhya Pradesh, otherwise I will bury you 10 feet deep into the ground and your whereabouts will not be known,” he said, warning mafia and others involved in illegal activities.Good governance, which means a regime where people don’t face any trouble, is prevailing in MP now, Chouhan said.Speaking at the event in Babai in Hoshangabad district ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s online interaction with farmers nationwide, Chouhan said he won’t spare anyone who indulges in unlawful activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/will-bury-you-10-feet-deep-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-warns-mafia/story-Wni4in0wV9vrta5zY60jRJ.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Pvt firm to maintain public toilets in Ludhiana||With an aim to improve its ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021, the municipal corporation (MC) has roped in an Uttar Pradesh-based private firm to maintain 42 public toilets in the city. The company will charge Rs 5 from users in exchange for which it will pay Rs 12 lakh to MC every year.Earlier, a project was proposed wherein the civic body had to pay over Rs 1.6 crore annually for maintenance of toilets. But, the proposal was rejected by the finance and contracts committee (F and CC). MC had also got into an agreement with NGO for maintenance of public toilets. But, the NGO failed to depute staff at all the locations, and the toilets remained shut at many places. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “MC officials had earlier tabled a proposal wherein the civic body had to pay Rs 1.6 crore annually for maintenance of toilets. But, the proposal was rejected. Now, the UP based company will pay the civic body Rs 12 lakh every year in exchange for user charges collected from residents.” The F and CC has also approved a resolution to repair expansion joints of the elevated road constructed over the railway station road. But, the authorities said that the project will not be taken up immediately, as construction works are going on at different points of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/up-based-firm-to-maintain-public-toilets-to-charge-rs-5-as-user-fee/story-6vLv0iv5FmAYUK5mgfPhxI.html
25-12-2020||City||Mastermind of ₹1 billion GST fraud held in Panipat||Officials of the Anti-Evasion CGST on Friday conducted a raid in Panipat and arrested the mastermind behind the ₹105.36 crore fraud involving GST of ₹19.25 crore perpetrated through multiple bogus firms in Haryana.The accused has been identified as Mohit Bathla of Panipat. Joint commissioner CGST Rachana Singh said the raid was conducted following an investigation by officials of Anti-Evasion, CGST Panchkula. She said the search was conducted in Panipat following inputs about fictitious, fake and fraudulent Input Tax Credit (ITC) passed on by bogus or fake firms for trading of bitumen.Singh said there are inputs that Bathla issued bogus invoices without supply of actual goods and thereby creating a chain of fake ITC. “Investigation in this case is in progress to unravel the network and multiple chains of fake invoices benefactors and possibility of more arrests cannot be ruled out,” she added. Bathla has been taken into custody and will be produced in the court on Saturday.As many as 26 out of 65 cases of GST frauds registered in the state were reported in Panipat alone and around 49 non-existing firms were identified by the CGST and SGST authorities. Several people have been arrested for multiple crore tax evasion fraud since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mastermind-of-1-billion-gst-fraud-held-in-panipat/story-3DYFhKKcLBDhk4sfMd0qrK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Congress-NCP misguiding farmers: Fadnavis||PUNE: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis termed the stance taken by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress on farmer laws as “double standards”. Addressing a farmers’ rally at Manjari in Pune district on Friday, Fadnavis said that both the political parties are misguiding farmers. Fadnavis said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought the three laws in the interests of farmers. The BJP government brought a minimum support price for sugarcane farmers for the latter’s benefit, even promoting the ethanol policy which will help them get good rates.” The former chief minister said that existing agriculture produce market committees (APMC) were looting farmers and middlemen are getting more benefit. These laws would break the monopoly of APMCs. He said, “Both the parties are misleading farmers. The NCP-Congress government brought a contract farming law, which the Centre has now introduced. However, they are opposing the law.” He said that the Opposition are creating a picture that the new laws are against farmers and misguiding citizens about the Modi government to gain political mileage. Former co-operative minister Harshwardhan Patil said, “Most of the suggestions recommended in the law are supported by the Congress and NCP earlier. Even some of them have already been introduced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congress-ncp-misguiding-farmers-fadnavis/story-Fk7KAzYh30bby0G0gVustK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Builder booked for attempted suicide, vandalism of former partner’s office by fire in Pune||PUNE: A man was booked by the Pune police on Thursday for attempted suicide and vandalism by fire at the office of his former business partner with whom he is fighting multiple litigations. The accused forcefully entered the office of the complainant and set it ablaze, causing alleged damage of Rs 20,00,000, according to the police. The accused was identified as Hasmukh Babulal Jain (56) of Sopanbaug area. “He is undergoing treatment for high blood pressure and is mentally disturbed right now. He had sent a note to his partners and friends stating that he intended to commit suicide. He suffered minor burn injuries before police and fire brigade officials pulled him out in time,” said assistant inspector Suhas Patil of Sahakarnagar police station who is investigating the case. A complaint was lodged by Bharat Mithalal Nagori (61) of Ishanya society in Dhankawadi area. The two are builders and were part of a partnership firm called Isha Group along with other partners since 2006. Until 2014, the complainant, the accused, and one other man were the key office-bearers of the firm. However, the partnership ran into multiple litigation issues and Jain resigned from it in 2014, according to the complaint. Jain arrived in the office space owned by Nagori and drove all the employees in the office out of the premise. He then locked himself inside, vandalised the place, and set it ablaze, according to the complainant. Jain allegedly set the fire in an attempt to die by suicide, according to the police. A case under Sections 309 (attempted suicide), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 427, 504 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station against Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/builder-booked-for-attempted-suicide-vandalism-of-former-partner-s-office-by-fire-in-pune/story-ftFO9eDWT3GPKvtYyCAWAN.html
25-12-2020||Kolkata||PM Modi accuses TMC, CPI(M) of playing politics with farmers; Mamata hits back||Security of Bengal’s farmers, who produce crops on 68 per cent of the state’s total geographical area, emerged as a political issue on Friday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation’s farmers in a live telecast, accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) of playing politics over the farmer’s agitation in Punjab. Without naming the two political parties in his long speech, the PM said, “Parties that have been rejected by the people are now conspiring.” Migration of jobless people from Bengal, where farming can no longer support all families, has been a raging issue since the Covid-19 pandemic started. “Look at the state government. It sees politics in welfare schemes and stops 70 lakh farmers from receiving central aid. It goes to Punjab and hobnobs with people who are misleading farmers,” said Modi. Also read: Dharavi reports no new Covid-19 case for the first time since AprilDirecting his attack on the CPI(M) and the government it runs in Kerala, the prime minister said, “People who ruled Bengal for 30 years have not even once staged an agitation in the state demanding implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Yojana. Why didn’t you raise your voice? Instead, you reached Punjab to pose for selfies. This raises questions.” Reacting to PM Modi’s allegation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee issued a statement in the evening. “Since you have raised questions on my ideology and commitment to the people of Bengal, let me remind you that my ideology is consistent with the vision of the founding fathers of the country and I have wholeheartedly served the people of West Bengal with the right intent, efforts and with everything I have,” wrote Banerjee. Banerjee also accused the prime minister of showing concern for the agitating farmers through a televised address “instead of proactively working to resolve their issues.” “Was this a PM’s speech? He was addressing farmers of the country but singled out Bengal and Kerala. Why?” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. By targeting the TMC and the Marxists, Modi apparently redefined the battle line in poll-bound Bengal since most of the rural population is dependent on farming or farm-based business. According to the 2011 census, Bengal’s population stood at 9.13 crore. It is projected to reach 10.19 crore in 2021. The census showed that around 68.13 per cent of the population lives in villages of rural areas where the literacy rate was 72.13 per cent in 2011. According to the Bengal government’s data, the net cropped area is 52.05 lakh hectares which comprise 68 per cent of the geographical area of the state and 92 per cent of arable land. Also read: From BJP to Mamata Banerjee, a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in KolkataBarely 24 hours before PM Modi’s speech, Mamata Banerjee had announced that her government would set up an agro-based industrial park at Singur in Hooghly district, where her long agitation against acquisition of multi-crop land for the Tata small car factory helped her oust the CPI(M) government in 2011. The Tata Group moved the project to Gujarat. Defending the Singur agitation, Roy said, “We opposed the Tata project not just politically but moved the court as well.” “We are not doing any politics in Punjab. The farmers are on protest and opposition parties are urging the Cente to scrap the new farm laws. Modi deviated from this main issue today to mislead people,” said Roy. “Our government has so far spent Rs 2,642 crore to give Rs 5,000 per acre annually to 47 lakh farmers. Modi is only talking about Rs 6,000 under PMKSY. We will give it to farmers if it is routed through the state. We cannot let the BJP reap political benefit to buy votes,” Roy added. When pointed out that PM Modi specifically said that Bengal farmers are writing to him, seeking aid under PMKSY, Roy said, “Has there been any farmers’ agitation in Bengal in 10 years? They have no complaints. The government collects rice from them on time paying the minimum support price. Bengal farmers have tripled their average income since 2011. The Centre can achieve that not before 2028.” Hoping to find the CPI(M) by the TMC on this issue, Roy said, “We have differences with the Left but we support the farmers’ cause. The two parties agree on issues such as communal politics. These (the PM’s speech) are diversionary tactics to weaken the movement.” CPI(M) politburo member Md Salim summarily rejected the TMC’s support to the farmers’ stir, calling it a lip service. “Had the TMC been serious about the farm bills it would have convened a special winter session of the state assembly that we demanded. In 2014 and 2017, the TMC government introduced two similar bills in the state,” said Salim. “The TMC does not even have a farmers’ front. When we held kisan agitation and general strike on November 26 and December 18, the government opposed it. The police even resorted to baton charge on the agitators,” alleged Salim. The BJP wanted to make the most of the PM’s speech and held meetings in all community blocks of the state where the live programme was screened at gatherings attended by party leaders. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “People in the state will enjoy the benefits of all central schemes when we come to power in a few months”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pm-modi-accuses-tmc-cpi-m-of-playing-politics-with-farmers-mamata-hits-back/story-E810pkjGDYOQOpjcp4oODO.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||SYL canal issue: Farmers of Ahirwal region in desperate need for water, says ex-MLA||The Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti chairman and former Atteli segment MLA Naresh Yadav on Friday said the farmers of Ahirwal region of southern Haryana have been craving for water due to wavering attitude of the central government on the SYL canal issue.Addressing a press conference here, the former MLA said the entire Ahirwal area has been declared a dark zone due to which no more tubewells can be dug. “Therefore, canal water is the only solution,” he said, pointing out that the quantity of canal water available in Haryana should be increased till the construction of SYL canal is complete. Yadav also urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to honour the decision of the Supreme Court and direct Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to release water to Haryana. He also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the matter. “All political parties of Punjab are united on the issue of not giving water to Haryana whereas parties in the state are silent on this issue,” he said. Yadav said Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti will undertake a mass awareness campaign in southern Haryana from December 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/syl-canal-issue-farmers-of-ahirwal-region-in-desperate-need-for-water-says-ex-mla/story-D9SxvwafYCPs50OltbccSL.html
25-12-2020||Pune||The test drive of ‘death stretch’ from New Katraj Tunnel to Navale bridge chowk||Pune: Using the New Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk stretch has become a risky affair for motorists, two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, as the road is witness to regular mishaps. The main observation cited by road experts is that the road has a long slope where heavy vehicles use the decline to shut down their engine to save fuel which may cause accidents as in many cases the brakes stops to function. On November 29, three persons lost their lives after a heavy vehicle dashed them on the highway near Narhe exit on the service road. HT conducted a test drive on December 19 (Saturday) in a truck starting from New Katraj tunnel via Narhe service road exit till Navale bridge chowk. To understand the precautions and safety measures that need to be taken by truck drivers, especially on the slope, we were accompanied by Swapnil Pangare, area sales manager of KGP Auto Ltd, Ghatge Trucking BharatBenz dealer with their heavy truck driver Jamir Shaikh. Both of them explained on how to drive steadily and the things that need to be followed while driving through the slope stretch of the road to avoid accidents. Test drive 1. At 8.30 am, I along with driver Jamir got into the truck which has a heavy load capacity up to 28 tonnes. We started from Navale bridge chowk towards the new Katraj tunnel 2. While going towards the new Katraj tunnel, Jamir showed some of the important buttons inside the driver cabin which are used to control the vehicle. One such button is called “Constant Throttle Valve” (CTV). It is mainly used to control the engine brakes while the vehicle is on slope. The button was located on the right side of the driver’s steering wheel. “There are six diesel sprinkling nozzles in the engine. After switching on this button, only one diesel nozzle supply is on and other five remain closed. This step saves diesel and also the vehicle ignition is on and air supply to brakes remains constant. Many trucks do not have this facility, and some drivers do not use it even if the heavy vehicle is fitted with the button,” Pangare said. 3. In 15 minutes we crossed the tunnel and by taking the ‘U’ turn on the highway we started coming back from the tunnel towards the Navale bridge chowk which is the danger stretch that sees accidents. 4. From halfway through the tunnel, the slope on the highway started and the truck gained speed (there is speed limit of 80 kmph on this highway). Jamir said, “There is a speed lock of 50 kmph to the truck and even on the slope if the ignition is on we control the vehicle on first or second gear.” After the tunnel ended, the slope started towards the Dari Pul bridge and to show the mistake that some drivers commit, Jamir took the vehicle on ‘neutral’ gear. Soon, the speed of the vehicle almost touched 90 kmph 5. Explaining the wrong practise of putting the heavy vehicle on neutral gear, Pangare said, “When a truck driver crosses the tunnel before the Dari Pul bridge, he puts on the neutral gear. Later, when he approaches the Navale bridge, he starts applying brakes as other vehicles also enter the stretch. As the vehicle was in neutral gear, the liners get heated up which leads to brake failure and possible accident. There is a brake control button in every heavy vehicle or truck which should be used by the driver on such slopes, but to save a fuel of around 3 to 4 litres, they do such risky things.” 6. Driving ahead, we crossed the Dari Pul bridge and the ‘death’ stretch or accident-prone slope on the highway started. Jamir took the speeding truck in second gear. He then switched on the CTV button which controls the engine brakes and though in speed the truck was going at 50 kmph on fuel saving mode. The stretch from new Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk is around 6 to 7 kms and there are several boards on this stretch installed by the Pune traffic police department appealing drivers “not to switch off the engines or put vehicle on neutral”. Rumbler strips are there at a couple of spots, and at some spots potholes were also seen. 7. By around 9.10 am we reached the Narhe service road exit which goes ahead to the Navale bridge chowk. This is the spot where the recent accident claimed three lives. As our vehicle was on control speed, Jamir slowly took the service road and finally our test drive ended at 9.15 am coming back to Navale bridge chowk. Normally the average mileage of trucks is between 3 and 6 kmpl, and to save fuel on this danger stretch drivers follow the wrong practice of switching off the engine or putting it on neutral gear. But if the engine break control button is used with ignition on, then same amount of fuel is saved along with safely passing through the slope, according to Pangare. Review “Overall, the test drive was good and we got a first-hand experience of traveling inside a speeding truck on this ‘death stretch’. It is not so difficult for drivers to control their heavy vehicles by using safety features in their vehicles, but lack of alertness or careless attitude may cause accidents. While going through the slope, we found some speeding heavy vehicles. By controlling the vehicle on gear with the help of engine brake button, one can easily control the speed avoiding any mishap. Some improvement and upgrade in road infrastructure on this stretch by NHAI is needed like repairing potholes, adding more rumbler strips and putting up of more safety sign boards and signals along the service road.” Mishap countAccidents happened on this stretch starting from new Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk Year/Fatal accidents/Serious accidents/Minor accidents/Total 2019/12/02/29/432020 (Till Nov)/14/25/09/48 Total /26/27/38/91||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/the-test-drive-of-death-stretch-from-new-katraj-tunnel-to-navale-bridge-chowk/story-hMidjBFVqe2tPqEHYgE89O.html
25-12-2020||City||Khattar’s ‘Jal Adhikar rally’ at Bhiwani postponed to January 3||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s ‘Jal Adhikar rally’ at Bhiwani’s Behal on December 27 has been postponed to January 3.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the chief minister’s rally at Behal in his home constituency Loharu was postponed due to polling of votes for the civic body elections on December 27.“CM Manohar Lal Khattar will address the rally on January 3 demanding Haryana’s share of water from Punjab through Satluj-Yamuna link canal. Now, we will have to stand against Punjab to seek our legitimate share of water through SYL. Some people were announcing to boycott CM’s rally, I want to tell them that the Jal Adhikar rally would be held at any cost,” Dalal added.Interacting with party workers in Bhiwani’s Siwani, Dalal hit out at left parties and accused them of receiving foreign funds to protest against the BJP leaders.“The people carrying red flags are projecting themselves as farmers and their main motive is to protest against us. Such people don’t want you people to get your water from Punjab. Within a year, I am planning to provide water in the fields of 14 villages in Siwani region,” he added.Defending his earlier remarks, the minister said he had never called farmers ‘Khalistanis and backed support from China and Pakistan’.Farmers to boycott CM’s rallyDayanand Punia, secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan sabha, said the farmers had conducted door to door meetings and panchayats in over 25 villages of Loharu constituency represented by JP Dalal and decided to show black flags to Khattar during his visit to Behal.“Agriculture minister Dalal is making all attempts to divide people by conducting CM’s rally demanding SYL water from Punjab. People of our constituency have decided to boycott Khattar’s rally. We had forced the minister to postpone the rally and we are sure he will cancel the event after seeing farmers’ anger over three farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khattar-s-jal-adhikar-rally-at-bhiwani-postponed-to-january-3/story-B8Iai6Tcbpz1EF5YZXhdzH.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||18 lakh Haryana farmers received ₹2,225 crore under PM Kisan Yojana: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said over ₹2,225 crore have been deposited in the bank accounts of 18 lakh farmers of the state after the launch of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. Under this flagship scheme launched in 2019 for the welfare of farmers, the Union government provides a financial benefit of ₹6,000 per year to each registered farmer. The money is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiary and is paid in three equal four-monthly instalments of ₹2,000 each. Khattar expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for releasing the seventh installment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana to the accounts of farmers on the occasion of Sushasan Diwas on Friday. At least ₹360 crore have been deposited in the accounts of 18 lakh farmers of Haryana under this scheme on Friday, an official spokesperson said. The PM transferred this amount to the accounts of farmers digitally. “So far ₹2,225.30 crore have been deposited in the accounts of farmers under this scheme in the state,” Khattar said. During the transfer of the seventh installment, ₹18,000 crore were deposited in the accounts of 9 crore farmers of the country. This programme was viewed by farmers at the panchayat level in Haryana. A farmer, Hari Singh of Fatehabad district shared experiences regarding small holdings with the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-lakh-haryana-farmers-received-2-225-crore-under-pm-kisan-yojana-khattar/story-NuumQgTkwEZqxJW9UM9eQN.html
25-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand youth didn’t return from party, found dead in forest||A 25-year-old man didn’t return home after attending his friend’s birthday party on Thursday night. He was found dead in half-naked condition in the forest in Ramnagar area of Nainital district on Friday morning, said police. The police, which identified the deceased as one Indra Joshi, said he had gone to attend one of his friend’s birthday party at a resort along with other friends. After the party, all returned home except him. Abul Kalam, inspector Ramnagar police station, said, “Joshi didn’t return home on Thursday night and was found dead by his friends on Friday morning in the forest near the resort.” “They soon informed his family members who rushed to the spot and took him to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said Kalam. Also read: What’s in Centre’s trial run ahead of Covid-19 vaccine rolloutThe police officer informed that in the initial probe it was found that Joshi and his friends drank heavily at the party. During the party, he was thrown in a drunken state into the forest by an unidentified person. “When he didn’t get up, his friends thought he is too drunk and left. Meanwhile, Joshi continued lying there in the chilling winter only to be found dead on Friday morning,” said Kalam adding, “the body has been sent for post-mortem examination after which the exact reasons behind his death would be ascertained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-youth-didn-t-return-from-party-found-dead-in-forest/story-WBn6lvyJBgXaRGIyT02tqK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||The art of empathetic listening alleviating pain, stress and brokenness, all via The Vent||PUNE When Rohan (name changed) called the helpline of The Vent--a recently launched listening platform, he was on the verge of inflicting harm on himself. After spending about three months of lockdown in the confines of his house with his parents, he was frustrated for more reasons than one. “Rohan was meaning to come out, and speak to his parents about his homosexuality. Before he could break the news to them, he lost his job. Dealing with the challenges of finding employment, not being able to meet his partner too often, and handling the parental pressure to get married, were damaging his mental balance,” says Shraddha Deo, founder of The Vent. She went on to add that after venting out on the call for almost an hour, Rohan reported feeling lighter and better. Later, he was directed to see a counsellor for better healing and emotional wellbeing. Deo, a psychologist, has been working in the field of mental health for a decade. The Vent, launched in July this year, is run by Deo and Vaidehi Barve, a legal advisor. Deo says, “While working as a counsellor, I realised a lot of people came to me primarily with a motive to be heard attentively and without any judgments.” Back in the day, people would find this comfort by opening up to family and friends, but the socio-cultural dynamics of today’s times are different, and the need to be heard empathetically is pronounced. She added, “I believe that people shouldn’t have to pay just for such a fundamental emotional need. This thought kept brewing in my mind. Around the same time, the unsettling news about Sushant Singh Rajput’s death came in. That was a big trigger for me, and it reemphasised the necessity of a space, where people could verbalise their feelings in a safe, and non-biased environment.” At present, ‘The Vent’ has 12 volunteers, who have been trained on empathetic listening. Their responsibility is to answer calls, reassure the callers that they have their complete attention, and that they will hear them with utmost compassion. So far, the helpline has addressed 200 callers, and is functional through the day till late hours. “Most of the calls, typically spanning anywhere between 15 minutes to an hour, come from people complaining of a range of issues, such as loneliness, depression, career problems, relationship and marital troubles, and self-doubt, and so on. Our job is to listen and facilitate catharsis without offering any advice. However, in situations where we feel counselling and therapy can help, we direct the callers to the relevant experts, whom we have on board,” says Noopur Ganu, an empathetic listener at ‘The Vent’.While ‘The Vent’ is a recently launched portal, there are also similar initiatives that are making a heartfelt effort towards promoting mental wellbeing. While the city’s Connecting NGO runs a distress helpline for anyone feeling tremendously low or suicidal, Sassoon Hospital’s ‘Manasamvad’ was initially launched to spread awareness about Covid-19, has ended up as a helpline to tackle stress, anxiety, depression, and the trauma after loss of jobs. Evaluating the effectiveness of a listening portal, counselling psychologist Shrutkirti Fadnavis says, “Unconditional listening is the first step towards the process of catharsis. Listening portals, such as The Vent, facilitate discharge of negative energy and offer relief. This can work as a great stress buster.” --Distress Helplines--The Vent: Call: 8448440267Timing: 10 am to 11 pmWebsite: http://theventforyou.com/Connecting NGO:Call: 9922004305/ 9922001122 Timing: 12 noon to 8 pmEmail: distressmailsconnecting@gmail.comManasamvad:Call: 02026127331||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-art-of-empathetic-listening-alleviating-pain-stress-and-brokenness-all-via-the-vent/story-AQcTv5TkcK3HCBSIFtcvSO.html
25-12-2020||Jaipur||Udaipur man kills himself after murdering four kids, wife||In a shocking incidence that took place in Robiya village of Udaipur, a 30-year-old labourer allegedly died by suicide after killing his four kids and wife on Friday. The man was said to be under financial stress. “According to statements of the neighbours and relatives of the deceased, the family’s head was under severe financial crisis after the lockdown and the family was under severe grief. On Thursday night, an argument broke out between the couple over financial issues following which on Friday the man killed his four kids and wife with an axe and later hanged himself,” said Vikram Singh, circle officer (CO), Rishabhdeo. “Locals said that the condition of the family had worsened. The deceased family didn’t have any government IDs like Aadhaar, BPL card to get any benefits of government schemes. In such a situation, the man was not even getting work under MNREGA. Some also said that the 30-year-old was addicted to alcohol which was a reason of regular fights between the couple,” the CO added. Also read: PM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K tomorrowThe police came to know about the incident around 6 am when the villagers found the man’s dead body. When they checked the victim’s house, the doors were locked. Further, the locals checked through the windows and saw the bodies. As soon as the news of the incident reached the police, the Station House Officer (SHO) of Kherwara Shyam Singh, along with his team, rushed to the scene and initiated the probe. Senior police officials, including Udaipur superintendent of police Kailash Chandra Bishnoi, also reached the scene to take stock of the situation. The bodies of the deceased family members were sent to the Kherwara mortuary for postmortem which is been done by a medical board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/udaipur-man-kills-himself-after-murdering-four-kids-wife/story-u9raMWfI6Z2C7ShVZA5ICJ.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Slam Dunk: ‘Being part of NBA requires good fortune, dedication and knowledge of sport’||As a young basketball fan, watching the sport, and then as a basketball player myself, the only universally agreed upon truth is that the NBA (National Basketball Association, of the USA) represents the pinnacle of basketball competition. Being born in Pune, the hardwood courts of American cities like San Francisco, Los Angeles, Boston, Chicago and New York, seemed inaccessible and daunting to someday reach. However, through a winding and circuitous path as an athlete, student and now coach, the globalisation and expansion of basketball has made it possible to seek various routes to the pinnacle of basketball competition. While each individual has a different dream and strategy, it is crucial to recognise the opportunities, to someday, get the chance to work at the most competitive level of basketball, the NBA; with elite athletic and coaching talent. Playing and learning through experiences on the courts of Deccan, St Vincent’s (now hardwood) and Balewadi can certainly be the platform to eventually, one day, being around great players like Stephen Curry, Tim Duncan and coaches like Gregg Popovich and Steve Kerr. The opportunity to work in the NBA requires a combination of good fortune, knowledge of the sport and dedication and understanding basketball infrastructure. Despite a lot of my basketball skills and knowledge as a player being developed in the hot and humid weather of the Middle East and in America, the current resources available globally make information of basketball schemes and team concepts easily accessible to all ages of players and coaches. Many roles exist in NBA basketball outside of strictly being an NBA player on a roster, the most prominent of which, is coaching players on court. Essential to coaching is experience playing the sport at a high level. Playing experience allows for a deep understanding of the nuances of the game, and in the NBA the smallest of advantages can be the difference between winning and losing a championship. As an alternative to coaching, there is a huge need for individuals who can break down and analyse the technicalities of the game on video and specific basketball software. Since coaches are usually occupied with managing their team, there is a need for additional analysis and observations from individuals who can analyse specific team and player tendencies. In this role, it is critical to understand key NBA terminology specific to each kind of tactical strategy a coach wants to implement in the teams playing style. Multiple head coaches in the NBA such as Erik Spoelstra of the Miami Heat have started their careers in this manner, breaking down and analysing game videos. Understanding the various physical training techniques is another area it is possible to make an impact and be able to reach the NBA level. NBA athletes have a combination of size, speed and co-ordination that can rival athletes in any global team sport. Individuals seeking to improve at the highest levels employ highly specific training techniques that can maximize their performance giving them the slightest advantage. For organisations investing millions of dollars in players, it is essential to maximise the number of games players are healthy to give them the best chance to win. I learnt the importance of this physical preparation on one of my first days working as a member of the San Antonio Spurs organisation. During this day in the offseason (when most players are usually focused on rest), Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili were both part of a group of players who engaged in a track workout outdoors in the very hot summer of Texas. Keeping in mind that both players were engaging in preparing themselves for the season physically when they could have been relaxing and taking time off shows how seriously the best players approach their preparation and how valuable it is to them. When players are injured, it represents a large financial loss for each organisation, hence, the role of trainers and weightlifting coaches is paramount to team success. Stay tuned for the next column which will give you an inside look at an NBA practice and how each team prepares for a game day both when at home and while travelling on the road! Email contact: adi.vase@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/slam-dunk-being-part-of-nba-requires-good-fortune-dedication-and-knowledge-of-sport/story-2DsiEsDtQyetWcRrY1rcgJ.html
25-12-2020||Pune||‘23 suggestions have been sent to NHAI for Navale bridge traffic’||Pune: Managing traffic is an integral part of police work. The recent pile-up and mishaps at Navale bridge have raised concerns about the accident-prone spot. Even though it is a part of a highway, the stretch falls in the jurisdiction of Pune city police. Along with suggestions sent to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police for traffic, Pune, talks about Navale bridge and other traffic-related issues. Following are the excerpts from the interviewRegarding the Navale bridge situation, what is your takeaway, suggestions and way forward?After the last pile-up accident, we have carried out some changes made. I visited the spot with the planning police inspector and conducted a survey. We have sent 23 suggestions to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). A few things were implemented immediately — “go slow” road sign boards have been installed, rumblers are in installation process, reflective boards for night have been installed. Among the other suggestions was that heavy vehicles should not use the third lane on the slope which also has a turn. So, when the vehicles travel down the slope, they gain speed and the chances of losing control increases. We have suggested a speed limit of 60 kmph, installation of blinkers, maintaining the first lane for heavy vehicles from Katraj to Warje river bridge, and installing speed limit sign before the bend near Marathi Bana hotel. It has to be a joint effort because we cannot risk lives and keep passing on the responsibility.Why are diversions made to city roads due to the metro work?Yes, changes have been made and it will take around 3-4 days to set in before people realise the change. Especially for metro work, we have a set of 13 terms that are to be followed. Some of those terms are that a traffic warden is to be appointed by the contractor, before work begins the traffic officials of the area need to be informed, pedestrians should not be inconvenienced, contractor’s contact information should be on display at the site, raw material should spill on the functional roads, iron barricades should be used wherever necessary, lights should be installed for night-time visibility, responsibility of preventing accidents is on the contractor. After all these, if it is deemed fit, our divisional inspectors conduct a field visit and recommend diversions. For that application has to be made online. There have been cases of assault of traffic police for enforcing traffic rules. Any initiatives taken to tackle it?We have 100 body cameras and we can get up to 38 more. We have told our officials to be polite towards vehicle users regardless of their behaviour. It is a matter of an individual’s mentality. Along with good words and respectable language, we advise them to use their mobile phone cameras to record everything in the absence of body cameras when the situation gets out of hand.How many CCTV cameras in the city meant for traffic are functional?There are a total of 1,341 cameras of which 1,189 are functional, 119 are not-functional, and 33 are in the process of shifting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/23-suggestions-have-been-sent-to-nhai-for-navale-bridge-traffic/story-hY4vstY6k5R2xujzK3zs1H.html
25-12-2020||Dehradun||Politics heats up on ‘development debate challenge’ between BJP and AAP||The politics over debate challenge has heated up between the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over the debate challenge posed by the AAP after Uttarakhand cabinet minister Madan Kaushik said that he accepts the challenge and would go to Delhi to show “Uttarakhand development model” to AAP government in Delhi. Kaushik made the statement on Thursday evening while speaking to the media after the assembly session. His response had come in reply to AAP senior leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s challenge to the BJP led state government for an open debate on any five development works done by it in its three and a half years of tenure after coming to power in 2017. Sisodia floated the challenge during his visit to Dehradun about a week ago. “We accept the challenge for a debate on development. Sisodia has asked us to mention any five development works but we will mention 100,” said Kaushik. Also read: Indian sailors stranded at Chinese ports: No link to standoff, says ChinaOn the question of fixing a date for the debate citing Sisodia’s claim that he would come to Dehradun for it whenever Kaushik agrees, he said, “Instead I would go to their den in Delhi and hold the debate. Will show them the Uttarakhand model of development which is much better than their Delhi development model which they talk about comprising issues like education, water, power and health.”Kaushik’s statement drew a witty and aggressive response from AAP in the form of memes on its state unit’s social media handles. It posted memes related to Kaushik’s reply stating 100 development works of his government. Meanwhile, Sisodia through social media replied that he is “glad that Kaushik has accepted the challenge.”“Kaushik should decide any of the dates- January 2,3 or 4 and I will come down to Dehradun for it. It will make clear whose government did what for its people” said Sisodia. Amid the ongoing politics on the issue, political expert MM Semwal said, “AAP which has declared to fight the next assembly election of 2022 on all 70 seats, is trying to make its presence felt with such tactics.”“Though it seems to be difficult for it to make any significant impact in the elections, it’s trying hard to shake the political scenario of the state with its senior leaders like Sisodia throwing challenges of debate to Kaushik who too is a very clever politician,” said Semwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/politics-heats-up-on-development-debate-challenge-between-bjp-and-aap/story-Uqgq2I9lfNGjVyx5bNFggI.html
25-12-2020||City||Kashmir: Militant associate arrested in Awantipora||Police on Friday claimed to have arrested a militant associate from south Kashmir’s Awantipora.Police said that they recovered explosive material from his houseA police spokesman said that based on inputs, the Awantipora Police, along with personnel of 42 Rashtriya Rifles and 180 battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force, searched the residence of one Amir Ashraf Khan in Syedabad Tral village. “During the search,one Chinese hand grenade concealed in a plastic jar was recovered from the premises,” the spokesman said.Police said they arrested Khan and shifted him to the police station in Tral, where he remains in custody. “A case has been registered at the Tral police station and further investigation into the matter is in progress,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-militant-associate-arrested-in-awantipora/story-2MJAvAlrd9MMusLbH5D2XP.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Man arrested for alleged kidnapping and rape||A man was arrested on Thursday by Pune police for allegedly sedating, kidnapping, and sexually assaulting a woman with whom he was in an extra marital relationship. The arrested man was identified as Sagar Mohan Satav (28), a resident of Wagholi while the complainant is a 27-year-old. The woman works in a private company while Satav is unemployed and his family owns a farm.“He is a married man. They have been dating for the past six years. They had gone to Newasa, in Ahmednagar. There she says that he put something on her face that made her lose consciousness after which he tied her hands and legs together and sexually assaulted her. We have to investigate it from all angles,” said police inspector (crime) S Thopte of Chandan nagar police station.A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Chandan nagar police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-for-alleged-kidnapping-and-rape/story-CkkbY0yi4syZaHYoW7zCtN.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Four arrested for producing, selling gutkha using machine||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested four men on Wednesday and seized a machine they used to produce and sell gutkha from on Thursday.The four were identified as Prashant Rohidas Kumkar (29), a resident of NDA road in Angalabe in Haveli; Sanket Ramchandra Bhabhdale (28), a resident of Dhayarigaon on Sinhagad road; Shridhar Popat Raykar (26), a resident of Dhayari on Sinhagad road, according to the police.“We arrested them from Kasarwadi in the Innova in which they had the gutkha. Later on, in a room set that was near one of their houses in Dhayari, we found a machine used to make the gutkha along with plastic packets used for packaging. They were arrested yesterday (Wednesday) and were remanded to judicial custody,” said assistant police inspector Siddheshwar Kailase of Bhosari police station.The police seized gutkha worth Rs 1,65,720 and an Innova car worth Rs 6,00,000 from their possession during the arrest. Later on, the police also found a machine used to make the gutkha and packets used for packaging it.A case was registered under Sections 188, 269, 270, 272, 273, and 328 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act 2005, and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation, 2020 was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-arrested-for-producing-selling-gutkha-using-machine/story-iscBGv52KXPD1WjU63VtiK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Frequent fire incidents on Tukai hill a threat to flora-fauna||Two separate fire incidents were reported in the last three days on the Tukai tekdi, located in Baner. In both these fire incidents combined, more than 100 planted trees have suffered serious damage. Vasundhara Abhiyan Baner (VAB), an NGO which is working for conserving the biodiversity on the hill had planted these trees over the period of 14 years.“Half of these damaged trees will not survive. We lose 300-350 saplings each year due to such fire incidents. We remove the dead tree from the compound and then plant another one in that hole. Our volunteers have worked really hard to plant these trees. Everyday more than 100 volunteers of Vasundhara Abhiyan Baner work on this hill to make it greener. But such incidents destroy years of our hard work in a few minutes,” said Pandurang Bhujbal, member Vasundhara Abhiyan Baner.With a goal of enriching Tukai tekdi with biodiversity, a few residents of Baner started the work of the organisation in 2006. In the last 14 years, the network of volunteers has planted approximately 26,000 trees on the hill which include 450 various species of the plants. VAB has a network of more than 1,000 volunteers. They devote their time to this cause as per their convenience.“We all have jobs and our own businesses. We have volunteers across all age groups. When we see a burnt tree, our heart aches,” said Sanjay Murkute, member, VAB.The reason behind these fires is not clear, however, officials believe a human intervention sets the dry grass on fire and then it spreads over the hill.“Such fires are man-made. If a person throws or leaves a lightly burnt cigarette bud in the dry grass, it may cause a fire. People should avoid smoking on the hill,” said Guruswamy Tumale, assistant garden superintendent, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “There has been a court case regarding the ownership of the land on the hill. So, we can’t intervene after a point. We are doing all we can. To avoid such incidents we try to create public awareness for the conservation of the trees,” Tumale added.Locals of this area say that such fire incidents are not new on the Tukai hill. They accuse the authorities of negligence. “We saw fire on the hill at around 10.30am on Wednesday; I attribute the increased instances of fires on hills of Pune to rampant dumping and burning of garbage and miscreants. The forest department and PMC have failed completely in safeguarding hills from such activity. Simple preventive measures of removing dry grass are not done by them,” said Ravindra Sinha, general secretary Baner-Pashan link road welfare trust. He was one of the many citizens who rushed to douse the fire on the hill.Such fire incidents adversely impact the ecosystem of the hill. “It has an immediate impact on the varieties of indigenous grass in that area. This variety declines. It also affects the insects, reptiles and the habitats of the birds,” said Dharamraj Patil, biodiversity expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/frequent-fire-incidents-on-tukai-hill-a-threat-to-flora-fauna/story-wdxpeJgn0pgiS4h0femlpK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Rotting body of 42-year-old found in Manjri||The rotting body of a 42-year-old man was found in his house in Manjri, Hadapsar, on Tuesday. Suspecting murder, the local police have registered a case in the matter.The deceased has been identified as Gregory John Cordoza (42), a resident of Samta Colony in Mahadevnagar area of Manjri, Hadapsar. The police do not have any suspect list yet.He worked at a private electrical equipment company in Yerawada until a year and a half ago, according to the police. He lived with his wife, Shahnaz Cordoza (40).A complaint has been lodged by his wife who received a call from their neighbours after the smell of the rotting body started emanating from the house.“The complainant was visiting her brother to help him shift houses. She got a call and came home to find his body. It is a family of two and in the wife’s absence; he was alone since December 15 when she left. We have sent the body for post-mortem and are waiting for doctor’s opinion about the injuries on his body,” said assistant police inspector Manoj Patil of Hadapsar police station.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rotting-body-of-42-year-old-found-in-manjri/story-qmDzOgHvvgQBrSXhlwWzXK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||YCM guard arrested for molesting paralysed girl||A 47-year-old security guard working at a hospital in Pimpri has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for molesting a 19-year-old paralysed girl. The incident happened at 9pm on Monday at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital in Pimpri.The arrested man has been identified as Anil Maruti Swamy, a resident of Khadki Bazar area.The 19-year-old complainant was admitted to the hospital for the treatment of paralysis that makes it difficult for her to walk. As she was walking with a limp, the security guard approached her and told her that he is a police officer, according to her complaint.“He approached her and started a conversation and spoke about physiotherapy among other things,” said senior police inspector Milind Waghmare of Pimpri police station.Swamy held her hand under false pretence of helping her walk and led her to a secluded side of the hospital, according to her complaint.The man made sexually explicit comments and touched her inappropriately by taking undue advantage of the limp in her leg, according to the police.A case has been registered under Sections 354(a) (sexual harassment) and 170 (personating a public servant) of Indian Penal Code at the Pimpri police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ycm-guard-arrested-for-molesting-paralysed-girl/story-OWYeOgJAGU6cnGpmv5rupM.html
25-12-2020||Pune||35-year-old booked for molesting minor daughter||A 35-year-old man has been booked on Wednesday for molesting his minor daughter since the past seven months at their house in Talegaon Dabhade.The man, who is a labourer, was out of work since the lockdown, according to the police.His wife and children left him and went to Ahmednagar to their relatives’ place due to his behaviour, according to an officer who registered the case.The mother and the 15-year-old daughter decided to file a complaint at a police station in Ahmednagar after which it was transferred to Pimpri-Chinchwad and a case was registered on Wednesday.According to the complaint lodged by the teenager, the man used to periodically touch her inappropriately when she was asleep.The man had threatened to kill his wife if the girl spoke about the incident to anyone and beat her up, according to the complaint.A case under Sections 354(a) (sexual harassment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.“When the travel restrictions were lifted, the entire family (along with the man) went to Karjat to the complainant’s maternal relatives’ house. There she told her mother about what had been happening with her. So, the complaint was lodged there and the complainant and accused are also there. We will be speaking with the girl soon,” said senior police inspector Milind Waghmare of Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/35-year-old-booked-for-molesting-minor-daughter/story-AXmjIjlPgBzqKlty3bDwTM.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 618 fresh cases, five Covid deaths||The state health department reported 618 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday and five deaths in the past 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.63 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.4 lakh have recovered, 7,713 have been reported dead and 13,639 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 186 new cases taking the total count to 1, 89,338 and one death took the death toll to 4,394, while PCMC reported 133 new cases taking the final count to 92,789 and two deaths took the death toll to 1,266. Pune rural reported 186 new cases taking the final count to 86,938 and two deaths took the death toll to 2,053 according to the state health department.The department reported that 3,171 patients were discharged on Thursday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.04 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.5 per cent. Also, 3,580 new cases in the state were reported on Thursday taking the total to over 19.09 lakh.In addition, 89 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 49,058. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57 per cent. Of the 1, 23, 41,204 laboratory samples, 19, 09,951 have tested positive (15.79%) for Covid-19 until Thursday. Currently 4, 82,779 people are in home quarantine and 3,810 people are in institutional quarantine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-618-fresh-cases-five-covid-deaths/story-IP4f4bFQeynDh6tVLCwQ6L.html
25-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to track 811 British tourists amid discovery of contagious Covid-19 strain in UK||Rajasthan has begun tracking 811 British tourists, who have arrived over the last two months in the state amid concerns about a more contagious Covid-19 strain found in the UK. Officials said the Centre has shared the details of the tourists with the state government.Additional director (health) Raviprakash Sharma said they have forwarded the details to district collectors and directed them to ensure isolation and testing of the tourists. He added the department is on its toes and there was no need to panic.A bulk of these British (333) visitors have arrived in Jaipur followed by Jodhpur (73), Ajmer (70), Alwar (48), Udaipur (43), Kota (39), Jhunjhunu (24).Also Read: Rajasthan government clamps night curfew on New Year eve, bans partiesJaipur’s chief medical health officer, Narottam Sharma, said the screening and sampling work has begun. “We are to monitor all those who have arrived from the UK. ... In three-four days, we will be able to reach every single tourist from the UK in Jaipur.”Also Watch l ‘New Covid strain seen in UK not found in India so far’: Government India is among the countries that have announced a temporary ban on flights from the UK to prevent the spread of the new variant, which is believed to be 70% more transmissible.The Centre has issued guidelines asking states to ensure passengers from the UK are subjected to Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-track-811-british-tourist-amid-discovery-of-contagious-covid-19-strain-in-the-uk/story-emyfvnnMioqPixqVbutGEJ.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Covid restrictions in place at Bhima Koregaon for January 1 celebrations||The district administration has imposed Section 36 of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, at Perne village on account of Datta Jayanti and 203rd anniversary celebrations of the battle of Bhima-Koregaon from December 29 till January 1, 2021, under which strict restrictions will be imposed on visitors and planned functions.The rural police had moved a proposal seeking restrictions on crowds and other safety measures before the collector after which it received an approval.“All police officials are directed to take strict measures as directed due to the prevalence of Covid-19,” the order stated.According to the district collector’s order, strict directions have been issued for visitors to the area and at the same time, the protocols have been put in place for playing music and other traditional instruments so that the general public is not disturbed.The directive stipulates that the all police officials strictly follow the directions of the police superintendent in the wake of events and programmes being held during the Covid-19 crisis and maintain how best the law enforcement agencies can to preserve the law and order situation in the area. The directions state that police officials must take care to ensure smooth conduct of the event and ensure safety guidelines are maintained.Even the state home department has urged for low key celebrations at the event, similar to what was seen on Christmas, Eid and Diwali. Thousands of people had gathered for the 202nd anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle last year. On the day, obeisance is paid at the historic Bhima Koregaon victory obelisk popularly known as “Jaystambh” located at Perne village, 40 kilometres from Pune, where 500 Mahar soldiers of the British East India defeated the army of Peshwa on January 1, 1818.The commemoration celebrations begin around midnight on December 31 and continue throughout the day until late night the next day. According to Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, tight security arrangements have been made at the venue and a request has been made for low key celebrations as directed by the state health department due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “We have appealed for lesser crowds and stressed for online attendance of the programme due to Covid-19 pandemic,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-restrictions-in-place-at-bhima-koregaon-for-january-1-celebrations/story-eI351q9Hp8reiNYRDRbimN.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Doubling time reduces significantly in Pune, but experts urge caution||The doubling time for Covid infections have increased considerably in Pune city. For December, the doubling time was over 400 days. That is it took 400 days to double the number of Covid positive cases in Pune.Doubling time is defined as the time needed for the cases to double in a particular regionDr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of the health department at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said that the rate of infection has reduced very much. “Earlier the doubling time was very low. But now we have calculated that the doubling time has increased. For the number of cases to get twice the number, it takes more than 461 days today,” said Wavare.This, Dr Wavare said, was because the Covid infection was not spreading as much as earlier.“This is because there is more awareness among people about wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. The administration has also strictly implemented these things,” said Dr Wavare.Speaking on the increase in doubling time, Dr R Gangakhedkar, epidemiologist who earlier was the head scientist of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that the doubling rate has increased because people are following all precautions.“The first wave is about to end. Due to this, we can see the decrease in infection. And so the doubling time has increased but to maintain this, there should be no complacent behaviour in the public. Wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing is a must,” said Gangakhedkar.He further said that the Covid virus will see more mutations. “The best way to keep one safe is to practice social distancing. Covid is here to stay for the next few years. Everyone should make a habit of wearing masks for their safety and the safety of others,” said Gangakhedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doubling-time-reduces-significantly-in-pune-but-experts-urge-caution/story-2CIu3VJZC94K6nPh7Ywx7I.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Hold prayers in the evening; organise online mass, says PMC on Christmas celebrations in city||Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has appealed to the Christian community to arrange online masses to avoid rush at churches during Christmas. The civic chief issued guidelines for Christmas celebrations on Thursday keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions“Do not organise thanksgiving mass at midnight on December 31. Instead, organise a prayer 7 in the evening or before that considering the night curfew restrictions,” said Kumar.As per the guidelines, a maximum of 50 people have been allowed at a time inside a church. Even for the choir, the group cannot have more than 10 people.PMC commissioner has asked the citizens to maintain social distancing during prayers at churches. He has instructed the church authorities to sanitise the premises frequently and place sanitisers at entry and exit points.The civic administration has also appealed to senior citizens above 60 years old and kids below 10 years to avoid going for the mass prayers. Instead, the church administration should make the mass prayer available online so that such citizens can get participate in the event online.The civic administration has advised family-based celebrations at home and avoid public gatherings. The administration has instructed stall owners to not set up shop outside the church.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hold-prayers-in-the-evening-organise-online-mass-says-pmc-on-christmas-celebrations-in-city/story-ZUYL8c1greiLfJmpqsD7rN.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Political parties eye electorate as village merger to add PMC’s population by five lakh||Days before the 23 areas – referred in government records as villages – are to be officially merged into the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), politicians are divided over the decision. With civic polls slated for December 2021, each party is trying to take political mileage over the issue. Earlier on Wednesday, the Maharashtra government issued a notification, paving the way for merger of 23 areas surrounding the city into PMC limits. Post merger, PMC will have largest (518 sqkm) area under its jurisdiction with increased number of corporators and over five lakh population under its limits from these areas. The latest move is also being seen with political motives as the 23 areas are under the control of the NCP and Congress, who want these parts to be under PMC as civic polls are lined up in December 2021. To prepare the party for polls, the city BJP chief Jagdish Mulik has started meeting residents from these areas. Currently, the BJP controls the 165-member PMC house with 98 corporators. Central parts of the city are dominated by the BJP, while outskirt areas are under the control of the NCP and Congress Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Chandrakant Patil accuses the Maha Vikas Agadhi government for taking the merger decision with political motives. “When we were ruling in the state, we decided to merge the villages step by step and provide adequate infrastructure. This government has not mentioned anything for giving financial help for creating infrastructure in these villages,” said Patil According to Patil, PMC is already facing a financial crisis due to Covid-19. Mulik said, “The Maha Vikas Aghadi and mainly the NCP is believing that by merging these 23 villages, they would be able to get power in PMC. The NCP and Congress would not get support in these villages. Right now both the parties have power in these villages, but they are unable to carry any development work. Though it is a political decision, BJP would remain with the citizens of the 23 villages and get their support.” NCP city unit president Chetan Tupe said, “As per the high court’s order, the BJP merged the 11 villages in 2017. Then the state government promised to merge remaining 23 villages in next three years. The state government just followed the previous decision and merged the remaining 23 villages in PMC.” Congress leader Aba Bagul also accused the BJP for playing politics. “The BJP in PMC has already approved the new water scheme for these villages and has appointed a consultant at the cost of Rs13 crore. Why they are doing such planning even before the state government offered its nod. It means they too are supporting this decision but doing politics over it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/political-parties-eye-electorate-as-village-merger-to-add-pmc-s-population-by-five-lakh/story-MKecODMkSOKH76bijy26TN.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kaza to host national ice hockey meet next month||The Under 20 national ice hockey tournament will be organised for the first time in Kaza in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district from January 27. An ice hockey training camp has started at the rink built at a height of 3,720 metres in which students aged between eight and 20 years are participating. This is for the second time that an ice hockey training camp has been organised at Kaza in which 165 students are being trained under national-level coach Amit Berwal. Ice Hockey Association of India general secretary Harjinder Singh Jindi, who was the chief guest at the inauguration of the coaching camp, said that there was immense scope for winter sports in Spiti Valley and developing infrastructure for ice hockey and skiing could attract more tourists. He said some students participating in the camp would be sent for the advanced coaching camp at Gulmarg on January 1, 2021, for which the selection process would start soon. Additional district magistrate Gyan Sagar Negi said that last year’s coaching camp produced good results. “Spiti is snowbound for five months and in such a situation, if children of Spiti valley are trained in ice hockey, then there can be better players representing the state and country,” he said. “Basic and advanced coaching will be given to children participating in this camp and provision has been made for expenses incurred,” Negi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kaza-to-host-national-ice-hockey-meet-next-month/story-xmhi6Gh58ToyagRFSSG1QN.html
25-12-2020||Dehradun||31- year- old man shot dead in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani||A 31-year-old youth was shot dead near his house in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani on Thursday evening. He was found outside his house, lying in a pool of blood, before family members rushed him to a government hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead, said police.Police rushed to the hospital and sent the body for post-mortem. Bhupendra Singh Dhoni, circle officer, Haldwani, said 31- year- old Amit Singh, a resident of Chandmari area in Kathgodam, was found with a bullet mark on his chest, lying on the road outside of his house, on Thursday around 8 pm. Dhoni said the murdered man operated a hotel at Salari in Bhimtal area of Nainital district. “He had gone to his hotel as usual on Thursday morning. Later, in the night at around 8 pm, a neighbour informed Amit’s sister Shalini that his brother was lying on the road in a pool of blood,” he said. Also Read: Uttarakhand cancels winter break for Class 10, 12 studentsShalini, sister of the deceased, said, Amit’s 10-year old love marriage had turned sour recently. “Around three months ago, his wife left him and went to her mother’s home. Both have a seven-year-old daughter who lived with Amit. A dowry harassment case had been filed against his brother and other family members,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/31-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-haldwani/story-K7zaOB2o4sH1u1dMJZE01J.html
25-12-2020||Patna||Woman constable in Bihar shoots herself accidentally while cleaning rifle||A lady constable identified as 20-year-old Juli Kumari, posted at Triveniganj police station of Supaul district in Bihar, was seriously injured when the service rifle she was cleaning fired accidentally on Friday morning.The constable was rushed to Triveniganj primary health centre, from where she was referred to Supaul district hospital.The lady constable, a resident of Gaya, was cleaning her service rifle when it accidentally went off with the bullet hitting her in the chest. She was rushed to hospital soon after the incident.“Now she is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and her condition is stated to be critical,” a police officer said, adding, “Many policemen came forward to donate blood to her.”Also Read: Bihar issues guidelines for reopening of schools, colleges at 50% capacitySupaul superintendent of police Manoj Kumar said that while the prime focus was on saving her life, a forensic science laboratory (FSL) team has been summoned to probe the incident, which, prima facie appeared to be an accident.In September, a 25-year-old lady police constable had died by suicide in Araria followed by suspension of Narpatganj station house officer (SHO) King Kundan, who was accused of having a hand in her suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/woman-police-constable-in-bihar-shoots-herself-accidently-while-cleaning-rifle/story-cGQ27iQmhIKAkUXp0vx5VM.html
25-12-2020||Patna||2 women Judo players got govt jobs with fake certificates, land in trouble||A written complaint has been filed against two women Judo players with the Sachiwalaya police station in Patna for alleged cheating and forgery to secure their appointments in government jobs against sports quota in 2016.Additional secretary Shreeram Baitha filed a written complaint and requested police officers to lodge the FIR against the accused players, Om Shanti Devi and Rupa Rani, for cheating, forgery and conspiracy.SHO of the Sachiwalaya police station, DC Gupta, however, said that he received a complaint on December 22 but the case has not been lodged yet as the police were looking into the matter.Also Read: Bihar issues guidelines for reopening of schools, colleges at 50% capacityOm Shanti Devi, a resident of Danapur, Patna, secured a government job on the basis of certificate of participation in senior national Judo championship (Uttarakhand)-2009-10, 2011-2012 and Rupa Rani of Kolkata, also got a government job on the basis of participation in the national senior judo competition in Kolkata in 2011 and senior judo championship in Una (HP) in 2013-2014. “The certificates of both players were found to be fake during a scrutiny,” the additional secretary’s complaint alleged. The government has also recommended departmental proceedings against Om Shanti Devi and Rupa Rani for securing jobs reserved for sports quota in 2016. The vacancy was advertised on June 6, 2015. Om Shanti Devi and Rupa Rani had submitted their sports certificate on July 22, 2015. Later, the concerned department sent their certificates to Indian Federation of Judo, New Delhi, which found them to be fake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-women-judo-players-got-govt-jobs-with-fake-certificates-land-in-trouble/story-aFeVX6BU5YODPFAAG6if2L.html
25-12-2020||Lucknow||Dalit man attacked in UP’s Banda for using water from common handpump||A 45-year-old Dalit man was beaten up in a village in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh on Friday allegedly by people who objected to his using a government-installed handpump, police said.In an FIR lodged at the Bisanda police station, Ramchandra Raidas has alleged that family members of Ram Dayal Yadav attacked him with sticks when he went to take water from the handpump in Tendura village here in the morning, Station House Officer Narendra Pratap Singh said.Raidas sustained injuries in the attack and was admitted to a primary health centre, Singh said.The SHO said Raidas has also alleged that two months ago, the accused had banned them from taking water from the handpump installed in the locality of the Yadavs, but the matter was resolved following an intervention by the sub-divisional magistrate of Atarra.An investigation in the case is underway, the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/dalit-man-attacked-in-up-s-banda-for-using-water-from-common-handpump/story-yxun2DQGr1G22VQHu9Xe1H.html
25-12-2020||Bhopal||AIMIM readies to enter MP politics with local body polls; survey tests water||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen or AIMIM, led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, is planning to enter Madhya Pradesh politics with a foray in local body elections, to be held in January and February 2021, said a party official. But before the electoral plunge, the party is busy conducting a survey in Muslim-dominated areas to find where it stands in the state, said Naem Ansari, acting state president of AIMIM. Ansari said the survey was being conducted in at least 20 districts of Malwa-Nimar and the central region of MP under the guidance of Syed Minhajuddin, AIMIM leader and councillor of Greater Hyderabad Nagar Nigam. An initial survey was conducted a few months ago to find out if people were looking for an alternative to the Congress, BJP, BSP and SP. Ansari said the survey, including in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain, revealed that people want a new option. The latest survey is being conducted to find out if people see AIMIM as an option to fill the political void revealed in the previous survey, said Ansari. Also Read: AIMIM leader arrested after he opens fire in group clash, injures 3The findings of the survey, to be completed soon, will be discussed with party president Asaduddin Owaisi, he added. Ansari claimed that some well-known MP politicians of different political parties are in touch with AIMIM and they wanted it to emerge as the third option in the state. Also Read: Remembering Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversaryThe party is asking some basic questions about AIMIM, its leaders and what people want from them, said a leader familiar with the survey. AIMIM established its office in MP for the first time in 2015. After winning five seats in Bihar assembly election held in November this year, the party is looking to extend its presence in other states including MP and West Bengal, said the leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/aimim-readies-to-enter-mp-politics-with-local-body-polls-survey-tests-water/story-wgKxKrd7Lq1Qe3V7G1RzqK.html
25-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP ups ante against TMC as PM Modi releases financial benefits to farmers||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) upped the ante against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal accusing the state’s ruling party of depriving farmers from receiving financial benefits released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Modi released the next instalment of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers, worth Rs18,000 crore into bank accounts of 90 million farmers.The BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya attacked the Mamata Banerjee-government in a series of tweets. “Today, when the PM will transfer 18,000 crore to 9 crore farmer families across the country, farmers of West Bengal will be deprived because the CM has refused to identify and submit the list of beneficiaries to the central government. Pishi’s ego means farmers suffer!” Malviya tweeted on Friday morning. Today, when the PM will transfer 18,000 crore to 9 crore farmer families across the country, farmers of West Bengal will be deprived because the CM has refused to identify and submit the list of beneficiaries to the central government.Pishi’s ego means farmers suffer!#PMKisanThe TMC, however, said the way the Centre wants to transfer the money is not acceptable and the state government is providing financial assistance to farmers, which is higher than what the Centre provides. “The state has already informed the Centre that the financial benefit needs to be routed through the state. The Centre giving direct benefit is against the federal structure. Secondly, the state government is providing farmers an assistance of Rs5,000 per acre, which is higher than the central benefit,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.This comes just two days after the TMC chief Mamata Banerjee sent a team comprising five parliamentarians to meet agitating farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border. Also Read: TMC worker, supporter found dead“Of the approx 72 lakh farmers in WB, nearly 23 lakh have self-registered on the central portal seeking benefits under the #PMKisan Samman Nidhi, but Pishi wouldn’t certify them! Each farmer in WB has so far lost Rs14,000 (including latest instalment) and the state 9,800 crore,” Malviya said in his second tweet. Similar allegations were made by union home minister Amit Shah during his visit to the state last weekend. “Only 55% of WB’s agricultural land is irrigated. Despite being a water-rich state, it is poorly irrigated. It ranks 24 out of 29 states. In terms of average monthly income of farmers as reported by NABARD in 2016-17, WB ranks low at 24 among 29 states. Pishi has failed farmers,” Malviya said in his tweet. The PM’s outreach comes amid ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by the Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in West Bengal in 2021. BJP and TMC’s exchange over the PM-Kisan scheme is the latest in a war of words between the parties leading up to the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-bjp-ups-ante-against-tmc-as-pm-modi-releases-financial-benefits-to-farmers/story-s92Bl5ulLcjGQHpkyE5AZI.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Local train services on Thane-Vashi, Nerul-Thane route suspended||Local train services on Central Railway’s trans-harbour route between Thane and Vashi and Nerul and Thane railway stations were suspended on Friday morning owing to the entanglement of overhead wires at Koparkhairane railway station.The local train services were suspended at 10.05am and are yet to be restored. “The traffic from Vashi to Thane and Nerul to Thane has been suspended. All efforts are being made to restore traffic as soon as possible.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railways.Another official said that the disruption will probably not cause hardship to commuters as it is a public holiday on account of Christmas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-train-services-on-thane-vashi-nerul-thane-route-suspended/story-EZutJiJcJSS8d1oOmYEBbM.html
25-12-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath orders upgrade of labs & treatment to fight new Covid-19 strain||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to upgrade labs in the State for testing the new and more contagious strain of coronavirus that has run amok in the United Kingdom. The UP CM also said that a protocol for treatment of the new strain should also be developed in the state while requesting a strict vigil on its possible spread.CM’s instructions came during a review of the Covid-19 situation in the state at a high-level meeting held at his Lok Bhawan office in Lucknow.He asked the state medical education and the health departments to play a proactive role in getting the technology at the State’s medical education institutions and hospitals upgraded to meet the challenge posed by the new Covid strain.He asked authorities to ensure testing of all international passengers arriving in the state for Covid and their mandatory home isolation till the test results were made available.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Many UK returnees switch off their mobile phonesHe re-emphasised on contact tracing and surveillance apart from a sufficient backup of medicines, medical equipment and oxygen at Covid hospitals to help increase Covid-19 recovery rate in the state.He also said that the work on setting up 14 new medical colleges in the state, currently in its third phase, should be expedited. No laxity regarding development works would be tolerated under any circumstances in UP, he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-orders-upgrade-of-labs-treatment-to-fight-new-covid-19-strain/story-qDJH6h1AeS1UGki7a4FF9K.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Chilla, Ghazipur borders closed, traffic diverted from GT Karnal Road||Delhi traffic police on Friday advised people coming via Chilla and Ghazipur to take alternate routes as these borders are shut for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to the national Capital.“The Chilla, Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate routes for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders,” police tweeted.Other borders such as Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders are also shut, they said, adding that traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road.“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH 44,” they tweeted. pic.twitter.com/6jBJNMU6tSCommuters coming from Azadpur Mandi to GTK depot will be diverted towards Rohini and traffic coming from Mukandpur to Singhu border will be diverted towards Mukandpur, the traffic police added in their advisory.The advisory came in the backdrop of widespread protests near Delhi against the three farm laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations. The laws are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.In the latest outreach by the government, PM Modi will on Friday transfer Rs18,000 crore to the bank accounts of nine crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-chilla-gazipur-borders-closed-traffic-diverted-from-gt-karnal-road-mukarba/story-6YgvED4uP0Q0HCTUDXLmsI.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Over 1.5k UK returnees in Mumbai to be monitored for new Covid-19 variant||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is monitoring at least 1, 593 people, who have arrived in Mumbai between November 25 and December 22 from the UK, where a more contiguous strain of Covid-19 has been found. The civic body has prepared a list of the residential locations of these individuals and divided them as per their local administrative wards.Ward officials have been directed to contact the returnees, check their health, send a medical team if needed and also prescribe reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests if required. The positive samples will be sent to Pune’s National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing to identify the new strain.Also Read: Mumbai: BMC starts training doctors for Covid-19 vaccinationSuresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “So far, through screenings at the airport, we have found no Covid-19 symptomatic patients among the European and Middle Eastern passengers being quarantined at hotels. The UK returnees will be closely monitored and our teams have started following up with them. They will also have to go through Covid-19 tests if required.”BMC on Monday cited the new strain and said passengers from the UK, Europe and Middle Eastern countries will compulsorily be quarantined for seven days after they land in Mumbai. Their stay may increase by another seven days if they test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-1-5k-uk-returnees-in-mumbai-to-be-monitored-for-new-variant-of-coronavirus/story-4byLShT8ueZHLVmEcKCE0O.html
25-12-2020||City||Tripura to give jobs to families of political violence victims||Tripura will provide government jobs to a member each of the families of people killed in political violence since March 2018, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath said. The families have been petitioning the government for jobs.The state government constituted a Nath-led six-member committee on December 22 to scrutinise the applications received for the jobs. The committee scrutinised 10 applications at its first meeting on Thursday and found seven of them eligible. But it recommended jobs for six as one of the eligible applicants was found lacking the requisite educational qualification.Also Read: 3 men kidnapped by militants in Tripura freed after 2 weeksNath said the state Cabinet will consider giving the ineligible candidate financial assistance or relaxation in educational qualification.“After forming the government in 2018, we received many applications for government jobs from these families throughout the state,” Nath said.He said that the jobseekers would need to fulfil required educational qualification criteria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-to-give-jobs-to-families-of-political-violence-victims/story-kdq8cKIdYGtW7W8lqbIh3J.html
25-12-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath pays tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on birth anniversary||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday paid tributes to late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee ahead of his birth anniversary on Friday. He said Vajpayee was always a popular leader, whether he was in the ruling party or in the opposition.Adityanath said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is following Vajpayee’s tradition and is engaged in the betterment of the country and its people.“The dreams of Atalji are now being realised,” Adityanath said at a poetry event organised by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Foundation here. He said Vajpayee’s poetry epitomised nationalism, values, and struggle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-pays-tribute-to-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-birth-anniversary/story-EZ0IBwHZ6keg8DE4dfn3tN.html
25-12-2020||Lucknow||Top BJP leaders to attend Modi’s farmer outreach events across Uttar Pradesh||Union ministers are among the top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, who have been tasked with ensuring the success of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Kisan Samvad (dialogue with farmers) being held at over 2,500 places across Uttar Pradesh on Friday.BJP leaders said Modi is likely to interact with a few farmers from Uttar Pradesh but there was no official word on the interaction.Modi would address the farmers on Friday as he would transfer the next instalment of Kisan Samman Nidhi into the farmers’ accounts. TV screens have been installed to telecast the address across the country.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Many UK returnees switch off their mobile phonesThe outreach comes amid protests by farmers against three farm laws passed in September to liberalize the sector.“Under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a lot has been done for farmers’ welfare. Naturally, there is great excitement as the PM would interact with farmers on the birth anniversary of late [former Prime Minister] Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” said Uttar Pradesh BJP general secretary Govind Shukla.Top leaders including chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be present for the Kisan Samvad event in Lucknow.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya will attend the event in Kanpur, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev in Unnao and Union minister Smriti Irani in Amethi. Similarly, other top BJP leaders will attend the event at separate places across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/top-bjp-leaders-to-attend-modi-s-farmer-outreach-events-across-uttar-pradesh/story-KO1U1IgiI4QZ6tgVP4a86M.html
25-12-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC sets up committee to keep the city’s lungs clean||The Calcutta high court has set up a committee to protect the Maidan, often considered as the city’s lungs because of its sprawling grasslands and wooded areas. The two-member committee, comprising the state’s advocate general and the additional solicitor general (representing the centre), has been directed to come up with a plan on how the greenery could be maintained. The division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee gave the order while hearing a suo moto case on how the Brigade Parade Ground and the extended greens could be kept clean and kept free from littering. Also Read: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee announces agro-industrial-park in SingurEven though the Army owns the land, it submitted that the maintenance of the Maidan is done by the state public works department. The committee was directed to speak with the Army authorities, PWD and the local civic body and come up with a plan. The plan would have to be submitted by January 14 when the matter would be heard next. The court observed that as it is the year-end festive season and winter, people would be gathering at the Maidan. Authorities should stress more on spreading awareness on keeping the Maidan clean and put up more dustbins, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-hc-sets-up-committee-to-keep-the-city-s-lungs-clean/story-w1bK7xDFUIQY6iL8MyTVNJ.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC starts training doctors for Covid-19 vaccination||Hoping that the city will get the Covid-19 vaccine by the first half of next year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is starting to train doctors for the mass immunisation process. So far, 40 doctors have been trained; they will later train other doctors.Even though the BMC has been immunising children for years, this will be the first time that the civic body will vaccinate adults. For the initial phase of Covid-19 vaccination, the BMC has estimated the need to train around 2,500 people. “Though the process is similar, we still need to provide training to our doctors. These 40 doctors have been trained for vaccine distribution, storage and transportation,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.Also Read: Over 600,000 UK citizens receive first dose of Pfizer-BioNTech Covid vaccineOther than in tertiary-care hospitals, training is being conducted in peripheral and special hospitals as well. These trainers will train their team members and field-level staff at their respective centres. “We expect to complete their initial training by January 7, 2021,” she added.Meanwhile, the civic body has identified eight hospitals as Covid-19 vaccination points — King Edward Memorial (KEM), Lokmanya Tilak General, BYL Nair, Cooper, Bandra Bhabha, VN Desai, Rajawadi and Bharat Ratna Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said that the civic body has decided to develop a real-time monitoring Covid-19 mobile application to regulate the vaccination process among the 2 crore population in Mumbai. “Along with vaccination process, we also need to train our employees in handling the application which will help to centralise the system,” he said.The civic body plans to vaccinate around one crore people within a month after the roll out of the vaccine. “To ensure better accessibility to people, we have plans to include schools and gymkhanas as the vaccination points,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-starts-training-doctors-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-uM5t66UoctPnTj01A6582H.html
25-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Many UK returnees switch off their mobile phones||Many travellers, who have returned to Lucknow from the UK where a more contagious Covid-19 strain has been found, had their mobile phones switched off when health department officials tried to contact them on Thursday for sampling. “We have [now] sent them emails asking them to contact the office of the chief medical officer,” said a health department official.If they do not contact the health department by Friday, it will seek the help of police to track them down for sampling and monitoring. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has provided copies of the passports of the UK returnees to the local authorities.Officials said 134 people came to Lucknow between December 9 and 21 from the UK. They are required to undergo testing and have to be kept in isolation as per the Centre’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-many-uk-returnees-switch-off-their-mobile-phones/story-o9NWsIPMDbxdhIJXdax0YO.html
25-12-2020||Patna||Bihar issues guidelines for reopening of schools, colleges at 50% capacity||The Bihar education department has issued elaborate guidelines for reopening of schools, colleges and coaching institutions from January 4. The decision to open schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges, coaching centres, medical and engineering colleges was taken earlier at the crisis management group (CMG) meeting on December 18. All educational institutions in the state were shut since March 15 owing to the nationwide lockdown triggered by Covid-19 pandemic. The classes will commence with 50% strength and all the institutions will have to follow Covid-19 protocol. “The decision to reopen remaining classes will be taken after a review meeting on January 18, 2021,” said Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary, education department. Parents will have to give consent for their wards to attend the educational institutions and those choosing to attend classes online from home will be allowed to continue. Students will have to submit a self-declaration form detailing their travel history and medical condition. “The government school students will be given two mask each, prepared by Jeevika didi,” he said. Jeevika Didis are self help groups comprising local women, formed under Jeevika, the Bihar government’s rural livelihood programme.Singh said the coaching institutes will see a staggered reopening and will have to submit a Covid-19 protocol they will follow upon resumption of classes. The SOPs released by the government mandate that hostels and school buses will have to be sanitised once before schools reopen and then twice a day after reopening. Schools and other institutions have also been directed to constitute different teams to look after sanitisation, cleanliness and social distancing. Also Read: Bihar’s Srijan scam gets even bigger, another FIR lodged for missing Rs 100 croreThe guidelines said the educational institutions will have to avoid organising functions besides ensuring the availability of medical staff for any emergency. President, Private Schools and Children Welfare Association, Shamael Ahmed, welcomed the decision; however, he sought government’s permission for resumption of additional classes.“The government should rethink its decision and allow classes from 8th onwards to reopen, so that confidence is built among the students and parents. There are just 500-600 schools that have classes 9 to 12 and are allowed to open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-issues-guidelines-for-reopening-of-schools-colleges-at-50-capacity/story-IOTBInf1HAtDVdXvEZ1mmM.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air better today, to improve further: IMD||After recording three days of "severe" air, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) finally improved to the latter end of "very poor" on Friday. The hourly average AQI reading at 7am on Friday was 398.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the overall AQI reading of Delhi on Thursday was 423, in the "severe" zone. Delhi’s air has been in the "severe" zone from Tuesday when the AQI reading slipped to 418. On Wednesday, the air quality had dipped further, as the AQI recorded a reading of 433. Also Read: Noida, Ghaziabad suffer ‘severe’ air for the third dayVK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that despite the forecast of improvement in wind speed, the AQI is likely to stay in the "severe" zone on Friday. “The wind speed will improve and there will be a marginal improvement in the air quality too, but it is likely to remain in the ‘severe’ zone on Friday as well. On December 26, the wind speed will remain high and there will be a significant improvement in the air quality,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-improves-marginally/story-o5VxzY8aR5k1TdyHWyKiBN.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration still owes MC ₹48 crore in property tax||Even after repeated property notices, threats of disconnection of water connections and latest rounds of meetings on unpaid dues with the municipal corporation officials, the UT administration has failed to pay more than ₹48 crore in outstanding property tax.The UT Secretariat in Sector 9 (₹2.16 crore), Haryana Raj Bhawan (₹3.18 lakh), Punjab Raj Bhawan (₹2.7 lakh), Government College for Girls, Sector 11 (₹82 lakh), Art Gallery, Sector 10 (₹34 lakh), are among the top tax defaulters.But the administration’s departments are not the only government agencies with unpaid property tax dues in their names. Even MC’s own departments–horticulture and road wings—owe it more than ₹3 crore in unpaid property tax.In contrast to MC failing to make much headway in recovering property tax dues from the government departments, it has already recovered ₹49 crore from the residential, commercial and institutional segments against the initial tax collection target of ₹48 crore for the financial year 2020-2021. It has now revised the target to ₹54 crore.For the cash-strapped MC, property tax is one of the two major sources of its revenues, the other being the collections from charges on water supply. There are 1.4 lakh properties under the jurisdiction of the MC, of which more than 1.2 lakh are taxable.UT tops list of defaultersThe MC had served the administration property recovery notices for ₹10 crore in August, and another set of notices amounting to ₹44 crore with December 15 as the deadline for payment.The notices were issued mainly to different wings of the UT engineering department, which maintains all the UT’s buildings. “Two wings cleared off ₹6 crore dues by submitting the receipts which showed they had already paid the tax. One of the wings, CP-3, has neither paid the dues nor submitted any receipts,” said an MC official, requesting anonymity.The MC had also issued notices to its own departments; the dues stood at around ₹11 crore at the time of issuing the notices.“Different MC departments reconciled around ₹8 crore in property tax, but ₹3 crore are still pending. We are pursuing the matter with the departments and hope these will be cleared soon,” said the official. The defaulting departments include roads and public health wings of the MC engineering department.“While some departments have not paid the tax, in other cases, there is a mismatch between their records and ours. In such cases if they submit the receipt of the tax payments then we are accommodating them,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-still-owes-mc-48-crore-in-property-tax/story-iYKPFWpDt0IhSn9JYa84WO.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER to make arrangements to vaccinate 16,000 people||Once the Covid-19 vaccine becomes available, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is planning to vaccinate an estimated 16,000 people in the long term. The people include frontline workers, doctors, nurses, technical cadres, contractual workers, employees not directly involved in patient care, and the family members of the above.“Infrastructure as well as the personnel for the task are being identified. Once there is authorisation and we receive the vaccine, we will start the process as per the priority list communicated by the ministry of health and family welfare. After that, other groups will be considered,” said professor of ophthalmology, SS Pandav, who is chairing the internal vaccination committee of the institute.“We are preparing for vaccination of all employees as well as their family members will be included, however, priorities set by the government which in the long term will be followed by the family members as well. Arrangements on that scale will be made,” said PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram.On the other hand, the UT health department has asked the staff posted in the dispensaries to identify private healthcare workers to be included in the list being prepared by the authorities.“There was hardly any response from the private healthcare sector in the UT for providing data regarding number of healthcare workers working with the department, so we have asked the staff posted in the dispensaries to locate even small clinics from where people can be registered,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director of the UT health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-to-make-arrangements-to-vaccinate-16-000-people/story-Gyk4GDyf4MNo4FjigzmhmM.html
25-12-2020||City||50 years of 1971 war triumph: Veterans of Ambala region relive memories||As the nation celebrates Swarnim Vijay Varsh to commemorate 50 years of the 1971 Indo-Pak war triumph, the veterans from the Ambala region, on the sidelines of an official felicitation at the Kharga Stadium in cantonment area on Thursday, shared anecdotes. Colonel Kuldev Nand (retd) was only 26 when his 23 Mountain Artillery brigade had to face the bullets from the Pakistani forces while advancing towards Mudafarganj in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) on the morning of December 4, 1971.“When we received orders to move forward, suddenly firing started from the opposite side and two of our men got injured. We attacked, killed eight men and captured two. Later, we found a heavily injured armourer in the fields, who pleaded with us to shoot him. He was lucky he was facing the Indian Army and we did not kill him. Rather, he was evacuated and given medical care, before he left for Pakistan,” he said.Lieutenant General KS Dogra (retd) was with the corps of Army Air Defence and posted in Sambha (Jammu and Kashmir), and was responsible to track the enemy’s location.“With the help of radar control guns, we shot down many Pakistani aircrafts. On December 3 and 7, many of their aircrafts were destroyed, due to which their spirits were broken and then they never flew in our areas,” he said.Subedar Sewa Singh, 92, from the Bombay Engineer Group, a regiment of the Corps of Engineers, who retired in 1975, couldn’t talk, but his son Baldev Singh said that his father had defused a bomb in Ferozepur Zira and saved many lives.The felicitations took place a day after the victory flame was received in a grand reception by Lieutenant General SS Mahal, GOC, Kharga Corps. Lieutenant General Ranjit Singh (retd) highlighted the role of Kharga Corps in the war.The flame will now be taken to Patiala, Chandimandir and Siachen glacier, the GOC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-years-of-1971-war-triumph-veterans-of-ambala-region-relive-memories/story-OKETSlScSQb6T0mT5NvPJN.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer protests: Panjab University students set up book stall at Singhu border||As farmers are protesting at the Singhu border for nearly a month now, a few students of Panjab University (PU) have installed a book stall there for book lovers.The students associated with Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) are issuing books on literature and history of Punjab. They said that the response from the protesters who were stationed at the border was overwhelming. This comes days after the alumni of the varsity held a distribution drive at the border.Gurdeep Singh, member of ASA and student of human rights department of PU, who is at Singhu border said, “We are providing books on literature and Punjab to everyone here. We have over 350 books at our stall here and we will make more books available in the coming days.”The students of PU and other educational institutes of Punjab are taking an active part in the farmers’ agitation since the beginning. Some PU students have been at the Singhu border for weeks now.The students said that protesters, who had been there for weeks, were showing much interest in reading books. “We installed the stall today and have issued over 150 books so far. People of different age groups are taking books from us and we have also maintained a register,” said Heera Singh, a student of Persian at PU.The students said that they were also planning to set up another camp for helping people with emergency accommodations.Members of other student bodies of PU are also at the Singhu border. From youth meetings and cultural programmes, these students are at the forefront of the farm agitation. Varinder, who is the president of Students For Society (SFS), said, “We are holding regular meetings for the youth and other awareness programmes. We also provide essential items mostly to older protesters here.”Some alumni of PU have also set up camp at the Singhu border for book reading and debate sessions. Parminder Jaswal, former president of Panjab University Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC), said, “We have set up a camp here from the last 13 days for book reading and debate sessions. Our volunteers are also teaching children of nearby slum areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-protests-panjab-university-students-set-up-book-stall-at-singhu-border/story-wvwIiyK1C1jxwhqpiHv9iN.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Welfare body pitches for therapeutic village for people with mental disabilities in Chandigarh||Citizens for Inclusive Living (CIL), an association of persons working for the dignity and welfare of people with mental disabilities, have pitched for establishing a serenity therapeutic village in Chandigarh.“Chandigarh, a modern city matching western standards of living, is, unfortunately, lacking in decent assisted living facilities for persons with mental disabilities. Persons with mental disabilities feel excluded from the mainstream, and good community living options within the city are virtually non-existent. Many parents will happily pay for good facilities, so there is no financial burden on the government,” members of the CIL in a press conference here said.Happy Arora, a parent, spoke of the urgent need for good quality residential and occupational facilities for persons with mental disabilities, and the instrumental role that parents could play in successfully running a large, integrated community set-up. Aditya Vikram, a mental health advocate, spoke of the synergies in having an inclusive community, and the potential for providing the best social care facilities including boarding, lodging, vocational, occupational, and recreational facilities, all in one large, beautiful and therapeutic campus in Indira Holiday Home, Chandigarh.Dr Simmi Waraich, a psychiatrist, spoke of the immense potential for international recognition of such a project and intended tie-ups with several reputed institutions. The association comprises special educators, professionals, social workers, parents and caregivers of persons with disabilities and concerned citizens. Its aim is to make Chandigarh more inclusive and caring for persons with mental disabilities. CIL has over 100 members, with a core committee of 17 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/welfare-body-pitches-for-therapeutic-village-for-people-with-mental-disabilities-in-chandigarh/story-aOtMyA6dUnUjPivG3eIpyH.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farm laws need amendments, talks must resume: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Thursday that the three new farm laws needed amendments, and urged the protesting unions to give “concrete suggestions” to the government. Addressing a press conference here, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader said: “I accept that these farm laws need some amendments. We had given suggestions to the Centre which were accepted by the Centre... and these suggestions were reflected in the letter the Union government had sent to the farm unions while extending invite for talks.” Chautala further urged the protesting farmers to give “concrete suggestions” regarding their demands and resume the dialogue. “When the Centre is ready for talks, the farmer unions that have held six rounds of talks earlier should come forward. No agitation has ever ended without talks being held.”“History teaches us that the agenda of the agitation never succeeds due to the deadlock over dialogue. This deadlock will not end until you (farm union) give suggestions and hold the talks,” he added. Chautala also ruled out withdrawing support to the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana, reiterating that he would be in the government till farmers continue to get MSP. “I will resign and sit at home the moment I am unable to protect the interests of farmers...We will take appropriate and immediate step if there is any threat to the interests of Haryana...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-laws-need-amendments-talks-must-resume-dushyant-chautala/story-CoMOuzkEX1aWsdBNCwjqKI.html
25-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC worker, supporter found dead||A Trinamool Congress worker and a supporter were found dead in two different districts in West Bengal on Thursday. In Hooghly, 35-year-old Suchand Jana, a TMC supporter, was found dead on the banks of a canal with bruises on his face. “The body was sent for post mortem. We are treating this as an unnatural death case till the autopsy hints at some foul play,” said a senior police officer. Meanwhile, the TMC and BJP traded allegations after the police recovered the body of 70-year-old Khalek Mia, a TMC worker, from a field by the roadside at Toofanganj in Cooch Behar. He was missing on Wednesday night. “We have initiated a case. Further investigation is on,” said a senior police officer of Cooch Behar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-worker-supporter-found-dead/story-8VoIE0EjrxNGbzUv3gx99K.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||High court to re-examine boundaries of Sukhna lake catchment area||The Punjab and Haryana high court will re-examine the boundaries of the Sukhna Lake catchment area. On December 18, the HC had stayed demolition and construction activity in the Sukhna catchment area. Apart from recovery of the ₹100-crore fine imposed on the governments of Punjab and Haryana, it had put in abeyance an earlier March 2020 order of a division bench with these directions. The December 18 order from the bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice HS Sidhu had come on the plea of Kansal Enclave Residents Welfare Association, Mohali, a residents’ body, who had petitioned against the March judgment saying no consensus had been drawn regarding the veracity of the 2004 map prepared by Survey of India, as per which the court had decided the catchment area boundaries in March. Punjab also figured in the appeal. In the detailed order released on Thursday, the court observed that the catchment area of the lake needed to be determined on the basis of scientific, technological and legal aspects. It also issued notice to Survey of India, which prepared it. The court observed that some of the construction, in the areas which fall in the catchment area as per the 2004 map, were notified in Nayagaon’s master plan and their right to shelter, cannot be denied. It said that in this year’s monsoon season, there was breach in the Sukhna lake area and owing to opening of flood gates, there was flooding in Baltana and Zirakpur. “ At this stage, this Court is primarily concerned with the first and foremost adjudication of the correct and accurate determination of the catchment area of Sukhna Lake on the basis of the applicable technical parameters,” it said. Synonymous with the city, the lake was created by Le Corbusier in 1958. However by 1988, 66% of the original water holding capacity of the lake was lost due to silting. Following this, check dams were constructed in the catchment area. But the water-level has once again started going down. The man-made lake now has a capacity of around 500 hectare-metres against the original capacity of over 1,074 hectare metres. The lake’s depth is 12-13 feet. On the north side, the lake is surrounded by 26-square-kilometre wildlife sanctuary. The March order had come on a suo motu plea going on since 2009. In March, the court had declared Sukhna as a living entity. Fine was imposed as court found that “state connived with the defaulters” in allowing construction. The chief secretaries of both states and the Chandigarh adviser were directed to constitute high-power committees to fix the responsibilities of officers who permitted large scale unauthorised construction.The court had also directed the ministry of environment and forest to notify at least 1-km area from the boundary of Sukhna Lake wildlife sanctuary as an eco-sensitive zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-to-re-examine-boundaries-of-sukhna-lake-catchment-area/story-d8Xv7gxGCM95JrGrvaN4CO.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ravibir Singh set to be the president of Chandigarh Golf Club||Ravibir Singh Grewal is all set to be the new president of Chandigarh Golf Club. After the withdrawal of nominations on Thursday, there was only one candidature for the top post. The official announcement will be made during the annual general body meeting (AGM) scheduled for January 10. This time, there will be no voting for the club’s management committee either, as there are 11 nominations for as many seats in the executive committee. This will be the second time that Ravibir will be the president of the club. He was elected to the post in 2017-18 as well. He had also served as the acting president in 2016-17 after the demise of the then sitting president, IPS Mann. The other 11 members in the management committee, who will be elected unopposed are: Arvind Bajaj, Maj Rajinder Singh Virk (Lalli), Dr Jaspreet Batth, Brig Balwinder Singh SM (retd), Dr GS Kochhar, Gurpreet Singh Bakshi, Zorawar Singh, Sanjeev Verma (DOC), Amarbir Singh Lehal (Sandy), Kanwarvir Singh Sibia (Biru) and Col SS Gill (Sardul).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ravibir-singh-set-to-be-the-president-of-chandigarh-golf-club/story-ZQ4y30psoGlc9TW95AzoCM.html
25-12-2020||City||3 more Covid deaths in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula||The tricity recorded three Covid deaths—one each from Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula —in 24 hours, health officials said on Thursday. Chandigarh reported 43 fresh cases, taking the UT’s tally to 19,309 while the toll stood at 314.The deceased has been identified as 45-year-old female from Sector 49. As many as 76 more patients recovered from the disease here. The tally of cured patients in the city is 18, 634 while 361 cases are still active. The deceased in Panchkula is a 70-year old woman from Sector 20, who was also suffering from diabetes, coronary artery disease. The city saw 34 fresh infections. There are 9, 826 Covid-19 cases in Panchkula, out of which 240 are active and 9, 446 have been cured. Mohali had 75 new cases even as many 149 persons recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, as per a medical bulletin. Of the new cases, one was from Banur, two each from Gharuan and Boothgarh, nine from Dera Bassi, five each from Dhakoli and Kharar, while 51 cases were reported from Mohali urban. The district’s total case count now stands at 17,801, of which 1, 549 are active cases. In all, 15, 917 persons been cured while 335 people lost their battle to the virus in the district so far.Admn declares 5 more micro-containment zones The UT administration declared five more micro-containment zones on Thursday.The areas include parts of Sector 23 (house number 2,314 to 2,316), 29 (house number 1,083 and 1,084), 34 (house number 1,174 to 1,177) , 44 (house numbers 406 to 411 and 2044 to 2048) , and Ram Darbar, Phase I (house number 269, 290 to 293).Officials said regular screening and monitoring will be done and frequent sanitisation of the areas will be carried out. Residents were advised to follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene. Nine micro-containment zones were declared on December 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-more-covid-deaths-in-chandigarh-mohali-and-panchkula/story-v5LaMNqVVD6uk0IeIUsXvI.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||No winter break for PU depts, regional centres this session||Panjab University (PU) has announced that there will be no winter break for teaching departments and regional centres of the varsity this academic session. However, affiliated and constituent colleges will have a break from December 25 to 31, as PU had already announced it earlier. PU’s officiating dean university instruction (DUI) VR Sinha said, “The decision to skip the winter break was taken to avoid academic loss.”This year, teaching for the first semester of 2020-21 academic session had got delayed due to the pandemic. The varsity is scheduled to have its semester exams from February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-winter-break-for-pu-depts-regional-centres-this-session/story-1Gc8E0AbSaGGP8ggJEkY2J.html
25-12-2020||City||Delhi resident brought dies in Dera Bassi police station||A Delhi resident brought to Dera Bassi police station in connection with a cheating case registered against him in 2016, died in custody on Thursday morning. The deceased has been identified as Paramjit Singh, 67, of Tilak Nagar in Delhi. He was accused of cheating people in Lalru and Dera Bassi and was brought for questioning by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mohali police. As per information, he had complained of difficulty in breathing on Wednesday night, following which he was taken to the hospital. After about two hours, he was taken back to the police station. On Thursday morning, he complained of uneasiness again and was rushed to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The post-mortem, which lasted for about two hours, was conducted by a panel of three doctors under the supervision of Dera Bassi judicial magistrate. The videography of the entire process was done. Sources reveal that no external injury marks were found on the body. The viscera and lungs were sent for forensic examination to ascertain the cause of death and samples of the deceased were taken for Covid 19. “Paramjit was accused of cheating and complained of uneasiness in the morning. He was taken to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-resident-brought-dies-in-dera-bassi-police-station/story-pkO08Yv9DGs4xUm6XADrPP.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Now, personnel manning Chandigarh MC vehicles to pick waste from doorsteps||After failing to get the desired response from city residents for its latest segregation drive, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has decided to rejig its strategy.From asking residents to walk to the garbage collection vehicles to dump the waste, MC has now decided to ask its personnel manning these vehicles to collect garbage from people’s doorsteps.The change will be effected with the MC enrolling the existing cart-based private garbage collectors on its vehicles. “With the existing garbage collectors starting to man the MC vehicles also, the old practice of collectors picking up garbage from people’s houses will be gradually restored,” said Sorabh Arora, joint commissioner, MC.On Wednesday, the first day of the door-to-door segregated garbage collection, residents had complained that MC vehicles had left their lanes before they could reach them. Senior citizens, especially those living on the first and second floors, had also said that it was difficult for them to climb down the stairs. Even as teething problems persisted, MC asked its sanitary inspectors to coordinate with locals and resident welfare associations.“Today, members of the RWA along with area sanitary inspectors ushered the accompanying staff door-to-door to train them and educate residents about segregation. MC vehicle along with three helpers had started picking waste from all households,” said Jagrup Singh, adviser, Government Houses RWS, Sector 22.In many localities, though, the existing garbage collectors continued to collect garbage instead of MC vehicles.“In narrow motorable lanes, no MC vehicle came and waste collection was done by existing garbage collectors only. On bigger roads, MC vehicles came,” said RC Sharma, vice president, Sector 18 RWA.In Sector 8, “Informal waste collectors had picked most of the garbage from households before the arrival of the MC vehicle,” said RS Gill, president of Sector 8 RWA.Improvement from Day 1 Stating that there was marked improvement in the amount of segregated waste collected on the first day, Arora, said, “The amount of segregated waste deposited on Thursday doubled from Wednesday. In the coming days, we are expecting better results.”The MC will also be stepping up the awareness campaign among the residents. It plans to distribute pamphlets among the residents detailing information about the segregation.“We will also be organising webinar involving the residents and the resident welfare association to educate them about how to segregate waste and how to differentiate between different types of waste. The webinar will be addressed by solid waste experts. It is planned to be started from next week,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-personnel-manning-chandigarh-mc-vehicles-to-pick-waste-from-doorsteps/story-h8Wh6RwwEh1sH0CjgTRwJP.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid: Maharashtra tweaks quarantine rules for fliers on new strain watchlist||Keeping in line with the trend of daily Covid-19 caseload below 4,000 over the past few days, Maharashtra recorded 3,580 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,909,951. The death toll breached the 49,000 mark after 89 new casualties.The state government also tweaked its earlier order of mandatory quarantine of 14 days for travellers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa, bringing the period down to seven days, if they tested negative between the fifth and seventh day. The patients will have to complete the remaining quarantine period at home, the notification by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stated.Earlier, on December 21, the state government had made 14-day institutional quarantine mandatory for passengers arriving from these countries in the wake of the emergence of a new fast spreading variant of the virus in the United Kingdom (UK) and other countries. The revised notification issued on Thursday has brought down the period to seven days, although hospitalisation for Covid-19-positive passengers remains intact. “On arrival, no RT-PCR test will be conducted for asymptomatic passengers who will be taken to a paid institutional quarantine facility [hotel]. They will be sent home if the test between 5th to 7th day results in a negative, although the remaining period of quarantine will have to be completed at home. Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients with will continue to be institutionally quarantine for 14 days,” the order stated. Meanwhile, Maharashtra continued to control its daily caseload as it has not crossed 5,000 for the past 20 days. A total of 98,503 cases have been reported in December, against the 109,166 during November 1-24. But experts still want people and authorities to be extra cautious for two reasons — first, the concern of a surge from next month and second, a new variant of Covid-19 found in the UK, which is believed to be 70% more transmissible than the original strain. They have also clarified that there is no need to revise our treatment protocol as of now, as the new variant is more infectious but it is yet to be proven that it is more harmful, said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients.“We don’t know its virulence yet. All we know is it is more infectious, means it spreads faster than the older strains. We also came to know that it has affected more people from the age group of 30 to 60 years, but this also could be a coincidence because that population is still out the most. I personally don’t think we can correlate this with the new variant,” said Dr Pandit, who is also director, critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund.He also said that they don’t need to revise the treatment protocol at this moment. “We may need to revise our testing protocol, because we have come to know that patients are testing positive early after exposure to the virus, compared to the previous version. At present, patients are coming positive after getting tested between 5th and 7th day, but the new variant probably is coming a bit early and a patient can test positive between 3rd and 4th day. However, this also needs to be confirmed through extensive research. We will be changing the testing protocol only after getting confirmed information,” he said. He also suggested to be cautious till the end of winter, especially in the backdrop of the emergence of the new variant.Mumbai clocked 643 cases, taking the count to 289,204, and 12 deaths, taking the toll to 11,045. Pune city recorded 299 cases, pushing the tally to 189,338. Nagpur city stands third after Mumbai and Pune in terms of daily caseload with 237 new cases. The state has completed 12,341,204 Covid tests with 62,728 tests conducted on Thursday. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.48%. The number of recovered patients reached 1,804,871 with 3,171 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 94.5%. Meanwhile, a day after the announcement of allowing amusement parks and tourist places to open, the state tourism department issued standard operating procedures (SOPs), stressing for physical distancing by keeping the number of visitors low during rides as well as regular sanitising of premises to combat the Covid-19 virus. In case of amusement parks, the SOPs pointed that “staggering of visitors for different rides to be done, to allow for adequate physical distancing. Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged.” For tourist places, the tourism department has asked the staff to take adequate care to ensure the safety of themselves as well as the visitors. “Social-distancing includes refraining from hugging, shaking hands with travellers as well as among staff. It involves maintaining distance and avoiding anyone who is coughing or sneezing,” said the SOP.Amusement owners said these new guidelines will increase the overall running costs, making it an unviable proposition. “We spend at least ₹30 lakh to run our place, which will now increase due to these SOPs. However, in this pandemic, when people are avoiding going out, we will hardly get any visitors, it makes no business sense to open the place,” said Rajesh Vardhan, managing director, Vardhman Fantasy, who has an amusement park in Mira Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-maharashtra-tweaks-quarantine-rules-for-fliers-on-new-strain-watchlist/story-8yWWfxx94HrLB2X6AIUMJN.html
25-12-2020||City||Mumbai court to MNS: Don’t obstruct Amazon’s business activities||The city civil court in Dindoshi, in its order issued earlier this month, had temporarily restrained the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) from obstructing Amazon or its employees from working at the site of the company or disturbing its business activities.Amazon India has approached the civil courts in the city against Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) after the political party initiated a campaign against the e-commerce giant for not having Marathi as one of the languages of operations on its online apps. MNS leader Akhil Chitre, who is made a party in the suit by Amazon, said, “We wrote to the online apps to add Marathi as one of the language of operations after finding out that they had several southern Indian languages for operations but not Marathi.” After several meetings with party representatives and fearing aggravated action by MNS, Amazon approached the civil courts. The company has so far filed five suits in the courts, seeking the restraining orders against MNS. “The defendant [MNS] is threatening the plaintiff [Amazon] and the defendant is resorting to unfair labour trade practices, inciting the employees working at the plaintiff’s work premises through their arm-wresting tactics,” the lawyer for Amazon submitted before the court, while seeking the restraining orders. MNS however, raised the issue of jurisdiction, and objected to the relief sought by Amazon. However, the city civil court at Dindoshi granted relief to Amazon and said, “At this stage, it appears that protection is required to be given for the working of the plaintiff, otherwise there will be disturbance in their business activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-court-to-mns-don-t-obstruct-amazon-s-business-activities/story-CuHwXmKCR9HPs83hdmfCXI.html
25-12-2020||City||Mere possession of fake notes not liable for IPC charges: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) recently granted bail to a 19-year-old man who was booked and arrested for allegedly possessing counterfeit notes. The court held that mere possession of counterfeit notes does not mean that there was an intention of knowingly using the notes on the part of the accused and hence the charges under section 489B (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit notes) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) does not apply to him. A bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the bail application of a man named Vachkal, was informed by his advocate Murtuza Nazmi that his client had been booked and charge sheeted with two others for allegedly possessing counterfeit notes. Vachkal and others were booked under sections 489B and other sections of IPC. According to the charge sheet, the anti-narcotic cell, Pune, had seized counterfeit notes of Rs500 and Rs2,000 denominations from the dashboard of a car during a raid. The officers found that Vachkal was in possession of three notes of Rs2,000 and one note of Rs500.The interrogation of the two arrested during the raid revealed name of the third person who was also later arrested but was granted default bail. Nazmi submitted that prima facie the charge sheet against Vachkal does not contain any material to reflect the mens rea (criminal intent) on the part of the applicant who possessed the said notes, which are alleged to be counterfeit. In light of this, he sought bail for his client. After hearing the submissions the court observed, “The applicant is merely found in possession of the counterfeit currency notes. The charge sheet did not contain any material to show that he was proposing to traffic or use the said notes as genuine or that he had knowledge or reason to believe that the said notes are forged or counterfeit. The applicant does not have any criminal antecedents and considering his young age, pending the trial, he cannot be incarcerated for long, particularly when on completion of investigation, the charge sheet has already been filed. He is, therefore, entitled to be released on bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mere-possession-of-fake-notes-not-liable-for-ipc-charges-bombay-hc/story-sB87T2uJyycVKGdEI6dlXP.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Farmers from Maharashtra to join protest in Delhi today||Farmers from Maharashtra, who are marching to Delhi to lend their support to those protesting in the national capital against the three agriculture laws, reached Rajasthan on Thursday. The farmers have covered a distance of 900km since Monday, after they undertook their journey from Nashik. They are expected to reach Delhi on Friday. The farmers camped in Jaipur on Thursday. They will reach Shahpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Friday afternoon, where they will join other protesting farmers, before entering Delhi. Ashok Dhawale, president of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We were in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday and had four-five meetings. On Thursday, we camped in Jaipur, and on Friday morning we will leave for Shahpur, where farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting.” While more than 2,000 farmers in around 250 vehicles left from Nashik on Monday till Madhya Pradesh, only around 1,000 farmers proceeded to Jaipur on Thursday. “Not everyone can afford the money and time to travel all the way to Delhi. We have organised this march to show the central government that it’s not just farmers from Haryana and Punjab who are affected by these farm laws. When so many farmers from Maharashtra travel 1,300 km to Delhi to join protests, it will raze the government’s argument to the ground,” Dhawale said. Farmers claim that the laws favour big corporations to whom they will lose their business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farmers-from-maharashtra-to-join-protest-in-delhi-today/story-4TiNwg8efQBGibWzDRiY0O.html
25-12-2020||City||Bombay HC grants bail to man booked for minor’s sexual assault to reform||While observing that a man booked for sexually assaulting a minor will have to serve punishment after conviction, the Bombay high court (HC) recently granted bail to a 20-year-old booked for a similar crime on the grounds that he deserves a chance for reformation. The court noted that as the man, lodged at Yerawada jail at Pune, was undergoing clinical counselling by psychologists at Sassoon Hospital, it would help determine whether he was repentant about his act or wanted to continue to follow his antecedents.A single bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the bail application of the accused, was informed by his advocate Rajesh More that the man was undergoing reformative counselling in Yerawada jail while waiting for the trial to begin. More stressed on the fact that considering the crime he has committed, the man could be incarcerated for a long time, which may turn him into a hardened criminal, and hence he should be granted bail while he was undergoing counselling. The man was booked for unnatural sex and threatening under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and for forceful sexual exploitation of a minor under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012.Additional public prosecutor SV Gavand for the state informed the court that the man was in conflict with the law when he was a juvenile, and had been booked twice after attaining majority. However, Gavand admitted that the jail and the hospital reports showed that the man had maintained good behaviour and was responding to counselling. After hearing the submissions, the court, while granting bail, observed, “The applicant is barely 20 years old and deserves a chance for reformation, though the offence with which he is charged cannot be wiped out, and on conviction, he should suffer the penalty prescribed. However, he deserves one chance of not just being out of prison to face the trial, but also to start his life afresh awaiting his trial. This opportunity will determine whether he repents over his past alleged conduct or whether he continues to follow his antecedents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-booked-for-minor-s-sexual-assault-to-reform/story-UJaVdFFv4XBiVEBDm4V2JP.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest Hyderabad woman for harassing actor Salma Agha’s daughter||The Oshiwara police have arrested a woman from Hyderabad for allegedly issuing death threats to actor Salma Agha’s daughter Zara Khan, by posing as a man on social media.According to the complainant, the accused sent lewd messages, rape and life threats her Instagram profile.Khan then approached the police. Dayanand Bangar, a senior inspector said that after registering an FIR, they set out on a manhunt for the accused who had not just threatened Khan, but other women too.“When we contacted cyber experts, they recovered IP addresses of two laptops and mobile phone which were used to create social media profiles. The officers then traced the accused to Hyderabad. When we reached the address, we found a woman named Noha Sarovar who had been posing as a man,” said an officer.After presenting Sarovar in a local court in Hyderabad, the court ordered her to present herself in Oshiwara police station for investigation. When Sarovar failed to turn up, a team of officers arrested her and brought her to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-hyderabad-woman-for-harassing-actor-salma-agha-s-daughter/story-fBZtwze0fiFxpTA7Kus1QJ.html
25-12-2020||City||24-year-old Mumbai man held for supplying drugs, ₹27.5-lakh MD seized||The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of Mumbai Police on Wednesday arrested a 24-year-old alleged drug supplier from south Mumbai with mephedrone (MD) worth ₹27.50 lakh. He was produced in the court and remanded in the police custody till December 28. Preliminary probe has revealed that the accused, Mohammad Nawaj Mohammad Ejaz Shaikh, was allegedly involved in the supply of drug from the past two years and several drug peddlers used to buy MD from him. The police also suspect that he was also in touch with drug suppliers from other states. Shaikh, a resident of Bara Imam Road in south Mumbai, sells spare parts of motorcycles. In the evening, he supplies drugs to small peddlers as well as consumers, said the police. Many of his consumers used to visit his residence to buy MD, said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade of ANC. Following a tip-off, officers of Azad Maidan ANC laid a trap near his home on Wednesday evening and arrested him. During the search, they seized 275 grams of MD, said a police officer. The police also found a chopper which he used to carry while delivering the contraband to his customers, said Nalawade. Earlier, Shaikh had been booked by JJ Marg police in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act case for allegedly selling 29 grams of MD to a peddler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-mumbai-man-held-for-supplying-drugs-27-5-lakh-md-seized/story-yIC1hzjW7xqeXZjF6TDKKK.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||PPE kits, mandatory Covid test reports: Safety steps in place for Panchkula MC polls||Temperature checks through thermal scanners, personal protective equipment (PPE) for those with fever and Covid-19 negative reports for staff are part of measures adopted by the state election commission to ensure the safety of voters during the Covid-19 pandemic at the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) elections on December 27.“Our main focus is on the day of polling. We have spent crores of rupees to ensure the safety of voters,” said Dalip Singh, state election commissioner, on Thursday.About 1.85 lakh people, including 98,323 men and 87,316 women, are expected to vote. To ensure social distancing and avoid crowding the administration has set up 275 booths across 20 wards so that just 1,000 voters visit a booth.“We have set up enough polling booths looking at the number of voters to ensure that overcrowding does not take place. Then every polling booth will have a thermal scanner. No one, including the staff, will be allowed to enter without getting their temperature checked,” says Dalip SinghArrangements for clean drinking water, sanitisers, gloves and PPE kits have also been made at each booth. “There will be five to seven staff members at every booth who should have undergone Covid-19 tests. Before entering they have to show a Covid-19 negative report that’s not older than three days,” he adds.Even though the polling hours are from 8am to 5:30pm, only those have fever or have been quarantined will be allowed to vote in the last hour (4:30pm to 5:30pm ). “They will be requested to wait and will be given PPE kits before casting their votes,” he says.The last day of the campaigning of elections is December 25, and voting is on December 27.Hypersensitive and sensitive polling stations The Panchkula DC also says that duty magistrates, superviser and patrolling parties have been deployed to ensure that the polls pass off peacefully.Also, of the 275 polling booths, 98 have been declared hypersensitive and 29 as sensitive.The hypersensitive booths include five in Saketri, four in Mansa Devi Complex-sector 6, seven in Blue bird Model School, and six in Saint Michael Model School, Sector 6. A strong police force will guard each booth to prevent electoral fraud and other untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ppe-kits-mandatory-covid-test-reports-safety-steps-in-place-for-panchkula-mc-polls/story-bnPQB7YT3MQ3YNPGIbSOJN.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Risk of mutation can’t be ignored, danger yet to pass, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray alerted people with the possible mutation of the virus, like it has spread in other countries, and stressed for the need to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour. Ruling out the need of reimposing the lockdown, the CM also justified his move of imposing night curfew by saying it will inculcate the sense of risk of spread of the virus among the people.CM while speaking to the media at his official bungalow, Varsha, on Thursday evening, said that the government has taken precautions to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread from the people coming from other countries where the second strain of the virus has been found. “We have started tracing the people coming from the United Kingdom (UK) where the new variant of the virus is found. But what if the same mutation takes place here, in our state. We are not paying heed to the possibility. To avert any such risk, we should follow the Covid-19 protocols by maintaining a safe distance, wearing masks and keep hands washing,” he said. Hitting out at his detractors, the CM justified the need of night curfew. “They asked if the virus spreads only at night and not during the day, questioning our decision of imposing night curfew. But they should understand that the curfew is to spread a sense of responsibility as the danger of the spread of virus still hovers over us. This will help us realise the seriousness of the situation. We don’t want to impose lockdown restrictions during the day, because there is no need of any such step currently,” Thackeray said.The state has imposed night curfew between 11pm and 6pm from December 22 to January 5 in the jurisdiction of 27 municipal corporations and has empowered the district collectors to impose the same if they feel necessary. It has made quarantine mandatory for the international passengers coming from Europe, Middle-East and South Africa to avert any possible spread of a new rapidly transmitting strain of Covid-19 from the travellers coming for countries at risk.Thackeray candidly admitted that he was under tremendous pressure during the initial peak of the pandemic. He said that in the wake of the scarcity of everything from doctors to medicines to oxygen and infrastructure, it was a huge challenge to contain the spread. He also took a dig at the central government for the hardship caused to the migrant workers during their mass exodus. “Days before the national lockdown was imposed on March 23, I repeatedly requested the Centre to arrange special trains for migrants and offered to pay the charges for it. It was very difficult to hold them back in the scenario they have been staying, but the Centre did not concede. As a result, migrants were forced to stay when we should have allowed them to travel to their native,” he said.Meanwhile, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) initiated with the process to check on 55 passengers who returned from the United Kingdom between November 25 to December 23, followed by the directions from the Maharashtra government. “We have received a list of 55 passengers who returned from the UK to Kalyan-Dombivli during the specific period. Our area-wise health post has been asked to visit them and check on their health status. We will check if they have symptoms and will be asked to do RT-PCR and if tested positive we will take further measures to track their contacts,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. The KDMC on Thursday recorded 118 fresh Covid cases and the total number of cases till date is 60,034. The civic body has recorded 980 deaths till date. (With inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/risk-of-mutation-can-t-be-ignored-danger-yet-to-pass-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-5k07ZqHpq9zYHPoDMCve4L.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar adds firepower to Panchkula MC polls, holds marathon rallies||As he held marathon rallies in Panchkula on Thursday from 11 am to 5 pm, seeking votes for candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) combine for the municipal corporation (MC) elections, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar took digs at the farmers’ agitation and said the intelligent people of the city knew who they had to vote for.“You are seeing tamasha these days, when people say the government will repeal the law, that they will sit in protests. Is this democracy?” Khattar asked.Khattar also touched upon the BJP’s winning streak in most of the elections, adding, “Over 70,000 representatives have been chosen by nearly two crore people. Now, there are those who are disappointed as their party did not come to power, We will teach them lessons only if we will keep them away.”The meaning of democracy is that the points are explained in the assembly to people, meetings are set up, pamphlets are distributed. Go to media. There is freedom of expression, the CM said. “Indulging in dhingamasti (scuffles) won’t do,” he warned.The people of Panchkula were intelligent, they should give a befitting reply to those causing trouble by voting for the BJP candidates, he said.The CM held rallies at six places in Panchkula city.Tomorrow is the last day of campaigning for the polls scheduled for December 27. The results will be announced two days later, on December 30.Ranjeeta Mehta joins BJPMeanwhile, Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta, who had been holding protests outside the deputy commissioner’s office and even rode a tractor to support the farmers’ agitation, has joined the BJP. She was welcomed by CM Khattar and Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta.Calling herself a true Punjabi, Mehta said: “Congress did not identify its real workers and does politics from its drawing rooms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-adds-firepower-to-panchkula-mc-polls-holds-marathon-rallies/story-dkBWbBPYYA1m8OscFzHL8M.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||FYJC special round postponed to Dec 28 by Maharashtra govt||A day after the Maharashtra government approved the proposal of extending the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota to Marathas, the state education department postponed the special merit list for junior college admissions scheduled on Thursday to December 28.The education department had earlier planned to declare the special merit list for admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Thursday, December 24. However, with the state government’s decision of extending the EWS quota to students from the Maratha community, such students will now be allowed to change their quota preference from SEBC to EWS or general by December 26. Students will also have to submit an undertaking for the new selection, as admissions will be provisional and will be subject to the submissions of documents required in future. Students who have availed EWS reservation will not be eligible for the SEBC reservation for admissions. Similarly, students who have already been admitted into colleges in the earlier rounds will be allowed to cancel their admissions in this round.“Many students might not have applied for the EWS reservation as they might have applied for the SEBC quota. Hence, admissions will be given to them on a provisional basis,” said an official from the state education department. While the special merit list will now be declared on December 28, students who are allotted colleges can confirm their seats by December 31.After the third merit list which was declared on December 15, only 213 students have been admitted against 14,644 seats for the EWS category in colleges across MMR. SEBC students can now apply against these vacant seats.On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the SEBC quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. While the state government restarted admissions early this month stating that they will take place without the 12% SEBC quota, it has now allowed students from the SEBC quota to opt for the EWS quota as per the state government’s decision on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-special-round-postponed-to-dec-28-by-maharashtra-govt/story-XLeq79CmPg18wj99Px1mUJ.html
25-12-2020||City||Mumbai: Woman found with head injuries on Vashi bridge, cops suspect rape||A 25-year-old woman was found with severe head injuries on the Vashi railway bridge on Tuesday morning.According to police, prima facie it appears that she was raped and thrown out of a moving train by some unidentified culprits.The doctors from Sir JJ Hospital have found signs of sexual assault, following which the government railway police (GRP) registered a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified accused. Vishnu Kesarkar, a senior inspector of Vashi, GRP, said, “The woman could barely talk when the officers found her on the bridge. She mentioned the mosque at Titwala when we asked her about her address. Officers then took her photographs and found out about the mosque she mentioned. After questioning a lot of people, we traced her family in that area,” he said.“We are examining the CCTV footage of all the railway stations, but have not seen the woman boarding a train at any station so far. It is also possible that the culprits had assaulted her at some other place and then dumped her on the railway bridge to mislead the police. There are no CCTV cameras on the railway bridge,” Kesarkar said.“The woman worked as a maid with a family at Powai. She had gone home to meet her family members on Sunday and returned in the evening. On Monday she again left that family saying that her mother was not well. That day she neither went to Titwala nor returned to Powai,” he said.The GRP has formed multiple teams to investigate the case. They are now also checking her call data records to find out the people she was in touch with.“The woman is still in a semi-conscious state and we have not been able to take her statements so far,” Kesarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-woman-found-with-head-injuries-on-vashi-bridge-cops-suspect-rape/story-BCjElgHDQ1RylfRZpKXkuO.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bir Devinder Singh seeks CBI probe into Mohali cyber hub project||Former Punjab vidhan sabha deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh has sought a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into a cyber hub coming up on plot number A-32 in phase 8 of Mohali, alleging grave violations. The ruling Congress government, however, has refuted the charges.Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Bir Devinder, who is also the former Kharar MLA, raised questions over the project coming up on 31 acres of land over there, alleging plot A 32 was allotted by Punjab Infotech to JCT limited in September 1984, but after the unit was declared sick and closed it was sold by the official liquidator. “The GRG Cyber Hub is coming up on the plot and according to the brochure more than 150 plots are being sold but without demarcation of the green belt in that area which is against RERA (Real Estate Regulatory Authority) norms without amending the sector plan that is otherwise not allowed,” alleged Bir Devinder Singh. The plot was allotted to JCT as single unit plot in 1984 when the sector was originally carved out. The infrastructure of roads, water supply was developed to cater to the needs of one unit,” he added. Division of a single plot into multiple plots was not permissible without approval of the amendment of the sector plan by the Cyber Treasury Punjab (CTP). Under new guidelines of the National Green Tribunal a public hearing was a must in the case, he said. “Under whose directions or patronage is the operation is being carried out so brazenly and audaciously? Why is the chief minister silent over such blatant plunder of state wealth?,”questioned Bir Devinder Singh, asking for a CBI probe.No undue advantage extended to private party Reacting to the charges as “unfounded” on Thursday, however, the Punjab government said the process of disposal of property was being carried out transparently by the Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited (ARCIL) under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002. According to an official spokesperson of the industry department, the disposal of the property had been made by ARCIL under the appropriate provisions of the Act through open e-bidding in a fair and transparent manner and dues of Punjab Small Industries & Export Corporation had also been protected. No undue favours were granted to GRG Developers and Promoters LLP, that is the auction purchaser. It was to be noted that ARCIL had conducted open auction three times and had been successful the fourth time.Auctioned to highest bidderThe government said that an open e-auction had again been conducted by ARCIL during February 2020 at the reserve price of Rs. 90.50 crore and the plot had been sold at the highest bid amount of Rs. 90.56 crore to GRG Developers and Promoters LLP. The statement issued by government said that GRG Developers & Promoters had already paid 50% sale value of the plot with ARCIL and had entered into agreement with PSIEC for making payment of 50% unearned increase of Rs. 45. 28 crore plus enhanced land cost and applicable transfer fee as per guidelines within a stipulated time period with applicable interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bir-devinder-singh-seeks-cbi-probe-into-mohali-cyber-hub-project/story-vjQkpnCPoq4jfNKo4X9GjL.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||19 arrested for Illegal sand mining in Mohali||Police on Thursday arrested 16 persons involved in illegal sand mining in the Majri block of Mohali, and seized from them a .32 bore pistol and eight vehicles, including five loaded tipper trucks, one excavator machine, and two sports utility vehicles, a Sorpio and a Safari. Three other tipper truck drivers were arrested in another raid in the Nagla area. “These persons have been involved in illegal mining in the villages of Abhipur, Kubhaheri and Miyapur Changer. Five cases had been registered against them at the Majri police station here,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.The men were arrested after raids by various teams in different locations following complaints of illegal mining in the block. Preliminary questioning revealed that three crushers (machines to break rocks) were used for illegal mining, the SSP added.“This group used to deploy their associates on certain locations to keep a watch on activities of officials deputed on duty in the police and mining departments. They also kept escort vehicles to prevent anyone from seizing their illegal sand tippers,” Satinder Singh said.Five separate cases were registered at the Majri police station under sections 4(1), 21(1) Mines & Minerals (Regulation & Development) Act 1957 and 379 of the Indian Penal Code. The men who have been arrested are: Rinku from Azamgarh, Sandeep and Kamal Babu, all from Uttar Pradesh; Hukam Mandle from Bihar; Raman Kumar from Pathankot; Bhupinder Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib; Amarveer Singh from Morinda; Mustak Mohamad from Abhipur in Mohali; Parminder Singh from Kurali in Mohali; Gurnam Singh, Gurcharan Singh and Mohit Sharma, all from Majri in Mohali; Sukhwinder Singh and Harwinder Singh from Ropar, Tejinder Singh from Tarn Taran; and Gurjant Singh from Mullanpur.Three arrested in Zirakpur Police also arrested three persons for illegal mining of sand in Nagla area of Zirakpur and seized four tippers with an excavator after mining inspector Narinder Kumar lodged a complaint about illegal mining in the area. The men who were arrested included Santosh, Shasikant and Shiv Shankar, all working as drivers of the tippers. A case under Mines & Minerals (Regulation & Development Act 1957) and 379 IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-arrested-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-mohali/story-dUbtipmOZL90KBHzXtyenJ.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Second semester scheduled from January to May: Mumbai university||With examination to most undergraduate courses coming to an end, the University of Mumbai (MU) has clarified that the second-term for the 2020-21 academic year will commence from January 1 until May 31, 2021. Summer vacations have been scheduled from June 1-13, 2021. A circular to this effect has been shared with all affiliated colleges this week.“All faculties including traditional (arts, commerce and science) as well as interdisciplinary studies have followed first-term from August 7 to December 31. The second-term will take place between January 1 to May 31, and the summer holidays will take place from June 1 to 13,” states the circular.As per MU’s November 18 circular, affiliated colleges are supposed to hold online exams for the current batches of undergraduate courses by December 2020, while postgraduate exams should be conducted in January 2021. Following this, the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) approached MU’s vice-chancellor, seeking postponement of first-year degree college exams. Teachers highlighted that due to delay in admissions to first-year courses, most colleges have not managed to teach the mandatory 90 days before exams, making it impossible to hold exams in December. Following this, the varsity in the first week of December released a circular clarifying that all affiliated colleges should complete first-term examinations for their first-year batches by January 9, 2021. “Most exams will be completed by this month-end, so it makes sense to start the new term in January. We are still assuming that classes will continue online and they will resume accordingly,” said the principal of a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-semester-scheduled-from-january-to-may-mumbai-university/story-bJud8DmJ3UJRnwLGyTKxvK.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Chandigarh from Sunday||Expect light rain from Sunday after this week’s sunny spell, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast.Due to a system of western disturbances, light rain can be expected in the city on Sunday with chances of its continuing on Monday as well, IMD officials said.Cloudy weather and up to 10mm of rain is expected so a fall in day temperature is likely with a slight rise at night. Likelihood of moderate to dense fog in the city will increase after that, they added.Meanwhile, maximum temperatures here remained constant on Wednesday and Thursday at 21.5 degrees C, with a low of 4.7 degrees C on Thursday after yesterday’s 5.7 degrees. The next three days will see highs of 21 degrees and 22 degrees C and lows between 5 degrees and 7 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-from-sunday/story-ZavXtiM99ZqHcElbRT9v6N.html
25-12-2020||City||Maratha leaders oppose Maharashtra govt’s decision to extend EWS quota for community||A day after the state cabinet decided to extend the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota benefits to the Marathas, community leaders have criticised the government. They have expressed concerns over the adverse effect of the move on the ongoing legal battle and have said that the decision is taken out of helplessness. The state had on Wednesday approved the proposal to extend the 10% EWS quota to Marathas, after the Supreme Court (SC) stayed the implementation of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act under which the community was granted 12% and 13% in education and jobs, respectively. A constitution bench will hear the reservation petitions from January 25 in the case. Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian and Maratha leader Sambhaji Chhatrapati has criticised the state and warned that it will have to take responsibility if the decision affects the legal battle. “The decision may affect the prospect of the SEBC quota in the legal battle. In such a case, the responsibility will entirely lie with the government. The decision was taken out of helplessness. It seems that the government is convinced that the reservation is not going to stand the legal scrutiny,” he said. Public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan said the decision to extend EWS quota was taken as per the Bombay high court (HC) orders after a few community members had moved HC to avail EWS quota. “A section of community leaders are playing politics over the reservation, by criticising any decision taken by the government. The state cabinet’s September decision to extend EWS quota to the Marathas had to be put on hold after the community leaders had opposed it. The state is determined to protect the SEBC reservation and has prepared to fight the legal battle in the Apex Court,” he said. Community members, however, have expressed their reservations over the decision. “The decision could go against our contention of urgency in hearing the matter in the top court. We have been opposing the move since the beginning. Secondly, the SEBC reservation has just been stayed and not cancelled by the court. This means the community cannot avail second reservation when the one meant for them is still in force. Most importantly, the actual percentage of Marathas benefitting from EWS quota will be too less as we will be competing with people in open category,” said Virendra Pawar, one of the organisers of Maratha Kranti Morcha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-leaders-oppose-maharashtra-govt-s-decision-to-extend-ews-quota-for-community/story-SI2DfiCMuu7KfglRXK9joO.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Families struggle as Mumbai civic hospitals turn away psychiatric patients||With most psychiatry departments in civic-run hospitals shut since March, when the lockdown began, patients and their families are struggling to cope with the challenges posed by their mental disorders. On December 18, Sachin Karve, 48, was rushed to Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital, in Juhu, by his wife Swati. Despite Karve being an alcoholic who has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder and having a history of hospitalisation, the hospital refused to admit him.Back in August, Karve had been admitted to Cooper Hospital for 15 days when his condition had deteoriated. “The psychiatry department has been closed since March when the Covid-19 outbreak began. So we had to admit him [Karve] in a general ward. However, he soon started harassing other patients who beat him up. Then he ran away from the hospital twice,” said a doctor who is aware of the case. When Karve was eventually found — he hadn’t left the hospital — Swati had to take him home. “The hospital instructed me to keep an eye on him [Karve] round the clock at the hospital. We don’t have anyone to stay at the hospital all the time. I have two children, 10 and 9 years old, whom I can’t leave alone at home,” she said. In December, when Karve’s condition worsened again, Swati returned to Cooper Hospital, but the hospital is still not admitting patients. “All the departments have opened up except psychiatry. There are patients with suicidal intentions and depression who can even cause harm to others. They need immediate hospitalisation. Despite this, we can’t admit them,” said a doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity.However, despite repeated calls and messages, Dr Pinakin Gujjar dean of the hospital didn’t respond. The government-run Sir JJ Hospital started admitting psychiatric patients from the first week of December. “During the pandemic, we had to close down the psychiatric wards and send back the patients to their respective homes, which disrupted their treatment. But now we have opened up the OPD [outpatients’ department] and the admission process,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of Sir JJ Hospital. King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, in Parel, has also begun partial hospitalisation of patients with psychiatric disorders.According to a study conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 130 countries, 67% of those surveyed reported disruptions in counselling and psychotherapy due to the pandemic and 35% reported disruptions to emergency interventions for psychiatric conditions. Additionally, many Covid-19 survivors have been found to be at a greater risk of developing mental health issues like anxiety, depression and insomnia, psychiatrists said. “This is the time to focus on mental health and invest more into building up the infrastructure. People are already living in fear of the pandemic. So, we need to provide wider opportunities to patients,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a city psychiatrist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/families-struggle-as-mumbai-civic-hospitals-turn-away-psychiatric-patients/story-TpU5hlgrlDMITXIT04KTmO.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two Mohali policemen held for murder bid sent to police remand||A local court on Thursday sent the two Mohali police personnel arrested for attempt to murder to six-day police remand. Dismissed from service after their arrest, Rashpreet Singh, an assistant sub-inspector posted at the Industrial Area police station, and Davinder Singh, a constable posted at the Saneta police post, were arrested for allegedly entering the house of Sector 71 resident Naresh Kumar and trying to rob him at gunpoint on December 20. Police recovered an Etios car from their possession. Two other persons believed to be linked to the crime, who informed the policemen about Naresh keeping money and valuables at home, are yet to be arrested. The weapon too has not been traced.Naresh Kumar had complained to the police that on December 20, at around 9.30pm, as his son was checking a power inverter that had broken down at home, two men in police uniform posing as deputy superintendents of police of the excise department entered his house. One of them later identified as Rashpreet Singh pointed a pistol at him and asked him to hand over all the gold and cash in the house. When Naresh became suspicious and asked for a search warrant and their identity cards, the duo allegedly panicked and started beating him up, with Rashpreet hitting him several times on the head with the butt of a pistol. Naresh read Davinder’s name on his badge when the constable tried to grab him by the arms. After the failed loot bid, the two policemen allegedly fled in a car waiting outside. Naresh Kumar was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali with head and other injuries. A case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint), 458 (lurking house trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-mohali-policemen-held-for-murder-bid-sent-to-police-remand/story-nvMSdgSkbXkqtPTmIeoUTM.html
25-12-2020||City||MMRDA seeks Centre’s nod to divert forest land for Mumbai Metro-5 corridor||Even as the debate over the construction of the Metro-3 car shed is back to the fore, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has applied for the diversion of 2,349.57 square metres (sqm) of forest area for the Metro-5 (Thane-Bhiwandi-Kalyan) corridor.According to the documents submitted by MMRDA to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), the state authority has sought the diversion of 1,971.71 sqm of forest land in Balkaum, Thane, as well as of 377.86 sqm of area in Kasheli in Bhiwandi, for constructing around 24 piers for the project.“During the planning stage, the various options for the alignment were explored by MMRDA in view of the complete avoidance of forest land or minimum loss of forest land. The proposed alignment requires at least minimum forest land, which is unavoidable,” read MMRDA’s letter to the ministry, justifying the diversion of forest land. A senior MMRDA official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The portion is just a small patch of forest near the Kasheli creek. We are awaiting approval in a month or two.” In 2017, MMRDA had to seek the nod of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for the project, as the alignment crosses the Ulhas river near Kalyan. The 24.9-km Metro-5 corridor will connect Thane and Kalyan via the power loom town of Bhiwandi and will have 17 stations.Currently, the areas are connected only via the overcrowded suburban railway. The cost of the project is pegged at Rs8,417 crore.Recently, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had shifted the proposed Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, as the plot in Aarey had witnessed severe opposition from activists. However, the transfer of land in Kanjurmarg was stayed by the Bombay high court (HC) after the central government also claimed ownership of the plot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mmrda-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-divert-forest-land-for-mumbai-metro-5-corridor/story-wvmL05WHJhBzC3wAKLDd2L.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Subdued Christmas celebrations in Mumbai, curbs irk many||After the state government capped the total number of people allowed to attend Christmas mass from 200 to 50 and announced night curfew from 11pm to 6am, most parishes across Mumbai have cancelled midnight mass. While churches have arranged online masses, some parishioners are upset about the last-minute restrictions. Midnight mass has been cancelled and mass timings have been revised following the announcement of night curfew earlier this week. Father Nigel Barrett, the spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bombay, said, “All Christmas mass and New Year’s Eve services will be concluded before 11pm in all churches, following the night curfew restrictions imposed by the state government.”Initially, when congregations of 200 were allowed, churches had arranged for one member from each family to attend Christmas mass to prevent overcrowding in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, the state capped the number of people allowed to attend mass to 50. Some members of the city’s Christian community have started an online petition that reads, “The new GR [government resolution] by the state government of allowing only 50 people for mass has dampened the people’s spirit and killed the joy of those who eagerly await to pray on Christmas even after following and adhering to every protocol.” Mobai Gaonthan Panchayat (MGP), an umbrella body that represents the East Indian community, has appealed to its members to ask the state government to waive the night curfew for Christmas. “The night curfew announcement has not gone down well with many amongst the peace-loving Christian community. We at MGP along with like-minded Christians object to this sudden announcement before Christmas. We want a special standard operating procedure (SOP) to be released for Christmas [as was] done for Ganeshotsav,” said Gleason Barretto, MGP’s spokesperson.Judith Monteiro, a member of the Association of Concerned Catholics (AOCC), said, “On the eve of Christmas, you’ll have issued further restrictions on the Church eucharistic celebrations in terms of attendance of the people, because of which many churches have cancelled the eucharistic celebration (as they cannot be partial to some while forfeiting others) thus denying us ... Mass and ... Holy Communion...We appeal to you to please allow mass with a maximum of 200 (depending on the capacity of Church).” A letter has been sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, with this appeal.Father Nobert D’souza of Holy Cross church in Kurla said that it would be able to ensure adequate distancing and therefore would have midnight mass. “We have a huge campus, which is why we can go ahead with our plan to allow 200 people for midnight mass. Since the government has made it compulsory to only allow 50 people at a time, we have planned to distribute people in groups. While one group will be in the church, other groups will be in separate buildings on the premises, thus ensuring that all rules are obeyed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-subdued-christmas-celebrations-in-mumbai-curbs-irk-many/story-dsxIFfppqaT4qRDcPZzloI.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro shed: Maharashtra govt may form panel to find right location||To end the ongoing stalemate over the land allocation for the car shed for Metro lines and its friction with the Centre over the Kanjurmarg land, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is likely to form another committee to study and zero in on the right location for the car shed for the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) corridor. This committee will be the third to study alternatives for the depot for line 3 in the past five years. On Tuesday, the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) also wrote to the state government, stating the 25-hectare plot in Aarey Colony will prove to be “insufficient to handle future traffic and hence can prove to be an imperfect solution in the future” and that Kanjurmarg plot would be a “better option” for the car shed. Sources privy to the development said the government was likely to issue an order with the terms of reference in a day or two. The committee is likely to deliberate on the technical feasibility of both, the Aarey and the Kanjurmarg plots. In 2015, the then Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) government had formed a committee under former metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan to find an alternative site for the depot. The MVA government, too, in December 2019, had formed a committee under additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik to study the alternatives. While the MVA shifted the car shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg in October 2020, the Bombay high court (HC) ordered an interim stay on the transfer of the Kanjurmarg land, after the Central government claimed ownership on it. The litigation and court order has put a spanner in the ongoing Metro shed work, with clear indication of the delay in commissioning of the line. However, sources said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is keen on the Kanjurmarg plot. In his address to citizens last Sunday, Thackeray also invited the Opposition and the Centre for a dialogue. Thackeray has been criticised by the Opposition BJP for shifting of the shed, saying it will delay the project by three years and lead to the escalation of the cost at least by ₹4,000 crore. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attacked Thackeray saying the decision of shifting the shed location was to satisfy his ego. Meanwhile, in its letter to the state, the MMRDA has stated that the depot in Aarey was planned to accommodate a total of 39 rakes, however, as per the traffic estimates, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the project, would require 42 trains by 2031 itself. The letter states, “The depot capacity at Aarey would have got exhausted by 2031 itself. To meet the full projected requirement at Aarey Depot, it is necessary to restore to full 30 ha. land. This would have required the additional 5 ha land kept aside as there are more than 1000 trees existing on the land. It’s very difficult to create additional depot facilities other than Aarey at a later date once the system comes in operation (sic).” It further states, “The present commissioning plan of line 3 is mid-2023 and if a quick decision can be taken by the state government to provide land with minimal delay, of about six months, it would still be possible to commission line 3 by Dec of 2023. (sic)” It states that while the cost of building separate depots for line 3, 4 and 6 would be ₹2,434 crore, an integrated depot at Kanjurmarg can be built at a cost of ₹1,600 crore. The letter states, “Considering the scarcity of land and consequent land acquisition cost involved, Kanjurmarg appears to be a more efficient alternative. An integrated car shed utilises the synergies of the project to avoid duplicating the infrastructure and costs and improves operational efficiency. In the event if Kanjurmarg land is not allotted, it would also involve additional land acquisitions and detrimental ecological impact and duplication of infrastructure and resources (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-shed-maharashtra-govt-may-form-panel-to-find-right-location/story-KKVxvmW2mFeG0yBKNgQXXN.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to give relief to anti-CAA protesters?||The state government may withdraw cases filed against those who took part in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) stir in Mumbai early this year. A delegation of civil activists, under the banner of Hum Bharat Ke Log, met home minister Anil Deshmukh at his official residence on Thursday. Deshmukh has promised them “appropriate action”, they said.According to the activists, there are at least five FIRs registered against the protesters in various police stations, along with more such cases across the city. “It was a peaceful protest across Mumbai and Maharashtra. There was no violence. The police booked many indiscriminately,” said Feroze Mithiborwala, a central committee member, Hum Bharat Ke Log, who submitted a memorandum signed by 31 scholars, social activists and politicians to the home minister. “We requested for withdrawal of the cases in accordance with the recent state government decision of withdrawal of social and political cases. All anti-CAA agitations received a huge response from the public. We have mentioned five FIRs registered in various police stations, although there are more such cases lodged in the city for protesting against the CAA. The minister has forwarded our memorandum to his department for further action,” said Mithiborwala, adding, “As the trains are still not running, our activists will face a harrowing time coming to courts. Moreover, it is risky to travel during the Covid-19 pandemic and we may have to spend a lot of money.” Deshmukh has instructed officials from the home department to take cognisance of the matter. Last year, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central Government passed the CAA, which it said was aimed at helping persecuted minorities from neighbouring countries. This led to protests across the country, including Maharashtra. One of the prominent sit-in protests in the city was at Agripada, termed Mumbai Bagh on the lines of Delhi’s Shaheen Baug, which went on for 56 days. It was called off after a lockdown was imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-give-relief-to-anti-caa-protesters/story-GIhPlNPrXa8mNOj60WkFqO.html
25-12-2020||Mumbai||Even if not nominated to Council, I will work for people of Maharashtra, says Urmila Matondkar||Actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondakar, who recently joined Shiv Sena said that with or without the tag of legislator she will continue to work for the people of the state. She has been named by the party for her nomination to the legislative council from the Governor quota.“I never wanted to be an MP (member of Parliament), even when I joined the Congress in March, last year. I would have campaigned for the party at the national level, but the party leadership insisted that I contest the Lok Sabha election. I always wanted to work for the people and the broader janhit (welfare). I would like to be people’s neta like I was perceived as ‘people’s actress’. My name has been nominated to Council by my party, but I never joined the party to become a legislator. I always wanted to work for the people and will continue to do so, even if I was not sent to the Council,” said the actress during the conversation with a select group of journalists at Sena Bhavan.Matondkar is among 12 people recommended by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for the nomination to the Council. The proposal is waiting for Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s nod for last more than one and half a month. The uncertainty still hovers over the nominations of the names recommended by the MVA government.Matondkar said that she was not upset with the Congress and she still shares good relations with party leaders like Sonia and Rahul Gandhi at the national level and Balasaheb Thorat at the state level. “I was offered the Council seat by Congress too, but I had already quit Congress. I had a problem with second rung leadership in the party. I was contacted by honourable chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and told that I was needed in the Council for the betterment of cultural and social field in the state. It appealed me the most and I decided to join the party,” she said.Matondkar said that Shiv Sena’s Hindutva is ‘inclusive’ and does not believe in diving people in the names of religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/even-if-not-nominated-to-council-i-will-work-for-people-of-maharashtra-says-urmila-matondkar/story-zd0APiTgv5GKZszHbgtgEI.html
25-12-2020||City||Gr Noida: Two more held for killing of lawyer over property dispute||Greater Noida: Police on Thursday arrested two prime suspects in connection with the murder of lawyer Fateh Mohammad Khan in Greater Noida. The suspects had murdered Khan, 50, over ₹125 crore property disputes on December 17, the police said.The suspects were identified as Rakesh Kumar Singh, 35, a resident of Rabupura in Greater Noida, and Mohammad Shamim, 32, a resident of Siddhartha Nagar in UP. Shamim was presently living in Jamia Nagar in Delhi.On Wednesday, the police had arrested two persons, including a sharpshooter, in the case.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that on Wednesday night Sector Beta 2 police had arrested a sharpshooter, Sanjeev, 35, alias Sonu, a resident of Hathras, and conspirator Subhash,37, a resident of Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. They had revealed the names of two main conspirators who were arrested on Thursday, he said.Khan, a native of Rabupura, had shifted to Greater Noida’s Sector 36 with his family. Khan was killed at 10am when he was walking to meet a client at Dadri Tehsil. Khan had received three bullet injuries and was declared brought dead at a private hospital.Police said that Khan was involved in disputed properties worth Rs 125 crore. “He was involved in 100 acre land worth Rs 36 crore in Muradpur village. In this case, he had dispute with Rakesh Kumar Singh. In another case, Subhash had disputed with Khan,” the DCP said.The investigation showed that there was also a 2,200 square metre disputed plot in Greater Noida Sector 44. Khan had collaborated with Shamim to fight the legal case jointly. Recently, Khan got the property registered in his name and Shamim was not given his share. Shamim had developed a grudge against him, the police said.All the three suspects hired a contract killer Sanjeev, and held a meeting at a shopping mall in Noida on December 17. Later, the suspects dropped the sharpshooter outside Khan’s house the same day, when the lawyer was killed,” the DCP said.Police have already registered a case of murder against the suspects under Section 302 of IPC. All the four suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gr-noida-two-more-held-for-killing-of-lawyer-over-property-dispute/story-G57AZmmpGoetnqML4NRn5O.html
25-12-2020||Noida||HC directs Noida authority to reconsider plot cancellation in Sector 61||The Allahabad high court has directed the chief executive officer (CEO) of Noida authority to grant one more year for construction to a petitioner, whose lease deed for a plot in Sector 61 was cancelled in August 2020.Noida Authority in an order, dated August 7, 2020, had cancelled the lease deed of a plot in Sector 61 with the observation that the land in question was not utilised by the petitioner.The authority’s counsel stated that physical possession of the said plot has not been taken by the authority. Moreover, the counsel argued in the matter of cancellation of the lease deed, for violation of the terms and conditions therein, the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Development (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, would be relevant. The ordinance provides for insertion in Section 7 of the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1976, that states: “Provided that where any land so allotted is not utilised for the purpose for which it was allotted within the period of five years from the date of possession or within the period fixed for such utilisation in the conditions of allotment, whichever is longer, the lease deed will stand cancelled and the land shall vest with the Authority.”“The high court bench of Justice Sunita Agarwal and Justice Jayant Banerji disposed off the petition with the observation that the CEO of Noida Authority shall consider the request of the petitioner for the grant of one more year for making completion of the construction over the plot in dispute in accordance with the amended Ordinance, 2020,” advocate Anoop Trivedi said on ThursdayNoida Authority Legal Department said high court order will be complied as per amended ordinance.The authority had in August cancelled allotment of three plots for violation of the conditions mentioned in the lease deed. The authority had taken action in response to a UP government ordinance that came in July 2020 stating that a plot should be cancelled if the owner was found to be violating terms and conditions of allotment. These terms and conditions include violation of land use, default of plot cost and delay in making the business functional among others, said officials. “The authority cancelled the allotment on violations of lease deed conditions. Some were using the plot for purposes other than permitted use for example, for commercial purposes. However if the Allahabad high court has issued any order, then we will obey the same,” said Avinash Tripathi officer on special duty of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/hc-directs-noida-authority-to-reconsider-plot-cancellation-in-sector-61/story-ikOYGOocVZvPjV2NR2aPCI.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Man gets 14 years of imprisonment for attempting to rape an infant||The district court on Thursday awarded rigorous imprisonment of 14 years to a 46-year-old man under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for attempting to rape an 18-month-old girl child in 2016.The incident took place on September 21, 2016. An FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 376,354 and POCSO Act at Sector 24 police station against the accused, Sohan Pal. The complainant, the mother of the girl child, stated that on the same day around 3pm her 18-month-old daughter was playing in the room.Sohan Pal, her neighbour, took her to his room and attempted to sexually assault her. She caught Sohan Pal with the child. Although, he tried to flee the spot, he was caught and handed over to the police.The doctor confirmed the rape attempt on the girl child upon medical examination.The court stated that prosecution has succeeded in proving the charges against accused beyond doubt.“Additional district judge Vineet Chaudhary today held the accused, Sohan Pal, guilty under POCSO act and awarded 14 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹20,000. Non payment of fine will attract an additional one-year imprisonment,” JP Bhati, Senior Public Prosecution Officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-gets-14-years-of-imprisonment-for-attempting-to-rape-an-infant/story-kP3q28DeAWy3KyYHmF4Y2J.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad suffer ‘severe’ air for the third day||Local emissions and weather conditions kept the city air quality under “severe” category for the third day in row. On Thursday, the three cities, namely Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Noida, remained the most polluted cities of the country like a day earlier. According to the weather analysts, while there is no external sources of pollution in the city, the ventilation is low due to limited wind time of low speed. With the pollution levels well over six to seven times the safe standards, the three cities remained under “severe” category despite marginal improvement since past 24 hours. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, on Thursday was 441 — the third worse in country as against 462 on Wednesday and 437 on Tuesday. Greater Noida’s AQI was 448, as against 476 on Wednesday and 450 on Tuesday. It was the worst polluted city. The AQI of Ghaziabad, the second-most polluted city, was 440 as against 472 on Wednesday and 458 on Tuesday. According to the IMD, the city is not getting enough winds to disperse the pollutants. The city, according to the experts, is receiving winds between 11am to 4.30pm, while the winds go calmer for the rest of the day. Due to this the pollutants trapped in the atmosphere.“Thursday saw maximum wind speed of about 10 kmph between 11am and 4.30pm. The wind speed may increase towards slightly by 2kmph on Friday, which may marginally improve the air quality. The city is also seeing higher humidity levels of around 100 to 95% and lower temperatures — both the conditions are suitable to trap the pollutants,” said said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The fine particles or pollutants PM2.5 levels spiked from twice on Sunday to seven times higher than the standards sine Wednesday , continuing on Thursday. On Thursday, PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida was recorded at 350.18 microgrammes per cubic metres against 405.18 microgrammes per cubic metres on Wednesday and 347.63 microgrammes per cubic metres on Tuesday. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 355.48 microgrammes per cubic metres against 438.17 microgrammes per cubic metres on Wednesday and 368.41 microgrammes per cubic metres on Tuesday. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad on Thursday was 364.56 microgrammes per cubic metres against 449.69 on Wednesday and 389.73 microgrammes per cubic metres on Tuesday. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 units. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to improve slightly. “Under the calm wind-cold conditions, low ventilation has halted the dispersion of accumulated pollutant. However, better ventilation condition is forecasted for the next two days. Hence, AQI is forecasted to improve to the higher end of the very poor category by 25th Dec and likely to further improve to the middle-end of Very Poor on 26th and 27th Dec (sic),” said the SAFAR statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-suffer-severe-air-for-the-third-day/story-sTnAzbdRtzrlQrRx2cFBsN.html
25-12-2020||Noida||New Greater Noida to be developed on lines of Gurugram||The new Greater Noida area, to be expanded on at least 30,000 hectares, will be developed on the Gurugram model of land acquisition, said officials. This will allow for better development and avoid disputes pertaining to land acquisition and compensation, said officials.Under the existing model, the authority acquires land from farmers, develops it and then sells the same to developers, industrial firms and others. By applying the Gurugram model, the authority now wants to develop basic facilities and allow investors to buy the land directly from farmers and then give permissions for businesses and other ventures.The Uttar Pradesh government has given the green signal for the change in approach. Also, the boundary for land acquisition has been marked till a subsection of a canal originating from the Upper Ganga Canal, towards Bulandshahr, where agricultural land is available, said officials.As per the Master Plan-2021, the Greater Noida has around 38,000 hectares notified area, largely bounded by NH-24 in the north-west, Hindon river on the western side and GT Road/Northern Railway mainline to Kolkata on the eastern side, in 124 villages. On the northern and western sides, it is flanked by Ghaziabad and Noida, respectively.The UP government established the industrial town in 1992 to boost growth. However, due to farmers’ frequent protests, the area could not be developed as planned, said officials. Farmers frequently resist land acquisition attempts on the grounds that the compensation offered was not adequate.The acquisition has also turned violent in the past, with the death of five farmers were on August 13, 2008, in Ghodi Bachheda and the death of six farmers in Bhatta-Parsaul in 2011. The UP government has decided to change its approach to keep farmers happy, said officials.“We will follow Gurugram model and acquire land for only basic infrastructure, such as roads, drainage network and other community services. We will develop the basic facilities and allow interested developers to buy the land directly from farmers, who can have a stake in projects and grow alongside industrial development,” said Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The Greater Noida authority is already working to finalise its Master Plan 2041, which will detail the exact land to be earmarked for industrial, residential, commercial, institutional and other uses. It has planned to earmark land of 80 more villages for expansion and seek required approvals before starting the development works next year, said officials.“We will soon finalise Master Plan 2041 and start the expansion of this town. We need to expand because there are huge opportunities, in view of Noida International airport at Jewar, along Yamuna Expressway. We will also adopt the land pooling policy that gives the opportunity to farmers to become partners in realty or industrial projects, like Gurugram. Besides, investors can contact farmers and approach us for licences to operate in the city, on the lines of Gurugram’s operations,” said Bhooshan.Surendra Nahta president of medium, small, micro enterprise association, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “Agitations and court cases affect businesses badly. Peace and better policing are crucial for businesses to grow. And if land procurement is with ease, then it makes a huge difference.”Realtors were also enthused about the change in approach as it reduces the scope for conflicts with landowners. “Developers and other investors face huge losses if a land dispute with farmer crops up. Not having any dispute over the land is always beneficial for any business to flourish and the land is the most important component in business, be it realty sector or industrial,” said RK Arora, the president of National Real Estate Development Council, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-greater-noida-to-be-developed-on-lines-of-gurugram/story-3RVuGfR9S9Z7FfDxfq96BK.html
25-12-2020||Noida||NMRC decides to terminate feeder bus service after four years of operation||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) in its annual board meeting on Thursday decided to terminate the contract of the feeder bus service, four years after its operation. The fleet of 50 low-floor buses were meant to provide last mile connectivity from metro stations to different sectors and villages. The feeder buses had been plying in Noida and Greater Noida since December 14, 2016, NMRC officials said. Manoj Vajpayee, general manager, NMRC, said that NMRC on Thursday convened its 26th board meeting followed by its 6th Annual General Meeting. Both the meetings were conducted via video conferencing at the NMRC headquarters in Noida. “The board deliberated the matter of feeder bus service and authorized managing director NMRC to terminate the contract of the service, in view of various violations, as per the clauses in the contract. The bus service did not serve the purpose it was meant for,” Vajpayee said. However, Vajpayee did not elaborate on the violations. Praveen Mishra, NMRC’s executive director, who attended the meeting, confirmed that the services have been terminated but refused to comment further. Sources said that the bus service was running in loss since its operation. HT had published a report on May 30, 2019 in which a senior NMRC official had said that these buses record an average of 10,000 commuters and generate ₹3.50 lakh revenue a day, which is not enough for the corporation to even recover its operational costs. The NMRC’s monthly revenue from the bus service wsa is ₹1 crore, against ₹3 crore of operational expenses a month, the officials said.NMRC had signed a contract with a private transport company to run the city bus service. The buses will remain with the company as the contract is terminated, the officials said. NMRC had suspended the services of this bus facility since the outbreak of Coronavirus in March this year.The bus service was funded by the Noida Authority and Greater Noida Authority. NMRC had a fleet of 50 low-floor AC buses that ran on 11 routes in Noida, Greater Noida and Noida Extension. These low-floor GPS-enabled buses were covered with two CCTV cameras and panic buttons.In Noida, these buses started from Botanic Garden and covered different metro stations across Noida, as well as some villages. Similarly, the buses also started from Noida Extension to Sector 51 Metro Station, and covered Gaur City, Kisan Chowk, Garhi Chaukhandi village, and others on the way. These buses also ran between Noida and Greater Noida, covering Sector Alpha 1, Pari Chowk, Knowledge Park, NSEZ, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-decides-to-terminate-feeder-bus-service-after-four-years-of-operation/story-rNwhbeC4gp5YPqmkLUdwEI.html
25-12-2020||Noida||Traffic hit as pro-farm bill farmers protest at Noida e-way for 5 hours||A group of farmers on Thursday protested at the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway near Mahamaya Flyway, affecting the traffic moving from Greater Noida towards Delhi for about five hours. The protest was led by the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS), which is supporting the Centre’s new farm bills.The farmers claimed that they wanted to go to Delhi to meet the Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar but were stopped by the police. They gathered at the spot around 11:30am and protested till 4:30pm, the police said. Bijendra Singh Rawal, president, KSS, GB Nagar, said, “Along with 500 other farmers, I have come here in support of the three farm laws. We have gone through these laws and found them useful. These laws will break the shackles that have been restricting the farmers from growth and prosperity since Independence,” he said. Rawal further said that earlier, the farmers had the option to sell their produce only at the mandi. “There was no other option to sell the produce outside mandi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reiterated that the mandis will exist while the farmers will have option to sell their crops to others at their convenience,” said Rawal.He alleged that in the mandis, there are middlemen, who take commission to facilitate the sale and purchase of the crops that ultimately affects the income of farmers. Meanwhile, some members of Kisan Sena, another outfit, also joined the pro-farm laws protest near Mahamaya Flyway. Satveer Tyagi, a resident of Kulesra village in Greater Noida, said, “I grow paddy, wheat and bajra in my fields. When we go to sell the produce in the mandis, the mediators seek commission from us. Now, we can visit other places and sell our crops if we get better price,” he said. A Noida police team reached the spot and placed barricades on both sides of the protesters. A team also flew a drone to keep aerial surveillance. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP, Noida Zone 1, said that the farmers had started gathering from 11:30am onwards. “The police had placed barricades and allowed traffic movement in a single lane for commuters heading towards DND Flyway and Film City Flyway. But at 4pm, another farmers’ group came from Western Uttar Pradesh and joined the protest. The gathering became large and we stopped the traffic completely till 4:30pm on the route. However, we diverted the traffic at Charkha Chowk, near Amity University. These vehicles were guided to reach Okhla Sanctuary metro station and take the underpass to reach Noida-Greater Noida Expressway again,” he said. The police later allowed a 21-member farmers’ delegation to enter Delhi to meet the Union Agriculture Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-hit-as-pro-farm-bill-farmers-protest-at-noida-e-way-for-5-hours/story-2X0RIw0glbWRrtJYehKgAM.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||SDMC makes it mandatory for meat shops, restaurants to mention halal or jhatka||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday passed a proposal regarding mandatory mention of halal or jhatka for the meat being served at restaurants. This order will also be applicable at meat shops in SDMC area.The proposal, cleared by the standing committee, will now be sent to the House for final approval. “There are thousands of restaurants in 104 wards of four zones falling under South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Out of these meat is served in about 90% of restaurants but it is not mentioned whether the meat being served by the restaurants is halal or jhatka. Similarly, the meat shops also do not make the distinction.... Therefore, this meeting resolves that this direction be given to restaurants and meat shops that writing/mentioning jhatka or halal has been made mandatory,” the resolution stated.In August 2018, the East Delhi municipal corporation had also passed a similar resolution. However, there is no such practice in place in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said that it was the right of the consumer to know what type of food he or she is consuming.“You may find halal or jhatka meat written on the meat shops but such a practice is rare in restaurants. Many people do not eat jhatka meat and similarly many don’t eat halal meat but in restaurants you cannot tell the meat type being served. So it is a healthy practice to mention what kind of meat is being served at the restaurants,” Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-makes-it-mandatory-for-meat-shops-restaurants-to-mention-halal-or-jhatka/story-AUO2rsWRm64y3vtGW00FaN.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Civic body employees stage protest, threaten indefinite strike from January 7||Hundreds of civic body employees, mostly those from North Delhi Municipal Corporation, on Thursday staged a day-long protest outside Civic Centre, which houses headquarters of north and south municipalities, to demand the release of their pending salaries. Employees in the north corporation have not been paid salaries for the last 3-4 months.The symbolic protest was carried out by the Confederation of MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of the civic employees unions.Representatives of the union said that those who participated in the protest included teachers, engineers, horticulture department, clerical staff along with Class IV e mployees such as beldars and labourers.Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union said that municipal workers had withdrawn their strike twice in the past after the mayor and commissioner of north corporation assured that their pending salaries, dues and pensions would be released by November-end. That did not happen.He said that salaries of teachers, engineers and other employees of the north corporation are pending for the months of August, September, October and November. “We have not yet been paid for last four months. Enough is enough We can’t keep working without salaries. We will go on an indefinite strike from January 7 and stage a protest at L-G office on the same day,” Solanki said.He said that the salaries of civic employees should not be delayed further.Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said that the civic body is going through a financial crisis and the salaries of sanitation workers have been cleared till the month of September, DBC(Domestic Breeding Checker) employees till October, doctors and nurses till September. “Protest is not the solution as the employees should also understand the civic body’s situation. Efforts are being made to clear maximum liabilities in phased manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-body-employees-stage-protest-threaten-indefinite-strike-from-january-7/story-q3bF1wkJKlif6pDYJIOBlN.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Students join farmers in protest at Delhi’s borders||At Delhi’s borders where tens of thousands of people are protesting against the three farm laws, it isn’t just farmers or those with a farming background but hundreds of students from different universities have joined the protesters. The students said they have joined in to be part of the “revolutionary movement”.Most of these students are from Delhi University (DU), Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Punjab University, Jamia Millia Islamia, and Ambedkar University.Sukhwinder Singh, a student of MA in History at Punjab University and a member of Ambedkar Students’ Association, who has set-up a library at the Singhu border along with his friends, said, “We are here not because our family members are associated with farming but because we genuinely resist these new laws. Who will feed us if the farmers won’t be there? How will people from marginalised sections afford food if farming is completely corporatised? Now is the time to do something to stop that disaster.” Singh and his friends have been staying at the Singhu border protesting site in a tent for the last two weeks. Vivek, 17, a student of DU’s School of Open Learning (SoL) and a member of All India Students Association (AISA), has been attending the protest at Singhu border since November 29. His association has set up a medical help desk for protesting farmers. “I am from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district and from a farmers’ family. I know how these laws will affect our families. We will come on the roads,” he said.The farmers’ agitation against the three new farm laws at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered into its 29th day on Thursday. Similarly, students are attending the ongoing protest at the Tikri border as well. Among them is Kaushik Raj, a PhD scholar from JNU, who is participating in the agitation from the day one. “No revolution is complete without students participating in it. We are here because we understand that it’s a matter of grave concern. And if we don’t fight against it now we will never get another opportunity,” he said.Kaushik and his friends have set up a library at the border and have also started screening movies on revolution and farmers’ issues at Tikri border from Thursday under the banner of “trolly-talkies”. When asked how he manages his PhD work along with the protest he said, “Books are not the only medium of gaining knowledge. Here we are getting knowledge of real life issues.”Navkiran Natt, a member of AISA who has completed masters in film studies from Ambedkar University this year, said, “Many of us who belong to farmer families know that the new farm laws will take away the only source of income-- our lands.”Besides, students from different Universities have also set up libraries at Ghazipur and Singhu border under the banner of “Vikalp Manch”. Students can also be seen helping farmers at langars and while cleaning the protest sites.Meanwhile, on Thursday, protests remained peaceful at Delhi borders. At the Singhu border, farmers held a webinar to “burst myths” about their ongoing movement. The webinar was attended by 10,000 people and another 66,000 watched it on Facebook and 43,000 on Youtube by Thursday evening. As many as 1,640 questions were answered by farmers during the webinar, said Baljit Singh, head of the farmers IT-cell, Kisan Ekta Morcha.ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-join-farmers-in-protest-at-delhi-s-borders/story-UCYW9CRn1uf16XgTaNCU3N.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Seven nabbed, police blow lid off Rs 10 crore ‘Like’ and ‘Share’ scam||The business of paid “like” and “share” of videos on social media platforms was misused by a gang to create an elaborate system of paid membership, in which thousands of social media users across the country were duped after being promised easy money, the Delhi Police said on Thursday, after arresting seven and busting the racketIngit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), said that while seven members of this gang have been arrested so far, two prime suspects —Devesh Lal and Sunny China, who started the scam — remain on the run and were supposedly based in Dubai at the moment.The DCP said that a trail of R10 crore in transactions made by this gang has been detected and 30 bank accounts frozen.The officer identified the alleged fake mobile application as LoveLike and their website as www.task4.in – both of which are now dysfunctional.Police said that the scam was designed in such a way that there were two memberships — one free, in which the members made little money and the second paid — which was much more lucrative but came at a price.“The free members were given three videos every day to like and share. Each video fetched them Rs 6. That way, in a month a free member could make R540. A free member didn’t have the option to create multiple accounts,” said an investigator..But people with paid memberships were promised limitless earnings. The “advanced” membership cost R10,000 and once purchased the members were offered 39 such videos daily and paid Rs 13 per like and share. This brought them Rs 15,210 a month. The highest membership category— titled “Super”— came at a price of Rs 50,000 and offered users 125 videos to like and share every day, paying them R25 per video. The users stood to make Rs 93,750 monthly under the Super membership.“What lured the paid members was the option to create multiple accounts. Many even involved their families. One complainant had invested R5 lakh by involving seven of her relatives. People did not complain, since they had to spend so little time on their phones to like and share these videos,” said the officer.What made the scheme appear even more lucrative was that members were promised up to 15% of the earnings of every new member that they brought in.THE CRIMEBut the videos being sent out to members weren’t being procured from any firm or organisation looking to grow, the officer said. “These were random videos picked up from social media sites. The aim was to lure people to invest money,” said the officer.To lure people, the gang first roped in unsuspecting but influential Youtubers to promote their scheme, the officer said. The existing members were also promised handsome incentives for each new member they roped in. “The gang actually paid to the first few members in the early days, to build trust. But when they had collected enough money, they stopped paying and fled,” the officer said.“The crime came to police’s notice on December 8, when one of the victims reached out to Delhi Police on Twitter, after which the south-west district police launched a probe,” said Amit Goyal, additional DCP. The alleged scam had left a big online footprint that the police used to carry out raids in Gurgaon and arrest seven alleged members of the gang.Since thousands of such victims are suspected to be there, Abhinendra Jain, assistant commissioner of police (operations), said that investigators are now reaching out to cyber cells across Delhi to collate all such cases against these alleged racketeers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-nabbed-police-blow-lid-off-rs-10-crore-like-and-share-scam/story-8aiOnsez8HP0Ke7EJQO9tN.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Eight of CISF’s trusted four-legged warriors retire||After nine eventful years of meritorious service, Blacky and Pesty — both 9-year-old female Labradors — along with six others, retired from the Central Industrial Security Force’s canine squad on Thursday. Blacky and Pesty were the only dogs from the force to be deployed on special duty at Kumbh Mela 2018, to secure the premises. For the past nine years, the duo have also been responsible for securing Delhi Metro premises and have been used to check more than 2,000 unattended bags.Apart from Blacky and Pesty, the other six canines who retired on Thursday were Rosy and Tweeky -- German Shepards, Lilly, Jency and Lucy — all Labradors and Mini — a Cocker Spaniel. All of them had helped the force in securing the Delhi Metro and Indira Gandhi International airport premises.On Thursday, the eight dogs bid adieu to the force during a farewell ceremony organized specially for them at their Shastri Park kennel in east Delhi. They were awarded with a medal each for their distinguished services and for their dedication. The dogs were then served with a cake made of dog food as they spent their last day with the force.Deputy inspector general, CISF, Jitender Rana said Thursday’s ceremony was held especially to honour the canines and thank them for their contribution in keeping the Delhi Metro safe. A farewell ceremony, Rana said, was the least the force could do for the four-legged guardians. “These dogs have served us for over nine years. Two of them even were deployed at Kumbh Mela and were relied upon to sanitise the premises. Each one of them have sniffed more than 2000 unattended bags, keeping the metro and its passengers safe,” Rana said.The DIG said the canines will be handed over to Friendicoes-SECA, an NGO, that will take care of their veterinarian needs in their old age. Dog lovers can further adopt these dogs from the NGO, he said.A senior officer from the CISF said the dogs retired due to their old age. “After a certain age, their capability to sniff and track reduces. However, we keep track of all our dogs even after they are handed over to the NGO. Our teams visit them occasionally to keep a check on their health and conditions under which they’re kept,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.Doctor Akhilesh Gupta, from Friendicoes-SECA, who was also present at the ceremony, said the NGO will take the dogs on Friday and all of them would go through a medical check-up. “Those found fit can be adopted by dog lovers. If we detect any health issues, then we will send the canine toour Gurugram facility under medical supervision,” Gupta said.DIG Rana said with their eight dogs retiring, they are left with 53 canine soldiers in their kennel. Procedure to fill in the vacant posts with new recruits was in progress, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eight-of-cisf-s-trusted-four-legged-warriors-retire/story-UuIhWdULdabuElrlqzvdwO.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Cyber crime cases went up during lockdown, shows Delhi police data||There was a significant spike in cyber crimes in Delhi during the Covid-19 induced lockdown with as many as 135 such offences being reported every day on an average in May, the Delhi Police said after analysing nearly 33,000 cases registered until November this year. For instance, in January this year, 1,480 cyber crimes -- or about 48 offences every day – were reported against 4,188 cases in May. In April, the cases stood at 3,372, in June at 3,239 and in July at 4,103. Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime unit), said with concerted efforts to raise awareness against cyber frauds, including sharing case studies on radio programmes to reach a large audience and short videos shared on WhatsApp, cases of cyber crimes are slowly coming down. In November, for instance, 2,634 cases at a daily average of 88 offences were reported to the Delhi Police.Roy attributed the spike in cyber crimes during the lockdown to the increase in online shopping as markets stayed shut. “Many bogus sites with poor credibility cropped up to take advantage of people who had increased their use of digital platforms for shopping. Under normal circumstances, the public wouldn’t have generally used those sites for shopping,” said Roy, adding that it couldn’t be said if street criminals migrated to online frauds. “It is rather the existing online fraudsters who scaled up their operations and came up with new ideas of cyber crimes,” said Roy.The cyber crime unit has analysed these offences to conclude that 62% of them were online financial frauds, 24% were social media harassment that included morphing photos of people and sexual harassment, and the rest 14% were other crimes such as hacking, identity theft and data theft.Further analysis of cases, police said, also pointed to regions from where certain kinds of cyber criminals operated. The Mewat region, for instance, was found to be a hot spot of cyber frauds duping people by sending fake messages through fake social media profiles. From north and northwest Delhi and NCR towns such as Noida and Gurugram, fake call centres were being run which cheated people by offering tech support in the name of reputed software companies. Fake websites on government schemes were mostly tracked to people in north Rajasthan and south Bihar, the police’s analysis found.Besides government office and private firms, at least 165,000 individuals were targeted in 12 cases termed as ‘mega frauds’ by the police. Among cases that were counted as ‘mega frauds’, DCP Roy cited the case in which free solar panels and laptops were being offered using a fake website by misusing the Prime Minister’s name. While only three persons arrested for this alleged fraud, their website had garnered more than 1.5 million hits in two days and over one lakh persons were duped, said Roy. Overall, for the 12 mega frauds, the police registered 65 first information reports (FIRs) and arrested 125 suspects. Overall, 214 cyber offenders have been arrested this year.How rampant the cyber crimes are in the national capital can be gauged from the fact that in the 10 days until Thursday, five fake call centres have been busted here.The cyber crime unit was also kept busy through the year blocking “objectionable content” on social media platforms. The police requested platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tiktok and YouTube to block as many as 278 accounts this year. “The most such accounts blocked were 140 on Twitter,” said Roy.Apart from the centralised cyber crime unit, each district of Delhi Police too has its own cyber cells. These too were flooded with complaints. Of the 32,896 cyber crimes reported until November, 2,349 were in these districts. Vikram Singh, former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, attributed the spike in cyber crimes during and after the lockdown to unemployment, cash crunch, lots of spare time and easy availability of tools. “The tools required for cyber crimes are minimum. In half such crimes, those with basic knowledge of computers can operate if they have internet connection and a mobile phone. They had empty minds, abundant time and found it an easy work that paid well and the getaway was easy,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyber-crime-cases-went-up-during-lockdown-shows-delhi-police-data/story-syScqUXmhZFBS13Bks51TJ.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Two flyovers proposed to decongest Ring Road stretch gets UTTIPEC nod||In what may come as a major relief for motorists and residents of Punjabi Bagh and Moti Nagar in west Delhi, the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre on Thursday approved a proposal to decongest a roughly 3.5 km stretch of the Ring Road between Raja Garden flyover and Punjabi Bagh flyover. The Public Works Department (PWD) proposes to construct two flyovers parallel to the existing single flyovers at Club Road crossing and at Moti Nagar crossing for smoother flow of vehicles.According to UTTIPEC officials, the corridor which is to be improved, starts from Raja Garden flyover and goes up to Punjabi Bagh flyover and is a part of the Ring Road. “The proposal includes the provision of three lanes – dual carriage way grade separator (flyover) from Raja Garden crossing over the Club Road intersection along with doubling the existing flyover above the Punjabi Bagh crossing (Moti Nagar Crossing). This PWD proposal will decongest the Ring Road and improve its capacity. It will help to provide signal free movement from Dhaula Kuan to Azadpur on the Ring Road,” a UTTIPEC statement said.The proposal was approved in a governing body meeting of UTTIPEC, chaired by L-G Anil Baijal. The proposal has been cleared with the condition to incorporate provisions for adequate space for safe movement of pedestrians on this stretch.A senior PWD official said the project will now be sent to the Delhi cabinet for final approval. “We can start the project on ground only when all the approvals are granted. Clearance of the project from the UTTIPEC is a big success because now we would be able to start further planning on the project,” the official said.He added that under the project, the two one-way flyovers will be converted into three lanes each in both directions. The length of the existing flyover at the Club Road intersection near Raja Garden will also be increased. The length of the flyover at the Club Road intersection is around 600 metre and it will be extended up to ESI Hospital which will take its overall length to around 1.5-km. “It is important to improve this stretch of the Ring Road because it gets heavily clogged during morning and evening traffic hours. Many times it takes over half an hour to wade through the heavy traffic on this 3.5 km patch. This project will certainly benefit the residents and motorists passing through this area,” the PWD official said.Besides, the UTTIPEC also approved a detailed feasibility study for construction of a rail over bridge (ROB) and rail under bridge (RUB) on Khera Kalan-Khera Khurd rail crossing on Delhi-Ambala rail line.The ROB is proposed for efficient movement of through traffic whereas the RUB is proposed to segregate the through traffic from the local traffic of Khera Kalan and Khera Khurd, a UTTIPEC statement said.​At present, vehicles create a long queue at the railway crossing resulting in traffic congestion. The proposal will provide uninterrupted movement across the railway crossing.The UTTIPEC also asked National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) to conduct traffic study for providing road connectivity for proposed Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) complex at Jangpura.NCRTC has planned to accommodate the Operation Control Center, service buildings, and essential staff quarters along with other required installations of RRTS at Jangpura.“This land (where the complex is to come) is bounded by three railway tracks forming a triangle and has a very poor connectivity with adjacent roads. Connectivity has been proposed through the provision of trumpet towards Mathura Road; which will be four-lane divided with two-metre footpath on both sides, and a two-lane undivided flyover with two-metre wide footpath on both sides (along the railway line) towards the Ring Road,” the UTTIPEC statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-flyovers-proposed-to-decongest-ring-road-stretch-gets-uttipec-nod/story-AMS2VKMMVYMPUE8aaYShIP.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||PM Narendra Modi to flag off Metro’s first driverless train on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the country’s first-ever fully automated driverless train service on the 37km long Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) on December 28, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Thursday — the day the corporation completed 18 years of operations. PM Modi will also launch a fully operational National Common Mobility Card for travel on Airport Express Line on the same day. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be flagging off the country’s first-ever fully automated driverless train service on the 37km Magenta Line on December 28,” DMRC said in a statement on Thursday. A senior DMRC official said that the technology will first be launched on the Magenta Line, but the Metro is also working to extend this to the Pink Line (Shiv Vihar-Majlis Park) in the next few months. Another DMRC official, on the condition of anonymity, said that driverless technology was introduced on the Magenta Line and the Pink Line in 2017, but until now, the Metro was conducting rigorous trials to ensure that trains could safely switch over to driverless operations. Officials explained that the driverless train technology has set standards for automation called grades of automation (GoA). In GoA 1, trains are run by one driver and, in GoA 2 and GoA 3, the role of the driver is reduced to operating doors and for taking over in case of emergencies -- the starting and halting of trains is automated. Finally, in the GoA 4, trains are set on a completely unattended train operations mode. “The progression to remove human intervention entirely is done in a phased manner. After isolated trials at first, we have of late been conducting trials during the non-peak hours. The idea is to gain complete public confidence in the system,” the DMRC official said. The DMRC had initially set a tentative deadline for operations, under GoA 3, for May this year. But the plans were delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The DMRC also announced that the NCMC will first be launched on the 23km Airport Express Line, but the facility will be extended to other lines. “There are certain changes that we had to make in the automatic fare collection (AFC) gates to read the new cards. Along with these cards, all other fare collection options —such as the Metro smart card and the ‘More’ Delhi Common Mobility Card — will continue to be accepted in the Metro network,” said the official. The NCMC, or the One Nation One Card, will enable travellers to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including Metro services and toll tax, across the country,while allowing withdrawing money from the same card. NCMC cards are issued from nearly 23 banks on debit, credit, pre-paid card product platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-flag-off-metro-s-first-driverless-train-on-monday/story-4Ao1Efejh9SZUkfnZipgOI.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||BJP workers vandalise DJB office, AAP calls it premeditated attack||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman and ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Raghav Chadha alleged on Thursday that a group of protesters belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), led by the state unit chief Aadesh Gupta, barged into the civic agency’s headquarters in Jhandewalan and vandalised his office.Addressing a press conference, Chadha said the “goons” were shouting slogans against Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for supporting farmers who are protesting against three federal farm laws aimed at liberalising agriculture trade. The charge drew a sharp rebuttal by the opposition party, and triggered a blame game, but footage of the incident showed Gupta and a group of supporters storming into the office of DJB at Jhandewalan.“The goons of the BJP said that they are disgruntled because Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party have stood in solidarity with protesting farmers, because the AAP government did not allow stadiums to be converted into jails, and because the AAP leaders tore apart copies of the contentious farm laws in the assembly. They also admitted to leading similar attacks at residences of the chief minister and deputy CM Manish Sisodia (earlier this month),” Chadha, who is also spokesperson of the AAP, said. He also alleged inaction on the part of the Delhi Police, which report to the Union home ministry.Kejriwal, too, hit out at the BJP. “The AAP stands with the farmers and we are not scared of such cowardly attacks. The BJP should know that. I appeal to all AAP workers to not get provoked by such attacks and continue supporting the farmers,” he tweeted. While videos of the office premises showed broken furniture, glass doors and what seemed to be blood on the floor of the building, Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central), denied that any DJB employees or AAP workers were injured in the incident. He, however, said that some police personnel were injured. “There was no blood at the scene,” said Bhatia. The police briefly detained 30 people, including Delhi’s BJP chief, for the incident. Gupta later said it was the AAP volunteers who “sabotaged” his “peaceful protest” against an alleged tanker scam.“During the demonstration outside the Delhi Jal Board headquarters, Aam Aadmi Party volunteers attacked BJP workers. One worker sustained an injury to the backbone and was admitted to a trauma centre, while four others also suffered serious injuries,” he said.The BJP was staging a “peaceful” demonstration outside the DJB headquarters against the “tanker scam” and problems faced by people due to water supply issues, he claimed. “Aam Aadmi Party volunteers forcibly barged into the headquarters, vandalised it and attacked the BJP workers. The Kejriwal government conspired to defame the BJP by sabotaging our protest,” he further said. CCTV footage shared by Chadha on his Twitter account showed some men scaling an iron gate and then helping a group on the outside to break through the gates. Some men in uniform inside the gates appeared to be first reasoning out with those who had scaled down, and then trying to stop them from breaking open the gates. Chadha, who was not there at the time of the incident, also alleged that the police were standing “quietly” behind the protesters and “facilitating the attack” while the private security guards tried to prevent the trespassing. “It was clearly a premediated attack... But we will not be scared of such cowardly attacks. Now we will continue supporting farmers and protesting against the contentious farm laws,” said Chadha.The incident took place between noon and 1pm, police said. “There were two levels of barricades and then the main gate of the headquarters. The protesters managed to break through the first two barricades and then barged through the gates even as we tried to stop them,” said a senior police officer who asked not to be named.A DJB employee said on condition of anonymity that he watched the men barge in. “About 30 men managed to enter. They were carrying banners against the CM and were shouting slogans. They stayed inside for several minutes. I was watching everything from the balcony of the first floor as they went on a rampage on the ground floor. They didn’t even care to cover their faces. We thought they would come up and attack us too, but they left before that,” said the employee. DCP Bhatia denied any lapses or inaction by the police. “The force there was prompt and active,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-workers-vandalise-djb-office-aap-calls-it-premeditated-attack/story-g4QQKiJdgpkBSUDqCD7ODI.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Two from IGI airport fled to avoid government quarantine, say officials||Two passengers from the UK — who went missing from Delhi airport on Tuesday — were aware that they are infected with Covid-19 and deliberately escaped as they did not want to go to institutional quarantine facilities, officials present at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport have claimed. While one of the passengers was traced in Punjab, the other had managed to flee to Andhra Pradesh.The state government, Delhi police, or airport authorities have not pressed any charges against the two so far. The UK returnees, who arrived at the Delhi airport on Monday and Tuesday, were subjected to mandatory RT-PCR tests, as required by the government in order to stop the spread of a new strain of Sars-Cov-2 that spreads faster. India has also suspended all flights to and from the United Kingdom (UK) between December 23 and December 31.To ensure that passengers returning from the UK do not mix up with other passengers, a special corridor has been set up at the airport to expedite immigration and customs clearance and baggage collection gate. CISF personnel, donning PPE kits, escort all flyers from the UK through different levels of clearance and drop them at the waiting halls, where they are handed over to health officials. They are then taken to the testing facility at the multilevel car park facility near Terminal 3. Officials said they are unsure at which point, the two managed to escape. Airport officials, privy to the case, said the two had tested positive and were to be taken to institutional quarantine. The health department and the police are unclear whether the two patients escaped before boarding the ambulance at the airport or from the ambulance on way to the quarantine facility.Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said no such incident took place at the Delhi airport. “Till Thursday night we had received no complaint or report regarding the escapes,” he said.The two escapes came to light after one of the persons reached Ludhiana and tried to get himself admitted to one of the private hospitals in the city. Both the patients have now been brought back to Delhi,” said an official from the Delhi government, adding that they are currently in the special isolation ward at Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital.Sachin Badhshah, deputy inspector general, CISF, said on the arrival side, “Our role is limited to just facilitating the arriving passengers.” They were escorted and handed over to the authorities concerned, he said.An officer aware of the matter, said all the passengers from the UK flights were asked to wait for their test reports in a lounge. “Once someone tested positive, they were asked to isolate themselves, don a PPE, and go to the ambulances waiting outside for transporting them to an isolation facility. However, both the persons managed to slip out either before reaching the ambulance or from within the ambulance,” the official said.Three others were untraceable on Tuesday and were later traced by Delhi government officials, he added. One among them had tested positive at the IGI airport on Tuesday. “The person was taken to Safdarjung hospital. But there was some miscommunication and Safdarjung hospital released him prescribing home isolation. Then the Covid-19 passenger himself came to a government’s health care facility in east district and was traced by the city’s Covid surveillance system. He was later shifted to the dedicated ward in Lok Nayak hospital on Tuesday night,” said a senior official. So far, 11 people who travelled from the UK have tested positive for the infection, with at least 50 others, who had come in direct contact with infected patients, also being sent to quarantine. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the government “will talk to” airport authorities in the city over the issue.“Flight operations and security there is under the airport authorities... But a person who has tested positive, should not have moved out,” Jain said .Asked, about the responsibility of the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport,Jain said, “We will talk to airport authorities about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-from-igi-airport-fled-to-avoid-government-quarantine-say-officials/story-wc2mDQJ9TITMjnbRwuq5TM.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Govt to reserve 60% ICU beds in pvt hospitals for Covid care||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said that it would be “inhumane” to have 80% ICU beds in almost three dozen private hospitals of the city reserved only for Covid-19 patients, especially at a time when the positivity rate and the cases in the city was going down. The court said that the order has to be removed, if beds are lying vacant.Justice Navin Chawla expressed the court’s displeasure at the delay by the Delhi government in presenting the statistics regarding the necessity of keeping these beds reserved amid concerns of non-Covid patients not getting critical care.“Until there is serious doubt, continuation of this order is inhumane. How many beds are occupied, vacant, required for keeping the Covid-19 patients? Show me that they cared to find out vacancy and requirement of ICU beds in the last one month,” the court said.“I’m going to examine the decision making process...Till the time it cannot be sustained to keep the ICU beds vacant,” the court said during the hearing. “My view is that there is no need for reservation. In case numbers increase, we will allow it again,” the judge added.The court was hearing a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers — filed through advocate Sanyam Khetarpal — challenging the decision of the Delhi government of September 12 for reserving 80% beds in 33 private hospitals.On Thursday, the Delhi government informed court that an expert committee has recommended reducing reservation of 80% ICU beds to 60% thereby increasing the number of ICU beds for the non-Covid patients. The government counsel also assured the court that the Delhi government is going to pass an executive order for the reservation of beds on the recommendations of the committee by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).He said that a meeting would be held on December 26 in this regard, where the views of Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog and Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will be taken into consideration while passing an order on reservation of ICU beds for Covid patients.During the hearing, senior advocate Maninder Singh, also representing the petitioners, told the court that the division bench of the Delhi HC had vacated the stay because the cases had doubled and even the positivity rate had gone high. He added that now, however, the cases have gone down, along with the positivity rate.After the hearing the government and the petitioners, the court asked ASG Jain to re-examine its decision and place it before the court on December 28 for consideration.The government informed the court that in the meeting of the expert committee of the DDMA conducted on December 23 for formulation of recommendations regarding de-escalation of Covid-19 dedicated beds, it was found that there is a significant decline in number of cases admitted in the hospital .The expert committee of the DDMA, in its recommendation, said that the total hospital Covid bed occupancy as on December 23 stood at 2,866 (of the total 18,779 Covid beds), and Covid ICU beds occupancy stands at 1319 (of the total 5,100 beds).The minutes of the meeting said that the committee unanimously agreed that due to the declining trend of occupancy among all categories of Beds (Oxygenated, ICU, Ventilator), the de-escalation may be carried out in a graded manner preferably in Delhi government hospitals and private sector hospitals.The committee decided not to recommend any change in the status of Covid beds for the Central Government Hospitals.The committee also said that the Covid ICU beds reservation of 80% of the total ICU beds be reduced to 60%, making 40% ICU beds available for the non-Covid patients. It said that the private sector hospitals also being important stake holders for provision of medical and tertiary care services, the Covid beds reservation of 60% of total beds in all private hospitals should be de escalated to 45%. It said that this will make 55% beds in private sector hospitals available for non-Covid patients and increase the beds from existing 6760 to 8696 (approx), an increase of more than 1930 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-reserve-60-icu-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-care/story-sWyXqJQdOP4PXQVwZneApN.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Active Covid-19 cases decline across Delhi districts||As new Covid-19 cases are declining in the national capital for around three weeks now, seven out of eleven districts recorded less than 1,000 active cases as of December 22, shows the latest district-wise summary prepared by the revenue department. Northeast Delhi has 158 active cases -- the lowest among all districts. At 2,616, northwest Delhi district has the highest share of total active cases (12,189) as of December 22, showed the weekly report which is submitted to offices of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.The other six districts with less than 1,000 active cases as on December 22 are central Delhi (592), New Delhi (731), Shahdara (359), south Delhi (891), southeast (887) and southwest (910), according to the report seen by HT. To put this in perspective, on November 15, when Delhi was peaking in its third – and worst – phase of spike in Covid-19 cases, only one out of 11 revenue districts had less than 1,000 active cases, showed government data.Delhi, as on November 15, had 43,774 active cases – of which lowest was recorded in the northeast Delhi district (918) and highest in southwest district (6,391), the data showed. Southwest district was followed by south Delhi with 5,815 active cases.Last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi seems to have overcome the third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “We are leaving no stone unturned when it comes to efforts being done to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease. District teams have been entrusted with assessment of transmission risk and creating micro containment zones wherever necessary. Contact tracing was scaled up. The government also focused on home isolation management and patient care quality in hospitals. The efforts have shown results. However, people must continue following precautions.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the numbers are encouraging. “Active cases have declined despite the government increasing the number of tests, especially RT-PCR tests, which are considered to be more accurate. The government should keep up with its currently applicable strategies on testing, tracing and isolation. And people should not let their guards down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/active-covid-19-cases-decline-across-delhi-districts/story-yNmE487ErzRyMKNe20AlUM.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 1,063 Covid-19 infections, positivity rate at 1.18%||After three days consecutive days of reporting fewer than a thousand infections, 1,063 people were tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, according to the daily health bulletin. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that tested positive among total tested – also rose slightly to 1.18% on Thursday. The positivity rate has consistently been declining in the city since mid-November when it touched the highest 15.33% during the third wave of the infection. It has remained below 5% for 22 days now and below 2% for 10 days, as per the data shared by the government. “The situation has improved a lot. The positivity rate dipped below 1% and the number of deaths has also gone down. We need to reduce it further. The recovery rate has also increased a lot,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during a press briefing on Thursday. The number of deaths also went up slightly. The city saw 37 deaths on Wednesday as compared to an average 28.5 deaths recorded a day during the last seven days. The seven-day case fatality ratio – the proportion of deaths among those who tested positive – shot up to 2.73% from the 1.87% at the beginning of the month. The cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of the total number of cases and deaths – has also been inching upwards since mid-November after declining consistently since recording 4.11% in June. So far, the highest number of deaths reported in a day was 131 recorded on November 18 during the third surge in the number of cases. “It is unlikely that Delhi will see a huge surge like this with a high proportion of people having been exposed to the infection already. It is likely that infections get reported from pockets,” Dr Shobha Broor former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences had said. Delhi tested 89,990 samples on Wednesday of which 47,889 were done using the gold standard RT-PCR method and the rest 42,031 with the less reliable rapid antigen technique.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-reports-1-063-covid-19-infections-positivity-rate-at-1-18/story-c8v4t5F2fmn7oiIJMKr1mI.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi can store 11.5 million vaccine doses in a week: Kejriwal||The Delhi government has storage facility for 7.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, which will be increased to 11.5 million within a week, announced Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. The government estimates that around 5.1 million people in three priority groups will receive the vaccine in the first phase. With all three vaccines that have applied for emergency use authorisation in India needing two doses, Delhi would need 10.2 million doses to vaccinate its three priority groups. “We already have a capacity to store around 74 lakh doses. This will increase to 11.5 million in the next five to seven days. We need 10.2 million doses to vaccinate the people in the priority groups,” Kejriwal said in a press briefing. The Delhi government currently has a central vaccine storage facility in Civil Lines, which had stored 5 million doses of measles rubella vaccine during the planned one-time drive, along with other vaccines for routine immunisation. Apart from this, the Delhi government is setting up another central vaccine storage facility at its 650-bed Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital in Tahirpur, as reported first by HT. A separate 5,000 square feet two-storey building at the hospital is being retrofitted with electrical fittings and deep freezers. The facility will have approximately 90 deep freezers that can store the vaccine either between 2 to 8 degrees Celsius or up to -20 degrees Celsius. Two of the three vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Oxford/ Astrazeneca’s Covishield marketed by Serum Institute of India — need a temperature of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius for storage, which is what is available across the country for the routine immunisation programme. The vaccine by Pfizer needs minus 70 degrees Celsius temperature for storage. “The work is likely to be completed in another two to three days. However, we do not know at the moment how many doses the facility can hold. It will depend on which vaccine is given approval and what kind of packaging it will come in,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department. The Delhi airport, where vaccines from outside India are likely to land, has a capacity for 2.7 million doses in cold chambers in its cargo terminal. “The vaccines that come from abroad will be brought from the airport to the central storage facilities. For those manufactured in India, it will be brought to the facility from the companies. After this, it will be distributed to the depots in every district from where it will go to the fixed point,” said a second Delhi government official. The vaccines will be delivered through the 640 “fixed points”, such as government dispensaries, that dot the city. Administrations in each of the 11 districts have also been tasked to keep tie-up with transporters, pharmaceutical companies and logistics companies for safe transportation of the vials. The districts have also started identifying locations, where camps will be set up, most of which will be hospitals, mohalla clinics and some schools.A senior health official said that talks are on to set up a vaccination camp at the IGI airport as well.When it comes to preparation for vaccine distribution, airport authorities said all arrangements are in place. The authority has named the mission ‘Project Sanjivani’. The airport has a storage capacity of 2.7 million vials of Covid-19 vaccine at any given point of time. It also has two cargo terminals with cool chambers where temperature can be set anywhere between -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius. The Delhi airport has also made arrangements for dry ice supply so that the vaccine can be kept stable for a longer period. A separate entrance for trucks carrying vaccines has been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-can-store-11-5-million-vaccine-doses-in-a-week-kejriwal/story-uVt33LdkwaaAPCrXB8HCtI.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt trains 3,800 people for Phase 1 of Covid vaccination drive||The Delhi government is training around 3,800 people — including 600 doctors from the private sector — for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The vaccinators and the support staff will be taught about the different kinds of vaccines, how to administer them, how to ensure that the cold chain is maintained, what kind of adverse reactions might happen and what to do to combat these reactions, a senior official from the Delhi government said. The trainees will also be familiarised with the various modules of the Centre’s digital network CoWIN that will be used to register and track beneficiaries, schedule immunisation drives, and track all resources needed. “The state level officers and officials from World Health Organisation and the United Nations Development Programme were trained first by the centre. They are now helping in training the vaccinators. So far, we have received applications of 600 doctors from the private sector. The training of nearly 3,800 vaccinators and support staff will be completed in another two to three days,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and advisor to the Indian Council of Medical Research. A senior government official said around 200 teams will be formed to administer the vaccines to 5.1 million identified people in the first phase. Each vaccination booth – situated at a government or private hospital, dispensary, polyclinics, or mohalla clinic – will be staffed by five persons, only one of who needs to be a doctor or nurse, who will actually administer the vaccine. “Each vaccination team will comprise of five people, who will have the capacity to vaccinate around 100 people a day. That is the initial target. We are expecting to complete the vaccination process in over two months,” said a senior government official. At the booth, one person will check whether the beneficiary has been registered, a second person will verify the documents, the third will administer the shot, and another will monitor the person for 30 minutes after that to ensure that there is no adverse reaction. “In case we are directed to expedite the process and complete the first phase in a month, then we will have to do it by increasing the number of teams to about 340. It will be a challenging task, because a large number of health workers are already involved in Covid-19 testing and staff from there cannot be diverted. But, a month’s target is not impossible if the resources are available on time,” said the official. A revenue official said even additional district magistrates are undergoing training for the vaccination process. “Like health workers are being taught the technicalities, revenue officials are also being taught the basics of vaccination. Apart from that, we are also being trained on the facts about the vaccine, so we can run IEC campaigns and ensure strict compliance to the vaccination strategy,” a senior revenue official said. “For example, we have to convey to people that even after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, they must continue taking all precautions like use of face cover or masks, hand sanitisation and maintaining social distance,”said the official. The official also said family members of health care provider and family workers will not be included in the first priority phase, unless deemed extremely necessary by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-trains-3-800-people-for-phase-1-of-covid-vaccination-drive/story-AIy1uPG6AQzOkxc97HymUN.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||5.1 million Delhiites to get Covid-19 vaccine, process to identify first recipients began in October||Over one-fourth of Delhi’s population has been identified as belonging to the three “priority groups” that will first receive a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after one is approved by the central government.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced that the government has identified 5.1 million people who will be administered the vaccine in the first phase in Delhi. “Our health-care workers such as doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and so on will be the first ones to get the vaccine does in Delhi. We have identified 300,000 health-care workers who will be vaccinated,” Kejriwal said at a press briefing.  “Next will be the front-line workers which include police, civil defence volunteers and municipal workers. There are 600,000 such persons. Third category is of those who are 50 years of age or older and those below 50 years who have comorbid conditions. There are 4.2 million persons under the third category,” he said. The three priority groups were recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). Across the country, nearly 300 million people in the three categories will receive the vaccine first. The Delhi government started collecting data on 13 categories of health-care workers in October. At first, the government had asked over 1,200 hospitals and nursing homes in the city-state – both government and private -- registered with it to send in a list of their employees. “A comprehensive list of over 3,000 doctors, nurses, paramedics, pharmacists, administrative, sanitation and security staff working in the hospital has been sent to the government for the vaccine. All of them will be eligible to get the vaccine. If they want; they can refuse it too,” said a senior official from the administration of Lok Nayak Hospital who requested anonymity. The government also asked the Indian Medical Association to share a list of its registered members to identify those working in stand-alone clinics and health-care centres. After that, the government published an advertisement asking all clinics, including AYUSH and dental facilities, to register their staff on a government portal. For the list of front-line workers, apart from the categories mentioned by the Centre such as the police force and municipal workers, the Delhi government also identified departments such as electricity and water utilities whose employees were included in the second priority list. The organisations were asked to send information to the government on their staff. The Delhi government is currently uploading all this information on the centralised digital platform called CoWIN. It is an end-to-end digital network that will help in registering those eligible for a vaccine, tracking those who have been vaccinated, creating a schedule for vaccination, and monitoring the availability of resources on a real-time basis. As for those above the age of 50 and those below 50 with comorbidities, the government used the electoral rolls and data collected during door-to-door surveys for actively detecting cases of Covid-19 in November-December. “The aged and those with comorbidities are at the highest risk of developing severe Covid-19, so most of the government’s initiatives have been targeted towards them. The door-to-door survey that was conducted in November already ensured that we have a list of such vulnerable people and now our surveyors are working on updating it,” a senior official from New Delhi district said, requesting anonymity. Apart from that, the central government will also launch a mobile app connected to the CoWIN platform that will allow people to register for the shots on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/process-to-identify-first-recipients-of-covid-vaccine-in-delhi-began-in-october/story-WJhp3RV7nwl8W5H05oZ6ON.html
25-12-2020||Delhi||Mother of man assaulted by cops over national anthem during Delhi riots moves HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought response of the city police on a plea seeking a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) into the death of a man who was allegedly beaten up by police officers and forced to sing the national anthem during the riots in the national capital in February.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice to Delhi Police and asked it to file a status report on the plea by the mother of the man, Faizan, who along with four other Muslim men were seen in a video being allegedly assaulted by police officers and asked to sing the national anthem.In her plea, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, Faizan’s mother, Kismatun, told the court that he died on February 26 after being allegedly brutally assaulted by police officers and detained from February 24 to February 25.The petition sought the constitution of a court monitored SIT to conduct a fair and impartial investigation into the custodial death of Faizan. It has contended that there are shortcomings in the investigation being carried out by the crime branch as even after 10 months have lapsed since the incident, there has been “no progress”.The petition has also sought directions to Delhi Police to file an affidavit with relevant material regarding the functioning of the CCTV cameras at the Jyoti Nagar police station where Faizan was detained in February, especially between February 24 and February 25.The matter would be now heard on February 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mother-of-man-assaulted-by-cops-during-delhi-riots-moves-hc/story-4OFoEBytSnQXwduT63lFqK.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala MC polls: Farmers’ stir likely to have impact on results||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s recent visit here, when he was shown black flags and his cavalcade was blocked by farmers near Maharaja Agrasen Chowk, could be indicative of rising anger over the three farm legislations and the ongoing agitation, which are likely to become key issues in the municipal corporation (MC) elections scheduled for December 27. Instead of nine villages under MC limits previously, now 21 villages will vote for the mayor and their ward candidates.A tour of villages reveal that most people feel the farmer protests are justified and will have an impact on the elections. The CM’s visit to Ambala could have hurt the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) chances, feels a farmer from Ghel village (ward 11) Raghubir Singh, 60. “Everyone knows about the agitation at Delhi’s borders, but the protests when the CM arrived here have sent a message to every local of the anger of the farmers. All of us have seen videos of the protests. We are BJP supporters but my cousins visit the protest sites regularly at the border,” says Raghubir Singh.Octogenarian Gurvinder Singh from Sonda village (ward 18), who has been farming for more than six decades, says people like him will support the party that talks about the farmers, but not the BJP-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) coalition. “Why is the government so determined to push the laws on us? If I have built a house and my family members don’t like it, I will demolish it. This should happen for the farm laws too,” he adds.Though sewage waste accumulating in the area where he lives is Balraj’s immediate concern, this labourer from Hira Nagar (ward 1) says his community is aware of the protests.The issue hits home because Ambala shares borders with Punjab, say political analysts.Dr Kushar Pal, head of department, political science, at Karnal’s Dyal Singh College, says the impact of the agitation is likely to be felt only in the rural belt.“The state president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Gurnam Singh Charuni, who is fronting the agitation in Haryana, has a considerable presence in Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra. So I think that there could be an impact, but it won’t be significant and will be limited to the villages as the major vote share of these elections remain in the urban belt,” says Pal, who is also state coordinator of Lokniti – Centre for the Study of Developing Areas. Madan Mohan, sarpanch of Ghel, which will be voting for the first time in the elections, said most of the locals are farmers with small landholdings who are aware of the stir.Meanwhile, even as the BJP-JJP combine faces flak for the farm laws, opposition parties such as the Congress, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) and Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJP), are trying to capitalise on the issue.Dr Sanjay Sharma, whose wife Dr Vandana Sharma is the mayoral candidate for the BJP-JJP coalition, said it could have an impact on the polls, hastening to add: “I don’t think all the farmers are angry and most think that the elections have nothing to do with the agitation.”Former ministers and MLAs Nirmal Singh from the HDF and Venod Sharma from the HJP have accepted that the farmers’ issue has emerged as an important election issue. While Sharma says that the impact will be clear after the results, Nirmal Singh claims, “We’ll definitely gain votes from the rural belt. I think the government will fall soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-mc-polls-farmers-stir-likely-to-have-impact-on-results/story-PPusVZr7OUnTQd5bkOKNwK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||FYJC admission postponed due to new GR on EWS category||The online admission process for the first year junior college (FYJC) class 11 student has been postponed by the deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune on Thursday as the special round-I started. After the Maratha community students, declared as socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) by the government, has been allowed to avail the benefits of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) by state government, the admission process was postponed. In a statement issued by the DYDE, Pune it is stated that, “Vide Government of Maharashtra GR issued on 23rd December 2020 Government has allowed SEBC students to avail benefits of EWS Category. So now SEBC students can choose one of the EWS or General category on the website. Hence, allocation of special round-1 is postponed and will be declared soon as per new schedule. Students are requested to follow the new timetable. During this extended time other left behind students also can submit their forms. Thus, application procedure for the round will continue after 24th December, 2020 onwards also as per new schedule.” As per the information given by DYDE, Pune, up to December 26 till 5 pm SEBC students need to choose one of the EWS or general category, upload revised undertaking, lock their form and get the form verified. While already admitted students can get their admission cancelled and apply for special round too with this new development. Then up to December 27 till 11.55 pm application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for special round will start online. “On December 28 at 5 pm junior college allotment list for special round admissions will be displayed online. Accordingly display of cut-off list for special admission round will be done and SMS will be sent to students. Then from December 29 to 31 at 6 pm, students need to do confirmation of admission in the allotted colleges. Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by student login. In view Covid-19 pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect their admission fee only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI), any e-wallets approved by the Govt. of India or Reserve Bank of India to contain the spreading of coronavirus.” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department. On January 1, the vacancy list after completion of this special round will be displayed online. Important dates Up to December 26 till 5 pm – SEBC students need to choose one of the EWS or general category, upload revised undertaking, lock their form and get the form verified. Up to December 27 – Application form (Part-1) edit and Choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for special round will start December 28 – Display of Junior college allotment list for special round admissions and cut-off list for admission December 29 to 31 – Students need to do confirmation of admission in the allotted Junior College January 1 - Vacancy list for after completion of special round will be declared||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fyjc-admission-postponed-due-to-new-gr-on-ews-category/story-MiOOaRYoey2WfZYoGsfybN.html
25-12-2020||Pune||MVA government will be responsible for anomaly in Maratha quota: Raje||Pune: BJP Member of Parliament Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje on Thursday questioned the intentions of the state government regarding the Maratha quota issue. “I am unable to understand what is happening in the case of Maratha quota under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) category reservations. The state government is yet to take a firm stand on separate reservation quota. The Supreme Court will hear the case on January 25 and the state cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal of extending the EWS quota to the community. I am suspecting something suspicious about the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision. The government will be solely responsible for any lack of benefit for the Maratha community,” said Raje. Addressing the media at Patrakar Bhavan on Thursday morning, Raje said, “I want the state government to share their intention about their preparations before the Supreme Court on the January 25 hearing. If they wanted to take the decision to give Maratha community benefit in EWS category then they would had taken it much earlier. I request the Maratha community to study the EWS reservation of 10 per cent and how many will fit into it, as the open category includes several other communities also. I don’t oppose EWS personally, but if we take reservation from this quota then there will be problems to SEBC category.” Earlier this year, the Supreme Court gave its stay to implement the quota for the Maratha community under the SEBC category. It was later challenged by the Maharashtra government. A constitutional bench of the apex court will hear the case on January 25 next year. Pravin Gaikwad, president of Sambhaji Brigade organisation of the Maratha community, said, “Our original demand was getting an economical base reservation and that we are getting by this new order of the state government. While in the OBC category earlier there were 180 castes which have now increased to 404 castes, it has increased from 52 per cent to 60 per cent in castes. In this, they are getting 25 per cent reservation which is less than their actual percentage of total castes. Now, if Maratha community will be added to it, then it will be a lot of burden on that reservation category. So, now we are getting reservation through EWS. It is beneficial for students and in job opportunities in government jobs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mva-government-will-be-responsible-for-anomaly-in-maratha-quota/story-qb7eGmLlWkTVZuz0KfjQWJ.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Clubs, lounges stare at losses under the curfew shadow in Pune||Pune: Following the imposition of 11pm-6am night curfew in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, those looking forward to hold celebrations at clubs and lounges have changed their plans for New Year eve. According to owners, clubs and lounges that had just started picking up business were hard at work preparing for the New Year’s bash. The recent order of night curfew has hit their plans, causing financial loss. The night curfew has been imposed since December 22 to January 5 as a precautionary measure to prevent coronavirus infection. “The curfew is going to affect our businesses badly. Since there was nothing possible during the lockdown, everybody suffered losses. Many establishments had planned to cover the loss during Christmas and New Year. We respect the order, but it is going to affect us,” said Rajshekar Birajdar, admin head of Zeleb Night Life located on Mundhwa road, Koregaon Park Annexe. “We had just started to get our crowd back. The night curfew period will affect our business by 30 per cent. Apart from loss of revenue, we dug ourselves a deeper hole as we have to spend on preparations for the upcoming nights. We had already booked DJs, lights, sound systems, and decorations,” said Ashish Goyal, owner of Mafia Sky Lounge at Vimannagar and the 360-degree revolving restaurant at Deccan. Along with the establishments, their patrons aren’t the happiest either. With 11 pm being the deadline, many had to rethink their New Year’ eve night. “Because of the curfew, most of the clubs have cancelled their parties, and if they haven’t, they have rescheduled them to end by 11 pm. Now, mostly we’ll party at home, maybe order some takeout. We don’t see any logic in the curfew. People who want to roam outside will do so, let it be before 11 pm or after,” said 20-year-old Banner-based lifestyle blogger Gayatri Muley. “Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet. We understand that the curfew is for our benefit. It is sad that we can’t go through with our plans. We thought that after the lockdown we will finally end 2020 on a good fun note, but on the other end, we do have to follow the rules for our safety. We will have to plan something else for the New Year’s eve,” said Abhishek Thakur, a 22-year-old student living in Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/clubs-lounges-stare-at-losses-under-the-night-curfew-shadow-in-pune/story-ocYYGBnuyio866IVpsGLPK.html
25-12-2020||Pune||Schools in Pune to reopen on January 4||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday issued fresh orders allowing private and public schools in city area to reopen from January 4 for class 9 to 12. The earlier order had barred schools from reopening till January in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the orders allowing schools as well as school bus service to resume operations in the city from January 4. According to the order, students in class 9-12 will have to attend the classes in person. “As per the state education and sports department instructions, classes for students in 9-12 will be open and all the standard operating procedures will be followed,” said Kumar. The order also prescribed certain guidelines such as thermal scanners and oxymetres at schools premises, RT-PCR tests for teachers and non-teaching staff, one student on each bench to maintain social distancing. Schools have also been advised to maintain cleanliness of school buses repeatedly and taking written permission of parents for sending their kids by educational institutions. Earlier, the school department of the Pune civic body had carried out basic preparation of sanitising the school premises considering that schools may reopen from December 14. However, the PMC received negative response from various private schools’ administration and parents on restarting classes and postponed the decision.GUIDELINES - Keep buses clean - One student on each bench-Keep toilets clean and sanitise it repeatedly- Classrooms should not be closed. Windows and doors should kept open-For the preparation of school reopening, teachers and non-teaching staff should remain present in the school from December 28||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-in-pune-to-reopen-on-january-4/story-RWfd4YadXRQmMWvwPTA6aM.html
25-12-2020||Pune||The inside story of the Mephedrone case in Pune||If the year 2019 saw the highest, a total of 119 cases pertaining to narcotics substances and arrested 157 persons in the city, the Covid induced lockdown did not prevent trafficking of contraband items as the Pune police continued with their action with 57 arrests this year between June and January. What made the headlines for the most part of the year, however, was busting of a racket by neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad Police. The seizure of 20kg mephedrone (MD) in Chakan by Pimpri-Chinchwad police in October led to the exposure of a nexus of producers, distributors and transporters who were involved in the production and sale of MD weighing at least 150kg. With 21 arrests and seizure of over Rs 1 crore in cash, the roles of the people are becoming clearer. A case under Sections 8(c) with 21(c), 22(c), and 29 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 was registered at the Chakan police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The operation is found by the police to be a brainchild of Tushar Suryakant Kale (42), a resident of Borivali (west) in Mumbai and a native of Karveer in Kolhapur. However, before the operation took the shape that was found by the police, it went through various trials which went undetected by the authorities. Kale joined the Chota Rajan gang. He was in jail in a murder case. After his release, he started multiple legal businesses, but soon was indebted. Kale met a contact he had made in jail - Chandrakant Shedge - who lent him money and planted the first seeds of MD business. Shedge put him in touch with the Nigerian national who is known in this case as Zuby, according to the police. The Nigerian national promised funding and a direction towards gaining logistical support. “The Nigerian gave him the contact of a man named Bhanudas More, lodged in Thane jail in a drug case. When More was brought for court dates, Kale pretended to be a family member and met him. That is when More gave him potential names for support like raw material, transport, equipment. With the knowledge and contacts, Kale first tried his hand in Mahad and then the likes of Palande, Arvindkumar, and Jogal came in,” said senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. The drug production got a boost with the presence of Arvindkumar Lohare also referred to as “doctor” entered the picture. He helped Kale and Khanivadekar and few others learn the process of making MD and allegedly charged Rs 35 lakh for a short course. RENT PER KG Once the technique was learned, Kiran Rajguru put Kale in touch with the owner of a factory in Ranjangaon and came up with a rent system of rent per kg of the product instead of rent per month, according to advocate Shishir Hiray, special public prosecutor (SPP) in the case. The factory was identified as Sanyog Biotech and the owner was identified as Ashok Sapkale. Sapkale is one of the four people who have applied for bail in the case on grounds of being unaware of the contents of the production. However, on Tuesday, SPP Hiray opposed the bail application in a court in Khed and said that the owner of the factory was well aware of what was happening and earned a handsome profit from it. UNION OF RAKESH ALIAS ROCKY AND TUSHARE KALE Rakesh Khanivadekar alias Rocky and Tushar Kale’s association is suspected to have begun in 2017. Khanivadekar and his brother, who is not named in this case, are involved in various kinds of illegal drug trade, according to the police. Rocky had been earlier arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in a case registered in Palghar after a raid in a Palghar-based factory led to seizure of 483kg of narcotic substance called ephedrine. Anil Patil, who is the latest arrest in the case, had helped Kale secure bail in a case registered against him in Igatpuri, Nashik in which Lohare was also booked. THE MONEY TRAIL The police have seized cash worth upwards of Rs 1 crore in cash alone. After Kale’s arrest, Rs 60 lakh in cash from Khanivadekar’s possession and Rs 25 lakh from Kale’s possession were seized by the police from their various whereabouts. On Monday, Rs 25 lakh in cash were seized from Lalit Patil from his house in Nashik. The cash recovered by the police is suspected to be the remnant of the Rs 65 lakh cash that was provided by chemist Lohare, Afzal Hussain Abbas Sunsara, and Manoj Palande, according to the police. The money was meant to rally lawyers and settlement for these arrested men. The police have sealed multiple locations including Sanyog Biotech in Ranjangaon MIDC, Alkemi industry and Nimbus Pharma in Mahad MIDC owned by three of the accused. The police have seized real estate ownership related papers from some of the accused and plan to seal them too. “Kale had defaulted on his payment for the drugs. He was supposed to have paid Rs 2.4 crore but had made payments of only Rs 65-67lakh. The money was paid to Kiran Kale (Rs 30lakh), Chetan Fakkad Dandavate (Rs 14 lakh), Sankpale (Rs 7lakh), and one other person (Rs 14 lakh),” said senior police inspector Sawant. How did the racket land on police radar? The case first landed on police radar after a truck carrying 20kg MD was seized in Chakan on October 7. The 20kg substance was meant for sale to people from Delhi and was found in a Volkswagen car registered in Pune. These were drugs that were remaining from the batch of 132kg MD that produced just before lockdown was announced. The people who owed the money held onto the drugs as Kale cut contact with them and decided to sell it to a buyer from Delhi. During that sale, the police nabbed the car. “We have to ensure that Maharashtra does not turn into Udta Maharashtra like Udta Punjab. To make that happen, we have to act tough. Section 37 of NDPS demands that no such activity should be tolerated and it makes bail difficult too. The case is definitely complicated but there is enough evidence to get conviction. Moreover, the investigation is still underway and more evidence will be collected,” said Advocate Shishir Hiray, special public prosecutor in the case. ARRESTED SO FAR Arrested on October 8 -Chetan Fakkad Dandavate (28) -Anandgir Madhugir Gosavi (25) -Akshay Shivaji Kale (25) -Sanjeevkumar Bansiraut (44) -Tousif Hasan MOhammad Taslim (31) Arrested on October 10 -Kiran Machindra Kale (32) -Ashok Balasaheb Sankpal (37) -Kiran Dinkar Rajguru (32) Arrested on October 12 -Kuldeep Suresh Indalkar (36) -Jubair Rashid Mulla (39) Arrested on October 16 -Tushar Suryakant Kale (42) -Hrushikesh Rajesh Mishra (25) -Zuby Ifeanyi Udoka alias Francis AZubuike Okpala (41) -Rakesh Shrikant Kanivadekar (32) Arrested on November 24 -Parshuram Bhalchandra Jogal (44) Arrested on November 25 -Mandar Baliram Bhosale (49) -Ram Manoharlal Gurbani (43) Arrested on December 5 -Arvindkumar Prakashchand Lohare (39) -Manoj Eknath Palande (40) -Afzal Hussain Abbas Sunsara (52) Arrested on December 21 -Lalit Anil Patil (32) PUNE CASES In 2019, Pune police had registered 119 cases, arrested 157 accused, and seized nearly 3 crores of narcotics substances which was highest in last 10 years. In 2020 (between January to June), Pune police registered total 41 cases under in which 59 accused (2 Nigerians) were arrested including seizure of 150kg ganja, 69gms MD, 112gms charas, 368gms cocaine, totalling worth Rs 40 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/the-inside-story-of-the-mephedrone-case-in-pune/story-IyV98kbURjohpGhFyAAB7N.html
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two days after farm protesters block Haryana CM’s convoy, Ambala SP transferred||Two days after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy was blocked and attacked by farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws in Ambala, the superintendent of police (SP), Rajesh Kalia, was transferred to Panchkula. A communication by state additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Rajeev Arora said that Kalia has been posted as SP, security, crime investigation department (CID), replacing Hamid Akhtar. Akhtar will hold the charge of additional inspector general (AIG), welfare, along with that of the Ambala SP. The CM’s convoy was blocked and attacked by protesting farmers near Agrasen Chowk in Ambala on Tuesday. Protesters under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) showed him black flags in protest against the three farm laws. The situation was tense and SP Kalia was seen pushing protesters away himself to clear the convoy’s route, but in vain. The protesters threw flag sticks at the vehicles in the convoy. Khattar was in Ambala to campaign for the BJP-JJP mayoral candidate Dr Vandana Sharma for the December 27 municipal corporation elections. A case of murder bid and rioting was registered against 13 farmers on Tuesday night. Farm union leaders have dissociated themselves from those involved in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-days-after-farm-protesters-block-haryana-cm-s-convoy-ambala-sp-transferred/story-tUJEJ1um6b4knrZEx4BOdM.html
