27-12-2020||Noida||High court directs Noida admin to revisit decision to impose penalty on bank||The Allahabad high court has asked the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration to revisit its decision to impose penalty on non-payment of dues on the Bank of Maharashtra.In 2012, the Noida Authority allotted a plot in sector 52 to Bank of Maharashtra for ₹10.36 crore. The bank paid it and the Noida Authority executed a registered lease deed in its favour in October 25 and the possession certificate was issued five days later on the payment of stamp duty of ₹66.10 lakh.However, the district assistant commissioner for stamp calculated stamp dues as Rs.82.89 lakh. Since the bank paid Rs.66.10 lakh stamp duty, the district assistant commissioner for stamp in 2014 issued a notice to the bank claiming there was a ₹16.79 lakh deficit with regard to the stamp duty. raised the demand for deficit of Rs 16.79 lakh with a 100 per cent penalty. The cost of plot calculated was at the market value and not according to the authority allotted amount because of which the bank approached the court for resolution.However, on the given date, bank’s advocate failed to appear in court and the then additional district magistrate (Revenue & Finance) Keshav Kumar passed an ex-parte order (issued when either party to the case is not present) for payment of the deficit with a penalty of ₹33.58 lakh.Appealing before the high court, counsel for the petitioner submitted that the bank was ready to deposit the deficit but wished that the matter be heard on merits of the case. In the interest of justice, the court found lapses on the part of advocate (who failed to appear before the ADM) and said the bank should not suffer.“High court judge Mahesh Chandra Tripathi set aside the ADM’s orders and directed that the matter be decided afresh. Bank of Maharashtra has been directed to deposit the outstanding amount with a nationalised bank. Any deposit would be subject to final outcome of ADM proceedings,” said Amrish Sahai, petitioner’s advocate.“On getting the high court order copy and petitioner reply to show cause notice, matter will be decided afresh as per law,” MN Upadhyay, ADM (FR) said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/high-court-directs-noida-admin-to-revisit-decision-to-impose-penalty-on-bank/story-cSIRAWRU7fSfRSyvZM65FJ.html
27-12-2020||City||Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament: Punjab Reds emerge victorious||The star-studded Punjab Reds team won the first Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament, defeating Jalandhar XI in a one-sided game at Hara Cricket Academy ground here by 71 runs on Sunday. Jalandhar XI won the toss and decided to bowl first. IPL player Abhishek Sharma (52 runs in 44 balls, 4 fours and 2 sixes) and Prabhsimran Singh (16 runs off 16 balls) gave Punjab Reds a flying start of 35 runs in 4 overs. Later on, Indian player Gurkeerat Mann scored 43 off 31 balls studded with 3 fours and 2 sixes and a late cameo of 37 runs off 14 balls (4 sixes) by Ramandeep Singh helped their team reach 175 for the loss of 4 wickets in 20 overs. None of the Jalandhar XI bowlers could take any wickets. In response, Jalandhar XI scored 30 runs in 5 overs owing to the partnership between Mandeep (22 of 22 balls) and Azam Nazar. Indian player Sandeep Sharma dealt the first blow, removing Azam Nazar and bowled an economical spell of 2-0-6-1. Jalandhar XI lost wickets at regular intervals after that and could not build a partnership to challenge the score of Punjab Reds. Only Himanshu Satyawan showed some resistance scoring 33 runs off 29 balls with 2 fours and 1 six helping the team reach 104 for the loss of 7 wickets in 20 overs. Punjab Reds’ left-arm spinner Harpreet Brar and right arm leg spinner Mayank Markande bowled spells of 4-0-17-2 and 4-0-24-2 respectively and led their team to victory by 71 runs. Ramandeep Singh of Punjab Reds won the man of the match award for his match-winning knock of 37 runs off 14 balls. Vinay Chaudhary of Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar, was adjudged the best bowler and Abhishek Sharma of Punjab Reds was declared the best batsman of the tournament. He was the only centurion of the tournament. Gurkeerat Mann of Punjab Reds was declared the best all-rounder. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar, and Trident group of companies chairman Rajinder Gupta were the chief guests during the closing ceremony. They gave away the prizes to the winners and runners up team. All office-bearers of Punjab Cricket Association were present on the occasion. Inderjit Singh Bindra, former president, BCCI, and former president of Punjab cricket association was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trident-cup-t20-cricket-tournament-punjab-reds-emerge-victorious/story-V8L0JCQ2h34wD8coxZy2SL.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Farmers camped at Chilla border beat utensils to highlight their issues||Farmers camped at Chilla border on Sunday took to beating utensils to highlight their plight and to get the government to withdraw three contentious farm laws that were passed in September this year.The beating of utensils by the farmers at the sit-in protest, symbolically overlapped with the Prime Minister’s monthly radio show — Mann ki Baat — to send out a message.A farmer from Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Bhanu faction said that this was their way of showing the “Mann ki Baat” of an average farmer. “Maybe this will get them (the government) to realize what our issues are,” said Bhanu state president, Yogesh Pratap Singh.The farmers have been camped at the Chilla border for 27 days now, singing old country songs and raising slogans against the new farm laws as they look to intensify their stir.“We will continue to remain patient and we refuse to give up. Our supporters are being stopped and illegally detained or harassed on orders of the government. But that will not deter us from our mission. Our stance is clear and the onus is with the government to sort out the issues ,” said Singh.The group camped at Chilla is constantly being joined by smaller factions from various UP districts. A second group from Aligarh joined them on Saturday, while those who were stopped in Amroha have also reached the border.Chilla border closed on December 1 but was re-opened on December 13. However, farmers alleged that the state was stopping their supporters from reaching them after which the Noida to Delhi side was blocked by agitators once more on December 16.Another faction from BKU’s Lokshakti — that is camping at the nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal — took out a rally on Sunday.“We are the providers for the nation and we wanted to remind the government the same. So, during our rally we fed birds and animals that we saw around us. Our position on MSP and other issues is clear and it is the government who needs to understand that,” said Dr SK Giri, national spokesperson, Lokshakti.Meanwhile, police personnel are hopeful that the next round of meetings between the Centre and farmer representatives will be fruitful after which the border can be re-opened.“Law and order is stable and even traffic is moving smoothly via DND. But hopefully, a consensus will be reached in the meeting on December 29 and we would be able to re-open the border soon,” said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-camped-at-chilla-border-beat-utensils-to-highlight-their-issues/story-gJxmxKBQjsh8LCHfWdMwoI.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Doctor’s kin allege assault by patient’s family in sector 20||The family of a doctor has alleged that they were assaulted by the relatives of a patient who had come to their clinic in sector 20 for consultation on December 24. A probe in the matter is underway, police said. The incident came to light on Saturday when a complaint in the matter was filed by the family with sector 20 police. “The patient had been complaining of vaginal bleeding for the past two months and was undergoing treatment at our clinic. She had been advised an ultrasound which was conducted on December 24, when she visited us. After studying the ultrasound, my mother (the doctor) advised her to get a DC (Dilation and Curettage) based on the findings of the ultrasound,” said Sheena Sharma, the complainant in the case. She said that the woman and her husband left but came back the next day with other relatives and misbehaved with the staff and doctors at the clinic in which the complainant’s in-laws were manhandled and sustained injuries. “They claimed that they were associated with a prominent news channel and threatened to get the clinic shut down. They broke windows of the clinic and tampered with the machines. My father-in-law tried to talk to them 7, but they kept misbehaving with us, after which we called the police,” said Sharma. The family shared the ordeal on social media as well and claimed that police were delaying in registering their case. However, based on their complaint, an NCR was registered at the sector 20 police station under sections 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 ( Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code against the woman, her husband and other relatives. Videos of the incident show the suspects misbehaving with police personnel, who arrived at the scene. Police officials have denied delays in the matter and said that a probe in the matter is underway. “The suspects have been identified and we are looking into the case. Due action will be taken soon,” said station house officer of sector 20 police station, RK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/doctor-s-kin-allege-assault-by-patient-s-family-in-sector-20/story-oZHAKc6m4ERcg3EOmnIJCL.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Sharp drop in malaria, dengue cases||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar has recorded a drastic drop in cases of dengue and malaria in the district this year as compared to the last year. According to health department officials, the district saw a total of 26 dengue cases this year against 42 last year, while the number of malaria cases dropped to 27 from 450 last year. Crediting sanitisation drives conducted by various departments in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and parallel anti-larvae drive from July till October to contain the mosquito-borne diseases, the officials said that the cases were sporadic and not confined to a certain area of the district. In 2018, GB Nagar had seen over 427 cases of malaria and 27 cases of dengue, the officials said. “The good thing is that there were no mortality due to dengue or malaria this year or in the past two years. The cases were sporadic. However, there were places with high sensitivity that included Yamuna Khadar area, Jewar, and Dadri area around the NTPC plant. Cases were also reported from urban slums including those in sectors 5, 8, 9, Nithari where there were sites fit for mosquito breeding,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, GB Nagar. Sharma said that the malaria mosquito Anopheles breeds from July through October, and the one -- Aedes aegypti mosquito -- that causes dengue comes after August. “The transmission period for dengue is from July onwards till November, while for malaria it is from August and the cases are reported till November first week. Both the mosquitoes breed in clean water and thus the department took help of NGOs to raise awareness to check any still water suitable for breeding,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sharp-drop-in-malaria-dengue-cases/story-wQSTZakhKmVFLuIR0BRiqJ.html
27-12-2020||Noida||With ₹121 crore, Ghaziabad municipal corporation plans air quality and solid waste infra improvement||Ghaziabad: The city in the next six months will be equipped with air filters, vacuum cleaners, more anti-smog guns and other equipment to deal with the rising pollution levels. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) has devoted ₹121 crore for the air quality improvement and solid waste management in the city, officials said. A committee of officers has also approved the plan under which detailed infrastructure improvement measures have been given a go-ahead, the officials said. The officials of the corporation said that an amount of ₹60.5 crore each will be devoted for air quality improvement and solid waste management. The funds under the Fifteenth Finance Commission were received from the state government, they said. “The plan has been prepared through public feedback and ground level assessment, and will be implemented in the next six months. With the funds, we will certainly improve city’s air quality and also the solid waste scenario. The pollution abatement measures will not only be taken up during winters but will go round the year,” said MS Tanwar, Ghaziabad municipal commissioner. The Ghaziabad city is already in a list of 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh which suffer high levels of air pollution. Under the air quality improvement measures, the corporation has planned for paving of dusty road patches with greenery and cut stones, while 200 parks will be developed with more greenery in place. The funds will also be used for development of a ‘city forest’ near New Bus Adda metro station where about 32 acres of land is available. “This proposal has been pending for long and given in-principle approval by the corporation board. In the middle of the city forest, we will develop a lake while the entire surrounding will be turned into dense forestry. Earlier, the Ghaziabad development authority had shown interest in developing it, but now we have planned to develop it as it is our own land,” Tanwar said. The city forest area suffered major damages way back in 2008 when overflowing drain submerged trees in sewage and damaged hundreds of them. The city will also get 30 big air filters which, the corporation has decided, will be installed at as many locations in major markets and commercial areas to abate polluted surroundings. The corporation has also decided that 579 of its vehicles will be converted from diesel to CNG and a CNG filling station will also come up. They will also procure six more anti-smog guns with each having capacity of 6,000 litres. “We have planned five plants for processing of daily solid waste and all of these will start functioning by April/May. We have also planned to purchase 100 CNG-run autos and 100 e-rickshaws which will be roped in for door-to-door collection in localities having smaller lanes. For city’s internal roads, we will procure five more of mechanised road sweeping machines,” Tanwar added. City mayor Asha Sharma, who is the chairperson of the committee, said that 90% of the funds will be devoted to air quality improvement and improvement of big drains. “Air quality improvement is much needed for the city as pollution levels are high. Besides, overflowing of big drains also cause major issues for many localities. So, these will be taken up on priority and we have planned that infrastructure works will be put in place in the next six months,” she said. Environmentalists said that proper monitoring of implementation of the works is must. “If the corporation is roping in huge funds, they must hire independent experts for evaluation of performance. Besides, they should plan step-wise implementation. If the initial phase yields result, it should be taken up to the next level. Otherwise, using all funds for infrastructure procurement will be futile,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-121-crore-ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-plans-air-quality-and-solid-waste-infra-improvement/story-4rQS0ZSKilKdyqpfZAGdDN.html
27-12-2020||Noida||45 UK returnees give tough time to health officials in GB Nagar||NOIDA: Over 45 travellers from the United Kingdom, who came to India after December 8, have either given wrong addresses or gone to tourists’ spots to celebrate the year-end holidays, officials of Gautam Budh Nagar administration said. As a result, health officials in the district are finding it tough to collect their samples for Covid-19 testing. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that in the wake of the rise of a new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the UK, the district administration has prepared a list of 425 passengers who have arrived from that country in the past 30 days. “While all of them have been asked to serve the mandatory 28-day home quarantine, the district health department has started locating 260 of them for RT-PCR testing, who have come to India after December 8. Our health officials are unable to trace as many as 46 of them, as either their residences are locked or addresses provided are wrong. When contacted over phone, most of them informed us that they are celebrating the year-end holidays in tourist places like Goa, Manali, and Shimla,” he said. He further said the all UK travellers, who went on holidays, have been cross notified to the district surveillance offices of the districts concerned for their RT-PCR tests. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that so far, the health department has got results of RT-PCR tests of around 190 travellers, of which two women fliers have tested positive. “Both the infected patients have been admitted to an isolation ward at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. The presence of new variant of the virus among the positive patients can only be ascertained through reports of genomic sequencing, which will be provided by the ICMR laboratory in New Delhi,” he said. A new variant of the virus, VUI-202012/01, was detected in the UK earlier this month, which is reported to be highly transmissible. The state government, in its standard operating procedure, had directed that those who have arrived from that country between November 23 and December 8 had to be in 28-day isolation and tested using the RT-PCR method if they showed symptoms. Those who came later would need to be tested mandatorily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/45-uk-returnees-give-tough-time-to-health-officials-in-gb-nagar/story-Ed2gDtAx5m67FrGIHLHmDN.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Respite from Covid-19 as average daily cases go below 80||NOIDA: With 2,121 new Covid-19 cases and 2,774 recoveries in December so far, the number of active cases in the Gautam Budh Nagar district went down below the 500-mark on Sunday, which is the lowest on any given day in the past over six months. On June 10, the district had 501 active cases, according to the data of the state Covid-19 bulletin. On Sunday, GB Nagar reported 477 active cases. The data also shows that the number of average daily cases in December so far has gone to less than 80 in the district. The daily average cases in November and October were 128 and 187, respectively. “The cases per day recorded in December so far has gone to less than 80, which is better than the cases per day recorded in the months of July to November. We have also been successful in containing the case fatality rate (CFR) below 0.4%. At present, the district’s CFR is 0.35%, which is less than one-fourth of the state’s CFR of 1.42%,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. The DM also said that GB Nagar’s testing rate is the best among all districts of north India. “Our testing rate per million per day is over 1,750, which is much better than other districts in north India. Our health teams are regularly monitoring the factories and other business establishments – besides border areas, to ensure the safety protocols being followed there,” he said. Meanwhile, district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that the preparations for Covid-19 vaccination have been completed in the district. “The district has 13 cold storage points where vaccines can be stored, besides a vaccine depot at my office. We have marked 73 centres, where the shots will be given. We have already prepared a list of 21,543 doctors and other medical staff, who will be inoculated in the first phase. In the next phase, shots will be given to the employees of the authorities, armed forces, mediapersons and police personnel. In the third and last phase, people above the age of 50 years will be vaccinated,” he said. Ohri also said that besides the district’s Covid-19 integrated call centre at Sector 59, a team of doctors will be deployed at every primary health centre (PHC) and community health centre (CHC) to monitor the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-respite-from-covid-19-as-average-daily-cases-go-below-80/story-wl9X3N9vVmRTyoCuyBzJnM.html
27-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: 16% candidates skip recruitment test for master cadre in Punjabi, Hindi||As many as 3,224 candidates appeared in the recruitment test of master cadre for Punjabi and Hindi at nine examination centres in the city government schools on Sunday. Over 620 applicants remain absent during the exams.A total of 2,876 candidates had applied for the Punjabi exam, out of which only 2,415 appeared between 9.30 am to 12 am. While 809 appeared for the Hindi exam at three centres between 2 pm to 4.30 pm, and 159 applicants remained absent.Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (DEO), elementary, also handling the charge of DEO, secondary, inspected nine examination centres.She said, “Proper arrangements were made at all the centres, and the paper was conducted peacefully. We did not receive any complaint from any exam centre.”Covid norms floutedThe candidates at several examination centres were seen violating the Covid-19 norms. Many of them entered the venues without wearing masks. Candidates were accommodated at a distance from each other in the classrooms to ensure social distancing.Cops were deployed at the exam centres to maintain order.Both papers consisted of 150 multiple choice questions each. Candidates found the examination easy. Gurwinder Kaur, a resident of Ludhiana, who appeared for the exam at Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “The paper was balanced, and I was able to complete it in the allotted time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-16-candidates-skip-recruitment-test-for-master-cadre-in-punjabi-hindi/story-Vu82aDzWZLykAxi2zbR9MI.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad sees 100th death due to Covid even as case fatality ratio stays below 1%||Ghaziabad district on Sunday saw its 100th patient succumbing to Covid-19-related complications, with data showing that the highest number of fatalities were in among people who were above the age of 60 years.The state control room figures of December 26 stated that a total of 100 deaths had taken place in the district with a case fatality ratio — proportion of deaths among those who test positive —of about 0.38%. Ghaziabad so far has recorded a total of 25819 cases of the viral disease. According to assessment of the health department, 38 deaths have taken place in people over 60 years in age. There were 33 deaths in the age group of 46-60 , 18 deaths in the age group of 31-45 years and nine in the age group of 16-30 years. Two deaths have been reported in people in the age group 0-15 years. “Although the total deaths due to Covid-19 has touched 100, we are constantly keeping a special focus on serious cases and on people having co-morbid conditions and the elderly. These are the vulnerable groups which require immediate medical attention. In June, the case fatality was highest, which we have been able to control in subsequent months with comprehensive testing, faster referral and early treatment,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. With the district reaching 100 case fatalities, it now figures in the list of 21 districts of Uttar Pradesh which have fatalities of 100 or more cases as on December 26. Till December 26, UP has a total of 8293 people who had succumbed to the virus. According to the assessment made by the district health department, the share of people having co-morbid conditions is about 66% in overall fatalities, with majority of victims suffering from diabetes, hypertension and other ailments like asthma or heart-related issues. According to official records, there was single death in the month of April, six in May, eight in July, seven in August, nine in September, three in October, 10 in November and six in December, so far. The month of June witnessed the highest, 50, case fatalities when the case fatality ratio was pegged at 4.04%. “Our case fatality rate around August 17 came down below 1%. With constant efforts, we have been able to keep it below 1% till date and it is constantly declining,” Dr Gupta added. The official records also indicate that majority of fatalities have resulted in clusters of Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Sahibabad, Khoda, Sadik Nagar, Ghookhna, Vijay Nagar and Muradnagar. The clusters of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara, according to the official statistics, accounted for 14 fatalities, while six were reported from Khoda and 13 from Vijay Nagar. Twelve deaths were reported from the cluster of Sadik Nagar and Ghookhna while 10 were reported from Sahibabad. Experts said that the elderly and those having co-morbidities need to take precaution. “The infection and its severity have declined, but not ended. So, every precaution must be taken. The health department has put in lot of efforts in bringing down the fatality rate and faster referral and early treatment practices must continue. Further, all efforts must be made now against the new Covid variant so that it does not spread vigorously,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of the Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-sees-100th-death-due-to-covid-even-as-case-fatality-ratio-stays-below-1/story-uddLaFlY64dYnrEQqeaPsJ.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 3 killed in blaze at Kandivli temple||Three people died in a sudden fire that broke out at a temple in Kandivali, Mumbai on Sunday morning. The incident took place around 4.14am at Sai Baba Temple at Bandar Pakhadi Road in Charkop.The fire was doused within a few minutes; however, what caused it is unknown. According to the officials from the disaster management cell of the civic body, a short circuit might have started the fire.The two deceased have been identified as Subhash Khode, 25 and Yuvaraj Pawar, 25. The third victim, Mannu Gupta, 26, had received 90-95% burns and was shifted from Shatabdi hospital in Kandivli to Sion Hospital and his condition was critical. However, on Sunday afternoon, Gupta succumbed to his injuries.Fire brigade officials said that all the three victims used to take shelter at the temple during the night and were trapped in the fire.A fire officer said, “The fire broke out and engulfed the temple in no time. By the time the victims must have realised about the situation, the fire had engulfed the temple leaving no space for them to get out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-3-killed-in-blaze-at-kandivli-temple/story-UQLmmKU1KmC316U8wvgL8I.html
27-12-2020||Dehradun||Encounter between Uttarakhand STF and wanted criminal in UP’s Bijnore, one arrested||An encounter broke out between Uttarakhand police’s special task force (STF) and a wanted criminal in Chandpur Bijnore area of Uttar Pradesh on late Saturday evening. The STF team had gone there to conduct a raid to nab Kuldeep alias KD on whom Uttarakhand police had announced a reward of Rs 20,000. Ajay Singh, senior superintendent of police, STF, said Kuldeep received a bullet injury on his leg but succeeded in escaping while his accomplice Paramjeet was arrested during the combing operation. “We are questioning him about KD and other accomplices. We recovered a country-made pistol from him and some ammunition,” he said. Singh said the STF, team along with US Nagar police, had gone there based on a tipoff to nab Kuldeep. The accused is charged with three murders and extortion in US Nagar district. Also read: Personal jibes, rhetoric mark rallies by Abhishek Banerjee, Adhikari“Kuldeep has been absconding after jumping the parole. We had received a tipoff that Kuldeep and his gang members were travelling towards US Nagar in a white car. When the STF team chased the car, there was firing from the gang members from the car. The STF team responded with many rounds of firing,” he said. Singh said following the encounter, Kuldeep and his gang members escaped into the nearby sugarcane fields. “Kuldeep was hit by a bullet, we could ascertain that by stains of blood on the seats of the car that he left behind,” he said. He further added that the STF team has informed the local police in Bijnore and a search has started to catch hold of Kuldeep and his other accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/encounter-between-uttarakhand-stf-and-wanted-criminal-in-up-s-bijnore-one-arrested/story-BWtGQP2WQZTbWp939ufUlI.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||19-year-old woman molested, attacked by two men in Sector 9||A 19-year-old woman suffered injuries to her face in an attack by two unidentified men who were allegedly molesting her around 9pm on Sunday evening near Sabji Mandi in Sector 9. The police said the duo attacked her when she raised the alarm.The woman was rushed to a private hospital in the vicinity and given first aid. The police said she was not admitted to the hospital but the injury has left a scar on her face.According to the police, the two unidentified men, who were on a motorbike, were stalking her and touched her inappropriately when she was walking on the road. The victim is a Sector 9 resident and was going to buy vegetables when the incident took place.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the men were carrying a sharp object and when the woman raised the alarm, they attacked her with it the object. “The suspects fled the spot and we are trying to identify them with help of CCTV footage,” he said.A case under sections 323 (assault) and 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 9 police station on Sunday evening.The police said the victim is under trauma and her statement will be recorded once she is medically fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/19-year-old-woman-molested-attacked-by-two-men-in-sector-9/story-3lNL36dS59VynWLZTy2AMK.html
27-12-2020||City||Fewest single-day Covid deaths in Delhi since early-September, govt data shows||New Delhi: The national capital on Sunday added the fewest single-day Covid-19 deaths in 114 days, with the state government’s daily health bulletin recording 16 new fatalities on the day, as the infection’s curve continued its downward trend from the severe spike in cases and deaths in November — the height of the “third wave” of the disease in Delhi.Before Sunday, the least deaths of the infectious disease the Capital had added in one day was on September 4 — when it recorded 13 fatalities.Further, as the city added 757 new cases of Covid-19, the seven-day average of daily infections fell its lowest since May 30. In the seven days ending Sunday, Delhi had added a daily average of 835 cases. In comparison, this number peaked at 7,341 on November 14, when the city was grappling with the strongest wave of infections, with new infections and daily deaths touching new highs during the festive period.In what experts regarded as more good news in the city’s fight against the illness, the test positivity rate — the percentage of samples that test positive among all samples collected — continued to hover around the 1%-mark. Experts view the positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, and the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a number below 5% for two weeks for a region with a comprehensive testing programme.On Sunday, 75,210 tests were conducted, and 40,742 of these used the more accurate reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique, which is more reliable than the alternate rapid antigen test.The Capital has collected a daily average of 80,581 samples for Covid-19 tests over the past two weeks.There are currently 6,713 active Covid-19 cases in the city, down from sharply 10,148 on December 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fewest-single-day-covid-deaths-in-delhi-since-early-september-govt-data-shows/story-6PvVyAS2v6cMamWS3R6yiI.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Protesters at Burari ground start farming||Farmers protesting at Burari — the official spot for agitation designated by the Delhi Police — have begun farming on the ground premises itself. While on Saturday they sowed onion bulbs on a small part of the land right next to where they are camping, the farmers said they intend to delve soon into full-fledged farming by using tractors to till the soil at the huge ground.“If we find the soil to be fertile, we’ll start growing other vegetables also that we grow in our fields in Punjab. If not, we’ll look to plant vegetables that can survive in poor soil,” said Binder Singh, the Faridkot district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union.According to police estimates, there are between 250 and 400 farmers from Punjab camping at the Burari ground, who had arrived here from the Tikri Border on the first day of the agitation. While some farmers from Uttar Pradesh too had arrived here from the Chilla Border, they had returned after a few days. The Delhi government had set up tents to accommodate thousands of farmers at Burari initially. However, the government removed them earlier this month after farmers refused to avail the facilities, instead choosing to protest at Singhu, Tikri and other border points of Delhi. Farmers here said that last month they had a lot of idle time, which they have decided to utilize by farming. “Looks like we are going to be here for some more months and a few seasons. We’ll grow seasonal vegetables and crops,” said Binder Singh. On Saturday, they only sowed onion bulbs in a land about the size of 30×5 feet. “It took us about two hours to finish the entire work. We are still understanding the nature of soil here, but it is a hard ground,” said Darshan Singh, a farmer from Gollawale village in Faridkot.The produce will be used for cooking for farmers here, the people camping at Burari said. The farmers have asked those in Punjab to bring seeds of different varieties to start their farming. “If the results from the soil are encouraging, we’ll use our tractors to plough the ground. This ground is our home for the time being and the areas around will be our farm land,” said Baldev Singh, another farmer from the same village. The rectangular ground where the farmers are camping is nearly the size of 15 cricket fields. Despite the presence of police and paramilitary personnel near the farmers’ camp, there was no objection to the farming exercise.“The farming they have done so far hasn’t really made any real impact to the field. If we find any serious damage being done by them, we’ll take a call,” said a police officer at the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protesters-at-burari-ground-start-farming/story-SxiJiGMeJEMVScLtSeH3UM.html
27-12-2020||City||Charging customer for carry bag without prior knowledge not fair||You go to a grocery store, purchase twenty items and at the payment counter you are told that you have to pay for the carry bag in which the goods are being packed. You protest, but since you have already spent considerable time in choosing your groceries and cannot obviously carry all those items without a bag or bags, you pay up.Consumers around the country have been vehemently protesting against this practice and in response to their complaints, several consumer courts have held it to be an unfair trade practice.Retailers have challenged these decisions before the highest consumer court. Last week, the apex consumer court too upheld the views of the lower consumer courts and said such a practice was arbitrary and high handed.Presiding member Dinesh Singh, National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, in his order pointed out that the normal practice at retail outlets was to provide the carry bag free of cost. If any outlet wanted to deviate from this practice and charge for the bag, then it should let the consumers know about it, much in advance, before they make their choice of the outlet. Charging for the carry bag at the payment counter, after the consumer had made the purchase, was patently unfair and deceptive, he said.The commission’s order came in response to a clutch of 14 revision petitions filed by Big Bazar, challenging the orders of the lower consumer courts holding its sale of shopping bags to be unfair. Endorsing the lower consumer courts’ decisions through a common order, the apex consumer court directed the retail chain to “forthwith discontinue its unfair trade practice of arbitrarily imposing additional cost of carry bags on the consumer at the time of making payment, without prominent prior notice and information before the consumer makes his choice of patronizing its retail outlets and before the consumer makes his selection of goods for purchase, as also without disclosing the salient specifications and price of the carry bags”“The necessary notice /signs /announcement /advertisement /warning should be in the place and manner as may enable the consumer to make his informed choice of whether or not to patronize its retail outlets, and whether or not to make his selection of goods for purchase from its retail outlets”. the Commission said, while directing the Chief Executive of the retail chain to immediately issue appropriate instructions to all its outlets accordingly. (Big Bazar (Future Retail Ltd ) Vs Ashok Kumar, RP No 975 of 2020, decided on December 22, 2020)The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum II, UT, Chandigarh, had directed Big Bazar to return to the consumer, the cost of the carry bag (charged at Rs 18 per bag), pay Rs100 as compensation, Rs1,100 as litigation costs and also deposit as punitive damages, Rs 5,000 in the Legal Aid Account of the Forum. This was upheld by the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, Chandigarh. The apex consumer court said the award was just and equitable.Even though the order is in response to Big Bazar’s revision petition, as of now this view of the commission should apply to other retail outlets that have been imposing similar charges on carry bags too . If they want to put a price on the carry bags at their outlets, they must advertise the fact. Of course that gives consumers the choice of not going to such outlets, but does not stop the practice per se. But who knows, in these times of low footfalls and steep competition from online shops, the ubiquitous carry bag may well become the centre of a battle for a bigger chunk of the market share! And that would certainly bring an end to the practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charging-customer-for-carry-bag-without-prior-knowledge-not-fair/story-IYCApZvTItFnXrLSZ5jJKI.html
27-12-2020||City||1 killed, 6 injured as mini truck rams truck near Nehru Place||New Delhi: A 55-year-old man was killed while six others were injured when a mini truck in which they were travelling, rammed a parked cement mixer truck at Nehru Place flyover in southeast Delhi during the early hours on Sunday. Police have arrested the 21-year-old driver of the truck for allegedly parking the vehicle negligently in the middle of the carriageway.Police have identified the man who died in the accident as Subedar(referred only by his first name in police case files), who lived in Neb Sarai and used to sell fruits and vegetables. He belonged to Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh. The two men, who were injured are 47-year-old Jaichand and Sher Singh, 54. Apart from them, four others were also travelling in the tempo but did not sustain any serious injury.The accident was reported to the police around 4 am, at Kalkaji police station. A police team that reached the accident spot at Nehru place flyover on the carriageway that goes towards Kalkaji temple found the mini truck and a cement mixer truck. Police found Subedar stuck on the driver’s seat, crushed by the vehicle.“He was pulled out after a struggle of almost half an hour and was sent to AIIMS. Two others who were also travelling with Subedar were also sent to the hospital where Subedar was pronounced dead while the duo was admitted for treatment. His body was sent for a post mortem examination and his family members were informed,” said a senior police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said initial inspection of the spot revealed that the driver of the cement mixer had parked the truck in a negligent manner obstructing the traffic. “A case of rash driving and for causing death due to negligence was registered against the driver who was present at the spot. He was identified as Rohit Rampal, a resident of Unnao in UP,” Meena said.The truck driver has also not used any hazard light or anything to alert the passing by traffic about the standing truck. Police have seized both the vehicles for inspection as further probe in the case s underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-killed-6-injured-as-mini-truck-rams-truck-near-nehru-place/story-aTT2gKiW3mQvf6uZWNMzuI.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||The year of the pandemic: Punjab’s financial capital’s losses and recovery||The state’s financial and industrial capital, which once buzzed with activity, was brought to a standstill when it ranked among the worst pandemic-hit districts in Punjab soon after the first case was detected in March. Despite the government imposing a nation-wide lockdown, the highly contagious novel virus took 103 days to cross the 1,000 mark, but it merely took 27 days to reach the 2,000 figure. Once lockdown restrictions were lifted, the virus infected a record 3,000 people in eight days. Come August, the district was raring to cross 10,000 cases. The crisis peaked between July to September as the cumulative Covid tally and death toll touched 955 and 720, respectively. In late August and mid-September, Ludhiana accounted for 22% of all virus-related cases and 29.4% of deaths reported in Punjab. The district, which was once known as the industrial capital, earned the dubious distinction of being the Covid capital of the state, especially in July when shortage of ventilators and oxygen cylinders forced the health department on the back foot. On September 5, Ludhiana ranked among the top 15 cities in the country with a high Covid fatality rate. By the time December rolled around, the district had reported 24,000 infections and 958 deaths. Even as fear and uncertainty gripped the public as they faced the deadly pathogen, the administration, police and health functionaries pulled out all stops to contain the contagion, with numerous frontline workers getting infected or succumbing in line of duty. The year, 2020, which began with the scare of the virus looming large, ends on a positive note with hopes of a vaccine being rolled out coming to fruition. The health department is set to carry out a dry run of the vaccine on December 28 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. The health department is also planning to hold the third sero-survey in the district to assess the public’s exposure to the deadly virus. The previous survey had indicated that Ludhiana, with 54.6% total positivity and 71.7% urban positivity, may have attained herd immunity.Leaders cutting across the political spectrum, including cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar and SAD MLAs Manpreet Singh Ayali, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, tested positive for the virus. Many top-ranking bureaucrats, cops and business men also caught the infection. Anticipating an outbreak of the coronavirus that had already brought multiple countries to their knees, the administration started preparing teams in February and started preparing for all possible eventualities in March. The police, administration, civic body and health department also partook in a combined mock drill in Qila Mohalla and Raikot where volunteers were shifted to the hospital in an ambulance or quarantined. The videos of such mock drills were widely circulated with misinformation regarding a virus outbreak, which sparked paranoia and panic among the people. The rumours were so widespread that the health department had to address a press conference to dispel residents’ concerns.On March 24, a 55-year-old social activist, who resided in Gurdev Nagar, became the first person to test positive for the virus. The health department contact traced all people who may have come in contact with her and asked them to get themselves tested. The confirmation of the first Covid case triggered panic in the district with private medical institutions drawing down their shutters and numerous doctors, mostly senior, going on mass leaves. Patients were left to the mercy of new recruits and nurses. Such was the apprehension that hospital staff, especially technicians, that they refused to work without personal protective equipment. A top doctor, requesting anonymity, said, “We had a hard time explaining that even a face shield and proper precautions can prevent the virus from spreading.” It was also rumoured that Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) principal Dr Sandeep Puri and a professor Dr Rajesh Mahajan had been isolated after they reported flu-like symptoms. Bonn Group MD Manjit Singh was also suspected to have been infected. Finally, the three parties had to dispel the rumours through a video message.While doctors in government hospitals bravely continued to treat positive patients. Rural medical officers (RMOs) also joined the Covid warriors and served at Covid isolation facilities with limited PPE kits and face masks. Civil hospital was converted into a Covid hospital while OPD services were shifted to ESIC Hospital near Bharat Nagar Chowk. Air conditioners and washing machines were also installed in the wards after patients had complained of lack of facilities. Several government doctors remained in isolation for weeks and did not meet their families for over two months.A 42-year-old woman became the first to succumb to the deadly virus. The Amarpura resident, who complained of severe cough and chest congestion, died on March 30 at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Following her death, many departments, both in the civil hospital and ESIC hospital, where the patient had undergone tests were closed and Amarpura became an impregnable fortress. The woman’s two sons, daughter and a few women who had come in her contact were quarantined.Fear paralysed people to such an extent that the relatives of a 69- year-old woman of Shimlapuri, who had died at private hospital on Chandigarh Road after returning from Mohali, refused to claim and cremate her body. After much deliberation, the administration cremated the dead body on April 6 and also organised a bhog .When assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli, 52, who had been posted on crowd control duty at New Sabzi Mandi succumbed to the virus, it sent shock waves through the state. The Covid warrior, who was taken ill on March 30 and died on April 18, a day after the death of Kanungo Gurmail Singh, who had also died of the virus. Soon district mandi officer (DMO) Jasvir Kaur and SHO Jodhewal Arshpreet Kaur also tested positive. The health department, police and administration launched a major drive to isolate those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March as many attendees had tested positive. Three men, two from Jagraon and one from Doraha tested positive and around 100 people were quarantined. As many as 56 devotees, who were stranded in Nanded, Maharashtra, during the lockdown returned from Takht Sri Hazur Sahib on April 27. However, they were rushed to the civil hospital the very next day as some pilgrims had tested positive in other districts. The quarantined devotees raised the matter of poor quality of food at the isolation centres. On May 10, a 56-year-old Nanded returnee from Manuke village, Jagraon, succumbed to the coronavirus disease at the civil hospital.With face masks, PPE kits and sanitisers flying off the shelf, these essential items began to be sold in black and many spurious products flooded the market. In May, doctors at the civil hospital also staged a protest against the substandard face masks and PPE kits. A month later, a team led by Zonal Licensing Authority (Drugs) Kulwinder Singh, seized 1,048 bottles of spurious sanitisers.A 49-year-old head constable of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) lost his life while over 60 RPF personnel tested positive leading to the closure of the RPF office at the Ludhiana Railway station. There was acute shortage of high-flow oxygen cylinders and ventilators in hospitals in July with around 100 patients approaching private hospitals. The death of a 49-year-old on July 24 due to non-availability of a ventilator bed in DMC&H led to a clamour for better facilities in hospitals. Sadly, his body could not be cremated for three days due to a long waiting list in the crematorium. Bursting at the seams, several hospitals such as DMC&H converted their auditorium into Covid case centres to accommodate patients. The government also converted meritorious schools near Nehru Rose Garden and mother and child hospital in Vardhman and several other institutions into isolation centres. At the beginning civil hospital was ill equipped to tackle serious patients of covid-19. They were being referred to Rajinder Government Hospital Patiala. The four ventilators that were allocated to civil hospital were being operted by CMC&H as there was not enough staff for monitoring the ventilators. However, things improved as civil hospital received 18 ventilators. On September 15, Ludhiana reported the highest single-day spike of 438 new Covid cases and 19 deaths. While 323 people lost their lives to the virus in August, September logged 330 deaths.The case fatality rate (CRF) was also the highest in September at 4.3%. However, the percentage of recovered patients also increased with the district reporting a 90% recovery rate. There was decline in infections in October and November. A total of 97 deaths were reported in the month of October. However, the tally of positive cases crossed the 20,000-mark in October. Despite experts predicting a second wave of infections, the district did not witness a significant jump in winter.The health department had warned against a second surge in December. Soon after, the government imposed night curfew. However, no such rise in Covid cases has been witnessed. Recently, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Covid vaccination will start in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-year-of-the-pandemic-punjab-s-financial-capital-s-losses-and-recovery/story-2r0yl1Em83VbZ3uKstIBSL.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||City mountaineer receives praise from PM for cleaning Himalayas||A city resident’s campaign of clearing plastic waste from different areas of the Himalayas drew praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.The 35-year-old Gurugram resident, Pradeep Sangwan, is a mountaineer based in Himachal Pradesh. He had established ‘Healing Himalayas Foundation’ four years ago. Sangwan, along with a team of volunteers, has cleared tonnes of plastic and other waste left behind by tourists each year.In his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast of the year, Modi, while talking about new resolves for the new year, said there are some people who continuously keep doing something new and keep on realising new resolves.“You must have also felt in your life that when you do something for society then the society itself gives us the energy to do much more. Normal sources of inspiration can accomplish great tasks. One such young man is Pradeep Sangwan,” he said.“Till now, Pradeep has cleared tonnes of plastic waste from different locations of Himalayas,” Modi said, praising Sangwan’s initiative.Sangwan later told PTI, “It is very inspiring that the prime minister acknowledges small efforts by people like me. I thank him for bringing the work, which we are doing for the sake of protecting our environment, to national attention. It will definitely act as a big motivation.”Sharing details of how he launched his campaign, Sangwan said his father was in the Army and also wanted him to become an officer in the defence forces. However, his life took a different course as he could not clear the interview to join the Army.While doing his graduation from Chandigarh’s DAV college, he came in contact with people from Himachal Pradesh, with whom he started to explore the Himalayas in 2007-08.“I moved to Himachal in 2009, where, for the next five years, I undertook extensive travelling, treks, etc. I met a group of people from ‘gaddi’ (shepherd) community in Lahaul when we were doing on such trek from Chandra Taal lake to Suraj Tal lake,” he said.Sangwan said that he along with a friend spent 3-4 days with the members of this community and he was very impressed how, even in a very remote area, they cared so much for their environment. He said the projects of his foundation, which sustains on voluntary donations, are focused on clean-up drives, waste management and other activities in the rural Himalayan region.Each year in December, Sangwan says that he designs a calendar for the following year where volunteers can align their trips accordingly. “While going up for a trek, we collect all the trash. Mainly, we find plastic bottles, multilayer packaging plastic waste, and then we store it at one location on the route. While coming back we bring it back to base village and transport it to the nearest facility. In the process, we engage mainly our volunteers,” he said.“I recall that during a trek to Kheer Ganga in Kullu district, in two days, we got 10,000 plastic PET bottles. Another sad thing we came across is that many people, after drinking, dispose beer and other glass bottles in a reckless manner or break them. We also come across cases where cows were unable to move because of injuries due to glass pieces,” he said.Sangwan stressed on working at the community level for better results in waste management in the Himalayan region. “My focus remains on Himalayan rural region. We mainly work in the districts of Kullu, Shimla, Mandi and Kinnaur,” he said.His foundation has now set up a first waste collection unit, which will be operational soon, at village Rakcham near Chitkul in Kullu district, while a second one will come up near Kheer Ganga base camp. The third and the fourth ones will come up in Lahaul, where Atal tunnel has come up, which is witnessing lot of tourist activity.He sad that in his campaign on social media acted as a powerful tool and more and even film stars like Randeep Hooda, who is from Haryana, have supported and appreciated his cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-mountaineer-receives-praise-from-pm-for-cleaning-himalayas/story-RS9tEuWPUoAz7aC09Ky1tO.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers bang utensils during PM’s radio programme||Farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Jaisinghpur Khera in protest of the new farm laws banged utensils to boycott Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, on Sunday. In a mark of opposition, farmers refused to listen to the radio address and raised slogans against the new farm laws while taking out a march at the protest site. Farmers from states such as Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for the past 15 days. They seek to join the farmers’ agitation in Delhi but have been restricted at the Haryana border by the Rewari Police. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September this year. They fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of corporations and put an end to the minimum support price (MSP) on important crops. “When the address started, all farmers started banging plates and other utensils. They refused to listen to the address and took out a march at the site for the duration of the address. Till the end of the address, one could hear the banging of the plates. If the prime minister is not ready to listen to the demands of farmers, we will not listen to him either,” said Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan. Ranjit Singh Raju, coordinator of Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti — one of the farmers’ body under the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — said that the blockade was going stronger with each passing day and various acts of boycott being undertaken by the farmers that will compel the government to listen to farmers. “Our blockade is strong and we will continue to strengthen it further,” said Raju. Santveer Singh Mohanpura, a farmer leader from Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, said that the ongoing movement had become a fight for identity and farmers would not give up till the demands are met. “This is a fight for our identity now. We will not give up despite the government taking an arrogant stance. The government is trying to convey that it won’t back down despite enforcing anti-farmer laws. However, this government is ours and it will bend. Our demands are genuine and we want the government to listen to us,” said Mohanpura, exhorting common people to join the agitation. He said that the agitation at Shahjahanpur will develop on the lines of the blockade at Singhu and Tikri borders. In a separate protest, residents of Gurugram came out in support of farmers and took out a rally at Sadar Bazaar on Sunday. Coming together under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, Gurugram, participants raised their voice against the farm laws and said that they were aimed at furthering corporate interests. Members of the union said that they would start an indefinite dharna (sit-in protest) against the laws from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-bang-utensils-during-pm-s-radio-programme/story-r9uQ9AymWjjZgNnYEsvEEN.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||Cold wave predicted, air quality slips||The temperature in the city is expected to dip by a few degrees starting Tuesday, with cold wave conditions likely to resurface in the region. On Sunday, the minimum temperature of Gurugram settled at 6 degrees Celsius, the same as it was a day prior. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 20.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while moderate fog was expected on Monday, the temperature would start dipping from Tuesday due to colder winds. “Starting from Tuesday, cold wave conditions will prevail for two to three days. The minimum temperature may hover around four degrees Celsius while the maximum may touch 18-19 degrees Celsius,” said the official. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 21 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 5 degrees Celsius on Monday. Air quality in the city reached the very poor category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, with an index value of 359, up from the AQI of 269, which indicated poor air the previous day. Meanwhile, Delhi recorded an AQI just short of the severe category, with an index value of 396, while Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad all recorded severe air quality with AQI values above the 400 mark. Manesar, which lies to the west of Gurugram, remained the least polluted among major NCR cities, with an AQI of 304. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The air quality is likely to slip into severe category before improvement starts on 28.12.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in severe to very poor category on 28.12.2020 and very poor category on 29.12.2020.” Surface winds are likely to be coming from the northwest direction of Delhi with wind speeds between 8 and 10 kmph on Monday, with mainly clear skies and shallow to moderate fog in the morning, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cold-wave-predicted-air-quality-slips/story-jjhZUPBL0lEJsqby7EFzKJ.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||Speeding truck kills five standing on road||Five persons, including four of a family, were killed when a speeding truck rammed them while they were repairing a motorcycle on the roadside near Tauru village around 6pm on Saturday. According to the police, Mohammad Arif, a resident of village Nijampur, located three kilometres from Tauru, had gone to meet a relative at Bhora Kalan in Pataudi and was returning when his motorbike broke down. Abdul Hamid, one of the eyewitnesses and a relative of Arif, said that he received a call from Arif requesting tools and a mechanic to repair his bike. “I went to the spot along with Sahib, who works in my garage as a mechanic. Arif’s wife, son and daughter were standing near the motorcycle. Sahib and Arif started repairing it. I left their side to attend to nature’s call. I was crossing the road when I saw a speeding canter (truck) coming from Kalarpuri village side hitting them. Within seconds, all were lying in a pool of blood,” he said. Hamid said he rushed towards them but only Arif’s wife was breathing. They called the police control room and a private ambulance, but she died on the way to Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nalhar, said police. Locals, upon hearing the collision, rushed to the spot but could not find the driver of the truck. Locals said that the road was empty and rash driving was the cause of the accident. The police said the canter was driven by one Pradeep Singh, of Kalar Puri, located four kilometres from Tauru. He could not control the speed and lost control, leading to the mishap, according to the police. Brahamjit Singh, investigating official from Sadar police station in Tauru, said that Singh left the canter at the spot and fled. “We have already identified the driver. The truck belongs to a Delhi transporter and was attached to a private company. We have impounded the canter and have registered a case against the driver,” he said. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304 A (causing death by negligence), and 427 (causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sadar police station in Tauru. Arif and Sahib used to work as mechanics, while the others who died were identified as Ayesha, Arif’s wife, and their children Ayaan (2) and Ayesha (6).The bodies were handed over to the families of the deceased on Friday after the post-mortem examination, police said. Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police (SP), Nuh, said that a family of four died in an accident. “This is a very sad incident and a huge loss to the family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/speeding-truck-kills-five-standing-on-road/story-HRzLAVsNyGPYw0Cm5Eqz0N.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||2,500 people take part in marathon to demand justice for victim of road accident||On Sunday morning, around 2,500 people, including friends and family members of Alok Gupta, who died on the city road due to alleged rash driving by juveniles, and activists organised the Gurugram International Marathon between 6am and 9am on Golf Course Road. The slogan of the marathon was — “Juvenile driving kills and justice for Alok Gupta.”People joined the event virtually from other cities, such as Kota, Lucknow, Noida, Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore. The collision took place on August 23 around 6am, when Gupta was on his way to Noida on his Harley Davidson motorbike. A Ford Figo, in which two juveniles were allegedly travelling on the opposite side, rammed a divider and hit his motorcycle across the carriageway. Gupta succumbed to his injuries. Mihika Wahi Gupta, Gupta’s wife, said that she has taken a stand to create awareness against underage driving. “Underage driving is wreaking havoc in our country. Accidents lead to broken families and, in many cases, the sole breadwinners of family being taken away,” she said. Gaurav Pant, one of the participants, said, “Participants ran different distances supporting the cause. There were different categories, starting from five kilometres to 42 kilometres. I ran for the cause to make people more responsible. The fight will make sure that the culprits are behind bars.” Ambika Chauhan Nair, another participant, said, “The athlete community is using the occasion to express anger against underage driving. The wrong cannot be undone but the guilty must face the consequences.”The accident and the subsequent handling of the case by the police evoked widespread protests by the family and friends of the victim. On September 26, at least 400 people, including family members, friends, cyclists, carrying placards and banners, had taken out a solidarity march from DT Mega Mall to the crime spot near DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro station, demanding justice and action against the alleged perpetrators. Similar protests were held in Gurugram, Delhi, Noida, Nagpur, Lucknow, Indore and Jaipur. At the time, the police had registered an FIR against the juvenile driver and owner of car, who is a friend of the driver’s father, under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (death by negligence) of the IPC. The family of the deceased had demanded that the police should invoke more stringent sections against the accused. They had also demanded that the police make the parents of the juvenile driver and the juvenile co-passenger of the car parties in the case. On October 5, the police had booked the driver under Section 304 Part-2 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The section, which is non-bailable in nature, was added to the FIR after the police sought legal opinion in the case. Later, the police added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (driving by a drunken person or by a person under the influence of drugs) of the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act against the juvenile driver and Section 199 A of the same act against the car owner. Both were held and released on bail, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-500-people-take-part-in-marathon-to-demand-justice-for-victim-of-road-accident/story-ZOBbvlu23fNS8w0sUYLfwK.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to refloat tender for drain cleaning, as contractor leaves midway||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has refloated a tender for cleaning the master sewerage drains between Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk, along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, after the previous contractor left the work midway.With the work left incomplete, the 5.6-kilometre stretch was inundated following heavy rains throughout the 2020 monsoon. To ensure it is cleaned in advance before the 2021 monsoon, the GMDA has now floated a tender again to finalise a contractor and clear the master sewerage drains.“Cleaning the sewerage drain between Rajiv Chowk and Iffco Chowk is vital as it hasn’t been done for many years. Tenders for this work had been floated before as well but the contractor left the project midway and hence, it has been once again floated. The new contractor will start work afresh,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.A tender for de-silting the drains had been floated in September 2019 as well, following which the previous contractor had been finalised. As per GMDA officials privy to the matter, there were two main reasons behind the contractor leaving the work.“The previous contractor was under the impression that they will clear the sewerage and channel the sludge towards the nearest stormwater drain, which has major implications. They were supposed to clear the drain between manholes. The process essentially involves blocking one manhole completely, use high pressure jetting machines and super suction machines to open the drain running along the next manhole, and then empty the sludge to assigned areas. Subsequently, repeat the process in the other manhole as well. However, when we informed the contractor about the same, they realised they wouldn’t be able to complete the project as this would cost much higher than they had anticipated and in addition, they didn’t have the expertise for executing the same. Hence, they left the work midway,” a senior GMDA official privy to the matter said.Besides major health hazards, mixing of stormwater and sewerage lines results in pollution of the water table and water bodies, and also leads to waterlogging during monsoon.Similar to the previous tender, the GMDA has estimated that the project will cost around Rs 1.36 crore. The finalised contractor would also need to use pan-tilt cameras for recording 360 degrees footage of the entire sewerage line, both before starting the work and after completing it.After finishing the work, the contractor will have to submit both hard and soft copies of the footage as proof of their work and subsequently, GMDA officials will examine the same on ground. Bids for the project will close on January 7 next year and the same will be reviewed the following day, said GMDA officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-to-refloat-tender-for-drain-cleaning-as-contractor-leaves-midway/story-fjIK5MaRS5VOK0rNjDuNGK.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad sees 35% drop in criminal cases: Data||Faridabad city has seen 35 percent fewer criminal cases this year as compared to last year. The suicide rate has also gone down by 40%, shows the annual police data with officials attributing this sharp decline to the nationwide lockdown declared in March to contain the spread of Covid-19 disease. The police said criminal cases have shown a downtrend across the spectrum. Murders have gone down by one-fourth, rape by one-third, molestation by half, fatal accidents by one-third, and total offences reported have shrunk by one-fifth. Reduced human interactions because of lockdown and quicker response on the part of the police may be among the reasons for this decline, said police officials. OP Singh, commissioner of police, Faridabad, said that crime against property has also shown similar downward trend. Robbery has gone down by one-third, snatching by one-fourth , vehicle theft by one-fifth. “This year, 215 persons were booked under the Arms Act as compared to 237 last year. A total of 907 thieves, robbers, 11 criminals carrying rewards on them, 173 proclaimed offenders and 23 bail jumpers were arrested. These numbers show a sharp decline compared to the year,” he said. Singh said the year also saw better policing as compared to the past. Out of 887 missing persons reported as many as 711 were rescued. Out of 281 elopement cases reported, 237 were solved.Out of 26,979 complaints received, as many as 23,032 were disposed off to the satisfaction of the complainant, which is nearly 85% of the cases reported. Singh said during Covid-19 lockdown, Faridabad Police challaned 67,000 persons for not wearing face masks in public places and distributed 2 lakh masks to people across the city. Faridabad Police also introduced “family police officers” to interact with residents in the first week of December. This community outreach programme aimed to not only enhance the visibility of the police force but also bring them closer to the public, said officials. As a part of this programme, the police have deployed beat officers for families in residential areas with whom they are supposed to interact. Singh said that these officers will serve as a bridge between the police and the public. “These beat officers will provide support to families by acting as facilitators for police services and as consultants on personal safety matters,” he said, adding that until now, 687 family police officers have visited 68,735 families , home delivered 3,297 challans and FIRs to the complainants. The officials have held 12,836 street corner meetings to create awareness about Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, safety precautions and cyber frauds . Singh said 193 people attended these meetings and they received 7,653 calls for help, out of which 6,806 were resolved. The police also formed 320 youth clubs, in which 14,160 people have been engaged for sports , volunteer work and skill upgrade. According to OP Singh, one of the most challenging cases was the Nikita Tomar murder case, which was solved in a record time and challan was filed in the court within 11 days. Singh added that the coming year will be about better policing and ensuring public trust. “We will increase collaboration with people on security measures and involve residents of all areas to ensure proper patrolling to reduce crime. We will keep a watch on criminals out on bail and their movements will be tracked. We will deal with cyber fraud cases more vigorously and will create more public awareness,” said Singh. Faridabad Police had also launched a programme called “Police ki Pathshala”, which aims to change the perception of the youth about the police and teach them about cyber crime, drug abuse and criminal law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-sees-35-drop-in-criminal-cases-data/story-XdBbzGjCK4QOlmxmby6MVP.html
27-12-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 impact on environment: Delayed conservation efforts, waste management systems challenged||The outbreak of Covid-19 this year impacted the city’s immediate environment in more ways than one. While on the one hand, human-wildlife conflict drastically reduced, conservation efforts to protect the region’s flora and fauna, on the other hand, was delayed on account of the Covid-19 lockdown. Meanwhile, the epidemic significantly exacerbated Gurugram’s waste woes, leading to not only an exponential surge in biomedical waste generation, but also in delaying the city’s proposed long-term solutions for waste management. Human-wildlife conflict reduces Earlier this year, following reports of poaching during the lockdown from parts of Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and even Nepal, the wildlife department went on high alert, particularly in areas like Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula — where the presence of wildlife is densest. While there were no instances of wildlife trafficking reported during the lockdown, department officials said that this past year has been a kinder one for wildlife populations in the region. With much of human activity being depressed between March and July, instances of human-wildlife conflict — which are common in summer months when animals stray into villages in search of water — drastically reduced. After recording at least four leopard deaths in 2019 (the highest in a single year), 2020 saw just one leopard casualty, when a nine-year-old male was mowed down on Pali Road in Faridabad. “That was in October, when traffic movement had greatly increased. Otherwise, there was very little to report in terms of casualties,” said Rajendra Dangi. Conservation efforts hampered The pandemic, however, has also delayed a long-pending wildlife census in Haryana, which is now expected to be taken up only after the current winter season. First proposed in March 2019, the census could not be immediately taken up due to scarcity of funds, as reported by Hindustan Times on February 22 this year. It was slated for the ongoing financial year. With the lockdown throwing various administrative bodies of out gear and making fieldwork much harder, the project faces further delay. Commenting on the matter, Haryana’s chief conservator of forests, ML Rajvanshi, said, “Availability of funds is no longer an issue. We have taken the matter forward with the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. This census has been pending for a few years and we would like the survey to commence at the earliest.” Biodiversity registers delayed Covid-19 also threw a wrench in the implementation of the National Biodiversity Act in the state. Delayed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the finalisation of over 6,000 people’s biodiversity registers (PBRs) in Haryana is now expected to be completed by March next year. While initial drafts of at least 6,400 registers — at a panchayat, zila parishad and municipal corporation levels — have already been prepared, these lack quality and will need to be improved through more fieldwork, said current and former officials of the Haryana State Biodiversity Board. The draft PBR mainly consisted of data from earlier wildlife and cattle censuses, and forest surveys. “But the main goal of the PBR is to work with locals and understand their relationship with their biodiversity. This requires a lot of fieldwork, which could not be carried out due to lockdown restrictions,” said a forest department official, preferring anonymity. Commenting on this, VS Tanwar, secretary, Haryana State Biodiversity Board, said, “Covid-19 made it hard for our technical teams to do their work on ground. So naturally, the biodiversity registers are also lacking in quality and rigour. The state biodiversity board has also undergone an administrative reshuffling in June, in light of Covid, and the work had to be halted. Biomedical waste generation surges As per the data with the district concessionaire for biomedical waste management, Gurugram is now producing between 600 to 800 kilograms per day of Covid-related biomedical waste each day — up from 400kgs per day in April, in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown — in addition to at least 3,800kgs of routine biomedical waste. Between April and June, the district reported a 585 percent increase in Covid-related biomedical waste generated, a quantity that has only continued to balloon with epidemiological peaks of increasing intensity. “From operating at 25 percent capacity before the lockdown, our facility in Sector 36 is now operating well above 60 percent capacity,” said a spokesperson for Biotic Waste, the concessionaire for biomedical waste management in Gurugram. Challenges in waste management post-Covid While there is presently no shortfall in the capacity for treatment and disposal of this waste, concerns of mismanagement abound, and handling this waste has proven to be a logistical challenge for stakeholders, as evinced by littered masks, face-shields and gloves, which are commonplace on city streets, particularly in the crowded localities or in the vicinities around healthcare centres. Conversely, mixed municipal waste has also been finding its way to the biomedical waste facility — from households under quarantine due to Covid — leading to operational difficulties. “The biomedical waste incinerator is not meant to burn organic matter. When segregation at source is not enforced, such waste goes into the incinerator and releases fumes which affect the efficiency of the technology, particularly our air pollution control devices. This pushes up the operational cost of treating biomedical waste since it requires increased maintenance,” said the spokesperson of Biotic Waste. To deal with these challenges, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram has proposed to set up a separate collection facility for all Covid-19 related waste being generated by households in the city, expected to be ready early next year. While Vinay Pratap Singh could not be contacted despite multiple attempts, an executive engineer in the MCG’s sanitation department, who is privy to the matter, said, “We are slowly moving toward a situation where we have more biomedical waste than treatment capacity. It is important to reduce the load on our concessionaire and set up our own capacity as well. A pilot project is being planned where the majority of household Covid waste will come under our purview.” WTE plant delayed Moreover, the city’s long-term solution for management of legacy waste — in the form of a waste to energy plant in Bandhwari village — has also been delayed on account of Covid-19. Despite being granted an environmental clearance from the environment ministry last November, the project could not see the light of the day in 2020, with the MCG’s redoubling its efforts to manage an increasing quantity of household waste. “It isn’t just a biomedical waste from households which has increased. Since so many people are staying at home, even the general quantity of waste from households has gone up by a large amount. This is why we have been carrying out a larger number of segregation drives this year. Our focus has been on streamlining collection, rather than end disposal,” said the sanitation inspector. Officials, however, clarified that the project is likely to come to fruition in 2021. A spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, MCG’s concessionaire, confirmed that leachate treatment and rehabilitation of legacy waste on site at the Bandhwari landfill is already underway. “In fact, we have been able to treat legacy waste equivalent to about seven metres of the landfill’s height,” the spokesperson said. The MCG has also directed the concessionaire to submit a reclamation plan for the site, in order to build the proposed waste to energy plant. An MCG official in the know of the matter, requesting anonymity, said, “We are aiming to have the legacy waste, about two lakh tonnes, reclaimed by the middle of next year, after which construction on the plant can commence. I cannot say immediately when the plant will be operational.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-impact-on-environment-delayed-conservation-efforts-waste-management-systems-challenged/story-5AOVZXGF8gbcZVel6xNTQI.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Three cops suspended for unauthorized investigation||Three police personnel deployed with the Surajpur police station have been suspended for allegedly travelling to another state for an investigation of a case pending since 2017 without any permission from the Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate.The action was taken on Saturday against two sub-inspectors and a constable who had allegedly travelled to Chandigarh without prior permission, senior police officials said.“The rules regarding inter-state investigations are very clear. The commissioner has to sign off on such requests and prior permissions are mandatory. They were suspended for not following the regulations and going to Chandigarh unauthorised,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.However, the Officials refused to divulge details of the case that was being investigated. A source said that the case was of cheating (section 420 of Indian Penal Code) by a developer under the Surajpur police jurisdiction. The suspended police personnel had first gone to Ghaziabad for a raid after which they travelled to Chandigarh to nab the suspect.A senior police official also said that the issue came to light when information was shared with the Noida police commissionerate from Punjab but police officials refused to comment on whether a complaint was made against the Noida cops for any illegal action during the probe.“Based on the preliminary findings, the three police personnel have been suspended while a departmental inquiry has also been initiated in the matter. We cannot share more details as the case is under investigation,” said the DCP.Noida police had recently arrested three policemen from the Madhya Pradesh cyber cell for allegedly extorting money from a Noida-based suspect who was under investigation in a fraud case in exchange for letting him go scot-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-three-cops-suspended-for-unauthorized-investigation/story-a1kSct8pKOFgKl8428tptK.html
27-12-2020||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly meets Bengal governor, invites him to Eden Gardens||BCCI president and former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly met West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for more than an hour at the Raj Bhawan in Kolkata on Sunday afternoon. While Ganguly did not comment on the meeting, Raj Bhawan officials described it as a courtesy call. Ganguly drove into the Raj Bhawan campus in a luxury car around 4.30 pm. “Had interaction with ‘Dada’ @SGanguly99 President @BCCI at Raj Bhawan today at 4.30 PM on varied issues. Accepted his offer for a visit to Eden Gardens, oldest cricket ground in the country established in 1864,” Dhankhar tweeted in the evening along with photographs of the meeting. Also read: Not doubting Kohli but it takes special effort to pick the pieces - PontingHad interaction with ‘Dada’ @SGanguly99 President @BCCI at Raj Bhawan today at 4.30 PM on varied issues. Accepted his offer for a visit to Eden Gardens, oldest cricket ground in the country established in 1864. pic.twitter.com/tB3Rtb4ZD6Ganguly is one of the personalities from the non-political world whose name has been making the rounds as a probable chief ministerial candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party for the coming assembly elections in West Bengal. The former skipper has however brushed aside such speculations although he never categorically stated that he will not join politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sourav-ganguly-meets-bengal-governor-invites-him-to-eden-gardens/story-18zGCUML7DDiiUlrfo6deM.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Jashn-e-Rekhta cancels annual event in light of Covid-19 pandemic||Late Christmas eve, Rekhta Foundation announced the cancellation of what would have been the seventh edition of Jashn-e-Rekhta, a three-day festival celebrating Urdu language held annually in December in Delhi. Known to host mushairas, qawwalis, dastaangoi, celebrity conversations, calligraphy, food stalls and so much more, Jashne-e-Rekhta could rightly be attributed with reviving the syncretism Urdu brought with it when it entered the sub-continent. It has to its stellar repertoire artistes such as late poet Rahat Indori, actors Waheeda Rehman and Shabana Azmi, filmmakers Imtiaz Ali and Nandita Das, lyricist Javed Akhtar and singer Harshdeep Kaur among others. Founder of Rekhta Foundation Sanjiv Saraf, says, “Untoward circumstances have compelled us to scrap the 2020 festival. Like everyone else, we thought that Covid-19 will be a temporary crisis and we were still hopeful of hosting the annual event.” Citing that the digital realm is cluttered with online events, Saraf and his team is channelizing all their energy into “keeping the audience engaged in the landscape with something more meaningful.” He adds, “We are producing multi-media content of celebrated art forms of Urdu that are being recorded at Rekhta Studio. They will be broadcast and streamed throughout the year.”The studio, which was a long time in the making, will also help bring to the fore new and unheard talent. “We are working on series of biopics on noted poets. We already have a presence on various podcast platforms,” says Saraf. Although the team is gung-ho about expanding its digital reach, there is a certain pang of missing out on creating a live event. “Nothing beats the euphoria of a live festival wherein the audience is not only a spectator but also participates actively. It is the audience that gives this festival its heartbeat. For three days every year, Urdu lords over Delhi. A sea of Urdu lovers, especially the youth, throng to listen, to learn, to enjoy. The love for the language has been most rewarding,” adds Saraf. Rekhta’s literal meaning is scattered, a vernacular language that may have had its roots in Persian, but one which found its footing in Hindostan. Jashn-e-Rekhta, then, means a celebration of this language, its adaptability and resilience. Saraf, celebrating this spirit, concludes with a couplet by poet Sahir Ludhianvi: “Hazaar barq gire laakh aandhiyaan utthe vo phuul khil ke rahenge jo khilne vale hain.” Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jashn-e-rekhta-cancels-annual-event-in-light-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-gzQ3FX8JmtVcUPw6WfOWVK.html
27-12-2020||Noida||Noida police chief says maximum of 100 people allowed in new year events||Gautam Buddh Nagar Police Commissioner Alok Singh on Sunday said no more than 100 people would be allowed at any event to celebrate the new year due to the coronavirus pandemic and even for that, prior permission would be needed.He said a violation of the protocols put in place to curb the spread of the virus would invite police action and urged people to stay at home to avoid the risk of the infection.“Permission for organising a new year’s programme will have to be obtained from the local DCP office and the organisers will have to provide their names, addresses and mobile numbers. They shall also inform the police about the estimated number of participants in the event,” Singh said, according to a statement.“No more than 100 people will be allowed at any given time during a programme and all Covid-19 protocols like thermal scanning, sanitisation, social distancing and face covers will have to be complied with during the events,” he added.The police chief also warned that the DJs and sound systems used at such events must adhere to the Supreme Court guidelines.He said the district police is adequately prepared for the new year and is monitoring the law-and-order situation.Drone cameras will also be used on Thursday and Friday to keep a tab on the situation and any violation of the Covid-19 protocols will invite strict action against the offenders, Singh said.Gautam Buddh Nagar has so far recorded 89 Covid-19 deaths. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 477 on Sunday, while 24,252 patients have been discharged so far, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-chief-says-maximum-of-100-people-allowed-in-new-year-events/story-ioiFCTWhqIJrJ5wBExtd8J.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||ED summons Varsha Raut for questioning on Dec 29||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Varsha Raut, wife of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank scam case.She has been asked to join the investigation on December 29.According to sources, this is the third summons sent to the Sena leader’s wife. She had skipped the earlier two summons citing ill health, sources said.In September last year, the RBI had capped the withdrawal limit and restricted the activities of the PMC Bank after an alleged fraud of Rs 4,355 crore came to light.The Enforcement Directorate had later seized and identified movable and immovable assets worth more than Rs 3,830 crore owned by Housing Development Infrastructures Ltd (HDIL) in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-summons-varsha-raut-for-questioning-on-dec-29/story-qbbgXU6mMxbnEM4THpXP7N.html
27-12-2020||City||Cong observes black day as Himachal govt celebrates completion of 3-yr tenure||At a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led state government celebrated its third-year tenure, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Sunday observed black day and staged protests by wearing black masks at district and block level including the state’s capital Shimla.During the protest, HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore termed the state government’s three-year tenure as disappointing and said that at a time when people are fighting a battle against the Coronavirus pandemic, the BJP is busy celebrating. He also raised questions over the funds used for holding celebrations when the state is under debt.“While more than 1,000 people in the state have died due to Covid-19 and many are fighting the battle against the virus, the BJP leaders shamelessly crossed all the limits of corruption by being involved in various scams such as hand sanitisers, PPE kits, Kisan Nidhi Scheme and CM’s relief fund. Rajiv Bindal had to resign from the position of state BJP president after these scams came to light,” said Rathore.Taking a jibe at the BJP’s claim of making India Congress-free, he said, “BJP will soon be thrown out of power from the state as well as the country as people have seen the true face of BJP.”Rathore termed the state government’s slogan of good governance as false and said soon the country will get rid of the BJP’s misrule.During this, MLA Vikramaditya Singh expressed concern over the rising unemployment in the state and said that the present state government is making no major contribution to the huge claims of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-observes-black-day-as-himachal-govt-celebrates-completion-of-3-yr-tenure/story-wph6WiiTGWy41myrM4DWCN.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi reports 757 new infections, 16 deaths in 24 hours||A day after reporting its four-month-low daily new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, Delhi reported 757 new infections on Sunday taking the city’s tally to 622,851 cases, according to the Delhi State Health Bulletin for Covid-19. With 16 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll in Delhi reached 10,453 patients, according to the bulletin. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 655 Covid-19 cases, its lowest in over four months.The trend of daily recoveries exceeding new infections continues in Delhi with 939 new recoveries against the 757 new infections recorded on Sunday. With this, the overall recoveries reached 605,685 patients taking the recovery rate to 97.24 per cent.  🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 27th December 2020🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/F30eSD3tLnDelhi government had conducted 75,210 tests in the last 24 hours and the case positivity rate stands at 1.01 per cent, a slight increase from the 0.98 per cent reported on the previous day. A total of 8,351,048 tests have been conducted so far, and Delhi’s test per million stands at 439,528 tests, as per the health department bulletin. Also, tests per million have increased by 3,958 tests.The active caseload in Delhi continues to decline and stands at 6,713 cases, which is 198 cases lesser than the previous data. Of this, 3,335 patients are currently in home isolation and 2,621 patients are hospitalised. Overall positivity rate in Delhi stands at 7.46 per cent and the overall case fatality rate stands at 1.68 per cent, according to the bulletin. Also read: Union health ministry lauds low Covid-19 daily infections, active cases The number of containment zones in the city has come down to 4,931 zones from 4,975 zones reported on Saturday.Earlier in the week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the Delhi government is prepared for the Covid-19 vaccination drive with a priority list of people to receive the first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. On Saturday, Delhi police asked its personnel to update their contact details internally before January 3, 2021, to receive details about vaccines via an SMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-reports-757-new-infections-16-deaths-in-24-hours/story-HptS4BcuGjSlJ4LSEXwVqN.html
27-12-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 positive Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat admitted to Doon hospital||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18, was admitted to Doon hospital in Dehradun on Sunday evening.Dr Anurag Agarwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Doon hospital, said chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat was admitted to the hospital after he developed mild fever on Sunday evening. “His health condition is fine but as a precaution, we advised him to get admitted”, he said.Dr Agarwal said there is no reason to worry as Rawat’s health condition is being continuously monitored by the doctors. The CM had been in home isolation after he tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18. Earlier this year also Rawat had home-isolated himself during the epidemic.Also read: Dawood’s aide wanted for serial blast plot nabbed after 24 yearsIn September, Rawat had isolated himself after his Officer on Special Duty (OSD) had tested positive for Covid-19. That time the CM himself had tested negative, but as a precaution, he had decided to isolate himself. Earlier on August 26, the chief minister had gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier this year on June 1, Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers had decided to quarantine themselves after cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19. Rawat had attended a cabinet meeting with Maharaj. Later on June 6, Rawat had tested negative for the virus. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 89,000 Covid-19 positive cases and 1,483 fatalities. The positivity rate in the state stands at 5.20 per cent while the case fatality rate is at 1.65 per cent. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases (26,806).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-positive-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-admitted-to-doon-hospital/story-5iBYen15slS7ESP9vQjFhJ.html
27-12-2020||Kolkata||Former Indian skipper Sourav Ganguly meets Bengal guv Jagdeep Dhankhar||BCCI President and former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly on Sunday held an hour-long meeting with West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, which sources at Raj Bhavan described as a “courtesy call” and said there is nothing political about it.pic.twitter.com/G1YXvdtR1tHowever, with Assembly elections in the state due in April-May next year, there has been speculation that he may join politics.While Ganguly did not take questions on the reason for his visit, Dhankhar said that they had discussion on “varied issues”.The governor also said that he accepted the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president’s invitation to visit the Eden Gardens stadium here.pic.twitter.com/0nsOZGcmWZHad interaction with ‘Dada’ @SGanguly99 President @BCCI at Raj Bhawan today at 4.30 PM on varied issues. Accepted his offer for a visit to Eden Gardens, oldest cricket ground in the country established in 1864. pic.twitter.com/tB3Rtb4ZD6Raj Bhavan sources said that Ganguly’s meeting with Dhankhar has nothing to do with political developments in the state.“Had interaction with ‘Dada’ @SGanguly99 President @BCCI at Raj Bhawan today at 4.30 PM on varied issues.Accepted his offer for a visit to Eden Gardens, oldest cricket ground in the country established in 1864,” the governor tweeted.Ganguly reached Raj Bhavan at around 4.30 pm and the meeting lasted an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/former-indian-skipper-sourav-ganguly-meets-bengal-guv-jagdeep-dhankhar/story-o0mhSdzYif1fWvQpywxriO.html
27-12-2020||Kolkata||Personal attacks, rhetoric mark rallies by Abhishek Banerjee, Suvendu Adhikari in poll-bound Bengal||Youth Trinamool Congress president Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday accused former minister Suvendu Adhikari, who joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on December 19, of being “corrupt and spineless” and faced a counterattack in less than an hour. Narrowing down the political battle between the ruling TMC and the saffron camp in poll-bound Bengal to a personal clash, Banerjee, who was recently branded by Adhikari as “tolabaaj” (extortionist), cow and coal smuggler, hit back from a rally at Diamond Harbour, his Lok Sabha constituency in South 24 Parganas district located adjacent to Kolkata. “You called me a tolabaaj (extortionist) while you are the one whose name figures in the Saradha and Narada cases being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. You were seen in the (Narada) video accepting money wrapped in newspaper. My name is not there in the files. The ED and the CBI won’t be able to do anything to me,” said Banerjee, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. “You have no spine and joined the BJP for protection,” he added. “If you (Centre) ever get any proof of my involvement in these cases, set up the gallows. I will voluntarily come and hang myself,” he added.Addressing a rally that was preceded by a roadshow at Danton in West Midnapore district shortly after Banerjee’s meeting ended, Adhikari accused his adversary of not only receiving money from coal and cow smugglers but also making money from funds meant for victims of cyclone Amphan or beneficiaries of social welfare schemes. During the roadshow, Adhikari even chanted slogans, asking people to save Bengal from “tolabaaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew). Also read: Dawood’s aide wanted for serial blast plot nabbed after 24 yearsNone of the leaders mentioned each other’s name but the spirit and content of the vitriolic speeches made things obvious. It is now almost an open secret in Bengal politics that Adhikari left the TMC because he was unhappy with organizational decisions taken by Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw his first veiled challenge at the TMC while addressing a public rally at Nandigram, the assembly constituency he represented in East Midnapore before resigning from the assembly. On the year’s last Sunday, however, there were no veils and no pulling of punches. Banerjee dared the Centre and probe agencies. “If you (Centre) ever get any proof of my involvement in these cases, set up the gallows. I will voluntarily come and hang myself,” he quipped At Danton, Adhikari said he did not raise his voice against alleged corruption in the government all these years because he was waiting for a time when the TMC could be ousted from power. “The coming elections will not be held in the presence of the state police. We will have Central paramilitary forces. People will give you a befitting reply,” said Adhikari. “Bengal has to be won and presented to Narendra Modi. It is necessary that Bengal and the country is run by the same government,” reiterated Adhikari. He had made this comment earlier also. On Sunday afternoon, Banerjee said, “Bengal is not an object that can be handed over to the Prime Minister.” BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy was stoned by some people at Diamond Harbour on December 10. This was Banerjee’s first rally in the district after that incident. It triggered a cold war between the Union home ministry and the state. The ministry unilaterally transferred three Indian Police Service officers who were in charge of Nadda’s security. The state has opposed this. Also read: In veiled message to BJP, AIADMK asserts Palaniswami as CM candidate“People are aggrieved with the Centre’s policies. Some of them may have pelted stones. We should not pelt stones. We have to give our reply to the BJP through the ballot,” he said. Banerjee also targeted the Prime Minister and the Centre. “The Centre has suspended the area development fund given to members of the Parliament because of the Covid-19 pandemic but nobody raised a question when thousands of crores were spent to buy a plane for the Prime Minister,” said Banerjee.“Over the past one month the Union home minister has come to Bengal, big BJP leaders have come to Bengal and Union ministers have come to Bengal because they cannot stop a simple five-feet-one-inch-tall woman who lives in a tin-roofed house. You are no match for even the nails on her fingers,” retorted Banerjee. Countering this, Adhikari said the fight is between people of the districts and a few people who live in south Kolkata and hold all the important portfolios in the cabinet. His veiled reference was to the Banerjee family that lives in Kalighat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/video-shows-you-taking-money-not-me-abhishek-banerjee-challenges-suvendu-adhikari/story-J4O3ELURyDhyJEoMbAdjIN.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||‘BJP ministers fail to highlight a single benefit of farm laws’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Bharatiya Janata Party despite sending out its chief ministers and union ministers to assure farmers that the newly passed agricultural laws are beneficial has failed to point out a single benefit.Kejriwal was speaking to Punjabi newspaper Rozana Spokesman regarding the ongoing protests staged by farmers’ protests at Delhi borders. “They say no one will be able to seize farmers’ lands, this is not a profit. They say the procurement under the Minimum Support Price system will remain unhindered, this is also not a profit… If BJP plans to implement these laws, they will hurt the nation’s farmers and profit a few rich industrialists. They say they will get good prices in any market but the prices outside are half of selling prices in Mandis. This is also not a benefit,” the Delhi chief minister said.“Today wheat is being sold in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh at Rs 800/quintal, the MSP price of wheat is Rs 850/quintal. Can someone tell the farmers of UP and Bihar where they should go if they have to sell their wheat at a higher price than Rs 850?” the chief minister questioned.Kejriwal pointed out that the step to amend the Essential Commodities Act will affect both farmers as well as the common man. He said that hoarding is a crime and according to him, the amendments enable hoarders to operate freely.Delhi CM appealed to the Centre that only BJP can repeal the newly passed laws and empathize with the protesters who are braving the cold at Delhi’s border where they have been protesting for more than a month.Kejriwal also said that the Aam Aadmi Party has earned the wrath of BJP because of supporting the farmers’ groups’ protests. He alleged that BJP cadres attacked deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and AAP leader Raghav Chadha to express their disliking regarding the party’s stand on the new laws and the protests. He also said that there was pressure from the Centre to transfer the protesting farmers to Delhi’s stadiums.“If we start supporting these bills, these attacks will stop immediately,” Kejriwal said. He also said that he and every single member of the Aam Aadmi Party will support the farmers protesting against the bills.Farmer unions’ leaders and union ministers will sit for another round of discussions on December 29 to discuss the farm bills. Farmers continue to demand that the government repeal the laws and give legal assurances to farmers regarding the system of procurement under MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-ministers-fail-to-highlight-a-single-benefit-of-farm-laws-kejriwal/story-mpB9U7OEuuH775PDmyj6hI.html
27-12-2020||Bhopal||‘She wasn’t in her senses’: Madhya Pradesh woman sets her 5-month-old baby on fire||A woman killed her five-month-old baby boy by setting him on fire in Madhya Pradesh’s Singrauli district, 780 kilometres east of Bhopal on Saturday, said police.The police arrested Guddi Singh Gond, 27, a resident of Sukhar village of the district on Sunday.Chitrangi police station sub-inspector Manoj Singh said, “The accused Guddi Singh is stated to be mentally unstable. She confessed to her crime but didn’t say much. The counsellors are taking care of her.”Also read: ‘New GST rule doesn’t apply to MSMEs’ - Ministry official“On Saturday, Shreepal Singh informed the police that her daughter-in-law Guddi set her grandson Sandeep Gond on fire as he was crying a lot in her house. A police team reached the house and recovered the burnt body of the infant wrapped in a piece of cloth. The police sent the body for postmortem,” said Singh“After the arrest, Guddi said she didn’t know when and how she set her son on fire. She was not in her senses,” said the investigating officer. The complainant Shreepal Singh said, “Guddi has three daughters and after the birth of her son Sandeep, she started behaving strangely. A sorcerer was treating her.”Singrauli superintendent of police Virendra Singh Baghel said, “Police are investigating the role of the sorcerer as some family members suspect that the woman killed her son for occult practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/she-wasn-t-in-her-senses-madhya-pradesh-woman-sets-her-5-month-old-baby-on-fire/story-iH5JG6IMSAwxiHzmIjbrGL.html
27-12-2020||Bangalore||9 injured after four cars collide near Bengaluru airport||As many as nine people were injured after four cars collided with each other at the airport road in Bengaluru, the traffic police said on Sunday.According to it, all the injured have been rushed to the hospital.“Nine people injured after four cars collided with each other at the airport road in Bengaluru. The injured have been rushed to the hospital,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/9-injured-after-four-cars-collide-near-bengaluru-airport/story-2dNSXeKPVhA8BNRFOdzuOO.html
27-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand minor’s rape and murder accused nabbed from Gorakhpur in morning raid||On Sunday morning , Uttarakhand police finally succeeded in arresting the co-accused in the rape and murder of a 10-year-old minor Haridwar girl from Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur after a weeklong manhunt. Rajiv Yadav, a property dealer and a resident of Rishikul colony from Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur, was arrested by the Uttarakhand police team, which is now bringing him to Haridwar.Haridwar superintendent of police (SP) City, Kamlesh Upadhyay, said that forty police teams comprising cops, intelligence unit personnel, special task force (STF) and special operation group (SOG) had been formed to nab the co- accused. “Yes, the police team has succeeded in nabbing the accused Rajiv from Uttar Pradesh. He is being brought to Haridwar and further details will be divulged as soon as the police team reaches here,” said the SP. Rajiv’s location could be traced to Sultanpur area of Gorakhpur district in Uttar Pradesh based on the interrogation of his younger brother Gaurav, who was held on Saturday. Gaurav alias Gambhir Yadav was arrested on Saturday evening, when he was trying to leave for Uttar Pradesh, purportedly to handover money to Rajiv. Earlier, Rajiv’s nephew and the main accused, Ram Tirath, was arrested within hours of the alleged sexual assault and murder on December 20. The shocking case came to light last Sunday, December 20, after the girl, who went missing around 3pm while playing outside her house, was found dead, with her body tied with ropes inside a neighbouring apartment occupied by the two accused.During the post-mortem examination, she was found to have been raped and murdered, causing rage among the locals.Also Read: Encounter between Uttarakhand STF and wanted criminal in UP’s Bijnore, combing operation onPolice were under pressure to arrest Rajiv as family members, relatives, neighbours, social, political and religious organisations were carrying out protests and candle marches on a daily basis. On December 24, Uttarakhand government formed a team under deputy inspector general (DIG), Garhwal range, Neeru Garg, to probe the heinous rape and murder case.Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar, had increased the Rs 20,000 bounty on Rajiv’s head to Rs 1 lakh two days ago and DIG Garhwal Range Neeru Garg had assured the aggrieved family that the co-accused will be arrested soon. Garg has been camping in Haridwar and coordinating the police team operations for the past few days. State Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik and tourism minister Satpal Maharaj lauded the efforts to crack the case. “Everyone is shocked by the heinous act. Such immoral acts are destroying the ethical culture of our country. We demand stringent capital punishment for the accused and pray that every child remains safe,” said DPS Ranipur school principal, Anupam Jagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-minor-s-rape-and-murder-accused-nabbed-from-gorakhpur-in-morning-raid/story-z7rmc0RYKKDAwi9J597CHO.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||2 killed in early morning fire at Kandivali temple in Mumbai||Two people died and one was injured in a sudden fire that broke out at a temple in Kandivali, Mumbai on Sunday morning. The incident took place around 4am at Sai Baba Temple at Bandar Pakhadi Road in Charkop.The fire was doused within a few minutes; however, what caused it is unknown. According to the officials from the disaster management cell of the civic body, a short circuit might have started the fire.The deceased have been identified as Subhash Khode (25) and Yuvaraj Pawar (25). Mannu Gupta (26) received 90-95% burns in the incident and is currently under treatment at Sion Hospital. His condition is said to be critical.Also Read: Maharashtra teachers demand release of time table, paper pattern for board examsFire brigade officials said that all the three victims used to take shelter at the temple during the night and were trapped in the fire. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-killed-in-early-morning-fire-at-kandivali-temple-in-mumbai/story-nTEP01I93JxAncBXIu4nJM.html
27-12-2020||Patna||Express train overshoots red signal by 500 metres, crew suspended||Passengers of the Tata Nagar-bound Danapur-Tata express were left stranded for hours after the train overshot the red signal at Hatidah Junction falling under Danapur rail division of the Eastern Central Railway on Saturday morning. The train overshot the red signal, technically known as Signal Passing at Danger (SPAD), by 500 metres leading to suspension of the loco pilot and the assistant loco pilot as per the railway safety protocol. “The loco pilot and assistant loco pilot were immediately put under suspension for crossing the danger signal while driving an express train which left for its destination with different crew”, CPRO said. The incident caused a huge alarm. The standard procedure for a SPAD is to detain the driver, conduct his blood test to ascertain whether he was under the influence of alcohol or drugs and to question him about the cause. SPAD is an offence which can lead to the loco pilot and the assistant loco pilot being discharged from service. It is yet to be ascertained whether the incident occurred because of poor brakes or if the loco pilot (LP) and assistant loco pilot (ALP) forgot to stop the train.According to the ECR official, incidents of platform overshooting occur when the loco pilot does not apply brakes at the right time. In some cases, this can happen if the train crew is engrossed in talks with the fellow personnel. The train usually gains high speed after leaving Mokama junction and as a result, some of its coaches, or the entire train, could have overshot the station by a distance. The distance between the two stations is just 8kms. “Such incidents are taken very seriously by the railways and there is a protocol to be followed. In such cases, the station master alerts supervisors who have to measure the distance overshot. Also, the loco pilot has to be questioned and other details are noted before the train can resume its journey,“ said Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer, ECR. He informed that ECR initiated a high level enquiry comprising a four-member team of top officials — senior divisional operating manager, divisional mechanical engineer, senior divisional safety officer and divisional electrical engineer. They will submit the final report within a stipulated period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/express-train-overshoots-red-signal-by-500-metres-crew-suspended/story-9SmrCGJc8wdomAlYl5YqHK.html
27-12-2020||Board||Maharashtra teachers demand release of time table, paper pattern for board exams||Teachers groups across Maharashtra have asked the state education department for more clarity on the conduct of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination for class 10 and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examination for class 12, which are likely to be held in May-June next year due to the disruption of studies during the Covid-19 pandemic.In a letter addressed to the department on Saturday, the BJP teachers’ cell said that there was a lot of uncertainty around the board exams this year. “The process for filling of forms has begun for class 10 and 12 students but there is no clarity on the conduct of exams. The department has neither announced tentative dates for the exams nor has it released details on the paper pattern to be followed in the exams. We hope that the paper pattern is not changed because that might lead to unnecessary confusion amongst students,” said Anil Bornare of the BJP Teachers Cell.Over the last few days, several parents and schools have been writing to the department, requesting for clarity over the board exams. With a 25% reduction in syllabus across classes, schools said that they are unsure about the paper pattern. However, a senior official from the state board said that the paper pattern is unlikely to be changed.Also Read: West Bengal Class 10 board exams 2021 to begin from June 1“The syllabus and the paper pattern for class 10 and 12 have undergone changes in the recent years and it is thus not expected to change this year,” said the official, wishing not to be named.In early November, education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that the conduct of SSC and HSC examinations are unlikely before May due to the prevailing conditions in the state with respect to Covid-19. However, the department and the state board are yet to come up with an official announcement in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/board-exams/maharashtra-teachers-demand-release-of-time-table-paper-pattern-for-board-exams/story-7daw3NaUYIHMXK8zzy5eCI.html
27-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Ashamed of having associated with TMC for 21 years’: Suvendu Adhikari||The newly-inducted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in West Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari said on Saturday that he was ashamed of having associated with Trinamool Congress (TMC) for so long in his career. Addressing party workers at the BJP office here, Adhikari said, “The political party I had been associated earlier has no discipline now. It has turned into a company from a party. I am ashamed of having associated with the party for 21 years.”The former West Bengal minister said that West Bengal needs the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It is due to the self-sacrifice of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee that we could live in West Bengal. Only the combination of BJP government at the centre and that in Bengal can lead the state towards economic development and tackle the issue of unemployment,” emphasised Adhikari. “I would like to thank our home minister Amit Shahji for accepting us on the land of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on Saturday. BJP is the largest political party in the world. Now, I am a member of this nationalist, pluralist, disciplined and patriotic party. Our objective would be to make the party win the forthcoming Assembly elections and create the ‘Sonar Bangla’.”Adhikari further accused the TMC-led West Bengal government of depriving 73 lakh farmers of the state by not implementing the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi policy.He claimed, “BJP workers have been beaten mercilessly. False cases were framed against them. 135 workers have sacrificed their lives to steer the party’s ascendancy in West Bengal.”Suvendu Adhikari, a former TMC minister and MLA, joined the BJP in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah at a rally in Midnapore in West Bengal on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ashamed-of-having-associated-with-tmc-for-21-years-suvendu-adhikari/story-8YTPt7jB8WDTMzd7XVMKiL.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Let’s not be over-optimistic about corona vaccine||Covid-19 has come as a shot in the arm for vaccine research with several viable jabs in production less than a year after the disease emerged. Yet four in 10 Americans and six in 10 French people in recent surveys say they will not get vaccinated against the virus, even if the shot is free. According to the World Allergy Organisation, anaphylaxis an “acute, potentially lethal, multi-system syndrome” has been experienced by many of the Covid-19 patients, who recently received the jab. Meanwhile, vaccine makers are making hay while the sun shines! Will the vaccine prove to be a miracle cure? Is the vaccine safe and effective? Can it be available and be delivered to the entire population? Making the vaccine available for even 50% of our population is a tall order and getting their consent for a costly injection of a preventive remedy that may have side effects and efficacy, if any, lasting less than a year, may be impractical if not impossible. Take for instance the vaccine for Hepatitis B. Even though it costs Rs 200 for three doses and immunity lasts an entire life, still less than 10% agreed to get immunised. The world has been playing with the flu vaccines for over 100 years, but where do we stand today? If Covid continues its journey of decline in numbers of infections and CFR (case fatality rate), will the vaccine be required at all? One has to recount the experience with polio vaccine, administered orally with no side effects and only meant for children. It took many long years to cover the targeted population. How many years will the corona vaccination require? Can it prove be an unnecessary torture on the one hand and a scam of large ramification on the other? Former chief scientist of Pfizer, Dr Michael Yeadon, has said that “there is no need for any vaccines to bring the Covid-19 pandemic to an end.” Side effects are inherent in vaccinesVaccines usually require years of research and testing before reaching the clinics for vaccination. They have to be proved safe and effective in animal studies, then in small trials in healthy volunteers, followed by large trials in representative groups of people. The aim of a vaccine is to prevent a disease by working with the body’s natural immune response. When a vaccinated person is exposed to the virus, the immune system recognises the pathogen and prevents the person from getting infected. Since the pathogen in the vaccine provokes the body to gird up its defenses, the vaccine is unlikely to be absolutely safe. So if one were to talk about the safety of the Covid-19 vaccine with absolutely no adverse effects, then one should understand that no vaccine is ‘safe’. Choose the lesser evil. If balance of unwanted effects compared with the benefit is clearly in favour of the benefit, it can be called safe. A study in the United States has revealed that the primary efficacy endpoint is the presence of one Covid-19 symptom such as fever, cough or shortness of breath, and a positive SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid amplification test within four days of the symptomatic period. The Food and Drug Administration noted adverse events, which were mild to moderate, with injection site reactions, fatigue, and headache as the most common. Adverse events potentially related to the vaccine were lymphadenopathy, or large-sized lymph nodes, Bell’s palsy; a form of temporary facial paralysis was reported by four patients in the vaccine group. Appendicitis was the most common serious adverse event, with eight of 12 cases occurring in the vaccine group. There were two deaths in the study in the vaccine group. So, how does one distinguish between Covid-19 and post vaccine exposure symptoms? Symptoms are likely to resolve within three days of vaccination and within one to two days of onset, so any symptoms past that timeframe, or worsening symptoms, are more suggestive of Covid-19.Vaccines are given to healthy people and risk has to be incredibly small. Even Pfizer vaccine does have side-effects, e g headache, chills and muscle pain in over 10% people. One may not be in an undue haste to get the shot out of turn! Wait and watch may be a good strategy.(The writer has worked at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and is president, Society for Promotion of Ethical and Affordable Health Care)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-let-s-not-be-over-optimistic-about-corona-vaccine/story-XDeSGPREJy2rdkwL3T8aSM.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Oh my love, my darling||The terrified Jungle cat kitten’s throat was parched, her ‘meows’ cracking and at their last strains. Mommy was not responding. The barks of the hounds encircling her were deafening. Any minute now and this cutie pie fur ball would be reduced to mangled shreds, no mommy to rescue her or lament her premature passage to death. And, then, Nature’s miracle... Birder and cat lover, Kunal Gokhale, chanced upon the siege while chasing kestrels and orioles. Five stray dogs hailing from the adjacent slum colony were shooed off and Kunal emitted mesmerising, reassuring sounds. Promptly, the kitten came out of the bushes and attached herself to Kunal’s shoes, sniffing them for a sense of safety.The tiny, hungry creature had sensed that a saviour had come her way, out of the blue. In the kitten’s eyes glimmered a gleam of hope like a distant star. In Kunal’s eyes, intense love shone like a full moon, glazed over by a mist of tears yet to fall. A feeling of ‘mamta’, an irrepressible urge to protect this innocent, helpless waif and reunite her with the mother took possession of the androgynous soul. He took her in his lap and she soon drifted to sleep. In other words, the noblest quality of humanity – empathy – had overwhelmed the situation.Despite his best efforts over the next two nights, Kunal could not unite the kitten and the mother though the orphan has survived in the care of the RESQ Charitable Trust. Mommy was possibly killed by dogs or the kitten had wandered too far from her den while mommy was away hunting to nourish her yielding teats. The incident took place earlier this month in the heart of Pune, Maharashtra, on the verdant Vetal Tekdi hill. But the theme bears a resonance throughout India as stray dogs (or man’s companion animals) increasingly butcher, harass and spread disease in wildlife populations. They act as advance scouts of man’s annexation and beastly gang rape of a mute wilderness. “We don’t know what number of wild fauna the dogs have already killed but they are a constant threat to peafowls, hares, mongoose, Jungle cats, Barking deer, civets etc,” Kunal told this writer.Mommy knows best Folk tales and myths tend to demonise foxes as cunning, vile creatures. But the Indian fox mommy at Chhatbir zoo is a smart cookie. She has outwitted the efforts of the officials to get a decent picture of her three lockdown pups born in the torturous summer of 2020. The authorities were keen to procure pictures of the pups to showcase this rare species of the region because whenever visitors went near the enclosure, mommy would whisk away the pups into the burrow den. The good news is that mommy and daddy were caught with their pants down recently, ie mating again, and the next, post lockdown litter may be in the offing!Mommy fox’s sharpest early warning systems are her long, pointed ears that swivel like an airport radar in an arc of 120 degrees catching and processing the smallest sound. The second she detects movement towards the enclosure from 30-40 metres away, the family vanishes from sight. Even while sun basking with her eyes closed, mommy’s ears are constantly moving to detect any disturbance in the environment around the enclosure. The authorities put up a CCTV camera but she was very suspicious of the alien object in the enclosure. She has even dragged the two blankets into the burrow and regularly takes the chicken and boiled eggs food put in the open by the zoo keeper right down.“While are very happy the foxes are breeding, they have defied all our schemes to photograph the pups,” Chhatbir field director M Sudhagar told this writer. In the meanwhile, let us have a glimpse of what fox pups look like in the wilderness till such time as zoo pictures materialise!vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-oh-my-love-my-darling/story-HZHbof4zQSeZFyWy46F5iP.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||The end of autonomy: Panjab University at the crossroads||“The goal of democracy is education, intellectual development, and nobility of spirit, the most important weapons public intellectuals hold against the degeneration of democracy.” Bob Riemen. It strikes a blow at the very core of academic life when the teaching community is mandated to acquiesce to the state authority and be subservient to a governing body that is in turn accountable to a patron seemingly bereft of a broad progressive policy. The diagnosis of the world-wide crisis in education finds a confrontational reflection in the Dutch scholar, Rob Riemen’s essay, The Eternal Return of Fascism, where he accentuates the theoretical feebleness of fascist thinking marked by severe hostility towards freedom in thought and action. Reform indeed is always welcome and necessary, but destroying age old and tested institutions deeply wedded to democratic traditions is unquestionably retrogressive. Take the case of Panjab University, one of the oldest universities in the country, which has been functioning through a governance structure as embodied in the Panjab University Act, 1947. The four year term of the old senate expired on October 31 this year and the elections for the new senate have been indefinitely postponed with no news from the establishment regarding the future course of the university’s governance structure. All important academic and administrative functions of the university have therefore come to a standstill. The situation is indeed dismal. For all purposes, therefore, the Panjab University senate stands dissolved. It must be noted that neither the University Grants Commission nor the Chancellor have the authority to change the governance structure without consulting the constitution of the university. In a milieu of self-righteousness and indifference, the Central government, it is believed, has overreached itself in deciding to replace the senate with a board of governors, the intention being to adopt a corporate model for the university. This is obviously in keeping with the current practice of blatantly sidelining eminent academics and vice-chancellors, and instead making appointments arbitrarily on the basis of party affiliations. Any form of dissent or disagreement with the official policies is thereby discouraged. The conflict apparently is between viewing a university as a seat of diversity and learning or a seat of conformity and indoctrination. Any plans to replace the senate of the university with a board of governors would be a violation of the Panjab University Act. The unresponsive nature of official politics with its failure to veer even a little towards bringing reform in its basic structure rather than completely obliterate it has deepened the sense of alienation and mistrust. At a time when the political discourse in the country is taken to a different level of authoritarianism, the pursuit of a more conducive democratic governing set-up in the form of an elected senate with a membership from various ideological and academic backgrounds was the dire need of the times. This was appropriately envisaged by the forefathers of the university who ensured that such a democratic body would be reliant on animated free discussions, a glowing example of an open field where diverse interests and opinions contribute to a robust critical conversation. In the present predicament there are no signs of initiating even a public debate on governance reforms. The silence of the authorities on the future of the senate is rather intriguing, leaving many faculty members in a state of indignation and outrage amidst the wreckage of age old structures which undergird the university. I wonder if the leadership in power has dwelt on any visionary roadmap for a political ideology to stimulate a new generation of academics in a university that constantly aspires towards new frontiers of knowledge. A far-sighted governing system requires academics with vital administrative experience along with the understanding of new pedagogical practices equipped to confront the present situation in which the valorization of mediocrity has resulted in denigrating those who accomplish their responsibility with sincere impartiality. It is disdainful to be subjected to the arrogance and incapability of the political elite to guide the course of higher education in the interest of the students and the teachers. Sliding downhill towards self-deluding and bureaucratised governing bodies that lack the ability to handle alternative views and guard against any retrogressive decisions, the university faces a crucial challenge to its autonomy. The chasm between the public intellectual and the inflexible establishment stands wider than ever. At this dark hour when higher education is poised on the cusp of ideological dogmatism, a far deeper involvement is required in the ongoing struggle for winning back a more autonomous system of academic functioning. This is possible if an objective exercise is carried out for seeking innovative forms of governance that strive for an unassailable commitment to free thought inculcated in the true spirit of the pursuit of knowledge. It would therefore be egregious to accept a non-elected and selectively constituted governing body that could impede the independent working of the institution. The teachers of Panjab University stand vindicated by their ongoing confrontation and opposition of this assault on the deep-rooted self- governing character of the university. shelleywalia@gmail.com [The writer is formerly professor, department of English and cultural studies, Panjab University, Chandigarh. Views expressed are personal]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-end-of-autonomy-panjab-university-at-the-crossroads/story-PNpoUviOy5eLRTX6GWrrSO.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Jewellery stolen from cop’s house in Chandigarh||Thieves targeted the locked house of a Punjab Police sub-inspector in Sector 23 and decamped with jewellery, the police said on Saturday.In his complaint, SI Karnail Singh said that on December 22, he had gone to Bhogpur in Jalandhar and returned on December 25 at about 5.30pm. when he saw the lock of the main door broken. The entire house was ransacked, he said, adding that the thieves took away the jewellery kept in the locker of the almirah.The details of the stolen items are yet to be provided, the police said.A case under sections 380 (theft) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house breaking) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jewellery-stolen-from-cop-s-house-in-chandigarh/story-WBZdsa9c5QJZTfZGi7abqN.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Amid protests, PGIMER admn calls nurses for talks||Breaking the deadlock, the authorities at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Saturday invited nurse’s representatives for a meeting to deliberate on the demands raised by them.Among other demands, the nurses are agitating for changing the control of the nursing establishment from the office of the medical superintendent to the deputy director’s office.The official meeting notice of the PGIMER reads, “In reference to the representation received from PGI Nurses’ Welfare Association, a meeting under the chairmanship of DPGI with representatives of PGI NWA will be held on January 5 at 3.30pm in the boardroom at Kairon block to discuss the various issues and demands of PGI Nurses Welfare Association.”Satyaveer Dagur, the general secretary of the nurses’ association, said, “The authorities had turned a blind eye to our representations and we resorted to protests in the form of wearing of black badges for the last one week. Today, we had called for a rally from the institute campus to rally ground in Sector 26.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-amid-protests-pgimer-admn-calls-nurses-for-talks/story-463gZlc3IO7RyW3Pfu52PK.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher pitches for extension to chief engineer, employees’ federation miffed||Member of parliament Kirron Kher has written to the UT administrator, pitching for a three-month extension to Mukesh Anand, chief engineer-cum-special secretary engineering. The move has, however, not been received well by the federation of UT employees and workers.Mukesh Anand will be superannuated on December 31.“Mukesh Anand has been engaged with the important project of construction of flyover at the Tribune Chowk from its initial stages. He has made special efforts to get the project cleared by the Government of India and other departments,” Kirron Kher, in a letter to Badnore, said.While opposing the said extension, Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary of employees’ federation, in a letter to the UT adviser has requested to reject the extension.“If extension is given to the chief engineer by ignoring the legitimate promotional rights of the senior-most officers then the federation will lodge protests,” the letter states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-pitches-for-extension-to-chief-engineer-employees-federation-miffed/story-QCzHfQUlmksKFAV2VFzK0I.html
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn forms committee to monitor adverse effects of Covid-19 vaccine||The UT administration has formed a panel of doctors to monitor adverse effects, if any, among the beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine.The panel comprises doctors from the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Earlier, the Union health ministry had asked to start making arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery among the masses.Committee reconstituted to identify adult needs“Under the universal immunisation programme, a system already exists, but it was targeted for children only. Since this is an adult vaccine, we have reconstituted the committee by involving doctors from cardiology, neurology, medicine and anesthesia departments. Vaccinators have already been trained to identify signs of side-effects and deal with common occurrences,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director health services, UT.Detailing about the process, Dr Kang said , “A 30-minute on-site monitoring of people who will be vaccinated will be mandatory post-vaccination. Besides, we will have a 24x7 Covid vaccine help desk functioning to help the beneficiaries.”All beneficiaries will be counselled about the adverse effects that may occur after being administered the Covid-19 vaccine. “These are expected to be minor events such as local pain and swelling, and mild to moderate fever, etc. However, the list of expected events could be different based on the safety profile of the Covid-19 vaccine that finally gets approved for use,” the doctor added.All the adverse effects of the vaccine will be reported through the Co-Win application developed to monitor and manage the Covid-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-forms-committee-to-monitor-adverse-effects-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-Mi0haB2jRJbPH4fZJ8bKeK.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Pandemic brings down donations at National Burns Centre’s skin bank||With barely any skin donations made since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the nodal skin bank National Burns Centre (NBC) at Airoli has been forced to turn back patients. Before the lockdown, NBC received around 20 skin donations a month and this monthly average has now come down to approximately four. In the last nine months, NBC has received 22 skin donations compared to 200 donations received between March and November in 2019. This year in March, NBC got nine skin donations. Between April and August, not a single donation was recorded at the skin bank. In September, five skin donations were registered, followed by three in October and five in November.Read more: Airoli burns centre to help three countries set up skin banks“People are fearful of contracting Covid-19 so they avoid donating the skin of their loved ones after their death,” said Dr Sunil Keswani, medical director, NBC. “Since the lockdown, we have been forced to turn away burnt patients from other states who need skin transplants. We are trying to reserve the limited resources for patients from Maharashtra,” he said. Being the nodal burn centre in India, NBC gets burn patients from across the country.Donated skin is processed and stored in a skin bank before it is transplanted. It is used to help treat skin that has been badly burned or damaged. In cases of severe burns, for example, covering the area with skin from a donor helps to prevent infections, decrease pain, provide protection, and enable faster healing. If a severe burn injury is not immediately covered with donated skin, an infection can develop, which can have serious consequences.Dr Keswani said NBC has formulated safety protocol so that there is no danger of Covid transmission. “We held meetings with skin banks across the country and have formulated rules to ensure the safety of people. The doctors retrieve the skin in protective suits and the possibility of infecting the deceased relatives is almost nil,” he said.According to NBC, its outpatient department (OPD) has received 229 burn patients between March and November, and 168 patients have been admitted with severe burn injuries. Some of these burns were sustained because of false information that Covid-19  can be prevented by steam inhalation and very hot baths. Most of the burn patients are close contacts of Covid-positive individuals. Read more: Family donates 87-year-old’s skin to Mumbai hospital for burn injury patients“With misleading information going around on WhatsApp that steam inhalation can inhibit or kill the virus causing Covid-19, the cases of scald burns have doubled. People pour hot water directly from the geyser, which burns the skin,” said Keswani.Dr Arvind Vartak, head of the burn unit at Byculla-based Masina Hospital, confirmed this, saying, “Cases of scald burns are the most common which has increased both in children and adults.” Since the lockdown was relaxed, cases of burn injuries have increased with more industrial burn injuries reported in the city. April saw 31 burn patients and this number increased to 54 in November. “With the relaxation of lockdown, the number of industrial burn has increased,” said Dr Keswani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-pandemic-brings-down-donations-at-national-burns-centre-s-skin-bank/story-8CKYl5h2dsNiy123WeeSoM.html
27-12-2020||City||Drugs seized from HP men: Mumbai ATS to probe terror angle||The drug trafficking racket case busted by the Pune unit of the Government Railway police (GRP) last week has been transferred to the anti-terrorism squad (ATS), Mumbai, for further probe.Superintendent of police (ATS) Rajkumar Shinde will monitor the investigation. A team from Mumbai ATS has gone to Himachal Pradesh to probe if the racket was linked to any terror activity and also to track the kingpins behind it. Last week, GRP personnel had arrested Himachal Pradesh residents – Lalitkumar Dayanand Sharma, 50, who is a travel firm owner, and Kaulsingh Rupsingh, 41, a driver – and seized 34.4kg of hashish (charas) from them. The Pune unit of GRP had made the arrests after they received a tip-off about two men travelling from Delhi to Pune by train with drugs. The police laid a trap and arrested the duo near Pune railway station with the hashish. “The case is transferred to ATS for further probe, especially to find out the source of the drugs, the people behind the racket, their distribution network and more importantly, if the gang had any links with terror groups,” said an ATS officer. Initial probe has revealed that most of the seized drugs were to be distributed in Mumbai, while 5kg each was to be transported to Bengaluru and Goa, 2kg was meant to be supplied in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drugs-seized-from-hp-men-mumbai-ats-to-probe-terror-angle/story-nnupdzEQckeADFDGmvDoPN.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai jail guard held by ATS for passing gangster’s messages to his aides||The Charkop unit of the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Thursday arrested a guard deployed at a high-security cell in Arthur Road jail for allegedly passing hand-written chits carrying orders of gangster Harish Mandvikar from inside the prison to his henchmen outside the prison.Mandvikar had in one such chit purportedly instructed his associate Sachin Kolekar to threaten a prime witness in a 2015 drug case to give false statement in favour of his friend and main accused Sajid Electricwala. According to an officer, ATS Charkop unit busted a drug racket in Lokhandwala and seized 155kg of Mephedrone (MD) and arrested seven accused, including Electricwala five years ago. This year in February, Mandvikar was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch for allegedly threatening and extorting from a businessman. He was charged under Maharashtra Control Of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca), following which he was lodged in a high-security cell of Arthur Road jail. Electricwala, who was lodged in an adjacent barrack, befriended Mandvikar, said an ATS officer.In the trial before the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act court, while the deposition of a prime witness was in progress last month, he was threatened by Mandvikar’s henchmen.After the witness approached ATS, an offence was registered and two persons, Sujit Padwalkar and Kolekar, were arrested. Kolekar had allegedly directed Padwalkar to threaten the witness. During inquiry, Kolekar revealed Mandvikar and Eelectricwala’s names, said the officer. ATS has also taken Mandvikar and Electricwala in its custody and both are in police custody till Monday.During probe, ATS found that the jail guard deployed outside Mandvikar’s cell passed the chit to his aide. The guard is in police custody till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-jail-guard-held-by-ats-for-passing-gangster-s-messages-to-his-aides/story-9ANhVq44JBi528WGsi6JDN.html
27-12-2020||City||Air India pilots upset over cut in pay rollback, won’t work after duty time||Air India pilots belonging to both Indian Pilots Guild (IPG) and Indian Commercial Pilots Unions (ICPA) on Saturday directed their member pilots to not extend their duty and rest time hours. IPG includes Boeing pilots, while ICPA represents pilots who fly Airbus.The pilots are upset that though the airline has rolled back 5% in the wages up to the 70% cut it had imposed from April, the actual rollback amounts to only 3% of the total deduction.In their letter to the airline’s director (operations), the pilot unions said despite being patient about the “neglecting attitude” of the management amid the Covid-19 pandemic, they left no stone unturned to ensure smooth operations continue.The pilots alleged that the national carrier’s top management has seen “fit to heap” discrimination against them under the guise of the ongoing pandemic. This, according to the pilots, is being done by unilaterally imposing harsh pay cuts on them while absolving itself from any fiscal responsibility towards the national carrier or its frontline employees.The letter read, “The market is firmly set on the road to recovery and competing carriers are revoking their temporary austerity. This is to inform you that we will no longer extend unconditional co-operation while the top management continues to mock the dignity of our profession.”The pilots had on Thursday also written to Air India’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, rejecting the 5% roll back, and warned of an “industrial action”. The pilots in their letter had said, “This [working for additional hours during Covid-19] generosity amounts to a reduction of about 3% in the current gross pay cut for pilots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-india-pilots-upset-over-cut-in-pay-rollback-won-t-work-after-duty-time/story-Xt9tZZ4jFnAHE65wsADXON.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Ban firecrackers during New Year celebrations: NGO writes to Maharashtra environment minister||City-based non-governmental organisation Awaaz Foundation has written to state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, appealing that the state should ban the use of firecrackers during year-end celebrations.Sumaira Abdulali, founder of Awaaz Foundation, said the organisation had conducted tests and found all 28 varieties of the crackers they tested contained toxic chemicals. Twelve varieties of “green crackers” contained barium nitrate, which has been banned by the Supreme Court, and other nitrates and sulphates. “All these toxins contribute to the composition of air pollution that people breathe and are avoidable additions to already dangerous air quality,” reads the letter by Awaaz Foundation, sent to Thackeray on Saturday. Vidyanand Mothgare, joint director of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, said the state has already issued curbs on the use of firecrackers during New Year celebrations. “Based on the findings of our scientific tests, we have banned some firecrackers. Moreover, guidelines have been issued to district administrations to ensure measures as instructed by the National Green Tribunal,” he said, adding that in places where the air quality is poor, only green crackers may be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ban-firecrackers-during-new-year-celebrations-ngo-writes-to-maharashtra-environment-minister/story-27oygC10VPXK4MiGapRqfJ.html
27-12-2020||City||2 fliers from UK test positive in Kalyan, results of 31 awaited||Of the 40 passengers who were tested for Covid-19 by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) upon their return from the United Kingdom (UK), two women have been found infected with the virus. Seven other fliers tested negative, while reports of 31 passengers are pending. “The women are asymptomatic and have been admitted to Tata Amantra Covid-19 centre. The sample of one of the woman have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for gene testing, while that of the other will be sent on Monday” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. The civic body had received a list of 55 travellers on Thursday from the state government who had returned from the UK between November 25 and December 23. Following this, it has traced 45 passengers, of whom 40 underwent Covid-19 testing. On Saturday, the civic body has received a list of 37 more passengers who had returned from the UK. The corporation will trace them for testing in the coming days. KDMC has kept one floor at Tata Amantra quarantine centre at Kalyan-Bhiwandi road for Covid-positive passengers who have returned from the UK. The civic body has appealed to citizens to maintain social distancing, wear masks and report to the health centre immediately on developing any symptom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-fliers-from-uk-test-positive-in-kalyan-results-of-31-awaited/story-HBTDmhXcagmVGiMCbq0ZXJ.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Colleges in Mumbai Metropolitan Region to begin FYJC classes; no clarity on exams yet||Nearly four months after the admission process for first-year junior college began, prominent colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are now set to start the new academic year for students. The three admission rounds to junior colleges had concluded recently. Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College, said that the institute had begun classes from Thursday. “We had completed more than 90% of our admissions, and hence wanted to begin as soon as possible. While there is a 25% syllabus reduction this year owing to the Covid-19 situation, we have asked teachers to ensure that key concepts across subjects are taught to ensure continuity in Class 12,” said Joshi. On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota in jobs and education for the Maratha community, the state education department had stayed the admission process for FYJC students until further orders. Read more: FYJC special round postponed to Dec 28 by Maharashtra govtWhile the state government restarted admissions only this month, stating that they will take place without the 12% SEBC quota, it has recently allowed Maratha students to opt for the Economically Backward Class (EWS) quota, as per its decision on Wednesday. The special merit list for FYJC will be announced on Monday. Chandibai Himathmal Mansukhani College, Ulhasnagar, which has also completed most of its admissions, is planning to reopen from the first week of January. “We are in the process of allotting roll numbers to students now and will start our classes soon. We hope to finish the syllabus by utilising the holidays, for online lectures, and also scheduling extra classes,” said Satram Verhani, vice-principal of the college. Even as colleges are set to reopen, the inordinate delay in beginning the new academic year means that they cannot stick to the usual academic calendar. For instance, colleges usually conduct four exams for Class 11 – two unit tests and two semesters – which cannot be done this year owing to lack of time. The government has not come up with any guidelines with respect to the same. “We are hoping that the government takes a decision on the conduct of exams soon so that colleges and students would both know what to do. Also, the paper pattern for the exams should be made clear,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college. Officials from the education department said that colleges would soon be notified about the schedule of examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/colleges-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-to-begin-fyjc-classes-no-clarity-on-exams-yet/story-ThkrNj1rSiunsKtBK8DzIJ.html
27-12-2020||City||RPI chief Ramdas Athawale to campaign across Maharashtra to strengthen base among Dalit voters||Union minister for social justice Ramdas Athawale, who is an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will start a campaign across Maharashtra from Sunday to strengthen his base among the Dalit voters. Athawale wants to consolidate his Republican Party of India’s (RPI) hold over members of the Dalit community, who are the core voters of his outfit. He would be touring western Maharashtra, Marathwada, Thane and Konkan regions and would also be addressing rallies. RPI will also undertake a state-wide membership drive to attract voters to the party. Athawale will kick-start his campaign from Pune on Sunday where he will address his party workers. The membership drive will be held till January 10, after which organisational elections will be held and completed before January 26. Former state minister and RPI leader Avinash Mhatekar said the drive is planned to build a bridge with the workers. “From the past one year, we had lost our link with our workers and it was necessary to bridge that gap. Our workers are still with us but then we need to guide them. These interactions through tours, intra-party elections and party meetings boost the morale of the workers,” said Mhatekar. In the past few years, the influence of RPI on its cote voter has reduced significantly. It was not able to open an account in the 2019 Parliamentary and Assembly polls. The party in fact yielded its space to Athawale’s arch rival Prakash Ambedkar, who heads the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA). Ambedkar’s party was able to garner substantial votes in the two major elections last year, thus making it a major force among Dalit voters. Political analysts say that Athawale had neglected his outfit in the past few years. “RPI did not raise or agitate against any major issue in the past few years. Athawale sat comfortably as a minister and never bothered to grow his party. He now realises that he has to strengthen his base to keep himself relevant, especially when VBA is growing,” said political analyst Hemant Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rpi-chief-ramdas-athawale-to-campaign-across-maharashtra-to-strengthen-base-among-dalit-voters/story-bjFohm3gr5FnUqWeMk9nBO.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Nakabandis to ensure revellers do not carry liquor to Yeoor Hills in Thane district||If you are planning a trip to the Yeoor Hills to celebrate New Year, be alert as the police would place nakabandis at the gates of the Sanjay National Gandhi Park to ensure that revellers don’t enter with liquor or create any nuisance at the public place.The Vartak Nagar police and forest officials will take action against people found guilty and will not allow anyone inside if found suspicious.According to the police, the flow of visitors at Yeoor Hills increases substantially during Christmas and New Year. Residents who go for morning walks across the hills claim to find numerous liquor bottles after the New Year celebrations.Read more: Risk of mutation can’t be ignored, danger yet to pass, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav ThackeraySanjay Gaikwad, senior police inspector, said, “Since the Christmas eve, we have deployed our staff on the hills. Patrolling at regular intervals is going on to ensure no nuisance is created. We will place nakabandi on December 30 and 31 at the entrance gate of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, check their vehicles and ensure no liquor is carried. As night curfew is imposed, all the hotels will be closed by 11pm. If we find anyone violating the norms, action will be taken against them.”When asked about house parties as there are many bungalows on the hills, Gaikwad said, “Police don’t have the right to raid any house. As per law, loud speakers or any music is not allowed,” added Gaikwad.Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police (Traffic), said, “We will carry out a campaign against drunken driving. Even if hotels and pubs close by 11pm, we will see that violators don’t drive under the influence of alcohol. The drive will go on till New Year. Places like Yeoor Hills and other hotspots across Thane and other regions will be on the watch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nakabandis-to-ensure-revellers-do-not-carry-liquor-to-yeoor-hills-in-thane-district/story-0yQ0aWxZct1jtvQ0MnwezM.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Thane district trace 349 returnees from Europe||Thane district has traced 349 people who have returned from the European countries in the last one month. They are being tested by the local administrations. The district health department has suggested that if anyone from the European countries has been tested positive, then separate provision should be made for their isolation and contact tracing should be started at the earliest.Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district, said, “We have received all details of those who have returned from the United Kingdom since November 25. We are contacting them and ensuring that they get tested. In case any of them tests positive, we shall send their samples to conduct gene testing and will also begin contact tracing for them. They will also have to stay in institutional quarantine.Read more: Kalyan-Dombivli civic body ready to give vaccine to 2L residents in phase 1“Those who have completed 28 to 30 days without any health issues are out of the radar, while others have to be tested, hence we are tracing those who have returned from Europe post-November 25,” added Pawar.District Collector Rajesh Narvekar has also appealed to the people to inform the local authorities about such travellers.According to the district health department, from among the 349 travellers identified across the district, 55 are from within Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, 134 from Thane Municipal Corporation and around 50 from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. Among these, TMC has traced 72 and KDMC has tested 20 till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-district-trace-349-returnees-from-europe/story-OTgt9YEOSEFg3sSj405qfK.html
27-12-2020||City||ED summons NCP leader Eknath Khadse for probe on Dec 30 in land deal case||Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to its Mumbai office on December 30. The central investigating agency is likely to probe the alleged money laundering angle in the Bhosri land deal case, in which the land was purportedly bought at an undervalued price. Khadse has confirmed receiving the notice with HT and said he will report to ED. The former heavyweight is under scrutiny for allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal in Bhosari near Pune. It is said that the plot was bought by his wife Mandakini Khadse and son-in-law, Girish Choudhary, in 2016 for Rs3.75 crore against the prevalent market rate of Rs30 crore. The former state minister had dumped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in October to join Sharad Pawar-led NCP. Without taking any name, Khadse has directed his attack on former Maharashtra CM from BJP Devendra Fadnavis. “He wants to harass me and thus the same case is being probed again and again by different agencies,” Khadse said. He had blamed Fadnavis for all his “miseries” in the past four years previously too. “The land was bought at Rs3.75 crore and the government has already spent Rs14 crore-Rs15 crore on various probes. The case was investigated by the Pune ACB (anti-corruption bureau) as well as by the Nashik ACB. Pune ACB had submitted its closure report before the court. The state had spent Rs3 crore-Rs4 crore on the Zoting committee (appointed by the Fadnavis government) too, to probe the same case. It was also probed by the Income Tax department. This will be the fifth probe in the same land deal,” Khadse said, stressing that he has been targeted. He told reporters at Dhule that people from across the state are calling and expressing sympathy with him. “They also felt that this is a kind of injustice. It appears that they didn’t like the probes one after the other, but decisions have been made and we have to follow them,” he said. In the Pune ACB’s closure report, Khadse was given a clean chit. In its report filed before a Pune court in 2018, ACB had said there was no evidence to prove that the former revenue minister was aware that his wife and son-in-law had purchased the plot. Khadse was a prominent BJP leader from north Maharashtra and enjoys a significant hold in the region. He belongs to Leva Patil, one of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) communities that has a sizable population in north Maharashtra. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said those who are against BJP are being targeted by using central agencies. “Even Sena leaders have received notices from ED. You [BJP] aren’t strong enough to fight them politically, so you’re making them bow before you by unleashing ED, CBI, Income Tax,” said Raut. Senior NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbal echoed the sentiment. “It was bound to happen. Khadse himself had said this when he had left BJP and joined NCP. Those who will speak against BJP, be it Pratap Sarnaik, Khadse or Lalu Prasad Yadav (RJD president), they try to create trouble for them,” Bhujbal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-summons-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-for-probe-on-dec-30-in-land-deal-case/story-N0xe02qmbxgOKWeraziCvL.html
27-12-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body ready to give vaccine to 2L residents in phase 1||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has claimed to have a capacity to vaccinate more than two lakh residents in the first phase of the vaccination programme in the city. The KDMC also claims to have acquired three new deep freezers and three large Ice Lined Refrigerators (ILR) to store the vaccine.The city presently has a population of more than 15 lakh people, out of which 6,000 health workers will be first to get vaccinated.Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “We have followed the state government’s guidelines for vaccine preparations. Recently, we have acquired three deep freezers and three ILR. Primarily, we have plans to store these vaccinations at our 15 health care centres. Further, as per the guidelines, we will identify more places if required.”As per the health department, these health centres that usually carry out immunisation for children on a regular basis can also store the Covid-19 vaccines. Apart from this, the Covid centres run by the civic body at Savlaram Krida Sankul and Patidhar Bhavan in Dombivli and Vasant Valley in Kalyan (W) can also be used for storing and managing the vaccinations.“As of now, there are no specific directions on how much vaccines will be stored. However, we are asked to identify places where it can be stored. Phase by phase, we will look for more places like an ice factory where the vaccines can be stored as per the requirement,” added Panpatil.As per the KDMC, a total of 25 small ILRs, 18 large ILRs and 21 deep freezers are required to store the vaccines. The civic body already has 23 small ILRs, 13 large ILRs and 18 deep freezers. Out of these, some are defunct.“We are working on repairing the non-functional storage facilities so that they can be used when the vaccines arrive,” added Panpatil.In the first stage, the civic body has plans to cover vaccination of around 6,000 health workers that also includes the private ones and anganwadi health workers. Further, the civic body will provide the vaccination for policemen and homeguards working from the front. In the third stage, it will cater to senior citizens and persons with comorbidities.“We have done the survey for the health workers and have prepared a list of 6,000. The police department data will be also carried out at their level and further, the third phase of covering common citizens will also be taken up simultaneously by the civic body. Under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey, we already have certain data while they can also self-register in the coming days,” said Sandip Nimbalkar, medical officer, KDMC.The civic body has also identified a manpower of 150 people to carry out the work of vaccination. These workers are from civic body health department staff and private workers.“We have 600 personnel presently working regularly. Out of them, we can divert 150 of them for vaccination,” added Nimbalkar.As per the health department, only when common citizens are to be immunised, the civic body might approach schools and other places for storing of vaccines.“Right now, we have enough storage facilities. Only after the third stage will we need more places for storage. Our task force will approach others accordingly once the database of the comorbid persons and high risk people are finalised,” added Nimbalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-ready-to-give-vaccine-to-2l-residents-in-phase-1/story-wgkCEzjpJFKG816Qu9wHRL.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Firing in Trilokpuri leaves one dead, two injured; cops say no communal violence angle||One person was killed and three others were injured after two groups clashed and opened fire at each other over a personal enmity in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri on Saturday night, police said. The dead man, identified as Shahid, belonged to one of the groups. Several rounds were fired during the clash between both the groups, who are neighbours, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said that the clash started around 10pm over the issue of one group beating up an employee working at the shop of another group. “Bullets were fired by both the groups and some people were injured in the firing. They have been admitted to a hospital. One of the injured, Shahid, has succumbed,” said DCP Singh, adding that no communal angle was involved in the incident.Police said that the clashes broke out between the groups — one led by Kashim and Shahid and another by Mannan. Both the groups resorted to firing at each other. Later, there were unverified reports of a man’s name being circulated on social media as the culprit behind the firing. There were also reports that stones in huge quantity had been recovered from the roof of the above mentioned person’s shop during the 2014 Trilokpuri communal violence. DCP Singh, however, said that this information is yet to be confirmed.Though Trilokpuri has a history of communal clashes between Hindus and Muslims, police said that Saturday’s clash was not communal. Police said the clash was between two groups with criminal antecedents. In 2014, at least 40 persons were injured when riots broke out between Hindu and Muslim residents of Trilokpuri. Delhi Police have then imposed curfew in the area to contain the clashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/firing-in-trilokpuri-leaves-one-dead-two-injured-cops-say-no-communal-violence-angle/story-0B8QbZS0gFXig4wJu2alnN.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt tries new SOP to redress complainants||The Delhi government has drafted a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure complaints received through its departments’ helplines are resolved in time and complainants are updated about its status regularly, said a senior government official.“Several departments of the Delhi government – such as environment, women and child development, social welfare and education – have telephone helplines. While there is a dedicated mobile application for pollution-related complaints, there was a need to streamline the mechanism of other helplines. That is why the new SOP has been drafted,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.“From this week, the SOP is being tried in the women and child development department It will help amend the SOP, if needed, before being adopted across other departments.”Under the SOP, departments have to appoint a joint director-rank officer in charge of grievances. For every complaint received, a report has to be submitted to the officer within three days of receiving the complaint, following which the officer would set a deadline for resolution. It would even apply to complaints whose redressal needs involvement of multiple agencies. said the senior official.From the third day of having received the complaint, the officers have to devise a mechanism to keep the complainant updated about its status from time to time. Departments will have to maintain electronic records of each complaint and complainant.Delhi’s women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said: “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has clearly stated that all complaints and grievances across all departments have to be resolved in a time bound manner. If officers fail to do so, they shall have to explain why. We have streamlined the grievance redressal mechanism keeping that in mind. The idea is to ensure better governance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-tries-new-sop-to-redress-complainants/story-S2f6K0CPI9IYeuj6AMjejP.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi police asks personnel to register phone numbers before Covid-19 vaccine roll out||Delhi Police on Saturday directed all its personnel to update their cell phone numbers in the force’s internal system, two days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal outlined the national Capital’s plan for the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out. Kejriwal had on Thursday, in a virtual press conference, said that the government had identified 5.1 million Delhi people, who would be the first to get the Covid-19 vaccine. The Delhi CM had said that registration of people under three priority categories — health care workers, front line workers and at-risk population — is currently underway, and a text message would be sent to the person informing him/her of the details of the date when they would get the vaccine shot.The 88,000 personnel of Delhi police come under the category of front line workers. The order issued by special commissioner of police (headquarters), Muktesh Chander, was addressed to all police district and unit heads and was titled — Covid-19 vaccination of Delhi police personnel.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe officer wrote that the vaccination drive would soon start but before that it was important to update the cell phone numbers so that no one was left out of the vaccination programme. All police personnel have to update their numbers by January 3, 2021. “There are a total of 51 lakh priority category persons in Delhi – three lakh health workers, six lakh front line workers, and 42 lakh others — people above 50 and those below 50 but having co-morbidities,” the chief minister said.The first batch of shots, he said, will given to health care workers, followed by front line workers such as police personnel, while the third batch would be for those who are above the age of 50 years and people under-50 who have co-morbidities.“Our healthcare workers such as doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and so on will be the first ones to get the vaccine in Delhi. We have identified three lakh health care workers who will be vaccinated. Next, will be the frontline workers which include police officials, civil defence volunteers and municipal workers – there are six lakh such persons. The third category consists of those who are above the age of 50 years and those below 50 years who have co-morbid conditions. There are 42 lakh people under the third category,” said Kejriwal.Until Friday, there were 31 police personnel have died of Covid-19. Till date, at least 7387 police personnel have been infected with Covid-19, of whom 554 are currently battling with the disease. Over all Delhi so far has recorded 622094 cases, with 655 fresh cases being recorded on Saturday. At least 10437 people had succumbed to the viral disease till Saturday. Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive among those tested – dropped to 0.98% on Saturday. The state’s positivity rate has remained below 2% for 12 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-asks-personnel-to-register-phone-numbers-before-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out/story-4zuzOfJG5c51mmbSDmiMqI.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||At Kundli end of Singhu stir, quieter nooks and cleaner spaces||The Singhu border farmers’s protest site is nearly seven kilometers long and growing. While the first few kilometers near the Delhi side is crowded with protesters, police and the media, little is known at what happens at the other end.That site is situated close to Parker Mall in Kundli, Haryana. Here, the crowds are thinner, fewer garbage mounds and there are a lot of unoccupied spaces with quiet nooks. Here too, one can find colourful tents and tractor-trolleys that bear a striking resemblance to the ones closer to the Singhu border.Janak Raj, an 80-year-old farmer from Jindalpur in Punjab’s Patiala, has been living here for the last one month since the protest broke out against the Centre’s new farm laws. Twenty other farmers from his village had proceeded to the Singh border, or what people here call “the stage area”. “When we came here with our tractor-trolleys, not everyone could go towards the border. People had to park their vehicles as per available space. So I had to park mine here,” he said. Every day, Raj walks, and sometimes hitches a ride, the seven kilometers to the “stage area” and join the other in voicing their protest. “I go to the stage for two hours every day to listen to the speeches. Then I come back and sleep here. That area is too crowded. There is no space to move. It’s better to stay here at the end,” he said.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Will there be 6th round of talks soon? 10 pointsFewer people meant that the site is also much cleaners. There aren’t mounds of disposable plates and cups, food waste or plastic bottles, which are common close to the Singhu border.Gurcharan Singh, 53, a resident of Lassoi village in Sangrur, said, “Our volunteers have been sweeping and cleaning at both the spots. But there are more protesters near the stage area, so the garbage is bound to be more. The government too hasn’t deployed enough sanitation workers.” Over 100 sanitation workers from North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Sonipat Nagar Nigam have been deployed at the spot to pick up garbage from the protest site, officials said.“Clearly that is not enough. We try to wash our cooking utensils by a pit nearby so that the water doesn’t accumulate on the roads and give off an odour,” Gurcharan said.While the elderly find it difficult to take the 14-km to-and-fro journey, the youngsters come to their aid.Rajesh, 25, from Shyamli in Sonepat has been at the Kundli spot since December. “I travel to the stage area every day and listen to the day’s discussions. I return in the afternoon and then discuss it with our elders. It is also easier to talk here since there are fewer loudspeakers,” he said.Langars are here too, and so are entertainment in the form of folk songs -- while some sing Haryanvi Ragini, Sikh farmers offer kirtans. Without equipment though, the audience are smaller.These groups are expected to attempt to move closer to Singhu border as farmer unions on Saturday announced that they would hold a tractor-trolley march on December 30.Rajinder Singh from the Kirti Kisan union said, “The government should discuss modalities of repealing the law. Else, on December 30, we will take our tractor-trolleys and march from Singhu to Tikri and Shahjahanpur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-kundli-end-of-singhu-stir-quieter-nooks-and-cleaner-spaces/story-20nz6cyt4eFjnZ6c8b1epN.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two more UK returnees test positive, shifted to special ward of Lok Nayak hospital||Two more people who returned to Delhi from the United Kingdom (UK) between November 25 and December 21 have been found Covid-19 positive, senior government officials said on Saturday.The Union government had suspended all flights from the UK on December 23 to prevent the spread of a new strain of Covid-19 that experts fear is more contagious.As on Saturday, the senior official said, at least 21 patients were admitted in the special ward of Lok Nayak Hospital, which has been set up for the UK returnees and their contacts who test Covid-19 positive.The 21 patients so far, include 11 who were identified from the last few flights from UK over Tuesday and Wednesday. Nine others were diagnosed as Covid-19 positive between Wednesday and Friday under a reach-out drive being conducted by the district administration. One other patient is the contact of one of the UK returnee patients, the senior government official said. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“The test result of the last two patients arrived on Saturday, following which they were admitted in the special ward of Lok Nayak. More Covid-19 test results are awaited,” said the senior official, who did not wish to be identified.The swab samples of all UK return individuals, who have tested positive, have also been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi for genome sequencing to ascertain if they have been infected by the old strain or the supposedly new variant of Covid-19 discovered in the UK. The result of these tests are awaited, said the official.While people arriving from the UK on December 22 and 23 — after the government’s announcement — were directly scanned, tested and quarantined (if needed) from the airports, state governments have been entrusted with reaching out and conducting Covid-19 tests of all passengers who arrived from the UK between November 25 and December 21, even if they had previously got themselves tested on arrival.A senior official in the revenue department said around 14,000 passengers arrived at the Delhi airport between November 25 and December 21 – of which around 1,500 are Delhi residents. The rest are learnt to have left for other states, where the respective government teams are conducting similar tests.The threat from the new strain of Covid-19 comes at a time when Delhi seems to have brought the spread of the infection in control in the state.The state on Saturday recorded 655 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, which is the lowest in 215 days, since 412 cases were recorded in a day on May 26, data shared by the Delhi government showed. The administration conducted 67,115 tests conducted on Friday, of which 40,138 were done using RT PCR and other accurate molecular diagnostic methods.Despite the higher number of RT PCR tests, Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive among those tested – dropped to 0.98%. The city’s positivity rate has remained below 2% for 12 days now. Experts believe that the spread of an infection is under control if the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for over two weeks.  Meanwhile, district officials have initiated a reach out drive to trace all UK returnees and get them tested.Once a UK returnee tests positives, all her /his contacts are to be tested. The contacts awaiting test results and those who test negative have to complete a mandatory institutional quarantine. They can either opt for a government facility in Chhatarpur or a paid facility in a hotel at Aerocity.The Chhattarpur facility currently has around 80 individuals lodged. Most of them were people sitting in the neighbouring seats of the UK-Delhi flights from which the 11 Covid-patients were identified over Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-shifted-to-special-ward-of-lok-nayak/story-CCHnjhKy1z1R0a3Y3yJy4L.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Protesters block Delhi-Meerut Expressway again, third time this week||Traffic on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) was disrupted for five hours on Saturday, as farmers protesting the three farm laws blocked the route at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border. Protesters said they were angry over their supporters being blocked from joining them in different Uttar Pradesh districts. Since December 3, the protesters had blocked the Meerut to Delhi route on the Expressway. Over the last two days, the number of protesting farmers at the site had increased, and it was the third time that the traffic on Delhi to Meerut route was blocked this week.On Tuesday (December 22), the expressway remained closed for nearly 10 hours, while on Monday (December 21) traffic was disrupted for almost an hour.On Saturday, traffic on the route was hit between 11 am and 4 pm and diverted to other borders such as Anand Vihar, Apsara, Bhopura and Khoda. While the Delhi to Meerut route was freed of the blockade in the evening, the other carriageway remained blocked.Traffic on the roads had been affected for the past month when farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand were stopped at the UP Gate border by the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police. Farmers parked their tractor trolleys and other vehicles on the roads and set up camp there as part of their agitation for the repeal of the three laws. Saturday’s blockade was done mostly by the farmers’ groups from Uttarakhand. They claimed that the Uttar Pradesh administration and UP Police had been “harassing” farmers by stopping their vehicles at Uttarakhand-Uttar Pradesh border and in areas such as Rampur, Bilaspur and Pilibhit.“We were coming from Uttarakhand when our tractors and cars were stopped at the Uttar Pradesh border by the police and local administration. When we refused to return, they misbehaved with us. This has been happening for the past one week,” Gurjinder Singh, a farmer from Udham Singh Nagar.Another farmer from Uttarakhand Gurjan Singh said, “Nearly 100 tractors are still stuck in Rampur and Pilibit. Our protest is to condemn such acts. If they (UP administration) will stop us there, we will block the roads here at UP Gate.”“There was no law-and-order situation at UP-Gate. Farmers blocked the road and later opened it on their own,” said Vipin Kumar, city magistrate who was officiating as additional district magistrate (city). “Traffic and local police were deployed to ensure convenience of motorists at the border. Since the blockade was not during peak hours, it did not cause much problems,” said Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh.The Singhu and Tikri borders where thousands of farmers are protesting continued to remain closed while one carriageway at the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border is open for vehicles entering Delhi from Noida. Motorists going to Noida are being diverted to other borders such as DND, Kalindi Kunj, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli, and Dallupura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protesters-block-dme-again-third-time-this-week/story-WA9dfTTL1DafJuTxNYejiM.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi court pulls up cops for ‘high-handedness, misadventure’ during arrest of murder suspect||A Delhi court on Saturday came down heavily on the Delhi police on their way of arresting a man, accused in a murder case, even when he had obtained a surrender order from the court to join the investigation after he alleged that he, along with his counsel, were assaulted when he had come to the jail for surrender. The judge said that it is a “clear case of misadventure on the part of investigating agency”.Duty magistrate Raghav Sharma said that power of arrest cannot be used as a force for threatening the accused in any manner. It directed the Deputy Police commissioner (DCP) of the concerned district to sensitize its staff on the procedure to be followed for arrest.“The power of arrest with the police authority is given with responsibility as well as sense of duty on their part. The power of arrest cannot in any manner be used as a force for threatening the accused. While there is no doubt that the power of arrest is very much necessary for proper investigation of the case, has to be used with proper reasons and with proper adherence to the procedure established by law,” the court said.The court was hearing an application by a man, Karthik @Chhota Madhu, who through his counsel Purushendra Bhardwaj, had contended that he was assaulted by 2-3 unknown people when he had gone to surrender himself in the Tihar jail complex. The plea had said that all these persons in plain clothes “pounded” on the man and his lawyer and later took him away in a car.The application also stated that the manhandling took place within the compound near Water Park of the Tihar jail complex. On December 25, the court had made preliminary enquiry and had also tried to reach out the Investigating Officer of the case, after it was informed by a CRPF official on duty that the persons who had assaulted Karthik and his counsel were police officials.The official also told the court that the persons who had assaulted the man were police officials while also confirming that they had manhandled the accused and his lawyer when they had gone to surrender.“On being questioned whether entries were made in the register of those police persons (whose IDs were checked by him), he (CRPF official) replied in negative stating that those persons entered a few minutes before the entry of accused and his counsel and therefore, there was no time for making entry in the register as the place of making entry is 10 -15 steps away from the gate where he was present,” the court noted in its order of December 25.On Friday, when the court tried to reach out to the Investigating Officer (IO), his phone was switched off. Irked by this, the court noted that not only did the IO came to the court, but had also switched off his phone to avoid any calls from the court. Terming it “serious disregard of the court”, the judge had ordered the IO and the SHO to appear before it on Saturday.On Saturday, the IO and the SHO told the court that they had got an information that the accused that he may come to Tihar Jail with his 3 - 4 associates to surrender before the duty magistrate at the Tihar jail complex. As per this information, a raiding team was deployed to detain the accused and as soon as they spotted him they detained him immediately and took him to Subhash Place police station.The IO also said that the persons who pounded on the accused persons were the staff of their police station and the accused person was arrested by them.Terming it as a clear case of misadventure, the judge said that the procedural safeguards of arrest which includes showing the ID of the arresting officer and proper regard to the physical liberty of the accused have been violated“In the present case, not only the guidelines have been completely violated but also there is patent disregard to the spirit of procedural law. The concerned DCP Is hereby directed to sensitize the staff regarding the procedural requirements of arrest…,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-court-pulls-up-cops-for-high-handedness-misadventure-during-arrest-of-murder-suspect/story-6k25PuzCUo909tcWjp0xqO.html
27-12-2020||Pune||Delay in results leaves students’ future in lurch||For Vivek Amrutkar, a final-year Bachelor of Engineering student, the last one month has been tough, as he is not able to process his admission for a post-graduation course, nor has he been able to follow-up on job opportunities. He blames the delay in the revaluation process at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Just like Amrutkar, there are hundreds of students who have missed their deadlines to submit marksheets for admissions, or are struggling to join the job market without the passing certificate. “I am a student of Information Technology (IT) and appeared through the online mode for the final-year exams. I failed in three subjects. Due to technical errors in the system I was not able to submit my paper and it continuously showed errors. I am studying IT engineering and I know all the details about technical errors in online exams. I complained about it and demanded a revision of marks. Mow my further studies have gone for a toss as deadlines have passed. Also, I am not able to find a job,” said Amrutkar, who had come to SPPU on Thursday from his hometown Amalner, in Jalgaon district. From December 23 till the afternoon of December 26,, a group of 50 students were seated outside the SPPU main building, as part of a protest called by the Yuvak Kranti Dal. The only demand is to get their results revised properly and get them done immediately, so as to take further admissions or find a job. Students were present from all around the state including, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Amalner, Shegaon and Solapur districts. SPPU V-C on the jobA meeting was held between the protesting students and a committee formed by the SPPU vice-chancellor on Saturday. Accordingly, students with issues in one subject were given revised results, whereas students with issues with two or more subjects will get the revised results on Monday.SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “I am personally looking into the results related issues and interacting with students about resolving their problems. Students with a problem in one subject have been cleared, but students who are now protesting have issues in two or three subjects. We have formed a committee to do a revaluation of these results and accordingly their revised results will be declared soon.” A state-wide tale of broken dreamsProtesting students had come in full preparation to stay outside the SPPU main building till they get their results revised. Raw food, gas cylinders, blankets and sweaters were all in place. Nehal Doshi, a Bachelor of Arts student from Bhosale Military College in Nashik, had come along with her father. She said, “I got less marks in two subjects, which were actually the easiest. I want to pursue a post-graduation in phycology but cannot take admission. If I do not submit the marksheet in time my entire year will be wasted.” Nehal’s father, Sunil Doshi, who accompanied her from Nashik, said, “I have taken for two days and came to Pune. It is a matter of my daughter’s life and career, so we are helpless.” Yogita Vasant Dongre, a 22-year-old Bachelor of Pharmacy student from Dighi said, “I cracked an interview at an MNC company and got the offer letter, but same issue, they need my graduate certificate. I was failed in three subjects by SPPU. I have given more than 10 applications to the examination department to review my results, but there is no response.” Bharati Mandhyani has a seven -year-old son and has been struggling to get a job. “I wanted to start working once I complete my graduation. I did my Bachelor of Commerce, externally. There was a technical issue in the Economics paper for most of the students, and I was failed. Now I keep my son at my parent’s house and come to the SPPU to get the results revised for the last one month, but no one is responding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/result-delays-disrupt-jobs-further-studies-for-sppu-students/story-SQyn53FzhoreAj8XJHX8iK.html
27-12-2020||Pune||PMC awaits state government nod for medical college recruitment||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to wait for the state government’s permission for recruiting 650 posts for the newly established medical college that will be run by the help of a trust. The medical college has been named after Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the former Prime Minister. As the college will function with funds from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), all resources will be provided by the civic body. With no financial dependency on the state, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol was of the view that the civic body did not require state government’s permission for recruiting staff. Mohol said, “As everything will be managed by PMC and the trust, I was asking the municipal administration to recruit on our own as there are no grants from the state government. But the administration is of the view that for recruitment, the state government’s nod is important.” PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “It is true that the PMC is going to run this college but to avoid any controversy we are approaching the state government for getting the approval for recruitment.” One of the senior officials from PMC said on anonymity, “Though PMC is going to bear all costs and provide infrastructure, it is necessary to have state government’s permission for recruitment. There are many issues like reservation and other technical formalities. It would just be a technical permission. It would not prolong the recruitment process. We requested and convinced the elected members why it is necessary to take the state government’s permission.” The medical college is likely to start by next academic year. It would help get trained doctors for PMC-run hospitals in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-awaits-state-government-nod-for-medical-college-recruitment/story-2ELRGkpeUEk4sJTMXiIIzH.html
27-12-2020||Pune||Man who stole two-wheeler batteries from FTII arrested||The Deccan police have arrested a thief who stole ten batteries of various two wheelers, iron pipes and window grills from the Film and Television Institute of India (FTTI) on December 25 at 9.30pm from campus. The accused gained entry on the pretext of cleaning the campus and took advantage of the situation and decamped with the material which has been recovered from him. The total seizure has been estimated to be worth Rs 18,500 while the tempo in which he was taking the stolen material has been estimated to be worth Rs 2 lakh has been confiscated. According to the police, a tip off was received by police sub inspector (PSI) Kishore Shinde that a tempo carrying stolen material was moving in the direction of Mhatre Bridge. Following the information, PSI Shinde and his team members laid a trap near the area and asked him to stop but he tried to speed away. However, the investigators managed to stop and take him into custody. During interrogation, he identified himself as Rahul Ram Bhandve (32), a resident of Dattawadi. On interrogation, he said that he had stolen the material from the FTII campus and was on the way to dispose the material. He was immediately taken to the police station and a First Information Report (FIR) was lodged against him under IPC 379 ( theft) at Deccan police station. The police action was taken under the guidance of zonal DCP Priyanka Nanaware and additional commissioner (west) Sanjay Shinde and other senior officials of zone I. PSI Kishor Shinde said, “We had received a tip off from the informer about the stolen material and a tempo moving suspiciously near Mhatre Bridge. We immediately swung into action, stopped the tempo and arrested the accused. The FTII had asked a person to clean the campus and he had in turn asked Bhandve to carry out cleaning. The accused then stole batteries and other material from the area. He was produced before the court which released him on bail as the entire recovery was completed by the police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-who-stole-two-wheeler-batteries-from-ftii-arrested/story-sZAN2c5U93hlFviIbfPhjO.html
27-12-2020||Pune||Parents, teachers “welcome” decision to re-open schools||The decision to reopen schools by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the city limits has been welcomed by many parents as well as schools though some have exercised caution. Most parents noted that even though there is a new strain of the virus, there is no need to worry. It is imperative that children are trained to continue taking all necessary precautions while they are out. Manasi Joshi, a parent from the city said that it is great that the schools are reopening. “Though online teaching is going on, the children are now tired of attending school from home. Reopening schools is a good decision. These kids are young and active and they have been at home since March. It is only fair to let them attend the schools,” Joshi said. While talking about the new strain of the virus, Joshi said that social distancing, masks and hand hygiene are a must, but that should not limit children from going to school. “Covid is here to stay. Children should be trained to remain safe. Schools will also be taking all necessary precautions. So, I think children should be sent back to school,” she said. The PMC on Thursday announced that schools in Pune will reopen from January 4. As per the order, class 9 to 12 will reopen in the first phase. Sharing similar views, Archana Kakade, another parent from Pune said that there is risk but along with children, schools also need to take precautions. “The odd even rule is a good rule which can help maintain social distancing. If that is strictly implemented I don’t see why parents would hesitate to send children to school. All necessary precautions will be taken on a regular basis. Children also now know the importance of wearing masks and using sanitizers,” Kakade said. Avinash Takawale, principal of Saraswati Mandir also welcomed the move by the PMC. “The decision is welcomed. We have been taking online classes, and we will continue teaching children with all necessary precautions and safety measures,” said Takawale. Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said that once the schools are reopened it is up to the schools to finish the syllabus. “The board is responsible for the examination. Once the schools reopen, the syllabus and practicals will be a decision that schools will be taking,” Kale said. Aneeta Salunkhe, Pune city president of teachers association said that teachers will follow all required Covid Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). “The teachers are asked to come to school from December 28. We will be taking all required precautionary measures and accordingly get tested as well. We have a week in hand but we are very keen to reopen school,” Salunkhe said. Box ZP teachers test positive for Covid A total of 17 Zilla Parishad (ZP) teachers in Purandar taluka had tested positive for Covid in antigen test, said officials. The district authorities noted that teachers have mild symptoms. These teachers were teaching class 5 to class 8. These teachers have not come in contact with students, according to authorities. *In November, 35 teachers tested positive of the 1,150 from rural parts of Pune before schools reopened for class 9 to class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parents-teachers-welcome-decision-to-re-open-schools/story-0HboYFu5uGeqqdmvEyTLgK.html
27-12-2020||Delhi||Man on death row in Bangladesh nabbed from Khanpur by Delhi Police||A 40-year-old man from Bangladesh, who had been given the death sentence in a kidnapping, robbery and murder case in the country but had fled after getting bail a decade ago, was arrested from Delhi with a country-made pistol and two cartridges, police said on Saturday.The man, Mausam Ali alias Sarbar, carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh for his arrest that was announced in Bangladesh for his arrest. He had been living in India illegally after entering the country in 2010. Ali was involved in several heinous crimes in Bangladesh, said additional commissioner of police (crime) Shibesh Singh.Sharing details of the kidnapping and murder case, additional CP Singh said that in 2005, Ali along with his associates – Bacchu, Monir, Gaffar and Zakir – kidnapped a person named Jahidul Islam from his mobile shop in Madhya Nalbunia Bazar in Bangladesh. They murdered him after robbing him of cash and other valuables. Islam’s mutilated body was found in a field, a day after his murder. All the alleged accused were later arrested by the police.In 2010, all the accused were granted bail in the case, but the trial continued. The same year, Ali fled and entered India illegally along with an agent named Sarbar, and his wife. Sarbar lived in Delhi’s Seemapuri and worked as a scrap dealer. All three lived together in Seemapuri for sometime. A month later, Sarbar returned to Bangladesh and never returned. Ali started living with Sarbar’s wife like a married couple. They soon moved to Bengaluru, where Ali started a scrap dealing business, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh.“Since Ali had taken the identity of Sarbar and was living with his wife, we strongly suspect that they may have killed Sarbar. Ali, however, has denied this. We will inform Bangalore police about Sarbar’s wife and request them to interrogate her regarding her husband’s whereabouts and why Ali was using Sarbar’s name and IDs,” added the DCP.In 2013, the concerned court in Bangladesh awarded the death sentence to Ali, while the other four men were acquitted in the case. However, Ali could not be arrested again as he had fled to India in 2010 and never returned.DCP Singh said that Ali was arrested from Delhi’s Khanpur area on Saturday after an informer told the crime branch team that a man wanted in Bangladesh in a kidnapping, robbery and murder case of 2005 was spotted there. The team put Ali’s cellphone on surveillance.“We caught Ali with a pistol and two bullets from Khanpur after his arrival in the city. He has been booked under the Arms Act and Foreigners Act. The Bangladesh High Commission has been informed about his arrest,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-on-death-row-in-bangladesh-nabbed-from-khanpur-by-delhi-police/story-khIuSk0fzd6XUExDGiT1sI.html
27-12-2020||Pune||418 cases, 4 deaths on Saturday in Pune district||The state health department, on Saturday, reported 418 fresh Covid-19 cases.Four deaths in 24 hours in Pune district moved the death toll up to 7,760.The district reported 3.70 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.47 lakh have recovered and 14,558 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune rural reported 113 new cases taking the final count to 87,201. Two Covid-related took the rural death toll to 2,059 according to the state health department.Pune city reported 226 fresh cases taking its total count to 1,89,882. Two deaths reported on Saturday took the death toll to 4,399.PCMC reported 79 new cases taking its final count to 92,966 with no deaths reported. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,267. The state health department reported that 1,526 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the final count of such cases to 18.07 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.34%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Currently, 4,64,121 people are in home quarantine and 3,704 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/418-cases-4-deaths-on-saturday-in-pune-district/story-ZoO372xQQhZBqDGVOixpxK.html
27-12-2020||Pune||At 7,000 per day, Pune dist fails to meet state-directed 18,000-test nos||It has been over a month since the state recommended that Pune district carry out 18,000 Covid tests, daily. However, the district administration has not been able to meet the target. As of Friday, December 25, the administration is carrying out 7,000 daily Covid tests, less than half the target set by the state government. The recommendations had come in view of a possible second wave of infections. The district administration has now set its own target at 12,000 tests. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “There are not many Covid-19 patients now, however, I have asked the district administration to aggressively do contact tracing and survey of SARI and ILI patients. We are also covering comorbid patients to make sure that we meet the target. By next week, I have ordered the administration to test at least 10,000 samples daily.” To increase daily testing, the administration is increasing contact tracing, detection of ILI and SARI patients and also potential super spreaders. The administration estimated that in the worst-case scenario it is possible that the city may have over 48,000 active cases, for which it claims it has enough manpower, medicines, drugs, beds, oxygen, and ICU units with and without ventilators. Although the positivity rate of the city has gone down, there has been a slight spike in the number of daily cases but the number has not been as high as was being estimated before Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-7-000-per-day-pune-dist-fails-to-meet-state-directed-18-000-test-nos/story-pyvTzJCZySpQuZr8xD1XzI.html
27-12-2020||Pune||2,546 medicos selected to administer vaccine in Pune||At least 2,546 doctors and nurses have been selected by the civic administration as vaccinators, to administer the Covid-19 vaccine during the first phase of the vaccination drive. The vaccinators have been undergoing a training which is likely to be the same as other universal vaccine programmes, but in addition, will include verification of registered candidates. During a presentation to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the district administration expressed its preparedness for vaccination given the possibility of a “second wave”.As per the presentation, the administration has selected 2,546 vaccinators for the Covid-19 vaccine and a total of 1.97 lakh doses will be needed in phase one.Phase one will vaccinate healthcare workers, front -line workers and then comorbid and members of the population above the age of 50. Dr Ashok Nanadapurkar, district civil surgeon, who was also part of the meeting on Saturday attended by the deputy CM, said, “The administration is fully prepared for the vaccination drive which will take place as per the central government’s policy. Now we are awaiting the vaccine approval and the vaccinators are doctors and nurses who trained to conduct vaccinations. This time, however, the additional factor is a verification process for which we will have separate staff.”The administration has also stated that of the 2,546 vaccinators, 1,445 will be from PMC, 157 from PCMC and 944 from Pune rural. In its first phase the city will need about 91,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, 36,000 for PCMC and 70,000 for Pune rural. The administration currently has 185 refrigerators and 157 deep-freezers to store these doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-546-medicos-selected-to-administer-vaccine-in-pune/story-D9OHHs1z0PymHcCYwX6TmK.html
27-12-2020||Pune||143 two-wheeler/pillion riders die in road accidents in 2020||The total number of road accidents related to deaths involving two-wheeler riders and pillions in Pune, has reduced in 2020, compared to 2019. As many as 143 two-wheeler and pillion riders lost their lives in 2020 (January to December 26). Of these 143, nine were wearing helmets at the time of the mishap. Compared to this, as many as 206 two-wheeler and pillion riders died in 2019, 18 of which were wearing helmets.The number of accidental deaths involving two-wheeler riders in 2017 was 212 while the same was 193 in 2018. In addition, 64 pedestrians were killed in 2019 in various road accidents, while only 32 have been killed in 2020. According to statistics revealed by the traffic branch, as many as 127 accidents were reported upto November 2020 which left 290 persons injured, 78 of whom escaped with minor injuries. In 2019, 199 accidents took place in the city which caused 206 deaths and left 463 with grievous injuries, while 163 sustained minorities injuries. According to deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) Rahul Srirame, the fall in the number of accidents is mainly due to the lockdown. “The number of deaths for 2020 has come down because of the prolonged Covid-19 induced lockdown and restrictions in place. The number of two-wheeler riders not wearing helmets who met with death in various accidents has increased. We appeal to citizens and advise them to wear helmets while riding,” said Shrirame. He added that the most of the accident victims died due to serious head injuries, as they were not wearing helmets. A survey conducted by Parisar, an NGO working on traffic safety in Pune, found in 2019 only 46% of two-wheeler riders wore helmets. Pune holds the distinction of having highest number of two-wheelers in the country. Parisar had conducted a detailed study of the 10 busiest junctions in Pune city wherein 5,500 two-wheelers, including 995 two-wheelers with pillion riders were surveyed. As many as 700 photographs were analysed in the survey by the traffic experts and it was found that a meagre 3% of the 995 pillion riders caught on camera used helmets. Ranjit Gadgil, project director, Parisar, said, “Helmet compliance increased when traffic police implemented the law effectively two years ago, but later, the entire system of electronic challans came into place and on-ground presence of policemen was reduced. There was a kind of fear amongst citizens till police were seen on ground and in their absence, citizens increasingly adopted helmetless riding. The police enforcement of helmets requires political support. Police must continue on ground enforcement strategically.” Pedestrian First convenor Prashant Inamdar said, “The focus should be on the enforcement system, and penalty collection system, which will yield good results in the future. We have to look for out- of-the-box solutions to enforce the helmet rule in the city. There is a need to relook at the entire issue once again in the larger interests of citizens.”Total fatal accidents since 2017 – 926 Total injured: 1,900 persons In 2017Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet - 175 In 2016Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet - 140In 2018Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet - 314 Fatal accidents involving youth in 18-35 age group - 136 deaths Number of road accidents in 2020, as per area-wise police stationHadapsar (62) Sinhagad (39) Bharati Vidyapeeth (34) Chatushringi (39) Wanowrie (26) Warje (25) Yerawada (25) Vimantal (22) Dattawadi (14) Koregaon Park (24) Deccan (10) Khadki (10) Mundhwa (07) Bund Garden (07) Other police stations (43) Source for statistics: Traffic police branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/143-two-wheeler-pillion-riders-die-in-road-accidents-in-2020/story-1q6C42o53VxswwKxQ9gg6N.html
