28-12-2020||Noida||Two suspects, part of nexus selling stolen goods in J&K, arrested in Noida; 16 laptops recovered||Noida: Two men, allegedly part of a nexus involved in stealing valuables from parked vehicles and selling them in Jammu and Kashmir, were nabbed Sunday night. At least 16 stolen laptops were recovered based on their input, said officers.The suspects were identified as Dinesh and Mukesh, residents of Delhi and Haryana, respectively.“Ten teams had been working to solve the rise in incidents of vehicle break-ins. Sector 49 police had nabbed two men on December 16 from near Sector 76, in connection with vehicle break-ins and thefts. Following the arrest, the role of two more (Dinesh and Mukesh) came to light and a team was rushed to Delhi to nab them,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Police said Mukesh would allegedly courier the stolen laptops after formatting them to a contact in Jammu and Kashmir, who would sell them further as pre-owned electronics. After this information came to light, a team was dispatched to Srinagar and ten stolen laptops were recovered.Police said that their contact in Srinagar would allegedly transfer money to the accounts of the duo after receiving the laptops. The contact’s role in the operation is being investigated, said the police.“The gang has been operative for a while. We have connected at least two cases from Noida to them and are looking at other cases in which they may have been involved. Information is being collected from the NCR. We are also working to identify other members of the gang,” said the DCP.The duo allegedly knows how to repair electronic devices, said the police.They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-suspects-part-of-nexus-selling-stolen-goods-in-j-k-arrested-in-noida-16-laptops-recovered/story-F448Jiv6qKK7RwqTEC7UhM.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Driving under influence, man runs over five-year-old boy; arrested||Noida: A 35-year-old man was arrested in connection with a road accident in Sector 119 on Sunday in which a five-year-old boy was killed. Police said that the suspect was allegedly under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. The incident was reported in the evening from near the Amrapali Zodiac society, when Alok Anand, a resident of Sector 122, had gone to the market with his wife and five-year-old son, Rishabh.Police officers said that the family were crossing a road when they were hit by a car. “Passersby immediately called up the police helpline after which a team was rushed to the spot. The family members were taken to a private hospital in Sector 71. The boy later succumbed to his injuries during treatment,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.Police officers said the mother also sustained injuries but is out of danger, while the father sustained minor ones.“The car was recovered from the spot and the driver was taken into custody,” said the SHO.The suspect was identified as Tushar Rawat, a resident of sector 34. Police said he was allegedly under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident as his medical report confirmed consumption of liquor.“We have sent his samples to a lab in Ghaziabad to ascertain his blood alcohol levels, though the medical report confirmed that he was indeed intoxicated,” said Dikshit.Rawat was booked under sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 185 (Driving by a drunken person) of the Motor Vehicles Act.He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail. The body was handed over to the family following the autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-driving-under-influence-man-runs-over-five-year-old-boy-arrested/story-7L6nXX0BnvpMSByaO2QLiM.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Pandemic effect: Apparel export in Noida down by 32% this year||NOIDA: Due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease outbreak, apparel export from Noida has gone down by about 32% in 2020, as compared to last year. According to officials, even the national apparel export has suffered a loss of over 20% due to the pandemic.Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida apparel export cluster (NAEC), said that due to Covid-19, the export of apparel between January and November this year has suffered a decline of ₹8,000 from 2019’s tally for the same period. “Apparel trade, which is integrated with the global value chain, has suffered a lot in both imports and exports due to disruption caused by the pandemic. There has been a severe impact on order position of exporters, global apparel consumption, working capital, raw material and pending refunds. The apparel export from Noida has come down to ₹17,000 crore between January and November this year, as compared to ₹25,000 crore last year for the same span of time,” he said. He added that overseas buyers and buying houses were either cancelling or postponing confirmed orders indefinitely right from the first day of lockdown in India. “Though the situation was improved to a large extent after the union textile minister’s appeal to do “commerce with compassion”, the fresh lockdown in the UK and other European countries once again worsened the situation for exporters,” Thukral said.According to data provided by the apparel export promotion council (AEPC), textile and apparel exporters suffered a severe fall of 91% in the month of April this year as compared to the same month last year – the nationwide lockdown was announced from March 25, 2020.AEPC is the official body of apparel exporters in India. AEPC chairman, A Sakthivel, said that after the continuous fall in export for five months, the sector witnessed a positive shift in September-October. “India’s apparel exports rose by 10.22% in September this year to $1,190 million, from $1,079 million a year ago. Similarly, it rose by 6.3% in October 2020 to $1,177 million from $1,107 million a year ago. The recovery from the huge fall of April this year to a 10% rise in September corroborates the industry’s belief that the apparel sector is already on its path to a V-shaped recovery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pandemic-effect-apparel-export-in-noida-down-by-32-this-year/story-Vi3LpK2GDISiYNGvCsz3fO.html
28-12-2020||Noida||For the first time, RT-PCR test share surpasses rapid antigen in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: For the first time, the number of RT-PCR tests in the Ghaziabad district has exceeded the number of rapid antigen tests. According to data from the district health department, the testing through rapid antigen kits has been on the higher side in each month from July to November, but the trend has now reversed in December. The use of rapid antigen kits for Covid-19 was allowed on June 26. Out of 88,253 tests conducted from December 1 to December 27, the share of RT-PCR testing is 55.88%, while the antigen testing has a share of 44.12%, shows the data. The figure of RT-PCR testing also includes 3.32% of testing done through the TrueNat method, officials said, adding that they are now focussing more on RT-PCR testing. The share of RT-PCR tests was 26.89% (of 83,787 tests) in July, 44.11% (of 92,395 tests) in August, 38.19% (of 117,951 tests) in September, 44.12% (of 125,699 tests) in October and 44.84% (of 121,274 tests) conducted in November. “Since the active caseload has declined and we have lesser number of positive cases coming in, the RT-PCR testing is on rise. We will be focussing more on RT-PCR testing in coming days. The RT-PCR is more reliable and we will make efforts that the turnaround time for getting its test results is decreased. However, antigen tests will also continue,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The UP government has directed that the ratio of RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing should be 40% and 60%, respectively. “We have been facing short supply of rapid antigen kits. So, more of RT-PCR tests were getting conducted,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named. According to the official records, the district till December 27 has conducted overall 636,819 tests since March that include 361,191 tests conducted with the help of rapid antigen kits. The overall share of the rapid antigen kits in total testing till December 27 is about 56.71%. “There is no issue if the district conducts more of RT-PCR tests but the issue with the time in getting the test results. If the results can be provided the same day, RT-PCR will be more fruitful as its sensitivity is about 80% as compared to about 60% of the rapid antigen kits,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The health department officials said that the RT-PCR test results are generally received in 1-2 days from labs outside the district while the new RT-PCR laboratory in Ghaziabad provides the results within 24 hours but conducting only 550-600 tests per day. Alok Kumar, UP’s principal secretary (health), on Monday said that more of tests through RT-PCR are getting conducted. “It is because we now have required infrastructure in place. Yesterday, we conducted overall 125,734 tests which included 67,807 tests through RT-PCR and this is more than 50% share. So, we are now doing more of RT-PCR tests,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/for-the-first-time-rt-pcr-test-share-surpasses-rapid-antigen-in-ghaziabad/story-EQ7DPYWMwmmJz8U2T5W7mO.html
28-12-2020||Noida||23-year-old beaten to death with iron rods on road in Ghaziabad||A 23-year-old man was bludgeoned to death in full public view on a road in Ankur Vihar area of Loni in Ghaziabad on Monday morning. Two suspects were arrested in connection with the incident.Police said the suspects, 21-year-old Govind Sharma and his friend 22-year-old Amit Kumar, were jealous over the victim Ajay Kumar’s flower business doing well. All three were residents of Sarita Vihar in Delhi. The murder happened even as passersby and vehicles rushed past, some even stopping to take videos of the attack that later found their way to social media. The videos purportedly caught an unmasked Govind and Amit beating the victim with iron rods multiple times before fleeing. Police said the duo had pulled the victim out of an auto-rickshaw he had hired to go home after closing his shop for the day at around 11.30 am and assaulted him.“They kept on hitting him for about 3-4 minutes and later fled. When police received information about the assault, a team rushed to the spot near DLF Ankur Vihar and took the victim to a hospital where he succumbed to severe head injuries,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Later, police formed several teams to arrest the suspects.“The two suspects were arrested from Loni. Govind is the prime suspect and he had planned the murder with the help of his accomplice. Govind operated a flower shop for the past several years outside a temple in Loni, while the victim had opened up his shop about eight months ago. The prime suspect said that this affected his busines,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). While videos showed one of the suspects holding what appeared to be a gun, Raja said no shots were fired in the crime. “We have also recovered the blood stained iron rods from the suspects.”Police said Govind and Ajay had argued over the issue several times previously.On the day, another video emerged in which Govind was purportedly seen stabbing the victim’s brother, Sanjay Kumar, at the shop and had threatened to kill him.“That incident happened in April this year. We have informed senior officers about it and an inquiry is going on against the local police post officers to find if they were lax in dealing with that . I have been informed that the two parties involved in that incident had reached a compromise and gave it in writing to the police. I have issued directions to find this compromise letter and probe details of the case,” said the SP.The family of the victim also gave a police complaint on Monday in which they named Govind. The two suspects were booked under Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder) with 34 (common intention), and police said they will also levy section 120B (criminal conspiracy).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/23-year-old-beaten-to-death-with-iron-rods-on-road-in-ghaziabad/story-BousnUqWck0aKaj1hyosYI.html
28-12-2020||City||Drunk driver rams two in South Delhi, 1 dead||New Delhi: An unidentified man was killed and a 75-year-old man was left injured while standing on the roadside in South Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur when a sedan driven by a city advocate rammed them on Sunday night, the Delhi Police said.Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South), identified the suspect as Rahul Srivastava, an advocate at the Saket Court and said his blood sample showed 266 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood -- nearly 10 times the permissible limit of 30 mg per 100 ml.Srivastava, however, insisted that he wasn’t drunk and claimed that the accident happened while he was trying to avoid hitting a cow that suddenly appeared on the road.“There is no fencing of the road on that stretch and a cow appeared out of nowhere. I tried to avoid hitting the cow and swerved towards the right, but the car skid,” he said.The advocate did not make an attempt to escape and was arrested from the spot, said the DCP. He has been booked for causing death due to negligence and rash driving as well as under the Motor Vehicle Act.The DCP said that the accident happened around 10.30pm on the Bhishma Pitamah Marg. Two men, 74-year-old Kanhaiya Lal and an unidentified man, were crossing the road when a Toyota Yaris allegedly driven by Srivastava hit them.Images of the car allegedly involved in the accident showed the front portion of the vehicle badly damaged.The two were rushed to a hospital where the unidentified man -- believed to be in his 50s -- was declared brought dead. Lal, who is a resident of Kotla Mubarakpur and is unemployed, is undergoing treatment.Srivastava, 54, is a resident of Greater Kailash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drunk-driver-rams-two-in-south-delhi-1-dead/story-ACFvvRVgxt7gR97MK4bFvO.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Man opens fire after tiff with eatery staff over payment, arrested||Greater Noida: A man in his late twenties allegedly opened fire on Sunday night after a tiff with the staff of an eating joint in Greater Noida over payment. Nobody was injured in the incident, the police said, adding that the suspect was arrested on Monday.The suspect was identified as Yusuf, a resident of the Railway Road area under the Dadri police jurisdiction. The police said that a countrymade pistol was recovered from the suspect. According to police officials, the suspect had an altercation with an employee of the eatery in the evening. “Yusuf had gone to the nearby food outlet to purchase something, where he got into an argument with one of the staff over payment. The employees then asked him to leave the premises and he started threatening them with dire consequences,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.The officials said that the whole incident was caught in the CCTV camera installed at the restaurant. “When the restaurant was closing for the night and the employees were busy with clean-up work, Yusuf came back with an illegal pistol and fired two shots at the shutter of the eatery. There were no injuries in the incident. Later, the management of the eatery filed a complaint at the Dadri police station,” said the additional DCP.Yusuf was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Arms Act. His criminal history is being looked at, said the police. Yusuf was produced before a magistrate on Monday and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-man-opens-fire-after-tiff-with-eatery-staff-over-payment-arrested/story-jzGCUdgR6NvE4FpqYmwh7M.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Four establishments in Noida’s Sector 18 penalised over flouting waste handling rules||NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Monday inspected sector 18 establishments to verify complaints of flouting of waste segregation norms.Two restaurants, a bank and a commercial centre were found violating rules.“Our agency that collects segregated waste informed us that these establishments do not segregate it and instead throw it onto the road,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida Authority. It imposed a ₹50,000 penalty against each violator. “We will conduct random inspections at other premises to make sure that the waste is segregated all households and commercial buildings and penalise violators.”As per waste management rules, it is mandatory to segregate waste at the premises and hand it over to the agency that transports it for the treatment. It also requires buildings built on at least 5,000 square metres or produces 100 kg waste daily treat it at their premises. Residents have been told to segregate waste into plastic, dry and wet waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-establishments-in-noida-s-sector-18-penalised-over-flouting-waste-handling-rules/story-WPYOIAgAwXVbnCpkHEVWwK.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Garbage burning continues in Noida||Illegal waste burning continues in certain areas in Noida, compounding the already unhealthy air in the city and surrounding regions. District officials blame a number of unauthorised clusters of scrap dealers for dumping and burning the city’s garbage. On Monday, a huge pile of illegally dumped solid waste near sector 62 was burnt, while there was another such pile already dumped along areas like Bahlolpur in sector-63. “This is perhaps fifth time that the garbage has been burnt in this neighbourhood. The main culprits are scrap dealers who get waste from industries recover what’s useful to them and dump the rest at roadside and burn it at tbeir will,” said Sonu Yadav, vice-president of Bahlolpur residents’ welfare association (RWA), sector-63. “We have become used to breathing uneasily due to the smoke. We have been complaining about it over Twitter and WhatsApp groups, but the issue continues,” said Sundar Yadav, a Bahlolpur resident. Another resident pointed out that several spots, including areas around the under-construction underpass that connects sector-63 with the FNG road, including Radha Krishna Temple in the same area, are one of the places where burning often happens. “Several pocket of this area have been illegally converted into a dump yard,” said Naresh Singh, another resident. “Scrap dealers have become a big menace because of the illegal dumping and burning of the waste across Noida. Earlier too, we had faced similar issue due to a makeshift colony of scrap dealers near sector-57. We will look into the matter and take legal action against miscreant in sector-63 soon,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty (health), Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/garbage-burning-continues-in-noida/story-JKQk7HBgbFXvfZm1Fft1dL.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mayor elections: All’s not well within Chandigarh BJP again||History repeats itself. Chandigarh mayoral elections are due on January 8, and strife within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the nomination, as witnessed in the last four years, seems to be playing out yet again. This time around, the matter has been further complicated with BJP state president Arun Sood also said to be one of the contenders for the post. Some party members and councillors are learnt to be unhappy with the prospect of one person holding two posts. “The party follows one-man-one-post principle. If the state president is chosen as the mayor, then we would demand that he relinquishes his other post,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity. With a clear majority in the House, the party’s nominee is destined to become the mayor. However, in the last four mayoral elections, there has been marked infighting with even rebel candidates standing up against the party nominee. In 2018, Asha Jaswal, backed by Arun Sood and other councillors, filed separate nomination in protest against the candidature of Davesh Moudgil. She later withdrew it after the intervention of the high command. In 2019, Rajesh Kalia was the chosen nominee, but Satish Kainth filed nomination in protest.MC election later in the yearThis time around the mayoral elections become even more crucial as fresh MC elections are slated for the end of the year. “In an election year, the party organisation needs to be strengthened. At the same time, pending works have to be completed by July-August so that the party can face the electorate. Combining the two posts in one man will weaken the party position in the election,” said a councillor, who didn’t want to be named. Meanwhile, supporters of Sood’s candidature are contending that his record as the mayor in 2016 shows that he can deliver results in the election year. “Sood was able to get the work done through the city’s bureaucracy. This year, that’s what the party needs. After his performance, the party had a thumping victory in MC elections,” said another councillor. Downplaying the tussle going on within the party, Dinesh Kumar, organisation secretary, said, “The party follows the one-man-one-post principle, but there are exceptions to it too.” The state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam, who is slated to arrive on December 30, said, “Nothing is decided yet. From December 30, we will start interacting with councillors and party leaders on the issue and take their views.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mayor-elections-all-s-not-well-within-chandigarh-bjp-again/story-YOpZF4CERXxmR1jAw0VN9J.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Cold wave in Noida for rest of the week||The final week of 2020 is expected to be a chilly one with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting a cold wave from Tuesday. Officials added that the national capital regions will also see moderate to dense fog till December 31. A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. It is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in the plains. According to the IMD, the wind directions have changed from easterly to the icy cold north westerly from Monday evening. “Due to the passage of a western disturbance (a wind phenomenon arising from the Mediterranean) the hilly regions have received good snowfall which will start showing its effect from Tuesday onwards when the winds blow from there. The mercury will fall by 3 to 4 °C and reach around 3°C on December 31. The day time temperatures will be around normal,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature for Noida on Monday was recorded at 9.8 °C against 7.6 °C a day earlier. The maximum temperature was recorded at 19.1°C against 21.3°C a day earlier. Over the weekend, the city had seen a rise in temperature due to the comparatively warmer easterly winds. Meanwhile, the average minimum temperature for the national capital region, based on IMD’s Safdarjung observatory, was recorded at 5.6 °C, as against 6 °C the day before. The average maximum temperature was recorded at 20.9 °C. “The minimum temperature may fall around 4 °C in average around different spots in NCR including Noida,” said an official at IMD. “The sky is clear and the icy cold winds will drop the mercury leading to cold morning hours. Since the sky is clear and there are no clouds to trap the heat during the evening hours, there will be nip in the air around evening as well,” said Sriastava. According to the officials however, the mercury will start rising and fog density reduce from January 1. AQI IMPROVESMeanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved markedly due to better ventilation conditions. On Monday, the air quality index (AQI) for Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 225 or “poor” against 405 a day earlier. The AQI for Greater Noida was 237, also “poor”, against 418 or “severe” a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 256, also “poor”, against 407 a day earlier.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality would see slight improvement towards Tuesday, however it will start worsening towards Wednesday. “The AQI is likely to improve to the lower end -end of the “very-poor” to “poor” category for December 28 and 29. AQI is likely to deteriorate thereafter to the middle-end of the “very-poor” category by December 30. Due to the low ventilated conditions, the AQI is likely to touch the higher end of “very-poor” category on December 31 and may touch the “severe” category for a shorter period on New Year’s Eve,” said the SAFAR statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cold-wave-in-noida-for-rest-of-the-week/story-J4revbNdbhjSqZVOwoYyGK.html
28-12-2020||City||Comeback: BCCI keeps Yuvraj waiting||Yuvraj Singh has missed to make the cut to the senior men’s Punjab team as the BCCI has not yet processed his request for permission to make a comeback for his state team after he retired from cricket last year. Punjab are slated to compete in Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy at Alur from January 10, and will leave for the tournament on January 2. Yuvraj, who quit cricket in 2019 and played for T20 league and T10 league, was among 32 probables announced by the Punjab Cricket Association earlier this month. It was PCA secretary Puneet Bali who had asked Yuvraj to come out of retirement and be part of the team with an objective to mentor the youngsters. The 39-year-old did play practice matches in Mohali last week. “Yuvraj’s request is still under process with the BCCI,” said Bali. Meanwhile, Mandeep Singh has been named the captain of Punjab team. Fast bowler Barinder Singh Sran has returned to the team from UT Cricket Association (Chandigarh). Munish Bali is the coach while former India pacer Manpreet Gony is the bowling coach. Punjab team: Mandeep Singh (captain), Gurkeerat Mann (vice-captain), Rohan Marwaha, Abhinav Sharma, Prabhsimran Singh, Anmolpreet Singh, Anmol Malhotra, Sanvir Singh, Sandeep Sharma, Karan Kaila, Mayank Markande, Abhishek Sharma, Ramandeep Singh, Siddharth Kaul, Barinder Sran, Arshdeep Singh, Harpreet Brar, Baltej Dhanda, Krishan and Gitansh Khera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/comeback-bcci-keeps-yuvraj-waiting/story-84pjdw4KMdOHezlUgPyEIM.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Bisrakh village farmers protest outside Greater Noida office||Farmers began a sit-in outside the Greater Noida Authority office in sector Knowledge Park-IV on Monday demanding the roll back of certain recommendations made by the special investigation team (SIT) in the Bisrakh village land lease case. The protesters said, and the Greater Noida Authority confirmed, that it recommended that land leased to native farmers be cancelled. The protesters arrived at around noon and attempted to enter the building. Police, however, foiled it. Instead, the farmers set up a makeshift tent and said they would continue the protest till their demands were met. Traffic, however, was not hit.The government had acquired the village lands for development in 2007-’08. However, later the original owners protested demanding the land back. The Greater Noida authority thereafter decided to lease the land back to them, without rent, for 90 years. In 2017, allegations were raised that rules were violated and land leased to people outside the district and who were not farmers. A SIT headed by Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh was constituted then and it submitted a report to the Uttar Pradesh government on December 14.“Instead of acting against the outsiders, the SIT recommended that residential plots allotted to 2,300 native farmers who gave their land also be cancelled,” said Manveer Bhati a member of the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, which is leading the protest. Farmers also demanded 10% share of developed residential plots. Greater Noida Authority officer on special duty Sachin Kumar tried to end the impasse, but to no avail. “We will end the protest only if the Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan assures us that our demands will be accepted,” said Bhati. Bhooshan said, “The SIT report is not final as yet as the government has sought some clarifications. Farmers do not need to worry as their suggestions also will be included in the report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bisrakh-village-farmers-protest-outside-greater-noida-office/story-2bcX7I8kr7ml54Bm6wmIaM.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||New Year’s Eve: Chandigarh hoteliers seek clarity on night curfew||With the Chandigarh administration failing to take a decision on the imposition of night curfew on New Year’s Eve, confusion and anxiety prevails among hoteliers.Amid fear of spread of the new strain of coronavirus, the administration had earlier stated that it was considering imposing night curfew. In a review meeting held on December 23, it was decided to wait and watch for a few days. A senior official said on Monday that there was no plan to impose night curfew so far, but the final decision will be taken by the UT administrator.Reeling under heavy losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh has demanded immediate clarity on the issue, stating that any decision to impose night curfew in the city would adversely affect their businesses.“The hospitality industry is slowly limping back and any short-notice decision will bring considerable loss to the units that are endeavouring to organise New Year’s Eve parties. Hotels have started booking events and the decision should be communicated at the earliest,” said Arvinder Pal Singh, association president.Meanwhile, requesting the administration not to impose the night curfew, Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association, and joint secretary, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India, said: “The hospitality industry has been facing losses, high retrenchment and imminent closure of several outlets. During New Year’s time, the industry will follow all Covid protocol as laid down from time to time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-year-s-eve-chandigarh-hoteliers-seek-clarity-on-night-curfew/story-arlSMBYECjvyi3BucjQKcN.html
28-12-2020||City||Kharar flyover project set to meet Jan 15 deadline: SDM||Running late by two years, the Kharar flyover project is all set to meet the latest deadline of January 15, 2021. “We are almost through with the project with work under progress on about 2% of the stretch towards Ropar. The flyover construction is expected to be completed by January 15,” said Himanshu Jain, subdivisional magistrate, Kharar, after the complete Verka Chowk to Khanpur-Ludhiana stretch was thrown open to the public on Monday. The national highway where the flyover is located connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck, as about 50,000 vehicles cross the stretch daily.The ₹350-crore project was initiated in November 2015 and has missed six deadlines, after initially slated to be completed in three years by December 2018. The Balongi stretch of the 10-kilometre project was the first to be opened in October this year, followed by widening of the road between Balongi and Kharar T-point and construction of another two stretches of flyover and three minor bridges in early December. Sharing the milestones achieved since July 2019, Jain said: “Taking possession of multiple pieces of land was a major bottleneck. Demolition drives were conducted since July last year and about 99% length of the project was cleared for shifting of utilities, drain work and service road, which was earlier only 40%.” Thereafter, working on mission mode, the completion of drain work was accomplished, pulling it up from 20% to 100%, followed by construction of service roads and shifting of high-tension lines in a timely manner, which was pending since long. “Despite Covid-19 challenge, regular supply of fly ash and gravels from Ropar was ensured. Flyover top structures are now complete and the progress on the wall of the elevated approach road is almost 95%,” said the SDM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-flyover-project-set-to-meet-jan-15-deadline-sdm/story-KN2cinLwRJAHx9wjsx7o6L.html
28-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC elections: Highest polling in ward 20||The highest polling was witnessed in ward 20 as a total of 55.88% voters exercised their franchise in the Panchkula MC elections on December 27.District election officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Monday said that out of 1,85,708 registered voters, 1,03,768 cast the ballot in 20 MC wards. Of these, 56,945 were men and 46,823 women.Ward 20, which includes villages Dabkouri, Toka, Sukhdarshanpur, Kot, Khangsera, Bher, Alipur, Mattewali, Nagal, Khatauli and Jalauli, saw the maximum turnout of 84.94% as out of 9,325 votes, 7,921 were cast. Of these, 4,253 were men and 3,668 women.The lowest polling of 38.96% was recorded in ward 2. Out of a total of 7,959 voters, only 3,101 turned up, which included 1,722 men and 1,379 women.Ahuja informed that counting of votes will be done in the auditorium of Government Post Graduate Women’s College on December 30. For this, concrete and necessary arrangements are being made. He said separate tables have been laid out for counting of mayor and councillor votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-elections-highest-polling-in-ward-20/story-TTmoSgY5HXZKPk5VwvOq5O.html
28-12-2020||City||Panipat duo held with 500 grams of heroin in Mohali||Two men from Panipat have been arrested with 500 grams of heroin during checking by the crime investigation agency at a naka near Saneta village, the Mohali police said on Monday.Police also impounded the sedan in which the duo, identified as Vinay Kumar and Ankush, were travelling. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at the Sohana police station. Police said the two had procured the contraband from Delhi and were on their way to supply it to their customers in Chandigarh, Mohali and neighbouring areas. Vinay is already facing two NDPS cases in Ambala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-duo-held-with-500-grams-of-heroin-in-mohali/story-YSpaYz1FbzDwxAbL14OA5K.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Severe cold wave alert issued in Chandigarh for two days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an orange alert for cold wave to severe cold wave conditions and dense to very dense fog in the region in the coming days.After 4.3mm overnight rain, Chandigarh recorded cold day conditions on Monday.Maximum temperature of the city went down to 14.5°C, 6.2°C below normal and 5.2°C below the previous day’s temperature. The minimum was 6.4°C, up from 4.1°C the previous night when the skies were clear.Cold day is declared when minimum temperature falls below 10°C and maximum temperature falls 4.5-6.4°C below normal.Meanwhile, cold wave is declared when minimum temperature drops to or below 4°C, or if it is below 10°C along with 4.5-6.4°C departure from normal. A severe cold wave is declared when it reaches 2°C.“After light rains in the region and snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, dip in temperature is expected,” said IMD, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul. After western disturbances have passed over the region, cold and dry northwesterly winds and northerly lower-level winds will lead to the dip in temperature, he said, adding that dense to very dense fog is expected in the morning from Tuesday to Saturday because of which day temperature is likely to stay on the lower side.AdvisoryIMD has issued an orange alert for severe cold wave on Tuesday and Wednesday, while it has been reduced to yellow alert for cold wave and dense fog on Thursday and Friday . The department has asked people to moisturise their skin and to eat fruits and vegetables rich in vitamin C. It has also advised people to not drink alcohol as it lowers body temperature, and instead suggested them to drink hot drinks regularly. For dense fog, people have been advised to avoid travelling in the early hours. Those with respiratory illnesses have also been advised to stay indoors.Last year, it was much more chilly around this time of the season. On December 26, 2019, maximum temperature had fallen to 8.8°C, the all-time lowest for the month, and on December 28, it was recorded at 11.7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/severe-cold-wave-alert-issued-in-chandigarh-for-two-days/story-Uy2s2ngwKBCFi44iqRj16I.html
28-12-2020||City||Man beaten to death in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: A 23-year-old man was beaten to death with iron rods by two assailants in Ankur Vihar area of Loni in Ghaziabad on Monday morning, police said.Two different video clips of the incident that were widely shared on social media shows passersby recording the attack on their phones as the assailants beat the victim mercilessly. The cops said the attackers, who were arrested later in the evening, held a grudge that the flower shop of the victim outside a temple in Loni was doing well while their business had slowed down.Police said the victim, Ajay Kumar, and the assailants, Govind Sharma, 21, and his friend, Amit Kumar, 22, lived in southeast Delhi’s Sarita Vihar. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja said Govind planned the murder with his friend. “Govind had been selling flowers outside the Loni temple for the past several years. However, his business was affected after the Ajay opened his shop there eight months ago,” said SP Raja while explaining the motive behind the crime.Police said the incident took place when Ajay boarded an auto to return home after closing his shop. The suspects pulled him out and started beating him with iron rods, investigators said. “They kept on hitting him for about 3-4 minutes. Passersby recorded videos of the incident but did not help the victim. Soon after getting the information, the police rushed to the spot and took the victim to a hospital where he succumbed to critical head injuries,” the SP said.Based on police complaint by the victim’s family on Monday, an FIR was registered against the two suspects under IPC section 302 (murder) with 34 (common intention). Police said that they will also add section 120b (criminal conspiracy) as the murder was planned. “We have also recovered the two iron rods from the suspects,” SP Raja said.Meanwhile, another video allegedly related to victim’s brother, Sanjay Kumar, also surfaced on the social media on Monday. It purportedly shows Govind stabbing Sanjay at the shop.“With regards to the old video of a stabbing incident in April, we have informed senior officers and an inquiry is going on against the local police-post officers to find if they had shown any laxity. I have been informed that the two parties had then reached a compromise and gave it in writing to the police. I have directed officials to find the compromise letter and details of the previous case,” the SP said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-beaten-to-death-in-ghaziabad/story-y7pfUuwhp5NUfCqfPWCVwM.html
28-12-2020||City||Farmers protesting in Delhi say they will attend the meeting with Centre||New Delhi: The farmer groups protesting against the three contentious farm laws at four different borders near Delhi said the different union representatives will attend the meeting called by the central government on Wednesday to discuss the farm laws and end the deadlock, as their agitation entered 33rd day on Monday amidst the prevailing cold weather.On Monday evening, he farmer unions held two meetings to discuss their stand on the government’s invitation and plan the further course of action. Farmer leaders who were part of the meetings said that the fate of the farmers and the future of their agitation would depend on the outcome of Wednesday’s meetings with the government. The farmer have also decided to hold a tractor march on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway on December 30 (Wednesday).“In the meeting, leaders of all the unions decided to attend the meeting with the government on Wednesday. Everything now depends on the outcome of the meeting. We are hoping that the government will accept our demands,” said Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Doaba group.Addressing a gathering of farmers at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border, BKU’s national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the government’s meeting scheduled on Tuesday has been rescheduled on Wednesday.“We will keep our demands before the government in our seventh round of talks. Hopefully, the government will understand the problems of farmers. We should continue our agitation peacefully till patiently,” said Tikait.At least six borders connecting Delhi and Haryana – Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh -- are closed since November 26, when thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana arrived there and began their agitation, demanding that the government repeal the farm laws. The UP Gate and Chilla borders, connecting Ghaziabad and Noida in Uttar Pradesh are partially closed, as movement of vehicles to Delhi from the two places are suspended.The traffic between Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh is being diverted to the alternate borders since the borders were closed and the police placed sand-laden trucks, iron and concrete barricades with barbed wire atop, and iron containers to form multi-layered security arrangements and stop the farmers from proceeding into Delhi.At the Singhu and Tikri borders, hundreds of volunteers were seen serving meals, tea, snacks, medicines, jaggery and gajjaks to farmers through various tents set up on the roads and tractor trolleys. At many places, the farmers at Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla borders were seen comforting themselves around small log fires and braving the cold.On Monday, many women and children also joined the male farmers in the protest. “Since the male members of our families have been fighting this battle and braving the cold weather, why we women should sit at home and wait them to die. It’s not just their (male farmers) battle, but of the entire farmer community. We will either die here protesting or go back home together after the government accepts our demands,” said Sabreen Kaur from Punjab’s Patiala.The core-committee of the farmers unions is likely to hold another meeting on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protesting-in-delhi-say-they-will-attend-the-meeting-with-centre/story-avvG87LUqrInblNCPCQn3M.html
28-12-2020||City||MC elections: More polling at rural booths in Ambala||Voters from the rural belts of Ambala remained ahead in numbers from their urban counterparts as 56.3% polling was held for the municipal corporation seats, including mayor, here on Sunday. An average voter turnout of 65% was reported at the rural booths.As per the state election commisision (SEC), 1.05 lakh out of 1.87 lakh voters exercised their franchise on the day. However, the polling figure was nearly 11% less than that of 2013 when 67% turnout (2.72 lakh voters) was recorded.The booth-wise polling data suggests that the mayoral candidates of major parties garnered a lukewarm voter turnout in the urban wards despite carrying out spirited campaigns.BJP-JJP’s mayoral candidate Dr Vandana Sharma, voted at booth no. 129, falling under ward 12, which recorded a total polling percentage of 53.61. Congress’s Meena Aggarwal was one of the earliest to cast her vote at booth no. 143 (ward 13), where her husband Pawan Aggarwal was also the party’s polling agent. However, 55.5% voting was registered here. Booth 133, falling in the same ward, recorded the lowest turnout in the elections — 33.1%.HJP candidate Shakti Rani Sharma and wife of former minister Venod Sharma, cast her ballot at booth no 150. However, the polling booth, which falls under ward 14, recorded merely 42.83% turnout. In similar show at booth 76, where HDF’s mayoral candidate Amisha Chawla’s votes as well, only 45.18% people turned up to cast the ballot.Meanwhile in the rural areas, which comprise nearly 15% of the total polling booths, polling numbers were more impressive than at the urban booths. In some areas, including Sonda, Manakpur, Dadiyana, Kakru, Mandour, Ghel Kala, Ghel Khurd and Kanwla, the average polling was above 65%. Booth no. 1 in Dadiyana, witnessed the highest voter turnout among all the booths at 78.46%. It was followed by Laharsa at 78.24%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-elections-more-polling-at-rural-booths-in-ambala/story-VO7CRQfjvT1IvtrE672zpN.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s booming economy descends into gloom||The pandemic hit Ludhiana where it hurts the most- its industry. Beginning with the migrant exodus in March, which was triggered by the sudden announcement of the lockdown, the industry was faced with one challenge after the other throughout the year. The easing of the lockdown in May was of little help as the rising steel prices added fuel to fire even as the industry was struggling to bring back its labour, The weekend curfew announced by the state government wreaked havoc to sectors such as hotels, malls, cinema halls, gyms and saloons. Shutting down of Atlas cycles in Ghaziabad on June 1 brought more misery for over 80 vendors in Ludhiana who supplied cycle parts to the firm. The only silver lining for the industry in Ludhiana was the surge in the sales of bicycles post-lockdown when fitness was high on people’s minds. The hosiery sector too had a difficult year. While the production was hit in summer months owing to the lockdown, the extremely low demand from showrooms and garment stores turned it into the worst year for the sector. Towards the end of the year, the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s agricultural reforms brought the industry on its knees as goods trains stopped running and hit the supply. Heart-rending migrant exodusWith work suspended due to the lockdown, several labourers found themselves suddenly out of work. Faced with economic uncertainty, at a place where they had come to make a living, many felt it was best to return to their native places. But with road and rail transport suspended due to the lockdown, the migrants had no choice but to head to their hometowns on foot or cycles. “Such was the panic of the pandemic that all we wanted was to go home and be with our families,” said Raju, a migrant worker from Sitamarhi district in Bihar, who has recently returned to the city after spending eight months in his native village. Even those who stayed back did not have it easy their employers refused to pay wages, citing losses. At an aluminium manufacturing plant in Macchiwara, around 200 migrant labourers protesting for wages were beaten up by the police. Shramik trains take away labour, hope In May when the industry was planning to restart work, around 3 lakh migrants left the city on special Shramik trains, started by the government to take them home. This huge exodus left the industry in despair as it was already battling a financial crunch, and with its labour force gone, the chances of recovery seemed bleak. The labour-instensive hosiery industry, for which the months of May and June, are peak seasons, lost valuable production time for winter wear. There was a section of the industry which stated that since they had to work under severe lockdown restrictions and at 50% capacity, paying wages to all its labourers was becoming difficult.Ludhiana becomes PPE’s manufacturing hub in stateAs soon as the coronavirus cases in the country began to surge, the hosiery sector in Ludhiana shifted to making Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. Over a dozen firms in Ludhiana received huge orders from Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL), a centralised disbursing authority, for making PPE kits in April and May. Cycles sales see surge post lockdown With a sharp rise in demand post-lockdown, cycle sales in Ludhiana surged post lockdown so much so that the manufacturers in the country, 90% of these in Ludhiana, produced nearly 10 lakh bicycles by the end of July. The flip side was that due to the rise in demand, leading brands like Hero and Avon in Ludhiana faced shortage of such components, leading to huge waiting time with dealers. Japanese firm Shimano, a major supplier, shifted its unit from China to Singapore, adding to the delay. Atlas Cycles shuts down operations After years of losses that were amplified during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Atlas Cycles, one of country’s oldest bike-maker, shut its operations this year. The company wrapped up its last working unit in Sahibabad (Ghaziabad) on the World Bicycle Day. The iconic cycle company was into manufacturing business since 1951. The Sahibabad unit has the capacity to manufacture more than 4 million cycles per annum with a 1,200-strong workforce. The company has a running dispute pending before the National Company Law Tribunal. As per estimates, Atlas Cycles owes over Rs 120 crore to around 80 vendors in Ludhiana, a number of whom had been its suppliers for several decades. Rising steel prices a cause of concern As prices of steel escalated by as much as Rs 5,000 per tonne since September this year, the industrialists said a section of small and medium scale units are on the verge of collapse as the price hike has made it impossible to meet the confirmed orders. In a letter to PMO, the industrialists expressed fear that they are losing their market to competitors. While those having monopoly over the product, have decided to export as much as possible to get maximum benefits, it is the domestic manufacturers, who are bearing the brunt as not just they are facing scarcity, but the exorbitant rates make it out of reach. The price rise is having a direct impact on steel consuming industries such as bicycle, fastener, auto parts, sewing machines, machine tools, hardware and hand tools. The construction sector is also facing the heat of the price hike as the cost has increased manifolds. Goods trains stop due to farmers’ protest The strike and ‘rail roko’ agitations by farmers in September spelt disaster on exports in Ludhiana at a time when the businessmen were already reeling under losses due to the pandemic. Not only were the shipments delayed, the supply of goods from Ludhiana to the rest of the country was also severely hampered owing to non-movement of trains at the ports. The industry faced a huge deficit of containers due to imbalance in import and exports. The problem became so grave that the godowns used to stock goods were full to capacity in the absence of any movement with production taking a toll. Thousands of containers with export material remained stocked at dry ports in Ludhiana, while an even larger number of containers (around 8,000) with import material were stuck in transit. Officials at dry ports in the financial capital of the state witnessed a steep fall in Exim (export-import) business for the last two months. Dry Ports in Ludhiana’s Dhandari Kalan, Sahnewal, Focal Point and Kila Raipur account for 95% of logistics business in the region. The logistics business itself has shrunk by 50% in the months of October and November till the time the goods trains finally resumed. Big Ben owner passes away due to dengue Angad Ahuja, who was all of 33 and the managing director of Big Ben Group, passed away in October, sending shock waves in the Ludhiana business circuit. He was suffering from dengue.Lockdown, cap on gatherings leaves marriage palace owners, tent dealers high and dryFirstly the lockdown, then the cap on gathering limit took a toll on the wedding industry this year. While the owners of marriage palaces were left high and dry in the absence of government support, different associations of tent dealers also took to the streets against the state government, seeking an extension in gathering limit, in the month of September. The marriage palaces wore a deserted look for almost six months after the imposition of lockdown with residents opting to organise low-key functions in their neighbourhood or gurudwaras. It was in the month of September that the sector heaved a sigh of relief after the gathering limit was extended to 100, however, the imposition of night curfew in the state from December 1 added to the woes of the sector. Traders, gym owners raise hue and cry over restrictions With trade and business hit at large due to imposition of lockdown, traders and gym owners also came at loggerheads with the government on several occasions. While the traders took a stand against the state government over imposition of odd-even rule and weekend lockdown restrictions among other issues, the gymnasium owners moved on roads in the month of June after the union and state government failed to open gyms even when markets were allowed to open. The gyms remained closed for almost five months after imposition of lockdown. Lockdown, night curfew eats into hotel, restaurant businessThe hotels and restaurant business in the industrial hub was hit hard after the imposition of lockdown in the country. The sector was allowed to operate with certain restrictions in the month of June, but it saw a poor response. Imposition of night curfew was another blow for the restaurant business as most of residents prefer to go out to dine in the night hours. The hotel sector also suffered losses after the trains were suspended due to farmers’ agitation as no travelers were visiting the city. A flop show for cinemas After witnessing a shutdown for over seven months, cinema halls in the state opened on November 1, but it failed to attract the visitors as no new movie had released and the fear of Covid infection gripped residents. Even after the management of different multiplexes slashed the ticket prices by around 60%, the cinemas continued to receive tepid response. (With inputs by Harsimran Singh Batra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-booming-economy-descends-into-gloom/story-5wV3pVXvTr2wbGzMze5MXO.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate remains a constant||The weekly Covid-19 positivity rate in the city continues to be 5.3% even though the cases and testing levels have seen a marginal increase. However, the rate is still more than double the national average of 2.3% and puts Chandigarh among the top six states and union territories.The positivity rate in Chandigarh last week had dropped to 5.2% which according to the health department officials was the lowest in the last six months.Positivity rate is the number of persons turning out infected among every 100 tests conducted suggesting the extent of the virus spread among the population being screened.While Sikkim continues to top at 16.6%, it is followed by Kerala (10%), Ladakh (5.7%), Maharashtra (5.6%), Goa (5.4%) and Chandigarh.The positivity rate in the UT is also higher than the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.“The spread of infection is largely under control. Theoretically, we can assume that there is less mobility due to winter seasons. The number of cases has not seen any major jump and the testing levels are also satisfactory with respect to last week. The same scenario is expected to continue,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director, Chandigarh health department.The senior officer said the testing levels, which may have decreased with respect to November, is because less people were coming forward to take the test voluntarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-weekly-covid-19-positivity-rate-remains-a-constant/story-NkQaX8AT5dLMjlmHGikt5H.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||Four officers of Faridabad Police booked on charges of abetment of suicide||At least four officers of Faridabad Police were booked for the alleged suicide of a 22-year-old woman, the sister of a cybercrime suspect, in Gururgam’s Rajendra park area on Saturday.Gurugram Police has registered a case under abetment of suicide and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against a sub-inspector of the cybercrime police station of Sector- 19 in Faridabad, said the police.The victim’s family had alleged that she died by suicide due to the “humiliation and torture” by Faridabad Police.As per the complaint, a crime unit of Sector 19 of Faridabad Police raided the house of the cybercrime suspect, named Shankar, on Friday night. Family members of the suspect alleged they were tortured the entire night in their house, taken to the crime unit in Faridabad the next morning, and even subjected to third-degree abuse. They alleged that the deceased woman, who was the sister of the accused, killed herself due to “humiliation and torture” faced by the family in the hands of the police.Surender Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Rajendra Park police station, said the case was registered on the complaint of the deceased brother. “The family has alleged torture and assault against the police team,” he said, adding that the case was being investigated by the senior officers.Singh said the body of the deceased was handed over to the family members on Sunday after the post-mortem examination and, as per the medical reports, it was a clear case of death due to hanging.Sandeep Singh, brother of the deceased and the complainant in this case said, an FIR into the matter has been registered against the policemen. “On Friday, police personnel came to the house and started inquiring about Shankar. He is wanted in a fraud case and had allegedly helped his close aide to run from the police custody in Gurugram. The policemen physically abused everyone and assaulted the deceased,” he said. On Saturday, the victim died after hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her apartment.Sube Singh, the spokesperson of the Faridabad police, said, “The cybercrime police station team conducted a raid on Friday night at the house of the suspect, who is involved in a cheating case of ₹6 lakh. He also helped his accomplice in escaping from the custody of the Faridabad Police in Gurugram on the same day. A separate case has been registered against him in this matter.” Singh, however, denied that the allegation that the family members of the suspect were tortured.Singh, said “Shankar and a few others have been accused in a case of cyber fraud wherein they used to clone SIM cards of people in the name of porting their phone numbers. They used to empty out their bank accounts later. A case in this regard has been registered at the cyber police station of Faridabad.”Singh said Faridabad police officials are also probing the case and will ensure justice to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/four-officers-of-faridabad-police-booked-on-charges-of-abetment-of-suicide/story-fv1WkYZHpt4iravb6gQ8AJ.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||Kherki Daula toll plaza to experiment with digital payments||The concessionaire of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Monday said that they will be experimenting with full-fledged digital payment from Tuesday onwards for couple of hours daily on the Kherki Daula toll plaza in the run-up to January 1, when all toll plazas controlled by the National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) will accept only online payments through Fastags. Millennium City Expressway Private Limited(MCEPL), the highway concessionaire, said that around 80 percent commuters already pay online and that they expect the number to hit 96 percent by next month. There are 24 Fastag lanes and two cash lanes at the present at the toll plaza. Suraj Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, MCEPL said that from Tuesday onwards they will be accepting only online payments through Fastags for a couple of hours at Kherki Daula toll plaza as this would serve as an experiment for the digital-only payments from January 1. “There are minor issues which will be resolved but we are fully ready to face the situation. From Tuesday onwards, for a couple of hours, all 26 lanes will accept only digital payments. We have changed RFID readers, installed new ones and have also deployed a large number of hand-held machines to ensure there is no delay in payments,” he said. Bhardwaj, however, said that they are preparing for the digital payments from January 1 onwards and they have been experimenting to ensure that the teething problems are resolved. “The one problem that is expected to hinder the smooth movement of traffic is that the new Smartags, which are currently being issued, have quality issues and despite the presence of new tag readers, there are technical glitches. We will deploy more personnel to resolve the issues,” he said. The NHAI said that with Fastag becoming mandatory from January 1, the authority has updated its mobile application, called My FASTag App, with a new feature which would enable commuters to check their balance status by simply entering the vehicle number. This feature will help Fastag users to verify the tag status of the vehicle during their passage through a toll lane in case the status has not been updated in the toll plaza server due to any technical reason. This new feature will help both the commuter and the toll operator to check the tag balance status on a real-time basis and eliminate the problem of disputed status. “The authority has also reduced the refresh time limit of blacklisted tags from existing 10 minutes to three minutes, to expedite update of the status in the rolling system and show the current status in the app for a seamless passage,” said an NHAI spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/kherki-daula-toll-plaza-to-experiment-with-digital-payments/story-XdeA10Bg3CIFCdB0T8M10N.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||City roads not pedestrian-friendly, finds mobility plan; GMDA sets long-term plan for footpaths||The final draft of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) Comprehensive Mobility Management Plan (CMMP) for the city, released last week, bolsters a longstanding claim by residents and experts — that Gurugram is not a pedestrian-friendly city. As per a study done by the Delhi School of Planning and Architecture, which was tasked with drafting the CMMP, Gurugram has an average walkability index of just 0.68 out of 5, “reflecting an overall poor condition” of relevant infrastructure.This index is calculated based on four parameters — footpath availability, footpath width, kerb height and the overall condition of the footpath. Based on empirical measurements taken on the ground, a normalised score has been assigned to each of Gurugram’s 115 sectors, ranging between 0-5, wherein 0 indicates poor walkability and 5 indicates that the area is highly suitable for walking.Of these, only four sectors — 28, 29, 44 and 45, all in the vicinity of Huda City Centre — were found to be pedestrian-friendly. “The average index for the study area came out to be 0.68, thus reflecting an overall poor condition. The maximum index obtained sector-wise was 4.68 in the new Gurugram area near MG Road, Huda City Centre and Rapid Metro area,” the CMMP states.To remedy the situation, the GMDA, in the mobility plan has proposed to build nearly 800 kilometres of footpaths across Gurugram over the next 20 years, up from the planned 400 kilometres, as per an earlier draft that was criticised by residents over lack of focus on pedestrian infrastructure. From the existing scenario, in which only 14% of the city’s road network (or 153kms) is serviced by footpaths, the GMDA has proposed to increase this to 100% coverage by 2041.The CMMP also found that walkability decreases as one moves away from the city centre. “Upcoming development areas such as the Badshahpur, Narsinghpur, beyond Dwarka Expressway, sew sectors — 34, 36, 37, 53, 61, 49, 50 etc — are completely devoid of footpaths. Most of the locations in the central core area have a footpath, unfortunately, they are either encroached or occupied by vehicles and forcing pedestrians to walk on the carriageway. This leads to a reduction in carriageway capacity. Besides, pedestrians’ walking experience on the carriageway is neither safe nor convenient,” the CMMP states.This is significant in light of another data point in the CMMP, which shows that 33% of all daily trips undertaken by Gurugram’s residents are on foot, more than any other mode of transport. Two-wheelers account for 28% of this modal share, while cars make up 14%, auto rickshaws 13%, public transport 9% and non-motorised transport 3%.Data available with the traffic police also show that pedestrians remain vulnerable, with at least 750 fatalities reported between 2015 and 2019.“Given the high share of walking in the modal split, there is a potential to develop a robust system for non-motorised transport, such as protected bicycle lanes and usable footpaths, which would protect vulnerable road users. The fact that we have neither reveals the inequities inherent in urban planning. We continue to build more roads which don’t serve the larger population at all,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, a city-based transport planning and mobility expert.The GMDA’s CMMP takes cognisance of such concerns. “The overall walkability index needs urgent improvement through appropriate targeted interventions...Although a large share of trips is conducted by walk, there are grossly inadequate pedestrian facilities such as footpaths and road crossing facilities making pedestrians vulnerable. The pedestrian infrastructure is deficient not only in quantity but also in quality...The act of walking is fundamental to urban life,” states the CMMP.“Poor quality of pedestrian infrastructure sends a message that pedestrians are not welcome in the urban environment. Fortunately, the street design practice in India is beginning to recognise the integral role of walking in any sustainable transport system. Increasingly, engineers and planners are emphasising the need to design ‘complete streets’ that make walking safe, comfortable, and convenient,” the mobility plan states.As per the GMDA’s plan, about 300 kilometres of footpaths are expected to be created by 2031, while an existing 65 kilometres will be revamped to meet the stipulations of the Indian Road Congress’ (IRC) First Revision of the Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities.GMDA officials could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-roads-not-pedestrian-friendly-finds-mobility-plan-gmda-sets-long-term-plan-for-footpaths/story-VsYtx3rc6vUFxYuoxqdY8H.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||Pandemic played havoc on academics this year||Months of lockdown and subsequent measures to curtail to spread of Covid-19 restrictions has derailed the academic sessions of schools and colleges this year. While private institutions quickly moved to the online platform, the digital divide proved to be a big hurdle for students in many government schools and colleges, who could not access remote lessons.While students who started college expressed unhappiness over diving into virtual classes without the atmosphere of the campus, those graduating lamented the job crisis brought about by the pandemic. At the kindergarten level, parents put off admissions, while many have opted for homeschooling.Since the lockdown on March 25 to contain the coronavirus pandemic, schools across the country have remained shut for most of the year. Although online classes and television programmes were tailored for students of government schools, many were deprived of learning due to issues ranging from affordability to accessibility.Rinki Sharma, a 17-year-old class 12 government school student, attended online classes via WhatsApp till September but struggled to keep pace with her classmates, as there was only one smartphone in the house. “I get the chance to study once my mother returns from work in the evening. Over the phone, there are many delays, and comprehension is not effective. I visit the school as and when required and find physical sessions more fruitful for understanding. However, safety continues to be a concern,” said Sharma.Even in private schools, which were relatively better placed when it came to online classes, students missed the atmosphere of the school campus. Aditi Mishra, the principal of Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that while online classes were taking place smoothly, students missed physical classroom sessions and other amenities that the school campus offered. “Things will not be normal till the time children get back to school, meet their friends and can play and dance as they did earlier. We have done the best we could do online by providing every kind of experience through intraschool and intrahouse competitions and events, but there’s nothing that can replicate the human touch,” said Mishra. She said that doubt-clearing sessions that took place with physical distancing had shown that students were missing the personal connection with teachers and classmates. “We had to keep children apart from each other during the small doubt-clearing sessions that we organised. The first instinct of children is to hug each other, but in changed circumstances, they are discouraged from doing so. The sense of normalcy is certainly missing this year,” said Mishra. Deputy district education officer Kalpna Singh said that Covid-19 had a devastating impact on academics in government schools. She said that while physical classroom sessions for students in senior classes had begun, students in classes 1 to 8 would not get to a chance to visit schools this year.“Coronavirus has greatly impacted education in the country. It will take a lot of time for the situation to improve. Primary and middle grades are yet to start physical classroom sessions. They did not have any in-person interaction with their teachers or classmates with the pandemic causing the closure of schools,” said Singh.Singh said that the absence of smartphones was a grave issue across the board, but the percentage of such students was greater in primary and middle classes. “Most children in classes 9 to 12 have managed smartphones now, but children in classes 1 to 8 are facing many difficulties in the absence of phones. In these grades, many students do not have android phones. These students are being deprived of lessons and one cannot ascertain if they are able to share resources or catch up on lessons with the help of their classmates,” said Singh.Suman Sharma, the principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that while teachers had put in a lot of effort in managing online and offline classes, students had reached a certain level of saturation with online classes. “While we are conducting the lessons and making preparations from our end, there is no way to understand how much students are grasping. With the year coming to an end, we have noticed that students are losing interest. Some of them are not as active as they were during the earlier months of the lockdown,” said Sharma.College principals said that due to the pandemic, classroom and campus life are bound to be affected. Besides classrooms, canteens and students’ hostels have changed view of social distancing concerns. “Due to restrictions and distancing needs, it could not be business as usual this year. The majority of our students are taking online classes. The safety of students continues to be our priority as we continue with classes both on and off campus,” said Dr Satyamanyu Yadav, the principal of Government College in Sector 9. Yadav said that a personal connection was missing due to lack of interaction besides academics. “Due to the curtailment of extracurricular activities and the online-offline nature of classes, a personal connection between students and teachers is missing. Students tell us that they are feeling deprived of the campus experience. They think that they have lost a year,” said Yadav.Educationists insist that while the lack of internet access had been a limiting factor, learning had to continue amid the pandemic while taking cognisance of the fact that the year was unprecedented in multiple ways. “Right now, private schools are having seamless online classes whereas children in the rural areas are being left behind. The lack of internet access has been a limiting factor. However, one has to recognise that this has been an unprecedented year and learning has to continue. Schools can share resources with parents to ensure that learning continues in some manner,” said educationist Gowri Ishwaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pandemic-played-havoc-on-academics-this-year/story-husIpn1KCJSagqQiAulqsK.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||Cops link 10 murders to Binder Gujjar||The Special Task Force (STF) of the Haryana Police on Sunday linked more than 10 murder cases over the last decade to gangster Virender, alias Binder Gujjar, who was brought to the city on a production warrant from Mumbai’s Taloja jail in the last fortnight. According to an official, the special team, taking action as per the directions of senior officers, arrested Gujjar on a production warrant for the murder of Ashok Kumar (25) in Gurugram, an incident that dates back to 2015. Gujjar is incarcerated in the Mumbai jail for the murder of gangster Sandeep Gadoli. The police said that Gujjar has confessed to the murder of Ashok Kumar, who was his driver then, when Gujjar was a city councillor. Kumar was found shot dead on Basai Road by unknown persons while he was returning home. He was a resident of Arjun Nagar and was Gujjar’s driver and his gunman, said police. Kumar was also a criminal and had been involved in over a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, robbery and other crimes. “During the eight-day remand, Gujjar disclosed that he had shot dead Kumar and then hatched a conspiracy against his rival gangster Sandeep Gadoli by falsely implicating him as Kumar’s brother. Gujjar was sent to judicial custody on Saturday,” said Varun Dahiya, inspector, special task force. Gujjar had allegedly got one Raju Sethi killed in Sector 5 in 2015 through contract killers, including Kallu, a wanted man against whom 17 cases are registered across police stations in the city. Kallu is alleged to have committed murders and robberies on the directions of Gujjar. The Gurugram police had arrested Gujjar on October 18, 2019, as a pre-emptive measure to ensure that the general elections are not disturbed. The police said that they had received several complaints against him, alleging he was trying to influence people to vote for candidates he was supporting. The police said that Gujjar’s involvement in leading the police to Gadoli was allegedly established during the investigation, when it was found that he was allegedly constantly in touch with Gadoli’s live-in partner and had tipped off the police about his location. The family of Gadoli also alleged that he never used a mobile phone while on the run, but never objected to his partner using one. A team of the Gurugam police had gunned down Gadoli at a Mumbai hotel on February 7, 2016. Later, a case of fake encounter was filed and eight people, including four policemen, were arrested by the Mumbai Police. The family had named 11 persons in the FIR after the Supreme Court ordered a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to file an FIR based on their complaint. “Gujjar had paid a huge amount to the city police to kill my brother. My brother’s live-in partner was in touch with Gujjar. She kept sharing his location with Gujjar, following which the police reached the hotel. She was with my brother when he was killed in Mumbai,” Kavita, Gadoli’s sister, alleged.Officials of the Gurugram police arrested in connection with the encounter continue to remain in a Mumbai jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-link-10-murders-to-binder-gujjar/story-pcT9DfqXPpFElJR74xfEXJ.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to focus on finishing incomplete roads in new sectors||To ensure the construction of roads in developing sectors, which are currently stuck due to litigation, non-payment of compensation and other reasons, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to hold weekly meetings to resolve each of the issues in a speedy manner. The department has also written to its headquarters for a quick disbursal of compensation to landowners. HSVP officials said that from the beginning of next year, the authority will be holding a weekly meeting, in which one road project stuck in sectors 58 to 115, will be discussed in detail. “A site meeting will also be held every week and the issues concerning the particular project will be determined in detail. We want the road projects that are stuck in developing sectors to be resolved on priority. There are several major sector roads that are incomplete due to litigation, non-payment of compensation and related issues,” said Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, Gurugram.Yadav said that wherever there is stay in the matter, it has been decided that legal steps would be initiated to resolve the matter. If there is a litigation in the court but there is no stay, the officials will reach out to the stakeholders and owners to find a solution to the matter. “We have also asked the headquarters in Chandigarh to expedite the payment of compensation to the landowners if it has been withheld for some reasons or delayed,” he said. To ensure that all aspects of matter are discussed during the meeting, the authority had also asked the subdivisional engineers concerned to attend the weekly meetings. The land acquisition officer of the authority will also be present in these meetings, with requisite records. “The priority of the authority is to ensure that sector.roads in developing sectors are completed at the earliest,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-focus-on-finishing-incomplete-roads-in-new-sectors/story-T7cbbSbPSVsOaVOtYEfLDO.html
28-12-2020||City||Four snatchers held with seven mobile phones in Ludhiana||With the arrest of four persons, the city police claimed to have busted the gang of snatchers who were active in the Barrewal area locality. A motorcycle and seven mobile phones were recovered from the possession of the accused.They were identified as Waseem Akram, 22, of Pakhowal Road, Raju Kumar, 25, of Sham Nagar, Hardeep Singh, 25, and Suraj Kumar, 19, of Sunet village.According to Madhu Bala, station house officer, Sarabha Nagar, the accused were stopped on the basis of suspicion when they were riding on a four-wheeler in the Barrewal area. They had gone there to sell snatched mobile phones. Around seven phones were recovered from their possession, following which they were nabbed. SHO Madhu Bala said that the accused used to snatch the mobile phones of people who would be using them on the road. They had divided themselves into groups of two. While one would ride the bike, the person sitting pillion would snatch the phones.One of the accused Hardeep was previously booked for a similar offence by Dugri police in 2019, while Raju was booked for theft by Sadar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-snatchers-held-with-seven-mobile-phones-in-ludhiana/story-U6OoXzullkqfOkdYythDDJ.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG chief gets additional charge, to head Manesar civic body as well||The commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Vinay Pratap Singh, has been given the additional charge of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) by the Haryana government on Monday. Singh, a 2011 batch IAS officer, will be the first commissioner of the MCM, following recent approvals from the government for setting up the body.On December 24, the Haryana government cabinet had approved the proposal for the formation of MCM.“Similar to Gurugram branching out of Delhi, Manesar too has branched out of Gurugram and has its own identity. The formation of a civic body will help expedite development projects in the area and fast-track Manesar in becoming one of the key cities all over Haryana,” said Singh.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, a large number of MCG officials will likely be given dual charges, in both MCG and MCM, during the initial stages. Only after a period of two to three years would they be slowly phased out, they said.The MCM has 28 villages falling under its jurisdiction, over an area of 125 square kilometres. In a nutshell, areas falling within sectors 77 to 93 will come under the ambit of MCM, along with a few areas located near the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway.Stormwater and sewerage drains in the area, which are currently being looked after by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), will now be transferred to the MCM. Besides these, civic amenities such as roads, streetlights, parks, green belts, water lines and garbage will now be looked after by the municipal body. Earlier, the gram panchayats were looking after these services.The panchayat system will also be abolished in Manesar area with the formation of MCM. Around 500,000 people are expected to benefit from its formation.On November 12, during a virtual inauguration of multiple developmental projects for Gurugram district, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that Manesar will soon have its own civic body. During a meeting last Wednesday’s, the Haryana cabinet also gave a nod for 16 villages to come under the ambit of MCG, extending its jurisdiction as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-chief-gets-additional-charge-to-head-manesar-civic-body-as-well/story-vrzerKxtliC9LhpoWNw3CJ.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG declares Sector 23 market polythene-free||The Sector 23 market, near Palam Vihar, was declared as the city’s first polythene free market by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). The MCG stated this is in an official release on Monday. The Sector 23 market has more than 120 shops and 70 street vendors. Starting this month, all the shopkeepers and vendor owners were sensitised about the problems associated with the use of polythene bags and subsequently, around 10,000 cloth bags were purchased by shopkeepers in the area from the MCG’s cloth bag bank. Depending on the size of the bag, shopkeepers procured cloth bags from the MCG at prices ranging from ₹3 to ₹20. Although, MCG in its official release termed the market as polythene-free, officials privy to the matter said that currently around 60% of shopkeepers have made the complete switch from polythene to cloth bags while the remaining are under process for making the switch-over. The market used around 40 kilograms of polythene every day. Madhu Azad, mayor of Gurugram, called upon the citizens to motivate people to cleanliness. “Initiatives such as polythene-free markets will help Gurugram rise to the number one position in the country in future Swachh Survekshan surveys. Such initiatives cannot be achieved only on the strength of government or the municipal corporation or even technology, but needs active participation by the citizens as well,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG. Brahma Yadav, head of the Sector 23 market association, said that all the shopkeepers are committed towards making this market the first polythene-free market in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-declares-sector-23-market-polythene-free/story-b3QLvHrNvfsK56TpFQb68I.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||Haryana approves plan to construct museum at pre-Harappan site in Fatehabad||The state government has approved plans for the construction of a museum and interpretation centre at a pre-Harappan site in Kunal village of Fatehabad district. Officials said that work on the project would be initiated next year after the completion of all administrative approvals. Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director of Department of Archaeology and Museums, said that the museum would help visitors gain more insights about Kunal’s history. “We will be setting up a site museum and interpretation centre at Kunal. The museum will give visitors insights about Kunal, the history, timeline of various excavations over the past years and the findings. The museum will have three galleries, along with open-air sitting arrangements and other visitor facilities,” said Bhattacharyya. Kunal is one of the oldest pre-Harappan settlements and dates back roughly to the 5th millennium BCE (before the Common Era). The roughly 6,000-year-old site holds within it a rich legacy. Excavations at the site first started in 1986. Excavations have taken place in at least six times between 1992 and 2003. The seventh round of excavations in Kunal took place last year. Excavations over the years have shown that Kunal was a rural village centre. Pottery or Hakraware sourced from Kunal gives evidence of the craftsmanship of the people of the settlement. People who lived here were great artisans, as demonstrated by the cultural material discovered, and are identified as Hakraware people, say experts. The core surviving area of the site is, at present, spread over five acres and is being protected by the state. Bhattacharyya said that the conceptual design of the proposed on-site museum had been approved by the chief minister and the Public Works Department(PWD). The latter will be responsible for the construction of the museum. “The conceptual design of the museum has been approved by the chief minister. The architecture department is working on the drawing. Once it’s ready, we will start work. PWD will be responsible for the construction. It will take us two to three months for us to process the administrative paperwork after which we can start work,” said Bhattacharyya. She added that the museum would be a good addition at the site since Kunal had become quite popular in the past few years. Officials said that while the final cost estimate is yet to be finalised, the department estimates that nearly ₹2 crore might be needed for the project. “The administrative approval of the financial costs is pending final approval,” said Bhattacharyya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-approves-plan-to-construct-museum-at-pre-harappan-site-in-fatehabad/story-96rk9koDjMerNJVcStzUDL.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||319 UK returnees test negative for Covid-19||Over 319 travellers from the United Kingdom who arrived in Gurugram after December 9 have been tested negative for Covid-19, according to the health department officials. Based on the list shared by the Haryana administration, the number of UK returnees who need be traced and tested to identify the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus has increased to 714 from 695.Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, said, “Few more names have been added to the list of travellers who are to be tested. Till now, 367 have been tested have been tested — about 315 by the health department and 52 by private labs. Out of these,319 were negative for the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR).” Test results of at least 150 are pending.According to Sharma, until Monday, at least 38 UK returnees were untraceable due to incorrect addresses and mobile numbers, and over 159 people have moved back to different countries, states or districts. “The list of travellers who have moved back has been shared with the state administration, while the list of untraceable travellers has been shared with the commissioner of police, Gurugram. Earlier some people refused to get themselves tested but they too have given their samples now,” said Sharma, mentioning that action can be taken against people who refuse to get tested. Earlier this week, chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav stated that action can be taken under Section 188 of IPC for not complying with government rules.Senior police officials confirmed to have received a list of untraceable travellers from the health department and have initiated working on it. Private labs, on the other hand, have been told to collect additional sample while testing a UK returnee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/319-uk-returnees-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-Fqzf2Q9OoojFheXbaD4R4N.html
28-12-2020||Gurugram||Health department finalises 181 sites for first phase of Covid-19 vaccination||The district health department has finalised at least 181 session sites for Covid-19 vaccination. Of these, more than 60 percent sites are government and private schools, where the first phase of the vaccination will be conducted, once the vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 virus is rolled out. Of the 181 identified sites, at least 93 are government schools, 17 private schools, 31 community centres, 21 private hospitals and eight government facilities. It also includes 11 other sites, such as marriage halls and residential societies.“Every vaccination site has to be a spacious area, with at least three rooms — one each for waiting, vaccination and observation — to conduct the entire procedure smoothly,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “These 181 sites, which have been finalised, have well-ventilated rooms with separate entry and exit points, while having enough space to maintain social distancing,” he said.Going by the Covid-19 vaccination guidelines, Singh said that waiting areas need to have adequate seating arrangement to ensure physical distancing. This is because only one person can enter the vaccination room at a time. There has to be a hand-washing or sanitising facility at the entrance to avoid transmission of virus. “Likewise, after the vaccination, the beneficiary will have to wait for 30 minutes in the observation room, for which enough space is required,” said Singh.According to him, health facilities have been chosen as fixed vaccination sites, whereas community centres, schools, halls have been selected as outreach sites. Based on the priority population identified for Covid-19 vaccination, fixed session sites, such as government health facilities and private hospitals will be used for healthcare workers. For front-line workers and people above 50 years, the vaccination will be administered at outreach session sites like schools, community centres, besides the health facilities. Since only pre-registered beneficaries will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination, there will no on-the-spot registration at the vaccination sites, said Singh. Every site will have a team of five vaccination officers, including the vaccinator to administer the vaccine. The vaccination sites will also be linked with nearby the AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) centres in case the beneficiary reports of any negative reactions within 30 minutes of inoculation.The department has also spotted and finalised upon at least 57 AEFI centres. It includes 19 urban primary health centres, three community health centres, 11 primary health centres in rural areas, Civil Hospital in Sector 10, polyclinic in Sector 31. Besides, over 21 private hospitals have already been designated as AEFI centres.Singh that in addition to health facilities, ambulances will be stationed near those vaccination sites that might be far from AEFI centres. Earlier this week, the health department held a meeting with the members of the AEFI committee on the Covid-19 vaccination plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-finalises-181-sites-for-first-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination/story-DlpNLSWHmwxxCI4x1J5k0L.html
28-12-2020||City||14% applicants give recruitment exam for master cadre in English a miss||Over 132 candidates skipped the recruitment test of master cadre in English that was conducted at three examination centres in the city government schools on Monday. A total of 782 applicants appeared in the exam. At Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, 384 candidates appeared in the exam while 37 skipped it; at Shaheed E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar Chowk, 135 out of 164 applicants took the test; and at Government Senior Secondary School, Boys, Jawahar Nagar, out of 300 applicants, 37 remained absent. The exam was held between 9.30am to 12 noon and comprised 150 multiple-choice questions. Rajinder Kaur, DEO elementary, who is handling the additional charge of DEO, secondary, said, “The exam was conducted smoothly at all the centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-applicants-give-recruitment-exam-for-master-cadre-in-english-a-miss/story-WP0eDV8oYjvAlM1IdqzuWL.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Property tax evasion: Banks on Ludhiana MC’s radar, rent deeds being scrutinised||The municipal corporation (MC) has started scrutinising rent deeds of all banks in the city after the owners of two properties rented out to banks were caught for tax evasion.A penalty of Rs 8 lakh was imposed on the violators and a 100% penalty on the amount evaded was also imposed.Officials said that managements of banks or property owners have to pay 7.5% of the annual rent as property tax. But, it is suspected that a large numbers of them are evading tax by quoting lesser annual rent received. The civic body officials said there are over 500 banks in the city which are renting properties. The property tax returns and rent deeds are being scrutinised to find any anomalies in the tax paid and amount due. MC has already received copies of around 400 deeds. Superintendent of property tax, Vivek Verma, said,”As per directions issued by the higher authorities, the rent deeds and property tax returns are being scrutinised. A 100% penalty on evaded amount will be imposed on violators. If the owners or bank managements have failed to pay the tax, a 20% penalty and 18% interest per annum will be recovered along with the pending amount.” Pay property tax by Dec 31 or face penaltyMC officials said December 31 is the last date to pay property tax for the year 2020-21 without facing any penalty. There are around 2.7 lakh properties in the city and over 1 lakh owners are yet to file the tax return. If the owners fail to pay by the end of the month, a penalty of 10% will be imposed. The officials said that this year, a large number of residents have not submitted the tax due to financial crisis amid the pandemic. The managements of some malls have also not paid the tax because of which MC has not been able to meet the recovery targets this year. “MC is sending text messages to residents and also calling them to ask them submit pending tax to avoid a penalty. Reminder notices have also been served. The residents will have to pay a 10% penalty after December 31, and if they fail to pay by March 31, a 20% penalty along with 18% annual interest on the pending amount will be imposed,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/property-tax-evasion-banks-on-ludhiana-mc-s-radar-rent-deeds-being-scrutinised/story-EWmpKdykbIHokMANu8Z3FJ.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Tearful adieu to 104-yr-old ex-DSP Gurbakhsh Singh||The bhog ceremony of Gurbakhsh Singh, 104, a retired DSP of Punjab Police, was performed at Gurdwara Gujarkhan at Model Town here on Monday . Singh, who turned 104 on December 2, passed away due to age-related ailments on December 24.Born in Gujarkhan town of undivided Punjab on December 2, 1916, he completed his schooling from Guru Nanak Khalsa High School, Gujarkhan, and went on to do his graduation from Khalsa College, Amritsar, in 1937.Father of well-known educationist Surinder Bir Singh, former principal of Guru Nanak Engineering College, Ludhiana, Gurbaksh had joined Punjab police as assistant sub inspector at Dera Gazi Khan (now in Pakistan). He retired on December 31,1974. He was deputed the first station house officer of Ludhiana’s Division Number 5 police station in 1947. Gurbakhsh had also participated in the 1967 and 1971 wars.Gurbaksh had come into the limelight last year when despite being unwell, he walked down to vote at a polling booth in Model Gram. He had then stated that he had a strong faith in democracy and exercised his franchise in every election held after independence.A philanthropist, he used to spend a significant portion of his pension on education of the poor and needy. He was also a champion of communal harmony and stated that Partition was the saddest thing to have happened to Punjabis.People from all walks of life attended the Bhog ceremony. Social activist and industrialist Ranjodh Singh said that Gurbaksh was an institution in himself. “Gurbaksh Singh was a repository of Punjab’s history. Spending time with him was always a learning experience. He has witnessed the socio- economic and political changes that have taken place in the past century,” Ranjodh said.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu also expressed his condolences. “We have grown up listening to the stories of his conduct as a police officer. The void left after by his death cannot be easily filled,” said Ashu.Gurbaksh is survived by his children Gurcharan Kaur, Jatinder Bir Singh, Surinder Bir Singh, Gurminder Kaur and Harvinder Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tearful-adieu-to-104-yr-old-ex-dsp-gurbakhsh-singh/story-A4qW8RMGh4GfK8K8tNYtMN.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Campaign to make to make Buddha Nullah pollution-free begins in Ludhiana||With an aim to make Buddha Nullah pollution free by January 26, the municipal corporation (MC) flagged off the “Clean Buddha Nullah” awareness campaign on Monday. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar flagged off an awareness rally on Day 1.Over 1,000 students from seven colleges of the city will move from door-to-door in 16 wards in the vicinity of nullah to discourage residents from dumping solid waste into the city’s main drain. Student volunteers and NCC cadets from SCD Government College, Government College for Girls, Kamla Lohtia Sanatan Dharam College, Arya College, Government ITI, SDP College and Government Polytechnic College are participating in the campaign.The officials said that the students will be divided in groups of three to cover a large number of areas and the police will accompany them.The students will also educate residents regarding source segregation of waste. Hoardings have been installed in the area warning residents that a fine of Rs 5,000 will be imposed on the violators if caught dumping solid waste in the nullah. Over 60 marshals/guards have also been deployed at the 14-km long stretch of the nullah to stop the residents from dumping waste, which will be supervised by 24 nodal officers. Sandhu said that pamphlets will also be distributed. Puran Singh, state project director, Swachh Bharat Mission, said, “Masks and sanitisers have been provided to students to ensure their safety. We expect that this campaign will bear fruits and nullah will be made garbage free.” CM to lay the foundation stone for Rs 650-crore projectAshu said that the work order for the Rs 650-crore project under which MC will take various steps to stop pollution in the nullah has been issued and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will lay the foundation stone for it next month. Ashu urged leaders and councillors of different political parties to keep their differences aside and work together.BRS Nagar road to be developed as smart road: AshuTo provide a solution to rainwater accumulation, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) commenced a project to transform BRS Nagar road (starting from the Sidhwan canal till Lodhi Club road) into a smart road with a rainwater harvesting mechanism.State food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam laid the foundation of the Rs 4.61 crore project on Monday.The officials said that interlocking tiles will be installed alongside the 2.8kms long stretch of road.Ashu said that leisure valleys are also being developed in the area. The projects are being taken up as per the requirements of the residents and this project to transform the BRS Nagar road into a smart road will be completed within six months, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/campaign-to-make-to-make-buddha-nullah-pollution-free-begins-in-ludhiana/story-QadfxY1whiR9IqQ3pIo9DL.html
28-12-2020||City||Below 200 covid cases in J&K first time since July||J&K recorded 156 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Monday taking the total case count in the UT to 1,20,293 and death toll to 1,875.This is the first time since July that J&K has recorded below 200 cases. Officials said 90 people tested positive in Kashmir and 66 in Jammu. Five people died in Kashmir and one in Jammu.They said that 1,15,261 people have recovered in the UT so far after 275 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the recovery rate to 95.81%. There are 3,157 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT have crossed 37.39 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 34 more people tested positive, followed by Kupwara at 14 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 56 followed by five in Kathua district. Srinagar tops the case tally with 25,147 cases and 447 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 23,584 cases and 354 deaths.Till date, 8.72 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15,697 in home quarantine, 3,157 in isolation, and 29,925 under home surveillance. Besides, 8.22 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/below-200-covid-cases-in-j-k-first-time-since-july/story-SbpFTNCeaO3d2iqjQrM8aL.html
28-12-2020||City||Publicise expenses incurred in event to mark completion of 3-year tenure: HPCC to HP govt||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led state government of misusing and wasting the state’s funds, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Monday raised questions over the funds spent on programme organised to mark the completion of three-year tenure and asked the chief minister to publicise the details of its entire expenditure and issue white papers regarding the same.While addressing the media in Shimla, Rathore said that the state government has spent crores of rupees in organising such celebration programmes and he is answerable to the people of the state Rathore lashed out at the BJP leaders, stating that they are always at the forefront when it comes to lying. He said that Union minister Rajnath Singh had said that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and PM Narendra Modi share an emotional connection with the people of the state, which is completely false. “Narendra Modi-led central government has zero contribution to the development of Himachal. Playing with the emotions has been the nature of BJP and Modi and now people have also started to acknowledge this,” he added.Rathore said that wherever Modi goes, he tries to adapt to the same color, and plays with the emotions, sentiments of the people. Rathore termed Chief Minister Jairam Thakur’s three-year slogan of good governance, trust, and development as completely hollow, calling it misrule, distrust and destruction, and said that soon they will be thrown out of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/publicise-expenses-incurred-in-event-to-mark-completion-of-3-year-tenure-hpcc-to-hp-govt/story-Wz09PFwFAEwaBmm1i78JEL.html
28-12-2020||Pune||After missing five deadlines, Satara road BRTS to open from Jan 1||After four years and five deadlines, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will finally reopen the bus rapid transit corridor (BRTS) between Katraj and Swargate on Satara road from January 1. The announcement came on Monday after municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap and mayor Murlidhar Mohol inspected the stretch and asked the administration to clear it for public transport from January 1. “Most of the BRTS work has already been completed on this corridor and we are starting operations from January 1. The work on this stretch got delayed even as the tenders for BRTS work were floated in 2016. Due to technical reasons, PMC did the re-tendering process in 2018. However, due to two flyover works located at Swargate and Shankarmaharaj math, the BRTS work got delayed,” said Mohol. The BRTS corridor was India’s first pilot BRTS, originally started in 2007, though it had to be stopped for traffic due to several issues including bus stops and alignment of stretch. Due to several errors, the corridor became an accident spot and many citizens lost their lives. In the last two years, PMC had set four deadlines for restarting the BRTS operations, but was not able to kick start the project. The PMC has spent more than Rs 100 crore for revamping the corridor, which is around 5.5km long. Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has demanded inquiry of BRTS work in the city. NCP Parvati assembly constituency president Nitin Kadam said, “PMC has spent almost Rs100 crore for repairing this corridor. The work got delayed for four years we are demanding the civic body to start operations immediately or demolish the BRTS corridor.” Deadlines missed May 31, 2018 August 1, 2018 December 2018 March 2019 May 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-missing-five-deadlines-satara-road-brts-to-open-from-jan-1/story-5Y3ixugHhDei9SamxSy5aO.html
28-12-2020||City||Three held for murdering neighbour in Theog||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly assaulting and murdering their 58-year-old neighbour in Theog subdivision in Shimla district.The deceased was Shyam Sharma, while the accused have been identified as Rajesh Khachi and his sons Raman and Rohan Khachi.On Sunday evening, Sharma got into an argument with Rajesh which turned ugly. Rajesh and his sons brutally assaulted Sharma, leaving him severely injured. After the assault, they left the spot while Shyam’s relatives rushed him to Theog civil hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. Police have filed an FIR against the three accused.Unaware of his death, the accused reached Theog police station to file an FIR against Sharma but were arrested.Theog deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kulwinder Singh said a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (criminal act done by several persons with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been registered against them and further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-murdering-neighbour-in-theog/story-cq4w8sNKSq0KxJDsTdwkcL.html
28-12-2020||City||One killed as car plunges into deep gorge near Shimla||One person was killed after a car (HP 58A 7878) he was travelling in plunged into a deep gorge near the state’s capital Shimla.The deceased has been identified as Ankit, 34, a resident of Shimla, and a hotelier.The incident took place on Sunday night on Shimla-Bilaspur road near Ghanahatti, when the driver lost control of the vehicle and it skidded into a 500-metre deep gorge, killing him on the spot.Passersby informed the police after spotting the vehicle on Monday morning. Police reached the spot and recovered the body from the gorge. The body was sent to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, for post-mortem examination and later handed it over to his relatives for cremation.Shimla ASP Praveer Thakur said police are conducting the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-killed-as-car-plunges-into-deep-gorge-near-shimla/story-ShEJNMcApv12fJmmDyiyaJ.html
28-12-2020||City||Himachal logs 242 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh registered 242 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the state’s case tally to 54,680 while the death toll rose to 909 as two more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 56 were reported in Solan, 54 in Kangra, 42 in Shimla, 41 in Hamirpur, 13 in Mandi, 10 in Bilaspur, eight each in Chamba and Una, five in Kinnaur, two each in Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur and one in Kullu. The active cases have come down to 3,680 and recoveries have reached 50,044 after 394 more people were cured of the disease. The covid recovery rate is at 91.5%. Shimla is the worst hit district with its case tally nearing the 10,000-mark. Till date, the district has recorded 9,973 cases, followed by Mandi at 9,574 and Kangra at 7,624. Solan has 6,352 cases, Kullu 4,346, Sirmaur 3,134, Bilaspur 2,822, Chamba 2,812, Hamirpur 2,810, Kinnaur 1,310, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,230.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-242-fresh-covid-cases/story-cy2V2TzuUapGFoBZBtxSQL.html
28-12-2020||Bhopal||Man booked for trying to hide religious identity to marry woman||A 32-year-old man was booked and detained for attempting to marry a woman by hiding his religion in Bhopal on Monday, said police. Police also recovered a fake Aadhaar card issued in the name of Ravi Yadav from the possession of the accused Rafiq Khan, a resident of Hoshangabad, said Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal (south). The SP said, “Rafiq was trying to marry a 23-year-old woman from Obaidullahganj on Sunday in a Hanuman temple in Katra village of Bhopal district. Some unidentified people informed an organisation about this cheating and also informed the police.” Also read: MHA extends Covid-19 guidelines till January“Police reached the temple and detained Rafiq. During the interrogation, Rafiq confessed to have committed the crime,” said the police officer. “The woman told the police that she met Rafiq four years ago while undergoing medical treatment. Rafiq introduced himself as Ravi Yadav. After their friendship for four years, her family decided to solemnize their marriage but she didn’t know that the man was a Muslim,” said Sudhir Arjariya, town inspector, Kolar police. An FIR has been registered under section 420 (cheating) and 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code at Kolar police station, Arjariya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/man-booked-for-trying-to-hide-religious-identity-to-marry-woman/story-BuhsvgFaeyM7JOi4J8k4SI.html
28-12-2020||Bangalore||Food habit my right, says former Karnataka CM over anti cow slaughter bill||Hitting out at partymen for lacking courage to speak out on certain issues, senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday recalled his earlier statement that he liked cattle meat, while asserting that food habit was his right.“I had once said in the assembly that I eat cattle meat, who are you to ask?-It is my right, food habit is my right, who are you to question? If you don’t eat, leave it, I’m not going to force you.I eat because I like, who are you to ask? Do you need courage to say this?” Siddaramaiah said.Speaking at the Congress foundation day event, he said, many of his party colleagues hesitate about talking or taking a stand on issues fearing consequences or backlash.“...our people stay quiet creating a feeling that what others are saying is right.You should come out of such confusions, please,” Siddaramaiah said, while referring to the anti-cow slaughter bill. Where will the farmer send aged cattle like cows, buffaloes, he said, pointing out that taking care of a cow or a buffalo costs about Rs 100 per day.”“Who will give that money? Farmers too worship cows,” he added.Interestingly Siddarmaiah’s statement comes on a day when the state cabinet decided to promulgate an ordinance to give effect to the contentious anti-cow slaughter bill that is yet to be approved by the legislative council.Once it comes into effect, there will be a blanket prohibition of slaughter of cows in the state.However, the slaughter houses will continue to function and beef consumption will not be prohibited with respect to buffalo meat.Siddaramaiah, Leader of opposition in the state assembly, had recently expressed regret for his purported remarks that Kodavas eat beef, for which he came under attack, saying he has a lot of respect for Kodava people and their culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/food-habit-my-right-says-former-karnataka-cm-over-anti-cow-slaughter-bill/story-npAyUx0CAqHBaUtgZ4qIOP.html
28-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC MP slams West Bengal Guv for serving ‘political masters’||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O’Brien on Monday slammed West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for allegedly demeaning and criticising the state without any basis. “Normally ignored you, but you have crossed the line. Enough. You are nothing but His Master’s Voice! You are a disgrace to the office you hold. Without basis, u criticize and demean Bengal to serve your political masters. U do this while enjoying Bengal’s hospitality. Shame on you,” O’Brien tweeted. The TMC leader was responding to tweets by the Governor where the latter was attacking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. “Alarming reports that De facto boss WB Police Surajit Kar Purakayastha #SSA Mamata Banerjee vigorously engaged in translating politically motivated police actions. Concerned at Field police work of DGP- postings and transfer, investigation usurped by De facto boss Purakayastha,” Dhankhar tweeted. “Such capitulation DGP WB Police and usurpation #SSA Mamata Banerjee sound the death knell of democracy. Such gross violation of the Police Act and constitutional provisions proves the political stance of police and administration that is by law required to be “politically neutrality,” he said in another tweet. The Governor said that decoupling of police from political work is a must for the survival of democracy. “Political Neutrality is the quintessence of administration as per law. Its disregard by public servants by engaging as political workers cannot be countenanced. Such misconduct entails serious consequences,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-mp-slams-west-bengal-guv-for-serving-political-masters/story-1keeN7ns88cYTgrO7AVVdO.html
28-12-2020||City||Srinagar MC to seal residential premises being used for commercial purposes||Tightening its noose around violators, the Srinagar municipal corporation (MC) on Monday decided to seal residential premises here which are being misused for commercial purposes.Many buildings have come up in the city in the past few years, especially in residential areas, and many houses are being used for commercial purposes without permission.“Commercial establishments in Srinagar operating in buildings/houses will be sealed and prosecuted under the law. Commercial activities are permissible only in buildings with commercial use,” said Junaid Azim Mattu, SMC mayor. A sealing drive will be kicked off soon, he said.Srinagar and its adjoining areas have witnessed a construction boom in the last two decades, especially shops and malls that have come up in residential areas and many people have converted their residential properties into commercial buildings without seeking proper permission from the concerned authorities.Sources said that the government has already identified many such buildings or houses which are being used for commercial purposes.“Earlier also warnings were given to people and at some places, the action was taken against the violators, but it proved short-lived,” said Javeed Iqbal, a resident of Rajbagh where dozens of houses have been turned into commercial places.At Umerabad and Shalteng localities on the city outskirts, houses and plots meant for residential purposes have been converted into commercial properties.“During the lockdown, several shops were constructed in our lane and the authorities didn’t take any action. How can shops be constructed in a residential colony? We even approached the authorities and brought it to their notice but to no avail,” said Tariq Ahmad, a resident of Umerabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-mc-to-seal-residential-premises-being-used-for-commercial-purposes/story-Mw9VvQHBk2v4vAbHRdwa3L.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Property registrations up as compared to last year, but revenue drops||Maharashtra government’s decision to reduce stamp duty from six per cent to three per cent till the year-end has provided a much-needed boost to the realty sector between September and December in Pune and rest of Maharashtra, with property registration numbers rising. However, it has not helped government coffers as the revenue generation from stamp duty in the year has reduced as compared to last year even when property registration during the four months in 2020 has gone up as against 2019.According to the statistics shared by the Inspector General of Registration’s (IGR) office, between September and December this year, 11,94,013 document registrations were reported with a revenue of Rs 11,702 crore since January till December 27. This was against 8,44,963 document registrations bringing Rs 28,989 crore to the government exchequer in the same period last year. Omprakash Deshmukh, IGR, said, “After announcing the discount, the property registration increased substantially. It shows that buying and selling sentiment has increased in the realty sector.”Another official from the IGR office, aware of the developments, said, “Though the number of property registration increased as compared to previous year (2019), this year, the department received less revenue. Last year, Rs 28,989 crore revenue was generated through stamp duty which is only around 12,000 crore this year.”According to realty experts, the dip in revenue is mostly because for a major part of the year from March to August there was reduced sale of document registration while when the registrations witnessed a surge, most of them were low-cost housing. Advocate Vijay Pawar, said, “As the government announced a three per cent cut in stamp duty, many people got their property and registration done early. In Pune, an average flat’s price is between Rs40 lakh and Rs50 lakh. Citizens are getting huge discount and it has helped increase the property registration since September. Even banks and builders promoted the reduction in stamp duty. As citizens were getting direct benefit of the government’s move, the number of registrations increased in Pune.” The state government in August had announced reduction of stamp duty levied on sales of apartments from 5 per cent to 2 per cent from September 1 for four months and to 3 per cent from January 1 to March 31, 2021. As the reduction on stamp duty has led to rise in purchase of properties by people, boosting the realty sector, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Pune, has demanded an extension of the current incentive till June 2021.Credai (Pune) president Suhas Merchant, said, “We wrote a letter to the revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and sought an extension for the scheme. It has boosted the realty sector during the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the government received less revenue, the government will achieve various goals by giving this discount. It is helping boost employment too. Even property tax is likely to go up. We are appealing to the government to give an extension till June 2021.”Because of the lockdown, property registration had dipped between March and August though it picked up during the festive period when government offered sops. Satish Magar, Credai India’s national president, said, “This decision about stamp duty has really helped boost the realty sector. It is helping provide a much-needed boost to the economy. The benefit of this scheme is directly for the buyers.”Stamp duty registrationMonth/ 2019/2020January/2,35,066/2,12,354February/ 2,71,180/2,69,508March/3,14,372/2,14,195April/2,28,848/1139May/2,66223/42573June/3,20,183/1,53,155July/2,58,632/1,65,139August/2,21176/1,83,515September/1,90,841/2,47,609October/1,93995/2,47,601November/2,20,808/2,74,773December/2,39,292/3,97,396||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/property-registrations-up-as-compared-to-last-year-but-revenue-drops/story-7nVBeDs069n93oa7n8OnRI.html
28-12-2020||City||70 tourists stranded in Kangra’s Kareri Lake due to heavy snow rescued||More than 70 tourists who were stranded at Kareri Lake, a famous tourist destination tucked away in Dhauladhar mountains near Dharamshala, due to heavy snowfall, were rescued on Monday afternoon.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that the District Disaster Management Authority received information on Monday morning that around 73 people were stranded at Kareri Lake due to heavy snowfall.The administration swung into action and a rescue team comprising 10 persons with a guide was sent to the location from Shahpur while another fully-equipped quick response team comprising 13 police personnel and eight home guards, trained in high altitude rescue operations, was dispatched from Dharamshala.A team of locals also moved to the spot to help the administration in the rescue operation. However, at around 3 pm the rescue teams informed that all stranded had been rescued. Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan supervised the rescue operation.The tourists belonged to Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh and Utter Pradesh. They had gone on a trek on Sunday when the weather was clear. However, it snowed heavily on Sunday night and there were 3-4 feet of snow at Kareri.Meanwhile, Ravi Kumar, a local resident of Kareri village and leader of one of the rescue team said that the tourists had gone on the trek despite being warned of snow forecast.Kareri Lake, located approximately 2,934 meters above sea level is a glacier-fed lake in the Dhauladhar range around 25 kilometers from Dharamshala, including a 15-kilometer trek through dense forest and steep hills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-tourists-stranded-in-kangra-s-kareri-lake-due-to-heavy-snow-rescued/story-KX9DJzoT3ug8B4NmRNNU6M.html
28-12-2020||City||Shimla receives season’s first snowfall, brings cheer to tourists||Shimla received the first snowfall of the season on Sunday night, bringing cheer to tourists who come here in large numbers to celebrate New Year.Light snowfall started around 9.15 pm at Mall Road, Jakhu, Chhota Shimla and other areas of the city.State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that the weather will remain dry throughout the state from December 29 till January 3.The Met department has also issued a yellow warning of ground frost and cold waves in lower hills and plains of the state on December 29 resulting in crop destruction.Rohtang Pass witnessed 60cm snowfall, North Portal of Atal Tunnel received 40cm, Jalori Pass 30 cm, Solang 25cm, Kufri, 14 kilometres away from Shimla has received 30cm snowfall, Dalhousie 22cm, Kothi 18cm, Khadrala and Manali received 14cm each, Nichar 10cm, Shimla 9 cm, Gondla 8cm, Jubbar Hatti 4cm, Khada Pathar and Sungri have received 7cm snow each while Rohru has recorded 2cm snowfall.Peripheral areas of Mcleodganj town including Dharamkot and Naddi also experienced mild snow while the Dhauladhar mountain range wore a thick white blanket.Meanwhile, the plain areas experienced light to moderate rainfall along with strong velocity winds intensifying the chill.In Chamba, Dalhousie hill station and upper reaches including Bharmaur and Pangi also experienced snowfall.Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district recorded 34mm rain, Hamirpur 22mm, Palampur received 16mm rain, Nahan 14.6mm, Solan 13.8mm, Bilaspur 13.5mm, Chamba 13mm, Kangra 12.8mm, Una 9.8mm, Mandi 8.4mm and Dharamshala 2.6mm.Shimla superintended of police Mohit Chawla said that roads in upper areas of the districts including Kharapathar, Narkanda, Fagu, Khidki and Chambi were blocked due to snowfall however, National Highway-5 has been cleared for traffic as the snow was cleared from Kufri Narkanda and Fagu, however, Theog Hatkoti road is blocked in Khadapathar. The road is being cleared.“Roads in the Dhalli, Mashobra, Sanjauli, Lakkar Bazar, Navbahar and Chhota Shimla suburbs of Shimla town are slippery. People should plan their visit accordingly,” he said.Apart from it, around a dozen roads in the Chopal sub-division have also been blocked.Atal Tunnel, National Highway-305 has also been blocked for vehicular traffic due to fresh snowfall in Solang valley and in Jalori Pass. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh has advised the people not to visit these areas.Shimla shivered at minus 1.1°C while the minimum temperature in Kufri reached -2.4°C. Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie recorded 0.2°C, 1.4°C and -3.4°C minimum temperatures respectively.The minimum temperature in Una is 2.8°C, 0.7°C in Solan, 3°C in Bilaspur, 2.8°C in Hamirpur, 7.9°C in Nahan, 3.2°C in Mandi and -3.1°C in Kalpa, Kinnaur district.Keylong, headquarters of tribal district Lahaul and Spiti is the coldest place in the state at -6.7°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-receives-season-s-first-snowfall-brings-cheer-to-tourists/story-WJHTqm09govtuI3ozWmU5J.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Protestors damage over 1,500 telecom towers in Punjab||More than 1,500 telecom towers in Punjab have been damaged by farmers protesting against the three farm laws, disrupting services in some pockets, sources said.Power supply to towers that relay telecom signals was snapped and cables cut in several parts of the state as farmers vented their anger on the infrastructure owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s firm Jio as they saw him along with infrastructure tycoon Gautam Adani as major beneficiaries of the new laws.Neither Ambani’s Reliance group nor Adani’s companies are into the business of procuring foodgrains from farmers.“Till yesterday, 1,411 towers were damaged and today the count has gone well past 1,500,” a source with knowledge of the matter said.In Jalandhar, some bundles of Jio’s fibre cable were also burnt.Jio has 9,000 plus towers in the state.Another source said the most common way of damaging the telecom towers was to cut off the power supply.In at least one case, the generator at a tower site was physically taken away and allegedly donated to a local gurudwara.Videos of Jio employees being threatened and made to flee have gone viral.The attacks have impacted telecom services and operators are struggling to maintain services in absence of action by law enforcement agencies, the source said.The Punjab chief minister had on Friday appealed to protesting farmers to not cause inconvenience to the general public with such actions and continue to exercise the same restraint as they had shown over the past several months of their agitation.Sources said state police have so far not acted against those damaging telecom towers and even FIRs have not been registered in most cases.According to the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, at least 1,600 towers have been vandalised.These include common access infrastructure as well.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders for over a month now against the three farm laws which they see would user in end to minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of farm produce like wheat and paddy.The government has denied the apprehensions, saying MSP will continue and the new laws only provide farmers an alternative market to sell their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-1-500-telecom-towers-damaged-in-punjab/story-BkbcSi20e36ldMJKwXCTXN.html
28-12-2020||City||Mamata announces new neighbourhood grievance redressal programme||Claiming that the West Bengal government’s ‘Duare Sarkar’ (administration at the doorsteps) programme has been a huge success, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a new initiative ‘Paray Paray Samadhan’, under which local neighbourhood grievances will be redressed.The chief minister said that the programme will be launched on January 2 and will continue till February 15.“This will not address major infrastructural gaps but will address municipal, local or service gaps through specific mission mode to reach out to the neighbourhood. This will be supplementary of ‘Duare Sarkar’ which has reached out to crores of people. It will be a New Year’s gift,” Banerjee said during an administrative review meeting held here.Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said, “While ‘Duare Sarkar’ is an individual-oriented programme, neighbourhood problems will be addressed by this scheme. A separate task force comprising a principal secretary and a secretary has been appointed for ‘Paray Paray Samadhan’.” He said like ‘Duare Sarkar’, ‘Paray Paray Samadhan’ will also operate on real-time mode and applicants will be able to track their applications.“We expect to be able to at least start addressing the issues by February 15,” Bandyopadhyay said.The CMO has received around 10,000 communications regarding problems in the neighbourhoods, he said.Through ‘Duare Sarkar’, the West Bengal government aims to enable left-out eligible beneficiaries to avail 11 state-run schemes.The programme has started on December 1 and will continue till January 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mamata-announces-new-neighbourhood-grievance-redressal-programme/story-1oGDChDce8FUxwlaAtvN7I.html
28-12-2020||Noida||One-fifth of UP’s active Covid-19 cases in its 8 NCR districts||Eight districts of Uttar Pradesh that lie in the National Capital Region account for over 20% or one-fifth of the active Covid-19 cases in the state and more than 11% of deaths linked to the coronavirus, according to official data.Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Shamli districts of Uttar Pradesh are a part of the NCR, a wider region that also comprises districts of Haryana and Rajasthan, and entire Delhi.According to Uttar Pradesh government data, updated till Sunday, there were a total of 5,81,980 Covid-19 cases in the state while the number of active cases stood at 15,371 of which 3,134 (20.38%) were in its National Capital Region (NCR) districts.The country’s most populous state is third in terms of active cases in the country, after Kerala (65,344) and Maharashtra (60,374), as per Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Monday.Among the NCR districts, Meerut has the highest of 1,054 active cases followed by Ghaziabad (790), Gautam Buddh Nagar (477), Muzaffarnagar (389), Bulandshahr (199), Hapur (100), Baghpat (79) and Shamli (46), according to state data.The official state-wide daily bulletin does not share any number on testing of samples nor does it show the total Covid-19 cases at the district level.The state has so far recorded 8,306 deaths linked to Covid-19, with 935 (11.25%) of them being recorded in the NCR districts, it showed.Of the 935 fatalities, the highest was recorded in Meerut (424) followed by Ghaziabad (100), Muzaffarnagar (101), Bulandshahr (91), Gautam Buddh Nagar (89), Hapur (67), Shamli (29) and Baghpat (34), the data showed.Uttar Pradesh’s official data, updated after every 24 hours, also showed that so far 5,58,303 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease across the state with 92,438 (16.55 per cent) such patients in the eight NCR districts.According to state data, the highest number of recoveries among NCR districts was recorded in Ghaziabad (24,972) followed by Gautam Buddh Nagar (24,252), Meerut (20,059), Muzaffarnagar (7,664), Bulandshahr (5,760), Hapur (4,119), Shamli (3,453) and Baghpat (2,159) till Sunday.Uttar Pradesh has 75 districts, including major ones like Lucknow, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Agra, Gorakhpur and Bareilly in terms of population and area.The NCR altogether comprises 23 districts from three states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and the entire national capital territory of Delhi, spanning about 55,083 sq km, according to the NCR Planning Board.As on Monday morning, there were 2,77,301 active cases of Covid-19 in India, while 97,82,669 patients have been discharged so far and overall 1,47,901 deaths recorded so far, according health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases in the country were recorded at 1,02,07,871, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-fifth-of-up-s-active-covid-19-cases-in-its-8-ncr-districts/story-j5fpKfrKkZ6V2jCx2tsOIJ.html
28-12-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 positive Uttarakhand CM develops lung infection, flown to AIIMS Delhi||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18, was flown to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi on Monday following a mild infection in his lungs.Rawat was admitted to the Doon hospital on Sunday evening after he developed a mild fever.“Accompanied by his physician, the chief minister was flown to Delhi in a chopper at 10:45 am today,” said CM’s media coordinator Darshan Singh Rawat.“After the mild infection was detected in Rawat’s lungs, we spoke to doctors at AIIMS Delhi and it was decided that he should be brought in for check-up and treatment. His condition is stable.”According to Rawat’s physician, Dr NS Bisht, the chief minister’s health is fine and his fever has also come down to some extent. “The CM has got a mild infection in his lungs. After consulting with AIIMS doctors, they advised he be brought to Delhi for tests,” he said. Also read: Dense fog likely over northwest India around New Year’s Eve, says IMDDr Anurag Agarwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Doon hospital, said, “His health condition is fine but as a precaution, we had advised him to get admitted.” Earlier, the CM was in home isolation.In September, Rawat had isolated himself after his officer on special duty (OSD) had tested positive for Covid-19. That time the CM himself had tested negative but as a precaution decided to isolate himself. Earlier on August 26, the chief minister had gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers tested positive for the virus.On June 1, Rawat and two of his ministerial colleagues had decided to quarantine themselves after cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for the disease. Rawat had attended a cabinet meeting with Maharaj. Later on June 6, Rawat had tested negative for Covid-19.Uttarakhand has so far reported over 89,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,483 related fatalities.The positivity rate in the state stands at 5.20 per cent while the case fatality rate is at 1.65 per cent. Dehradun district has so far reported 26,806 Covid-19 cases, the maximum in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-positive-uttarakhand-cm-develops-lung-infection-flown-to-aiims-delhi/story-xUGjzMLI9JowL5rKh8JLaO.html
28-12-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur postal dept accidentally releases stamps featuring gangsters Chhota Rajan, Bajrangi||The postal department in Kanpur printed and released postage stamps of gangsters Chhota Rajan and Munna Bajrangi. Postmaster general VK Varma admitted the lapse on the part of a clerk.“We are investigating in-house how did this happen and why the said clerk could not identify the gangsters,” he said.Left red-faced, the postal department said its employees would be extra careful and vet the information more stringently from now on.Around twelve stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were accidentally printed under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme, which was launched by the department in 2017. Under this scheme, anyone paying Rs 300 can get stamps with their photos or that of their family members printed and released.“The stamps are like any other stamp and could be put on envelopes,” said postal department officials. The scheme is quite popular and people have been gifting these stamps to their family members and friends.Also read: Centre calls farmers for meeting over farm laws on December 30 in DelhiThe process is now being made more comprehensive, Varma said. Now on, the clerks would vet the documents more carefully and would not make the stamps if the person was not physically present before the webcam, he added.“As of now, only an identity card was enough; now we will ask for more details and ensure the person is present in the room,” Varma said.In this case, someone gave the pictures claiming Rajan and Bajrangi were his relatives. Without asking for their identification papers, which is essential, the clerk released 12 stamps each with their pictures.The form that was filled before the stamps were given had names ‘Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi’ and ‘Rajendra Nikhalje alias Chhota Rajan’.Rajan is currently in a Mumbai jail and Bajrangi was murdered in Baghpat jail of western Uttar Pradesh on July 9, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanpur-postal-dept-accidentally-releases-stamps-featuring-gangsters-chhota-rajan-bajrangi/story-7JgsX2vxNXwPNZhFuRgieO.html
28-12-2020||Bhopal||Vyapam scam: CBI summons 60 accused before special court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s investigating officer has summoned 60 people, including medical students, the director of a private medical college and two officers of the medical education department, to appear before its special court in Gwalior on December 30 in connection with alleged fraud and cheating committed in PMT 2011 as a part of a multi-level Vyapam scam, said CBI advocate. CBI advocate Bharat Bhushan Sharma said, “The final charge sheet will be filed on December 30 in the case of the fraud committed by a private medical college of Bhopal by giving admission to undeserving candidates in PMT 2011.” “The case was registered in 2013 by a special task force (STF) of the state government against three medical students only. After the Supreme Court order, the CBI took over the case in July 2015. After investigating the case for five years, CBI accused 57 other people too. They included 39 medical students, 11 officials of the management of the private medical college, which is one of the main Covid-19 dedicated hospitals in Bhopal, then director of medical education (DME), then joint director of medical education and five others,” said an investigating officer, requesting anonymity.Also Read: CBI cast a wide net, scrutinised 16 lakh people to nab Vyapam scam accusedCBI also sought sanction from the department of medical education to prosecute then DME and joint DME, said the officer. According to the complaint of the Vyapam scam whistle blower, Ashish Chaturvedi, lodged with the Special Task Force in Gwalior in 2013, a few medical students of second, third and final year of MBBS had appeared in the Pre-Medical Test (PMT) 2011 and topped the exam. They had locked the government quota seats and later vacated them for undeserving students. “In the investigation, it was found that private medical college had paid students studying in medical colleges in MP and others states to appear in PMT 2011 and to lock the seats during the first round of counselling. The medical students had vacated the seats after counselling. Later, the private medical college had admitted undeserving students to the seats after taking donations. Then DME and joint DME also acted against the rules,” said the officer. Of the 154 cases being probed by CBI under the Vyapam scam, this is the last case in which investigation had been pending for the past five years. “Now, CBI is left with eight cases in which supplementary charge sheets will be filed,” said the officer. In all, 3,500 people were accused by the CBI in different cases.The Vyapam scam came to light in July 2013 when Indore Police arrested 20 impersonators who appeared for the medical entrance examination to help undeserving candidates secure high ranks. The cheating net also involved a clique of politicians and bureaucrats that facilitated the fraud in exchange for bribes, according to investigators. The CBI took over the case in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/vyapam-scam-cbi-summons-60-accused-before-special-court/story-vPeii304d7YGesY3hOjAdO.html
28-12-2020||Lucknow||UP CM directs senior officials to monitor district-level development works||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed senior officials to undertake extensive tours of the state’s districts for monitoring different ongoing development works and submit their report on Tuesday.The nodal officers have been asked to review if district magistrates (DMs), superintendents of police (SPs), additional DMs, additional SPs and other district-level officials have held a dialogue with the different farmers’ unions at the district level or not, an official release issued here on Monday said.Senior officials, who have been made nodal officers of the districts, were asked to review the arrangements made at the paddy purchase centres and issue necessary guidelines to district-level officials, the release said.The nodal officers have been asked to submit their report after a thorough review on Tuesday to the Chief Minister, the release said.They have also been asked to inspect the sugarcane purchase centres, make on-the-spot inspection of arrangements at ‘nirashrit gau ashray sthal’ (cow sheds), the release said, adding that they have been asked to look into irrigation facilities, power supply and progress in different government schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-directs-senior-officials-to-monitor-district-level-development-works/story-JC6Xbcz26I74oX2njfp9kJ.html
28-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cyber cell warns against fraudulent messages for Covid-19 vaccination registration||The cyber cell of Uttarakhand police has issued an alert and warned people against falling for fraudulent text messages asking them to register for the upcoming Covid-19 vaccination in lieu of a certain amount of money. The alert was issued by the police after it was informed about some people in Dehradun receiving such messages, said police. Nilesh Bharne, deputy inspector general (DIG), cyber cell informed that a few days ago it had got to know about the development from some people who received such text messages. “We were informed that some people received text messages on their mobile phone stating a process to register themselves for the upcoming Covid-19 vaccination process. The message mentioned asking the person to deposit a certain amount for vaccination,” said Bharne. Also read: Army chief Gen Naravane leaves for South Korea on a three-day visitHe said, “This is clearly a case of cyber fraud in which the cybercriminals are trying to dupe people by taking advantage of the curiosity among people for vaccination process.” The police officer informed that following the development, they have issued an alert on its social media platforms and media. “Though we haven’t received any complaint in the state regarding the new trend of cyber fraud, we want to make people aware that they shouldn’t fall for it by clicking the link and depositing any money or sharing their bank details,” said Bharne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cyber-cell-warns-against-fraudulent-messages-for-covid-19-vaccination-registration/story-JY0GYutGGWq5U7hLO8AqMI.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Covid takes its toll on organ donations in 2020||Cadaver donations have seen a sharp fall in Pune division during 2020, mostly due to the Covid pandemic, when surgeries were put on hold and hospitals faced a shortage of doctors. From 61 donations in 2018 and 63 in 2019, the number has come down to 39 organ donations this year. The total number of transplants done in 2020, till December 24 stood at 79, even as experts note that there is more awareness among families now in case a family member is declared brain dead, even as experts note that there is more awareness among families now in case a family member is declared brain dead. Dr Sheetal Dhadphale, secretary, Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) Pune, said that organ donation and transplants were stopped initially, as Covid cases were increasing, but later, it was resumed.“Our team of doctors and social workers are working day and night to save more lives. We take all precautions and the process of organ retrieval as well as donation is completely safe. Though the number is less this time, it is more as compared to other regions,” said Dhadphale. ZTCC Pune division includes Pune, Nashik, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Solapur, Dhule and Jalgaon. Arti Gokhale from ZTCC Pune said that all the awareness initiatives are now online. “We have left no stone unturned. There are families who are willing but because of Covid, things stopped. Now that everything is getting back on track there is a need for more offline awareness among families,” said Gokhale.Talking about brain dead patients, Dr Sanjeev Jadhav, Heart and Lung Transplant Surgeon in Mumbai at Apollo Hospitals, said, “We get a lot of young patients who are declared brain dead post road accidents. Due to the lockdown this number has significantly reduced. Because of this, the waiting list for heart and lung transplants has increased.” He said that the precautions during retrieving of organs are paramount.“We test the organ donor and the patient for Covid, only then we go ahead with the procedure. These are challenging times, but we are doing our best,” said Jadhav.Dr Bipin Vibhute, head of Liver and Multi-organ Transplant department at Sahyadri Hospitals, said that earlier there was some fear because of Covid. “But now, many patients are coming to us for transplants. Most of the transplants that we did were from ‘live’ donors. This is a living person donating a part of their liver to another person. But cadaver donations have reduced this year due to Covid,” said Dr Vibhute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-takes-its-toll-on-organ-donations-in-2020/story-9I3qCna4SvXotnNEvkA9YP.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Vida Heydari: Contemporary art’s new address in the city drawing in top talent||When you enter Koregaon Park’s recently launched contemporary art space, Vida Heydari Contemporary (VHC), you are transported to a sprawling 3,000 sq ft venue marked by green environs, warm lights and high ceilings. Vida Heydari, the founder of VHC is an Iranian-Canadian curator and gallerist who has worked with Indian, Iranian and Chinese contemporary artists, private collectors and international galleries for about a decade-and-a-half. Last week, her concept art gallery VHC opened doors to city’s art enthusiasts with the inaugural show, Origins of a Perennial Bouquet. The show, which will continue till February 14, has been curated by Bose Krishnamachari, founder of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale. Krishnamachari is an artist known for his bold abstract paintings, multimedia installations and figurative drawings.The show displays the works of five of India’s contemporary artists - Benitha Perciyal, Manish Nai, Sudarshan Shetty, Sumedh Rajendran and Tanya Goel. Heydari, while elaborating on the connection between Pune and the role VHC will play in its cultural fabric, says, “My time in the city has shown me that there’s an abundance of artists and art lovers. I want VHC to be a space for creative minds of the city to come together, get inspired and facilitate dialogue in the realm of art.”Upon entering, guests experience an effect that is grand yet simple, with subdued colours used on the walls, and greenery all around. The gallery has many alcoves and spaces for art displays. The space uses the natural curvature of frontage and beams to its advantage, and the matte grey flooring works as a dramatic setting for the artworks. Speaking about the debut art show, Krishnamachari says, “It is important to understand that in the field of art, there should be consistency in terms of knowledge sharing. That is why the title of the exhibition highlights the idea of being perennial. Another remarkable feature of VHC is that it does not display art in isolation; it offers a great fusion with a restaurant, green spaces, and scope for conversations.”VHC also has an attached restaurant, which serves European fare, and the menu for which has been curated by chef Ajay Chopra.Artwork 1:The artwork ‘The mysterious visitor’ has been created by Benitha Perciyal, who hails from Thiruvanamalai. Her practice encapsulates the use of primarily organic materials, with a strong focus on those that induce olfactory experiences like myrrh, cinnamon, frankincense and more. Her sculptures are solely made of organic compounds that slow down the process of creation, while enabling a certain perpetuity to their ‘becoming’.Artwork 2:Tanya Goel, who has completed her post-graduation in fine arts from Yale University, is the driving force behind this piece of art, titled ‘Tracing modernity in dust and light.’ The artwork has been created using cement mixed with debris collected from the central public works department, New Delhi. With a focus on textured pigments, Goel utilises a diverse array of materials from urban climes (aluminium, concrete, glass, soil, mica, graphite and foils) in order to accentuate the equally versatile effect of light on them.Artwork 3:Mumbai’s Sudarshan Shetty has reused teak wood to create this artwork ‘For all that we gather’. Shetty was initially trained as a painter, but his exposure to the work of his contemporaries at the National School of Design helped him explore the intersections of sculpture, design and architecture. His installations are developed around a rigorous selection of materials and juxtapositions of things that are culturally distinct. The artist turned curator for the third edition of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale, 2016.Artwork 4:Manish Nai’s untitled artwork uses a flyscreen, water colour and wood. Nai has always been fascinated with minimalism. Materials, such as jute and newspapers, are reborn in his work, and he transforms functionality into art.Artwork 5:Sumedh Rajendran’s ‘sky stalkers’ makes use of charcoal on paper. With the usage of industrialised materials like ceramic tiles, leather, tin sheets, cans, rubber, cement, concrete, and steel, Rajendran dissolves notions of boundaries between entities. His work is known for providing a fresh perspective to sculpture and for re-contextualising its relevance to the world of contemporary Indian art.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vida-heydari-contemporary-art-s-new-address-in-the-city-drawing-in-top-talent/story-o7K5mIbuJGcOEpfE0neRRN.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Residents in 23 villages rush to gram panchayats for property registrations||After the state government issued a notification to merge 23 villages into the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), local residents are rushing to record their yet to be authorised properties in the land register (8A Extract) of Gram panchayat office to get it a legal status. With the rush pouring in, Wagholi– one of the 23 villages being merged - has started a token system to enrol property details in the land register. On December 24, the state government issued an official notification about the merger of 23 areas (referred as villages in government records) in the PMC limit. The state has given one month’s period to register suggestions and objections on the government decision of merger. Division Commissioner (Revenue), Pune division will take record objections and submit a report to the state government’s urban development department, after that, the state will take a final decision on the merger and issue a final notification. After this notification, residents have begun visiting the gram panchayat offices in their villages to register their properties. All gram panchayat offices are busy in the registration work. Wagholi is one of the areas of upcoming 23 merge villages and it is a highly urbanized part, around 1,000 people per day visit gram panchayat for registration. Vasundhara Ubale, sarpanch of Wagholi village said, “After notification of the state government, residents are approaching the gram panchayat office to register their properties in 8 (a) extract record. Due to the heavy rush, we have started a token system. There is too much pressure on us.” Many of these 23 areas, which until now came under PMRDA, also face the problem of unauthorised structures. In 2018, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) identified 16,938 unauthorised constructions in its area with most falling in these villages. While the PMRDA served notices to those responsible for unauthorised constructions, not much happened. According to Nitin Dhavade, sarpanch of Kondve-Dhavade residents are rushing to gram panchayat office to record their property. There is illegal construction in villages. “Of the total 2,700 acres of village land, around 2,500-acre land has been given to the National Defence Academy (NDA). Therefore, land is limited. People have constructed unauthorized construction and they have-not mentioned new construction in gram panchayat. Now, they are hurrying to register their properties in the land record. Population density is more in our area due to limited land,” said Dhavale. Khadakwasla sarpanch Saurabh Mate said, “After the state government notification, people have started the process of registering properties in gram panchayat. Earlier, they were not serious. Residents were happy to pay a single tax on old households to the gram panchayat. After the merger process started, they suddenly realize the importance of registration of newly constructed properties in gram panchayat. We include properties in 8 (a) and we mention the status of properties like unauthorized or authorized in it. It is formed to collect taxes and not the process of legalizing unauthorized construction. After including new property (new construction such as ground plus one or two), we collect property tax on this property and clear the dues. In this process, gram panchayat will get additional tax.” Vivek Kharvadkar, chief engineer of Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) said, “Recording property details in gram panchayat is a process eligible to pay property tax. It is not a process to legalize unauthorized construction. It is part of collecting revenue through property tax. The PMRDA is authorized to sanction plans of the building and decide the authorized and unauthorized status of structure based on building permits and other related documents.” Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner of PMC said, “Though the gram panchayat is mentioning the name of properties in their land record, the corporation will verify and then apply property tax. The merger process will take more than one month to complete. After that, gram panchayat will have to hand over all records to PMC. Then, the actual merger process starts.” BOX Khate Utara (8A extract) It is a document which details the exact holdings of an owner; therefore, it is advisable to check that document for calculation of the total holding of the present owner. It is useful for establishing ownership. It shows total information of the owner’s properties in that village area. It is important documents which will help gram panchyat to evaluate and collect property tax on particular property||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/residents-in-23-villages-rush-to-gram-panchayats-for-property-registrations/story-QGrYkdqoyny52FSckjGpIP.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Demand to re-start Pune-Daund DEMU train||For more than 10,000 passengers travelling between Pune and Daund daily, the daily Pune–Daund shuttle Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (Demu) train operating daily is a lifeline. However, the train has not yet begun after lockdown despite repeated demands by passenger groups on the route. The Daund-Pune-Daund Pravasi Sangh has now given an ultimatum to the railway administration to immediately start the Demu train services from next week or face protest. “There are thousands of people who are working in the emergency services between Daund and Pune like government offices, semi-government, banks, police department, blood banks, hospitals and several other emergency services. The number of passengers travelling between both the cities is more than 10,000, so it is necessary that the shuttle Demu train service begins immediately. Earlier, we had a meeting with senior railway officials and repeatedly demanded to start the train, but nothing happened so we have now decided to go on a protest if the train doesn’t start from next week. Why are the Daund- Pune passengers treated badly,” asked Vikas Deshpande, secretary of the Daund-Pune-Daund Pravasi Sangh. From October 12, the Pune-Lonavala local train service resumed after almost six months and since then the daily passengers on the Pune – Daund route have started demanding to start the daily Pune – Daund shuttle Demu. The Demu train service between Pune and Daund was inaugurated in March 2017 by former union railway minister Suresh Prabhu. It is a 76-kilometre train route and there are ten halts on the route – Hadapsar, Manjari Budruk, Loni, Uruli Kanchan, Yavat, Khutbao, Kedgaon, Kadethan, Patas and Daund. “I daily travel by ST bus from Daund to Pune for my job and many times I miss my scheduled bus and reach late to office. If the Demu train is started there won’t be any problem and so it should be started immediately. As the Pune Lonavala local train has started then our daily shuttle train should also start as thousands of passengers are dependent on it,” said Gautam Pardhe, a daily commuter on this route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/passengers-demand-re-starting-of-the-pune-daund-demu-train/story-wi3TKmA8X0t7ONEDVj9siK.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Pune reports zero Covid deaths in past 24 hours||For the first time in months, Pune district has reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours. The city reported 586 new cases on Sunday. The district has reported 3.70 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.48 lakh have recovered, 7,760 have been reported dead and 14,848 are active cases undergoing treatment at hospitals or in-home isolation. Pune city reported 302 new cases taking the total count to 1, 90,184 and zero deaths which took the death toll to 4,399, while PCMC reported 107 new cases taking the final count to 93, 073 and zero deaths took the death toll to 1,267. Pune rural reported 177 new cases taking the final count to 87, 378 and zero deaths which took the death toll to 2,059, according to the state health department. The department reported that 2,124 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.09 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.29 per cent. Also, 3,314 new cases in the state were reported on Sunday taking the total to over 19.19 lakh. In addition, 66 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 50,388. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57 per cent. Of the 1, 25,02,554 laboratory samples, 19,19,550 have been tested positive (15.35%) for COVID-19 until today. Currently 4, 57,385 people are in-home quarantine and 3,323 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-zero-covid-deaths-in-past-24-hours/story-Y4G8DUeVvi9IL8WXeTiJhJ.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Two years on, Pune’s parking policy awaits implementation||Civic activists have appealed to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to execute the parking policy it passed in March 2018 which creates parking spots on major roads around the city. The parking spaces will be chargeable by the civic body and also generate revenue. Parisar, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) focusing or traffic issues, has asked the PMC to immediately introduce the recently passed policy. The new parking policy, which allows enforcement of pay and park on certain roads is gathering dust due to the opposition from some corporators. Sujit Patwardhan, program director of Parisar, along with his colleague Ranjit Gadgil and air quality co-ordinator Sharmila Deo have accused the civic body of delaying the implementation of policy unnecessarily.“The PMC had approved the parking policy on March 23, 2018. Despite getting the nod from elected members, it is still gathering dust. After getting a nod from the general body meeting, it was decided that the mayor would call the meeting with party leaders and announce the parking policy on selected roads on a pilot basis. Later, it would get executed in the city,” said Patwardhan. In the past when activists approached Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, he promised that the civic body would take a decision on it very soon but nothing happened, according to Patwardhan.Gadgil said, “Cities around the world are talking of parking management. As cars are occupying valuable land space which can be used for housing hospitals, parks and community spaces. As traffic congestion grows in urban areas, it is imperative to have a good management system in place which will create convenience not just for the car users, but all users who occupy road space, like cyclists, bus commuters and pedestrians.”The parking policy calls for marking streets and spaces to be used as parking lots which will be charged by the civic body. Although the administration has already given a list of around 37 roads including FC road, JM road, Gokhale road, Dhole Patil road, Koregaon Park road, MG road, among others it has not been implemented as the final decision was to be taken at an all-party committee meeting chaired by the mayor. Deo said, “There is a strong connection between having a parking policy and mitigating congestion and air pollution. When free parking is available it promotes haphazard parking that creates traffic blocks and congestion. PMC must need to execute its parking policy.” As per the new parking policy, residents will need to pay the parking fee for two-wheelers, as well as night charges. The minimum parking fee for two-wheelers is Rs 2 per hour and maximum Rs 4 per hour. The minimum parking fee for four-wheelers is Rs10 per hour and a maximum of Rs 20 per hour. This met with resistance from politicians since the 2019 Lok sabha and state elections were scheduled for this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-years-on-pune-s-parking-policy-awaits-implementation/story-yHvCok0msnbemIq4sAfzNJ.html
28-12-2020||City||Telangana farmers to get financial aid under ‘Rythu Bandhu’ from today. All you need to know||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Sunday announced that all farmers in the state will receive financial assistance under the ‘Rythu Bandhu’ scheme from December 28. A day after a review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan, Rao said more than Rs 7,500 crore would be directly transferred to the bank accounts of around 6.14 million farmers. The financial aid will be given to the farmers from December 28 to January 7.According to the chief minister’s office (CMO), the amount will be credited towards 15.2 million acres of cultivated land at the rate of Rs 5,000 per acre for upcoming cropping season. Rao instructed the concerned officials to ensure that each and every farmer in the state receives the benefit of the scheme, the release said.“He (Rao) said the assistance should begin with farmers who have less holding of lands and to the farmers having a large extent of holding and all farmers should get the assistance in 10 days,” the statement read.During the review meeting, the officials had also apprised the chief minister of the heavy losses incurred by the government to the tune of Rs 7,500 crore due to the purchase of paddy, sorghum, maize, redgram, Bengal gram and sunflower. The officials said that though the government purchased at the Minimum Support Price (MSP), it had to sell them at the lower prices in the market, as there was no demand for these crops.What is ‘Rythu Bandhu’ scheme?The state-run scheme, formally known as the Agriculture Investment Support Scheme, is aimed at incentivising lakhs of farmers every crop-sowing season to support farm investment. The government provides financial assistance for the purchase of inputs like seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, labour and other investments in the field.Under the scheme, every farmer in Telangana is supposed to receive Rs 5000 per acre for two seasons - Rabi and Kharif - which amounts to Rs 10,000 every year for an acre of cultivated land. The direct money transfer in farmers’ bank account allows them to withdraw the amount from the post offices near them, instead of travelling to the towns and cities. According to the government website, the farmers can withdraw the amount through the micro ATMs available through thousands of post offices in rural areas of Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/telangana-farmers-to-get-financial-aid-under-rythu-bandhu-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-XD3vrOWGw2VZigaPK0JZfJ.html
28-12-2020||City||Vaishno Devi shrine receives season’s first snowfall||The holy cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi in Trikuta Hills, Reasi district, Jammu and Kashmir, received the season’s first snowfall on Sunday evening.Tehsildar, Bhawan, Duni Chand said, “Around 5.15pm, the cave shrine received the season’s first snowfall. Till midnight on Sunday, around 9 to 10 inches of snow were recorded.”The Trikuta Hills also witnessed snowfall; there was heavy snow on the upper reaches. “The weather is cloudy on Monday and the pilgrimage is on, “ he added. Also Read: Several parts of J&K see fresh sporadic snowfall, weather likely to improveRains also lashed Ardhkuwari and the twin tracks that lead to the cave shrine. However, the pilgrimage continued smoothly. The shrine, one of the holiest Hindu shrines, is located at the height of 5,200 feet.Meanwhile, the tourist resort of Patnitop in Udhampur district also received heavy snowfall on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaishno-devi-shrine-receives-season-s-first-snowfall/story-JmTCkKo2ecGTAOaLsh2uaP.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank scam: Sanjay Raut says ED action an attempt to bring down MVA govt||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, whose wife Varsha Raut was issued summons by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) reportedly in connection with a multi-crore scam in Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank, warned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against a witch hunt. Raut, in a press conference held at Shiv Sena Bhavan in Central Mumbai, alleged that some BJP leaders have been trying to pass on a message to him that by using agencies like ED, CBI and the Income Tax department, they plan to bring down the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. ED has summoned Varsha Raut for an inquiry on December 29. The central agency has reportedly found a link of transactions between the accounts of Varsha Raut and Pravin Raut, one of the directors of Guruashish Construction Private Limited, who was arrested recently.Also Read: PMC Bank scam: After ED summons Varsha Raut, Shiv Sena shows support“Since the last year, leaders like Sharad Pawar, Praful Patel and others who were responsible for forming this government are being targeted. From the last three months, three people from the BJP have been frequenting the ED office and procuring documents from there. Since the last year, few BJP leaders have been trying to contact us with the message that the MVA government will soon be brought down. They said that they will use all agencies to achieve their aim of targeting opposition legislators and seeking their resignations. A list of 22 MLAs from the three ruling parties (Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress) was shown to be ready for action by these agencies. Pratap Sarnaik (who is facing an ED probe) was one of them. Since they have failed, they are now targeting our family members,” alleged Raut. Raut alleged that though outsiders are not allowed in the ED office, a few BJP leaders have been frequenting the office to get key documents. He questioned whether the BJP office has an ED cell or if the ED’s office has one for the party leaders. Raut also claimed that he has a list of 120 BJP leaders who have been party to questionable transactions and he was going to hand it over to the ED for further action.He said his wife Varsha Raut is a teacher who took a loan of Rs50 lakh from her friend 10 years ago. “For the last one-and-a-half months, ED has been corresponding with us. We have given all the documents they demanded. We have shown our IT returns and even disclosed my Rajya Sabha affidavit. If I start targeting BJP leaders, many of them in the Centre would have to run away from the country,” he added.BJP said that Raut was making misleading claims. “Raut should face the agency and furnish facts instead of politicising this inquiry. Raut should furnish the list of 120 BJP leaders and demand an inquiry. Who is stopping him from giving it to ED?” questioned BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-scam-sanjay-raut-says-ed-action-an-attempt-to-bring-down-mva-govt/story-FAvv7oCEciaLpYYIp6u2aO.html
28-12-2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar accepted to become CM on request of JD(U), BJP, VIP leaders: Sushil Modi||Nitish Kumar did not want to become the Chief Minister, said BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi while adding that he accepted to become the CM on the request of JDU, BJP and VIP leaders. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Sushil said, “He [Nitish Kumar] did not want to be the Chief Minister. BJP and JDU leaders told him that we fought the poll on his name and vision and said that people had voted for him. In the end, he accepted to become the CM on request of JDU, BJP and VIP leaders.”“Leaders of JD (U) have said that whatever has happened in Arunachal Pradesh will not affect the alliance in Bihar and Bihar government. BJP-JD(U) alliance in Bihar is unbreakable. The government will work for five years under the guidance of Nitish Kumar,” he added.His statement comes a day after incumbent Bihar Chief Minister said he had no desire to become the CM and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could make its own Chief Minister.During the JD(U)’s national executive meeting, Kumar had said that he is not attached to the position. “I had no desire to become the Chief Minister. I had said that the public had given its mandate and anyone can be made the Chief Minister, BJP could make its own Chief Minister,” he had said.The statement comes days after six of seven legislators of the Janata Dal (United) in Arunachal Pradesh defected to its NDA partner, BJP.However, Kumar had earlier made it clear that the developments of Arunachal Pradesh will have no bearing on Bihar’s politics as there is “no dispute” in its alliance government in Bihar.Nitish had recently quit from the post of party chief and handed over JD(U) to party leader Ramchandra Prasad Singh.Kumar is heading National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar having JD(U), BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha, and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) as its constituents.The NDA had secured a 125-seat majority in the 243-seat Bihar Legislative Assembly in November. The BJP secured 74 seats, JD(U) 43 while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-kumar-accepted-to-become-cm-on-request-of-jd-u-bjp-vip-leaders-sushil-modi/story-U4jz3vM2GzAcYSRBg5aNPL.html
28-12-2020||Kolkata||Remain on guard against new Covid strain: Mamata Banerjee tells officials||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed government officials to remain on guard against a new strain of coronavirus which has surfaced in the UK and a few other European countries. “A new strain of coronavirus has surfaced in the UK and it is being said that it is more potent. A second wave could be coming. We should be prepared for this. Some countries including UK and Italy have again started lockdown. We should be serious about it and shouldn’t let our guards down,” said Banerjee. She was addressing an administrative meeting in Birbhum district on Monday. Top bureaucrats of the state government were also present in the meeting. Also Read: Delhi HC ensured ‘all hands on deck’ to check coronavirus spread in 2020At least two persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolkata after returning from UK on December 21. It was the last flight from London to have arrived in Kolkata before India suspended all flights from UK from December 23. Banerjee, however, said that cases have gone down in West Bengal. While the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state was 36,761 on November 1, it has dropped to 13,774 on December 27. Till date the state has reported 547,443 Covid-19 cases, of which 9,598 persons have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/remain-on-guard-against-new-covid-strain-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-officials/story-PZr6kuu9z5mtdpe9oU9bcL.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 35,000 policemen to be deployed on streets for New Year’s Eve||Though bars, restaurants and pubs are not allowed to remain open after 11pm in Mumbai on New Year’s Eve, and public curfew will start from that time, 35,000 policemen will be deployed across the city to disperse the crowds and maintain physical distancing.The Mumbai Police have started preparing for the New Year by putting measures in place to maintain social distancing and dispersing crowds at places where the public mostly gathers on New Year’s Eve.Drones will also be used to check people’s movement and suspicious activity, if any. Night curfew, already imposed from 11pm, will remain in force. This, despite the fact that no bar, restaurant or pub has been given permission to celebrate New Year’s Eve.Also Read: 3 men held by Mumbai Police for killing Kandivli woman, dumping her body at Aksa beachPolicemen will be posted at beaches in plainclothes to maintain law and order, said a senior police officer. All police personnel have been instructed to compulsorily wear face masks during duty and to try and not be in close proximity of people while performing their duty unless required, said deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya, PRO, Mumbai Police.Weekly offs and holidays have been cancelled for all, from senior police officials to the members of constabulary/ All personnel will be on bandobast duty staring December 28 to January 1, said the officer.Besides, more than three companies of state reserve police force (SRPF) and 600 home guards will help the city police during the period. Extra force will be deployed to keep a watch at beaches, gardens, promenades and building terraces, added the official. From Thursday evening to Friday morning, security personnel, including members of SRPF, Anti-Terrorism Cell and the riot control police, will be posted on roads and railway stations. “We will not restrict people from coming out from their houses to celebrate New Year’s Eve but they should not come out in groups of more than four, as already night curfew is imposed and the celebration should wind up by 11pm due to curfew,” added Patil.The police will set up checkpoints at busy junctions and barricade highways to monitor motorists, said another official, adding that action will be taken against drunk drivers and eve teasers. Every police station has been instructed to keep check on people who have come from outside Mumbai and especially from abroad, and on hotels and the occupants of rented premises. Anti-sabotage measures are in place, while Quick Response Teams (QRT) units will be stationed strategically for immediate response, said Chaitanya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-35-000-policemen-to-be-deployed-on-streets-for-new-year-s-eve/story-TP9OmNsfrfXybQ2F2PT68O.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC ensured ‘all hands on deck’ to check coronavirus spread in 2020||Covid-19, which brought the country to a standstill in March, did not deter the Delhi High Court from ensuring that people had access to justice and “all hands were on deck” to curb the spread of the deadly virus as also to provide treatment and basic amenities to those affected by it.Before the pandemic brought the country to a grinding halt, the high court conducted two unprecedented midnight hearings, one related to north-east Delhi riots and the other to the Nirbhaya gangrape and murder case.Throughout the year, the high court dealt with a number of petitions relating to Covid-19, including pleas to provide adequate PPE kits to health workers, sanitation staff, medical cover to media persons reporting on the pandemic, payment of salaries to teachers, doctors, nurses, safai karamchaaris and retired employees of municipal corporations.A day after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, the high court took no time to commence hearings via video conferencing of very urgent matters, and only lawyers appearing for each side were allowed the access.In the riots case, a call was made at the residence of a judge explaining the dire circumstances wherein it was not possible to move the victims from a small hospital to a government hospital. The court directed the police to ensure their safe passage and emergency treatment. The next day, the judge, Justice S Muralidhar, expressed “anguish” over Delhi Police’s failure to register FIRs against alleged hate speeches by three BJP leaders. Hours later a notification was issued by the central government for his transfer to the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Even as many in the legal community questioned the timing, Justice Muralidhar, during his farewell, apprised everyone that he was informed about the transfer much before he heard the riots case.On late evening of March 19, three of the convicts in the Nirbhaya case approached the high court to stop their execution. However, their plea was dismissed by the High Court as well as the Supreme Court and they were hanged on the morning of March 20.During the initial phase of hearings via video-conferencing, the court dealt with the pleas of students and other citizens stranded abroad due to coronavirus and directed the authorities to take steps to evacuate them.It also from time to time extended interim orders, including bail, issued by it and subordinate courts before the lockdown.By June, when Unlock-1 was implemented, almost all benches of the High Court began hearing matters via video conferencing which the general public was allowed to attend.Following the Supreme Court orders, a high powered committee, headed by a senior Delhi High Court judge, was formed to reduce the number of inmates in over-crowded jails via parole and interim bail.The High Court also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to implement steps to curb domestic violence and protect the victims during the lockdown and to also ensure there was no dearth of food, water, electricity and sanitation requirements for homeless workers during the period. It observed that in the present “emergent” situation when the country is struggling to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, “it is the need of the hour that all hands are on the deck” and suggested the government to appoint officers to address all problems faced by migrant and daily wage workers living in relief camps during the lockdown.It also gave stern directions to the authorities to clear the arrears and pay salaries of the employees.Besides, it asked the government to ensure that Covid-19 test samples sent to the accredited labs are processed swiftly and the results declared within 24-48 hours. Availability of beds -- both ICU and normal -- and ambulances were the other issues which the High Court kept monitoring.It kept pushing the Delhi government to go for RT-PCR tests, instead of Rapid Antigen Testing, but it was only after the per day cases crossed 8,000 in November and strictures were passed by the High Court that the AAP administration “turned turtle” and “woke up” to the situation.In September, the High Court began physical hearings of matters on a smaller scale due to requests from a section of lawyers. However, according to the High Court data more than 90% advocates preferred proceedings via video conferencing.In October, the High Court also decided to stop granting blanket extension of interim orders, including bails, and ordered staggered surrender of the prisoners. However, the decision was put on hold by the Supreme Court.In November, the High Court decided to extend its restricted form of functioning till January 16, 2021.Towards the year-end, by an interim order it allowed Amazon to oppose before regulators a Rs 24,713 crore deal by Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail to sell assets to Reliance Retail but ruled that the US e-commerce giant’s attempt to control Future Retail is violative of FEMA and FDI rules.The other cases dealt with by the High Court during the year related to actor Rakul Preet Singh’s plea over media connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case as also the pleas challenging election of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy CM Manish Sisodia for allegedly violating poll campaign norms in the recent assembly elections.The court also set aside ex-law minister Jitender Tomar’s election in 2015 polls for false declaration, and refused to suspend BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar’s life imprisonment for raping a minor girl in Unnao in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-ensured-all-hands-on-deck-to-check-coronavirus-spread-in-2020/story-T7UR4gUCXT8PkUkGnqTfqI.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank scam: After ED summons Varsha Raut, Shiv Sena shows support||A day after Enforcement Directorate (ED) issued summons to Varsha Raut, wife of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena rallied behind the leader. State minister and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son Aaditya Thackeray expressed the government’s support and called the notice politically motivated. “This is all political. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is not afraid of any such notice,” said Aaditya Thackeray, who is also a Cabinet minister in the MVA ministry. Varsha Raut has been summoned by the ED on December 29 reportedly in connection with a multi-crore scam in Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank.Also Read: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha summoned by ED in PMC Bank scam caseSanjay Raut has, however, denied receiving any notice from the ED, and instead taunted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said, “I have sent my man to the BJP office to collect the notice,” said Sanjay Raut.The central agency has reportedly found a link of transactions between the accounts of Varsha Raut and Pravin Raut, one of the directors of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, who was arrested recently in connection with the scam.BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said Sanjay Raut should not fear if he is innocent. “This is just a notice and there is nothing to fear if he has not done anything,” said Fadnavis.State home minister Anil Deshmukh has condemned the notice. “Anyone who opposes the BJP or their policies is targeted. Such a witch hunt was never seen in Maharashtra politics before,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-scam-after-ed-summons-varsha-raut-shiv-sena-shows-support/story-h0a5M102iU7pgkF8gXSZqO.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||PM Modi to flag off 100th Kisan Rail today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the 100th Kisan Rail (farmers’ train), which will ply between Maharashtra and West Bengal, on Monday afternoon. The train that will transport farm produce including vegetables and fruits will operate between Sangola in Maharashtra and Shalimar in West Bengal. Farmers will be able to book kilograms to tonnes of produce as per requirement, and there will be no minimum or maximum size of consignment required for transportation on the train. The railways have permitted the loading and unloading of perishable goods on all halts. Also Read: Anna Hazare threatens to launch his ‘last protest’ for farmersA 50% subsidy has been offered by the Government of India on the transportation of fruits and vegetables.Narendra Singh Tomar, agriculture and farmer welfare minister, and Piyush Goyal, railways, commerce and consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister, will be present at the flagging off through video conferencing. “The Kisan Rail was announced in the budget. It provides a seamless supply chain of perishable produce.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railways. The Indian railways operated its first Kisan Rail between Devlali in Maharashtra and Danapur in Bihar in August. The train was extended up to Muzaffarpur in Bihar.The train was initially operated weekly but later on began operating thrice a week.Later, dedicated trains for carrying orange produce from Nagpur in Maharashtra were also operated in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-100th-kisan-rail-today/story-vRtJYK6MvqbOMR6XRfPwBK.html
28-12-2020||City||Several parts of J&K see fresh sporadic snowfall, weather likely to improve||Several parts of Jammu and Kashmir witnessed fresh sporadic snowfall during the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The state’s weather office said that the ski resort of Gulmarg of Kashmir valley received most of the snow, while there was some precipitation in parts of Jammu as well. “Jammu mostly received snow in the areas of Kishtwar, Batote, Patni Top and Jawahar Tunnel,” said deputy director of the meteorological department, Srinagar, Mukhtar Ahmad.Also Read: Cold wave likely to grip North India from Tuesday, IMD issues health warningHe said the depth of the snow was 13cm in Batote, 6.8cm in Banihal, 2cm in Gulmarg and 1.5cm in Pahalgam. He said that now the snowfall has stopped, the weather would improve. “ Now the weather will be fine up to January 4,” he said, referring to the fact that temperatures will stop falling further. Owing to the cloudy weather, the minimum night temperatures have also stopped dipping in Kashmir. “It was 0.6 degrees Celsius in Srinagar as the presence of clouds improved the minimum temperature, “ Ahmad said. People woke up to a sunny morning in Srinagar as there was less chill in the air. The temperature had dipped in the night to -6.5 degrees Celsius in Gulmarg, -1.3 degrees Celsius in Pahalgam, -1.7 degrees Celsius in Batote and -0.2 degrees Celsius in Banihal. Jammu-Srinagar NHW through after clearance of landslide and snow. Stranded vehicles between Jawahar Tunnel and Nashree Tunnel will clear after that fresh vehicles shall be allowed @JmuKmrPoliceAuthorities had halted the traffic for some time on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway due to the snowfall but the road was reopened in the morning. “Jammu-Srinagar NHW through after clearance of landslide and snow. Stranded vehicles between Jawahar Tunnel and Nashree Tunnel will clear after that fresh vehicles shall be allowed,” the traffic police said in a tweet. The 40-day-long intense winter period “chillai kalan” started in Kashmir Valley on December 21 with sub-zero night temperatures across the region.This year, winter has started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record -6.6 degrees Celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and the second coldest December night in the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/several-parts-of-j-k-see-fresh-sporadic-snowfall-weather-likely-to-improve/story-fXIH2EkKhWPEcUzkmkGvfI.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to slight nip in air as minimum temperature drops marginally||The city and its suburbs woke up to a slight nip in the air on Monday morning as the minimum temperatures dropped marginally.Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, a sharp decline of 4.4 degrees from Sunday and 1.4 degrees below normal. Colaba, too, saw the minimum temperature drop from 21.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday to 18.8 degrees Celsius, a 1 degree dip from normal.“The fall in temperature is mostly due to the cold northerly to northwesterly winds from the northern plains in association with the passage of a western disturbance,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), said.Also Read: Green activists must work on reducing Carbon footprintThe IMD had predicted a fall in temperatures for two or three days starting Sunday.On Sunday, the maximum temperatures in the city and suburbs had dropped marginally owing to north and northwesterly winds.The lowest temperature recorded this season was 15.8 degrees Celsius on December 23. Last year, the lowest recorded temperature was 16.4 degrees Celsius and the year before, it was 14.4 degrees Celsius.Air quality continued to remain poor on Monday. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—reading of 252 (poor) was recorded on Monday morning. The AQI reading was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. Safar categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.Air quality deteriorating is a routine phenomenon during winter as wind directions change and more wind blows from the land instead of the sea, according to a spokesperson from Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-slight-nip-in-air-as-minimum-temperature-drops-marginally/story-x2XhMZRmXqDuh8OxauUDZP.html
28-12-2020||Kolkata||Bengal forest dept radio collars tiger in Sunderbans to study man-animal conflict||For the first time in the Sunderbans, forest department officials and wildlife experts are taking the help of satellites and radio signals to study tigers and assess the human-tiger conflict in the world’s largest mangrove delta, which has around 100 big cats. A male tiger, that was captured and fitted with a satellite radio collar, was released back in the wild on Sunday, close to a human settlement in the Basirhat range of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve (STR). In the Sunderbans, where human settlements and tiger territories are separated just by a river in many places, tiger straying is common.“Officials from the West Bengal government’s wildlife wing and experts from the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) fitted a tiger with a collar and released it in the STR to assess human-tiger interactions through telemetry,” said a top forest department official, requesting anonymity. Also Read: Intellectuals protest against treatment meted out to Sen by Visva BharatiThe Sunderbans, located at the southern tip of West Bengal, account for the highest number of people killed by tigers in India. At least 62 people were killed in the state by tigers between 2015 and 2019 as per figures placed before the Lok Sabha on September 23. Maharashtra with 61 deaths was second. “Incidents of tigers straying into the bordering villages have been brought down over the years by putting up nylon fences all along the forest boundary. But people are still attacked and often killed when they enter the forest to catch crabs, fishes and collect honey,” said a forest official. Officials said that earlier, tigers were collared in the Sunderbans to collect data on their home range and territory. But this is the first time that the data will be used to assess the human-tiger conflict. Forest officials said that three more tigers will be collared soon. The tigers’ movement patterns in the vicinity of human settlements will be studied over the next three years at least. “The forest department has always prioritised scientific management of biodiversity in the Sunderban Biosphere Reserve. This initiative will help manage and safeguard the tigers,their habitat and human population as well as help understand the tigers’ behaviour and habitat utilisation patterns,” said VK Yadav, chief wildlife warden of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sunderbans-first-tiger-fitted-with-radio-collar-to-study-man-animal-conflict/story-tu6IyxYtgUALwqcLM5YS1M.html
28-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Ayodhya students booked for sedition over ‘azaadi’ slogans||A group of students of Saket PG College, Ayodhya, has been booked on sedition and other charges for allegedly raising “azaadi” slogans during a protest in which they demanded students’ union poll. ND Pandey, the principal of the college, lodged a complaint against 13 students at the Ayodhya Kotwali police station on December 23. Thereafter, Ashutosh Mishra, station officer in charge of the police station, lodged a first information report (FIR) against six students the same day.“An FIR has been lodged under several sections against students on various charges, including arson. Some students even incited three students to kill themselves, who reached the rooftop of the college,” the station officer said on Sunday.The students, however, did not jump.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Allahabad HC reunites interfaith couple in EtahThe students denied the sedition charges, saying they were demanding “azaadi” (freedom) from the principal and the “anti-student policies” of the college.The incident took place on December 16. During the investigation, the station officer found six students involved in the incident. The police booked the students under sections 124A (sedition), 147 (rioting), 353 (assault on public servant), 427 (causing damage to property), 506 (offence of criminal intimidation) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code. The college management has now announced the students’ union poll on February 10 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-ayodhya-students-booked-for-sedition-over-azaadi-slogans/story-RocnC967jGNyMc7r3Ouc7I.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||PM Modi to inaugurate India’s first driverless train in Delhi: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will inaugurate India’s first driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line, connecting Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden along with the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on the Airport Express Line.Here is all you need to know about the new technology:• The driverless train technology will first be inaugurated on the Magenta Line, connecting Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden, but will be extended to the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) by mid-2021.• The extension of this technology to the Pink Line will increase the driverless network on the Delhi Metro to around 94km, which is nearly 9% of Delhi Metro’s total network.Also Read: PM Modi to flag-off Delhi Metro’s first driverless train, National Common Mobility Card today• After Monday’s inauguration, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will enter the elite league of 7% of the world’s Metro networks, which can operate without drivers.• Driverless train technology has set standards for automation called grades of automation (GoA). In GoA 1, trains are run by one driver and, in GoA 2 and GoA 3, the role of the driver is reduced to operating doors and for taking over in case of emergencies—the starting and halting of trains is automated. Finally, in the GoA 4, trains are on completely unattended operations mode.• DMRC has had driverless technology since 2017, but the agency has been conducting rigorous trials befor launch. The initial launch was set for May 2020, but this had to be postponed because of the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-inaugurate-india-s-first-driverless-train-in-delhi-all-you-need-to-know/story-Z0Qh5mvw7XxTkQFz5oaxoJ.html
28-12-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives first snow of the season, more expected||Much to the delight of tourists, Shimla received the season’s first snowfall on Sunday night ahead of the New Year bringing cheer to residents and hoteliers.The MeT Centre Shimla has forecast rain and snow on Monday.“Light snowfall is very likely to continue in the districts of Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and hither reaches of Chamba, Kangra and Mandi,” said Shimla MeT Centre director Manmohan Singh.Kufri, 14 kilometres away from Shimla has received 30cm snowfall, Dalhousie 22cm, Manali 14cm, Shimla 9cm, Jubbar Hatti 4cm, Khadrala Khada Pathar and Sungri have received 7cm snow each, while Narkanda and Rohru recorded 2cm snowfall each. Apart from this, Palampur received 16mm of rain, Nahan 14.6mm, Solan 13.8mm, Bilaspur 13.5mm, Chamba 13mm, Kangra 12.8mm, Una 9.8mm, Mandi 8.4mm and Dharamshala 2.6mm.Also Read: Cold wave likely from Tuesday, IMD issues health warningShimla Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla said that roads in upper areas of the districts including Kharapathar, Narkanda, Fagu, Khidki and Chambi were blocked due to snowfall.“Roads in the Dhalli, Mashobra, Sanjauli, Lakkar Bazar, Navbahar and Chhota Shimla suburbs of Shimla town are slippery. People should plan their visit accordingly,” he said.Around a dozen roads in Chopal sub-division have also been blocked.Atal Tunnel, National Highway 305 have also been blocked for vehicular traffic due to fresh snowfall in Solang valley and in Jalori Pass. Superintendent of Police (SP) Kullu Gaurav Singh has advised people to not to venture into these areasMeanwhile, the plains experienced light to moderate rainfall along with strong winds, intensifying the chill.In Chamba, Dalhousie and the upper reaches, including Bharmaur and Pangi, also experienced snowfall.The MeT office has predicted clear weather on Tuesday but warned of thick ground frost and intense cold wave in the lower hills from December 29 to 31, causing damage to crops.Shimla shivered at minus 1.1°C while minimum temperature in Kufri reached -2.4°C. Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie recorded minimum temperatures of 0.2°C, 1.4°C and -3.4°C respectively.Minimum temperature in Una was recorded at 2.8°C, 0.7°C in Solan, 3°C in Bilaspur, 2.8°C in Hamirpur, 7.9°C in Nahan, 3.2°C in Mandi and minus 3.1°C in Kalpa, Kinnaur district.Keylong, the headquarters of tribal district Lahaul and Spiti, is the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of -6.7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-shimla-receives-first-snow-of-the-season-more-expected/story-92qUgV3yxjagNggDlrHmUJ.html
28-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Allahabad HC reunites interfaith couple in Etah||The Allahabad high court reunited an interfaith couple and quashed a first information report (FIR) lodged over the alleged abduction of the woman for marriage. The court passed its order after finding out that the woman had attained the age of majority and had married the man of her own free will. Allowing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Shikha and Salman alias Karan of Etah district, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal on December 18 quashed the FIR dated September 27, 2020. FIR in question was registered under sections 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Kotwali Dehat police station of Etah district. Also Read: MP govt’s bill against forced conversions exempts re-conversionsThe court directed the investigation officer of the case, who was present in the court, to ensure appropriate protection to Shikha and her husband Salman alias Karan till they returned to their residence. The high court observed, “As the corpus has attained the age of majority and she has a choice to live her life on her own terms. She has expressed that she wants to live with her husband Salman @ Karan, she is free to move as per her own choice without any restriction or hindrance being created by third party.” Earlier, when Shikha was produced before the court, she submitted that she had attained the age of majority and her date of birth was October 4, 1999. She also said she married and wanted to live with her husband namely Salman alias Karan, who was also present in court, of her own free will. In the judgment, the court said that at one stage, the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Etah district, by an order dated December 7, 2020, had handed over Shikha’s custody of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Etah, which on December 8, 2020 had given custody to her parents without any application of mind and against her wish. The high court observed, “The act of CJM, Etah, and that of the CWC, Etah, reflects lack of appreciation of legal provisions”. Pronouncing the judgment, the court directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Prayagraj to provide necessary police security to the couple. In his petition, Salman alias Karan had submitted before the court that his wife (Shikha) had been handed over to her parents by the Child Welfare Committee against her wishes. The writ of habeas corpus is filed to challenge the illegal detention of a person. If the court finds that the detention is illegal, he or she is directed to be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-allahabad-hc-reunites-interfaith-couple-in-etah/story-dy4IWqmKB6UxTYUxKsx6GP.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||After deteriorating last week, Delhi’s air to improve: IMD||After deteriorating last week, Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Monday morning and reached the early end of "very poor" zone. The hourly average air quality index (AQI) reading at 7am according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 336.CPCB recordings show that the overall AQI reading of Delhi on Sunday was 396, in the "very poor" zone. On Saturday, the AQI reading was 337, also in the "very poor" category. Air quality on Sunday evening deteriorated and reached the "severe" zone according to CPCB, but improvement started early Monday as wind direction changed to northwesterly. Also Read: Greater Noida most polluted city; Noida, Ghaziabad air in ‘severe’ zone againVK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s environment monitoring research centre, said that on Sunday Delhi received winds from the northeastern direction, which were high in moisture levels. “The high moisture in the air will keep the pollution levels high, but from Monday morning the wind direction will change back to northwesterly. The wind speed will also improve slightly, which will result in a marginal betterment of the AQI,” said Soni. He, however, added that the improvement will not be significant and the AQI on Monday is also likely to remain in the "very poor" zone. Union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research forecast also said that from Monday, Delhi’s air quality is expected to improve. “The surface winds are likely to pick up and AQI is likely to improve to the middle-range of very poor for December 28 and December 29. AQI is likely to deteriorate thereafter towards the high end of very poor by December 30 and December 31,” the Safar analysis read.Meanwhile, the IMD has also warned of cold wave conditions in Delhi and neighbouring towns from December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-deteriorating-last-week-delhi-s-air-to-improve-imd/story-ROJWVQvzda9zXq1zRPZYnO.html
28-12-2020||City||1 death, 155 fresh infections in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity area recorded 155 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours while one more succumbed to the virus. The death was reported from Mohali district, which saw 56 new cases. Chandigarh detected 63 new cases, taking its tally to 19,423. As many as 56 persons also recovered from the virus. The UT now has 361 active cases.Panchkula’s tally rose to 9, 906 on Sunday. Among the fresh cases were two CRPF personnel. The district now has 225 active cases.In Mohali, the fresh cases came in from Dera Bassi (3), Dhakoli (6), Kharar (2) and Mohali urban (45). With 165 recoveries, Mohali is now left with 1, 264 active cases. UT gets 1.5L syringes to administer Covid vaccineThe UT administration received the first lot of around 1.5 lakh syringes from the central government on Sunday to carry out the Covid vaccination drive in the city.Senior officials confirmed that the syringes have been stored in the district vaccine store at Government multi-specialty Hospital in Sector 16 and will be used as when the vaccine is made available by the central government.The vaccine will be introduced in the country only after regulatory bodies clear it based on safety and efficacy.The vaccine, when available, will be procured by the district vaccine store from Government Medical Store Depot, Karnal, that is presently handling vaccines and other cold chain items.Officials said the registration of beneficiaries is mandatory to receive the Covid vaccine. Following online registration, beneficiaries will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number informing them of the due date, place, and time of vaccination. On getting the dose, the beneficiary will receive an SMS once again. After all doses of the vaccine are administered, a QR code-based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-death-155-fresh-infections-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-m6oGdaNTVn3HecgFFR58uN.html
28-12-2020||City||Panchkula records 54% turnout, polling peaceful Panchkula||Of the 1.86 lakh voters in Panchkula, only 54% turned up to vote for the municipal corporation (MC) elections on Sunday. It was lowest turnout among the three MCs in Haryana that went to the polls today. During the last MC polls in 2013, Panchkula had recorded a turnout of 64.1%. Polling began at 8.30am and continued till 5.30pm, with most of the elderly choosing to vote in the initial few hours itself. The last hour was reserved for Covid-19 patients, however, officials could not confirm if any positive patient had turned up to vote.The maximum voting was recorded in ward number 20 (84.9%), which covers mostly villages, while the lowest voting was in ward number 2 (urban sectors) which saw a turnout of 38.9%. Over 1,400 police personnel had been deployed across the city to ensure peaceful polling. Of these, 1, 000 were posted at polling booths. Low turnout attributed to Covid, holiday seasonCongress’ mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said the low turnout could likely be due to the pandemic and holiday season. “The city has a large number of elderly persons, who may have stayed home due to the pandemic. Also, as New Year is round the corner, many may have gone out of station to celebrate,” she said. City MLA Gian Chand Gupta also said that Covid and New Year holidays may have led to fewer persons coming to vote. The 20 wards of Panchkula had 257 polling booths, while 98 booths were declared hyper-sensitive, 29 were sensitive. Dalip Singh, state election commissioner, Haryana, said: “Voting was held peacefully in Panchkula and all Covid-19 norms were followed. I visited 15 to 16 polling booths and found all arrangements satisfactory. Law and order situation remained peaceful. No incident of bogus voting was reported.”There are six mayoral candidates and 83 others in the fray for 20 seats of councillors in the Panchkula MC House.Stark contrast in arrangements at rural and urban boothsIn terms of Covid safety, there was a stark contrast in the arrangements made at polling booth in urban and rural areas of the MC.The administration was asked to ensure that each polling booth had thermal scanners and sanitisers, besides PPE kits for those in need. Special arrangements were also to be made for senior citizens, pregnant women, and the differently-abled.At the polling station in the Saarthak, Government Intergrated Model Secondary School, Sector 12-A, voters got a red-carpet welcome. The temperature of every voter was checked and they were provided mask and gloves before entering the booths.The entry was from one gate and exit was from another. For elderly persons or for those with disabilities, there were volunteers to take them in on wheelchairs. Dr Vijay Kumar Sharma, 55, a resident of Sector 12-A said: “The arrangement is appreciable. My 88-year old mother was provided with a wheelchair and a volunteer came forward for help. We did not face any problem.”Similar were arrangements in place in other sectors as well and there was no visible crowding inside or outside the polling stations.However, the arrangements at polling stations catering to colonies were not satisfactory. The road leading to Government School, Sector 17, which had 10 polling booths for the population of Indira Colony, was jam-packed with voters. A differently abled voter, Savitri, had to crawl to get to the voting booth as there were no wheelchairs available. A supervisor present there, was without mask.Also, there was only one small gate for both entry and exit and there was no temperature scanning of voters. The arrangement at Buddanpur and Maheshpur polling stations were also not adequate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-records-54-turnout-polling-peaceful-panchkula/story-2EdGOTkqDS668VeFt0THXI.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh: Curtains come down on 2020, what are your hopes and plans for the new year?||The curtains are finally coming down on 2020, a year in which a virus took over the world, snatched lives and livelihoods and caused untold sufferings, virtually ruining economies and bringing countries to a standstill. At the threshold of a New Year, however, hopes are flickering as vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna have been authorised for use many countries and others being developed by University of Oxford-AstraZeneca are on the verge of being approved even as emergence of a newer, more virulent strain, is adding to worries. The pandemic alone, however, has not been the cause of concern. From the Shaheen Bagh sit-in and the farmers’ stir; the Delhi violence, the locust attack, the India-China standoff at the borders and cyclones such as Amphan and Nisar, one unfortunate happening followed another. Many issues remain unresolved.The world has done its best to adapt. Work from home has become the norm, classes have grown smaller to fit a computer monitor or mobile phone screen, many people say they are learning to do with less, feeling more sympathy for their fellow men and enjoying time spent with loved ones. Exploration of art, taking new courses, thinking positive and doing one’s bit for others has suddenly become more important.This New Year, therefore, will definitely be one of renewal, no matter what it has in store for us. Still coming to terms with the shock of Covid-19, people are definitely not going to take life for granted.What are your hopes and plans for the new year?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-finally-curtains-come-down-on-2020/story-ZixaPQ3vg8mlPWU4M5q9NP.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Declare timetable, paper pattern for SSC, HSC exams, say Maharashtra teachers||Teachers groups across the state have demanded the Maharashtra education department to give them more clarity on conducting SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) examinations which are likely to take plan in May-June 2021 due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown.In a letter addressed to the department on Saturday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) teachers’ cell said that there was a lot of uncertainty around the board exams. “The process for form filling has begun for Class 10 and 12 students, but there is no clarity on conducting exams. The department has neither announced tentative dates for the exams nor has it released details on the paper pattern to be followed. We hope that the paper pattern is not changed because that might lead to unnecessary confusion amongst students,” said Anil Bornare of the BJP Teachers’ Cell.Over the last few days, several parents and schools have been writing to the department requesting officials for clarity about the board exams. With a 25% reduction in syllabus across classes, schools said they are unsure about the paper pattern. A senior official from the state board said that the paper pattern is unlikely to be changed. “The syllabus and the paper pattern for Class 10 and 12 have undergone changes in recent years, and it is not expected to change this year,” said the official.In early November, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that exams for SSC and HSC are unlikely before May due to the prevailing pandemic conditions in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/declare-timetable-paper-pattern-for-ssc-hsc-exams-say-maharashtra-teachers/story-uyS84QxXZmSnpjyQ005zhP.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Re-carpeting of Sec-33 inner road on hold for over a month||Even after a month since the re-carpeting of the inner road of Sector 33 connecting the Sector 32/33 and Sector 33/34 roundabouts came to a halt, the work is yet to resume, despite residents complaining about the apathy of the authorities.The road had been scraped in the beginning of November, but the work had to be stopped, as the temperature went below the ideal 25°C, needed for re-carpeting roads. Balram of Sector 33 was driving his Activa scooter near the Terrace Garden market on December 14 when the vehicle slipped and he fell off. He sustained multiple injuries to the left side of his body, including his arm, leg and even his fingers and head. “The scooter had been losing traction on the road, and since it was late in the evening, the road was dark as the streetlights here don’t work properly. I have been bedridden ever since,” Balram said.He added that two of his neighbours also slipped on the same patch where he did, but it is still in the same state, even after it has been two weeks since the accident.Shabnam Sharma, another resident of Sector 33, also said that she had slipped here once and now takes the longer route around the Sector when she has to go to Sector 32.Kuljinder Sra, general secretary of the Sector 33-B residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “We have been asking the authorities to fix this problem for over a month, but to no avail. Driving on the road stirs up the sand lying here which has been causing breathing problems for those who live nearby. MC has started work on the road in the past few days, but only a small part has been fixed, while the rest lies abandoned.”Shailender Singh, MC chief engineer, says he is aware of the problem. “Work has been restarted on the road and we are confident that it will be fixed in a week. If it rains, then it might take a couple of more days,” he added.Local area councillor Rajesh Kumar Gupta added that one layer has been laid down on parts of the road so far, but, they will lay down three layers in total, before the maintenance work is complete. “Earlier, the work had to be stopped because the temperature had dropped too low. Even now, it is taking longer because of the winter conditions. However, it should be completed soon,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-re-carpeting-of-sec-33-inner-road-on-hold-for-over-a-month/story-CdAF3yO8HUhuxuv6O7p7HO.html
28-12-2020||City||Personal finance: Know the different kinds of mutual funds||Last week, we discussed why parking some money in mutual funds isn’t a bad option, provided you have a basic understanding of what your investment objectives are: are you looking to save for retirement, or repay a student loan? What is your tolerance for risk, and how many more years do you have left to work? Here’s a look at some of the types of mutual funds that exist.Tax saving funds While planning your retirement savings, you must not ignore the taxation aspect. There are specific kinds of mutual funds called equity linked savings schemes (ELSS) that as Archit Gupta, founder and CEO, ClearTax, an online e-filing portal put it, “Offers the dual benefit of tax deductions and wealth creation over time.” The money in these funds is used to primarily invest in the equity market that avail returns in the range of 10-12 per cent, which is twice the interest offered by tax-saving fixed deposits. But be warned, these investments come with a lock-in period of three years.Open-ended funds These types of funds allow you to stay invested for any choice of tenure without warranting any upper or limits of investments. This means that you can buy or redeem any number of these mutual fund units throughout the year with subscriptions and redemptions being allowed on the prevailing net asset value. Suresh Sadagopan, founder, Ladder7 Financial Advisories, a professional financial planning and wealth advisory firm says, “Open-ended MFs are the most common kind of MF schemes available. It is suitable for all kinds of investors as it offers liquidity at every point. One may look at close-ended funds only if one has that kind of tenure to invest and only if it allows some specific benefit.” Investors prefer putting money in open-end funds owing to the ease of investments at low cost.Equity funds These mutual funds are best suited for investors inclined to benefit from the highs and lows of the equity stock (shares) market. Apart from earning returns and benefit from regular dividends on equity funds instruments, investors are saved from the risk of losing the entire investment amount as long as you retain a long-term investment outlook. The risk is typically based on the industry, for instance, the IT sector seems to be stable than say, the oil industry, at present. However, this is not a fixed state of affairs. So you need to understand the composition of your mutual fund, and look out for risk-o-meters that indicate the risk factor involved in that particular mutual fund investment that you are looking at.Sahil Arora, director and head of Investments, Paisabazaar.com, a virtual debt syndication service said, “While equities can be highly volatile in the short term, it beats inflation and other asset classes like fixed-income instruments by a wide margin over the long run. Another benefit of investing in equity mutual funds is that they are well diversified across stocks and sectors, which helps to reduce risk and usually they are liquid and come with no lock-in period.”Mutual funds give better returns over a period than the average inflation rate, and though the pandemic makes it difficult for us to predict the inflation rate the way that we may have been able to in the previous years, the market itself is resilient, backed by industries. Thus, it is highly probable that the returns will continue to stay higher than inflation rates.Debt fundsIf you are wary of risky investments or prefer options that promise fixed returns and guarantee capital protection, debt funds will serve your purpose. This is because debt funds are investments in government bonds and securities, corporate bonds or other fixed income instruments. So the initial capital that you invest does not waver, what will vary is the returns on your investment, which is mostly lower than the returns that you get from equity mutual funds. Depending on the holding period, the returns from debt funds can be long-term or short-term gains. Short-term funds typically have a short maturity period (holding period; tenure over which the investors stay invested in a mutual fund) of usually three years or less. If you remain invested in these funds for at least three years, you get the benefit of long-term capital gains tax. If you redeem your investment within three years, the capital gains will be added to your income and will be taxed as per your income tax slab rate.Pension funds These kinds of mutual funds instruments suit best if you are looking for a regular and constant income source. Designed for investors with a long-term perspective on income and returns, pension funds start generating steady returns by the time you reach your retirement age. Besides Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra, a financial services marketplace says, “The investment in equity with debt helps to steadily grow the retirement corpus while ensuring maximum capital protection. With exposure to diverse asset classes, pension funds aim to obtain a higher yield as compared to fixed return schemes, and thus try to ensure that returns beat the inflation rate.” You may choose between receiving returns in a lump sum, pension, or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/personal-finance-know-the-different-kinds-of-mutual-funds/story-tcXZBrJ2uWeu6xBktg4fTJ.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula MC polls: Rolling out the red carpet at model booth||From model booths to a nonagenarian coming in to cast her vote, there was a lot going on at the Panchkula municipal corporation elections. Model booth rolls out the red carpetA model booth, Sarthak Integrated Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 12-A had signs painted on the floor greeting voters. Red carpets too were rolled out for people to make a grand entry into the booth. “We want to make people welcome,” officials said. That sure is five star service.Wooing game, dummy ballotsMC candidates continued to woo the voters till the last minute. A number of people canvassing for their nominated councillors were seen offering dummy ballot papers to voters going into booths, showing them their party’s symbol and asking them to press the same button on the voting machines. The enlightened voters of course saw through the act immediately.It’s all about democracy for nonagenarianA super senior at 90, Urmila, who had come to the Government Primary School in Sector 17 to cast her vote, said she had no complaints about the MC and did not face any problems. “I have come to vote as it is my democratic right,” she said, proudly.Compiled by Tanbir Dhaliwal and Rajanbir Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-polls-rolling-out-the-red-carpet-at-model-booth/story-IPS6fBu3S79ULrjsqEXOCM.html
28-12-2020||City||Shiv Sena-NCP camaraderie worries Maharashtra Congress||The state leadership of the Congress is upset over the hobnobbing between its allies, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), of late, as well as about the recent criticism against its central leadership. Recently, deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar told his party workers to adjust with Shiv Sena at local levels, as the two parties were looking at a long-standing alliance.“The Congress has always been getting secondary treatment in the ruling alliance. The MLAs (Members of Legislative Assembly) from Shiv Sena and NCP have been getting special development funds. The municipal corporations and councils headed by Congress are not given the funds as the departments which release the money are held by other two parties. Being the head of MVA government, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray should personally look into these matters,” said Congress leader and former minister Arif Naseem Khan. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat and former CM Ashok Chavan had openly expressed their discontent on the secondary treatment given to the party in the alliance in the past. Congress leaders also feel they may be pushed to an insignificant position during the upcoming major civic body elections. As many as 27 district councils of the total 34 and 15 of 27 municipal corporations are going to polls in the next two years. “It is a simple equation in the local body elections. The party with the highest corporators in the local body will be the senior partner in the alliance at that level. In most of the civic corporations, Sena and NCP have their stronghold. We have better understanding between us, but accommodating Congress in seat-sharing may become difficult in most of the cases,” said an NCP leader. NCP’s recent move of poaching 18 Congress corporators in the Bhiwandi-Nizampur civic body has largely upset the state Congress leadership. The central leadership, too, had taken cognisance of the poaching and had summoned Thorat to Delhi. Party leaders feel the move was against the principles of coalition as both the parties are part of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi. It has pinched the party leadership more because Shiv Sena managed to convince NCP to send its corporators back, when the Sharad Pawar-led party had similarly poached Sena corporators in July. “CM should have averted the crossover of our corporators,” said Khan. A senior Shiv Sena leader, who did not wish to be named, said, “Congress corporators were upset with the local leadership and wanted to quit the party. They had approached us but we did not think it was proper to induct them. Had NCP not given them the entry, they would have gone to BJP. Rather than cursing the partners, the Congress should first try keep its own house in order by resolving the issues at right time.” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s criticism against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) led by Sonia Gandhi has not gone well with the Congress in Maharashtra. Chavan said the Sena has no business to talk about UPA, as it is not yet a part of it. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “For strange reasons, the other two parties [Sena and NCP] have been cornering the Congress in the alliance. Sena and NCP have come close in the past few days and it may hurt the prospects of Congress at various levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-ncp-camaraderie-worries-maharashtra-congress/story-5CdQ5wXPLAstdGHt0n7fhM.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||3 men held by Mumbai Police for killing Kandivli woman, dumping her body at Aksa beach||Samta Nagar police have detained three men on Sunday suspected of allegedly killing a 30-year-old woman and dumping her body near Aksa beach.According to police, the victim, Nandini Rai, was a resident of Kandivli. The officers said that after they sent the women’s body for a postmortem, it was clear that she had been strangled and killed. On circulating her photo to other police stations, they discovered that Rai had been missing from her in-laws’ house since December 8.Rai’s body was found in a sack at Aksa beach on December 24 and she was identified by her clothes and tattoo.Raju Kasbe, senior inspector of Samta Nagar police station said that on December 9, Rai’s father had registered a missing complaint after he received a call from her father-in-law, Kamal Rai, about her disappearance.Rai’s husband had left for their village in Uttar Pradesh two months ago and had not returned at the time of her disappearance.In his complaint, Rai’s father claimed that Kamal had also gone to their village after informing him about his daughter’s disappearance.The police detained Kamal from his village along with Nandini’s father and an autorickshaw driver. “We have detained Kamal as he had been deflecting from answering his neighbour when they asked where Rai was. Each time he made up a new excuse regarding Rai’s whereabouts,” said Kasbe.Police are questioning Kamal and others to find out the sequence of events leading to Nandini’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-men-held-by-mumbai-police-for-killing-kandivli-woman-dumping-her-body-at-aksa-beach/story-yabJ3flbItGicPwfHtMQMK.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Two interstate commuters||On this particularly cold sunless morning, Sangeeta and Shanu are hitting the road. They left from south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj two hours ago, and, now that they’ve crossed the interstate border from Delhi to Gurugram, in Haryana, half of their journey to work is done.And what’s unusual about that? After all, thousands of people living in the National Capital Region are in the same situation — having their residence in one state and their work place in another, and doing the commute.And yet, the sight of Sangeeta and Shanu seems extraordinary in this procession of cars and bikes. For Sangeeta, 9, is a white mare, while Shanu, 35, is a human. She is without the mask. He is wearing a black mask, and holding a mobile. Shanu is sitting atop Sangeeta.“We have an assignment in Sector 15, “ explains Shanu. Both work for a Delhi-based firm that supplies mares to celebratory events, mostly weddings in which the groom goes to bride’s place mounted on a mare.“Today it’s not for baraat (wedding procession)... but for ghurcharai,” says Shanu, explaining that this is a wedding-related ritual requiring the groom to go to the temple on a mare.If Sangeeta is tired, she isn’t being showy about it. Her face is calm. The pair is standing by the side of the highway for this brief interview, with a gigantic multi-floor grey building looming in the backdrop. Neither of them is looking impressed by the high-rise. As spotlessly white as fresh snow, Sangeeta is attired suitably for the job, with thick bands of pink and orange around her neck. A red cloth fringed with gold is spread under her saddle.It has to be said they started their day on a well-fed stomach. Shanu had a breakfast of parathas and Sangeeta had channa. “I have a stock of channa and gur (jaggery) with me, and I keep feeding her whenever she feels hungry.” He secretly hopes that they both will be offered lunch during the function.Working as “ghori walla” for 25 years, Shanu started as a very young boy, inheriting the profession from his father, who inherited it from his father. Sangeeta has been working for six years, and Shanu has no idea of her family background.Whatever, “the kaam (assignment) should last for an hour and then we’ll go back.”First, Shanu will drop Sangeeta at her farm in Vasant Kunj, where she lives with about 30 mares, after which he’ll head home to Sundernagri in Jumna-paar, in the bus.They now trot off, becoming once again part of the commuting traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-two-interstate-commuters/story-aZYZP7f7td4N0b8GikvdpI.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||MC polls: Poor show with 56% turnout in Ambala||Despite it being a Sunday, voters did not appear to be very enthusiastic about the municipal corporation (MC) elections here, with only 56.3% turning up, which was around 11% less than the 2013 percentage.There are 1.87 lakh voters here.Till this report was filed at 10 am, the website of the state election commission (SEC) showed 56.3% voting percentage, which was much less than nearly 67% recorded (2.72 lakh total voters) in 2013.Around 60.5% voters (2.54 lakh total voters) turned up for the 2019 assembly elections..Around 60.5% (2.54 lakh) voters turned up for the 2019 assembly elections. Locals cite drop in mercury levels since Saturday night and the shadow of Covid-19, especially for elderly, as the reasons for the poor show.Only 17% voters turned up early as the morning remained foggy, but the numbers increased once the sun came out after 1 pm. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader who did not want to be named, however, said: “The voters don’t take these elections seriously and are aggrieved with the level of corruption in the municipalities. Three holidays this Christmas weekend could be another reason.”Political parties also made allegations of lapses by the SEC and the administration at different voting booths. Pawan Aggarwal, husband of the Congress mayoral candidate, said as there had been no door to door distribution of voter slips, and in the absence of booth level officers (BLOs) people had a hard time finding their name in the lists and on the MC website. Haryana Democratic Front general secretary Chitra Sarwara alleged that instances of negligence during delimitation of wards could have led to the confusion over voter lists. On being asked about the verification of the lists by political parties, Sarwara said, “Many voters had to leave the polling booth when their names were not found in the list. No MC or mayor is in power since the last house session ended in 2018, so no one was ready to take the initiative and verify the lists.”On these queries, SDM-cum-returning officer Sachin Gupta said that under the SEC, no arrangements are usually made for BLOs or voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT). “However, those under the Saksham Yuva Scheme (to provide jobs to young people for the state) have done a commendable job, the voter lists on the website were also perfectly fine,” he said.DC-cum-election officer Ashok Kumar Sharma said in a statement said that despite the harsh weather, the voters came forward to strengthen democracy and the elections concluded peacefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-polls-poor-show-with-56-turnout-in-ambala/story-ItdYrdVYiWxbo5YMouPy7K.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Man lynched at Santacruz, Mumbai Police on lookout for six persons||A 30-year-old man suspected of being a robber was tied and beaten to death in Santacruz on Saturday night. Police are now on the look-out for six unidentified men.According to police, the six accused men who are absconding had caught Khan lurking around Muktanand Park in Santacruz (West). Suspecting him of being a robber, the six men tied him up to a pole with ropes and beat him with sticks.Khan’s brother, who resides in the same area, approached the police station and registered a complaint. “Khan’s brother, Azad, 36, was informed that Khan had been tied to a pole bleeding. Azad reached the spot and rushed Khan to the hospital where he was declared dead,” said the officer.Police registered a case of murder against the six accused and are now scanning CCTV footage of the area to find out the identity of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-lynched-at-santacruz-mumbai-police-on-lookout-for-six-persons/story-890ssEjfMJgPXGtZV1WdKO.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s rejection of compensation claims by city cops: State BJP writes to L-G Baijal||The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, seeking his intervention over the state government’s rejection of compensation claims filed by families of police personnel who died while on Covid-19 duty. Hindustan Times had on Saturday reported that the Delhi government had rejected 12 of the 15 compensation claims it had received from families of police personnel who were verified, by the law enforcement agency, to have died of Covid-19 in the national capital. The three remaining cases are pending with the government. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, in the letter to Baijal, wrote that during the nationwide lockdown, police had risked their lives implementing Covid-19 norms across the city, especially in containment zones and distributing rations to poor or providing medicines and essential commodities to those in need. “Delhi Police has put up compensation claims on behalf of its personnel who died due to Covid while on duty and it is shocking to know that Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal government has rejected most of their claims…I on behalf of citizens of Delhi request you to intervene in the matter and ensure fair justice to all Delhi Police personnel who died on duty due to Covid infection,” Kapoor said in the letter.The government had in April announced compensation of 1 crore to the families of front line workers who died of Covid-19 on duty. In rejection letters sent to the families, the city-state’s government said that the officers hadn’t been deployed on Covid-19 duty but were on routine duty. This prompted families to ask the state government to define Covid-19 duty. Until Sunday, 31 Delhi police personnel died of the infection. While 15 claims sent to the Delhi government, the remaining 16 are yet to be sent and are being verified by police committee. Before sending the cases to the government, police check for details such as the cause of death and if the person was on duty when he/she contracted the infection. Despite many calls and text messages, the Delhi government did not comment until late Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-rejection-of-compensation-claims-by-city-cops-state-bjp-writes-to-l-g-baijal/story-weBZ4lcQzZCsMv5LE9R2PJ.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Rise in number of domestic travellers for New Year’s; Goa top choice||While travel this year has been at an all-time low due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it seems that many Indians have started travelling again. With New Year’s around the corner, Goa is the top destination for people from Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru. According to travel portals, leisure travel recovery is being led by millennials, and they expect the trend to continue in a more pronounced way in 2021. “Travellers are packing their bags for year-end trips. They are confidently exploring options which provide stringent safety and sanitisation processes with health and hygiene as the top priority. A majority of travellers are opting for places which are secluded and less commercial, providing them with peace and calm. Additionally, with 44% growth in last-minute bookings received this year as compared to the last, there has been a change in booking patterns,” said Sabina Chopra, co-founder and chief operating officer (COO), corporate travel and head industry relations, Yatra.Portals unanimously listed Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Udaipur and Ooty among others to be travellers’ preferred places. “In terms of accommodation, we have seen a surge in inquiries for options such as homes-stays, cottages and premium and luxury hotel properties,” Chopra added.According to Cleartrip, preferred travel destinations this season are Goa, Kochi and Bengaluru.“Essential travel picked up as the unlock phases were announced and travel season since Diwali validated this further as road trips, weekend getaways and day-cations were the top choice at Goibibo. Leisure travel recovery is being led by millennials and we expect that trend to continue in a more pronounced way, come 2021. Many more Indians will be taking their first real holiday in the coming months, having a host of products that put safety first to choose from,” said Vipul Prakash, COO, Goibibo.As per searches on Goibibo, people are looking forward to unconventional trips that promise adventure and manage to bring back the thrill of travelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rise-in-number-of-domestic-travellers-for-new-year-s-goa-top-choice/story-s16jeQ3LssFyd2ZjoxsjqO.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||UGC funds delayed; scholars in debt||Debt is piling for 27-year-old Jatin Sharma, a research scholar from the School of Life Sciences, Central University of Rajasthan, as he has not received his fellowship for the past six months from the University Grants Commission (UGC). In 2018, Sharma had secured a good rank in the national entrance test for admission to an institute under the Council of Science and Industrial Research. Having qualified for UGC’s Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) scheme, Sharma used the funds not only on his living expenses, but also helped his mortgaged family home. However, with fellowships delayed by almost half a year, Sharma has been forced to borrow money from friends and private lenders at higher interest rates. The Covid-19 pandemic has further dented his family’s income from selling cutlery. “I feel like the government has abandoned me at the time when I need the support the most. I urge them to clear all the pending dues so that I can focus on planning my experiments rather on how and when will I pay my bills,” said Sharma. His plight is shared by thousands of research scholars in the country who have been waiting for their fellowships from UGC from three to 12 months. Shahrukh Bhati, a researcher at the Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, claimed he has not received his Maulana Azad National Fellowship for minorities for the past 10 months. “My pending fellowship amounts to Rs3.5 lakh. I am unable to continue my research work and have to manage the living expenses by borrowing money from elsewhere,” said Bhati. UGC offers 13 types of scholarships and fellowships for postgraduate and research students around the country in various fields of education. These include fellowships for women, minorities and economically-weaker sections, among others. The funds are transferred into the bank accounts of beneficiaries through direct benefit transfer. However, various fellowships offered to support research scholars by UGC have been delayed by three months to a year, claimed researchers. Bhushan Patwardhan, vice-chairman of UGC, said that the delay was owing to a technical glitch in the transfer system. “There was a glitch at the bank’s end, which has been identified and rectified. The payment for the next cycle will continue as normal,” Patwardhan added. Researchers said apart from the financial hardships, the delay in receiving the grant is also affecting their mental health. In a survey of around 1,000 scholars conducted by the Joint Research Council of India – an organisation formed by research scholars – 87% of the respondents said they had taken financial loans to pay for expenses and 97% said the delay had affected all aspects of their lives, including mental health. JRCI had earlier written to the central government, highlighting the delays and seeking immediate disbursal of funds, following which some beneficiaries received the fellowships in November. “Some JRF holders got their fellowship for a few months credited to their accounts. This was not the full pending fellowship amount but something to start off with. However, now other fellowships are being held,” said Mohammed Faizan, a scholar from Maulana Azad National Urdu University, Hyderabad. “With institutes closed during the lockdown, there is a misunderstanding that we don’t need the funds. What the government needs to understand is that some of us are first generation learners supporting families with our fellowships. With frequent delays in the disbursal of fellowships, there is very little incentive for research work,” said a JRF scholar from Jawaharlal Nehru University. Patwardhan, however, contested this claim: “India is among the very few countries providing financial support to researchers on such a large scale. We have a host of programmes for various sections of students and courses they are pursuing,” he said. According to data from the annual reports of UGC, the apex body governing all higher education institutes in the country spends around Rs1,100 crore annually on fellowships and scholarships. This accounts for around 9% of its total expenses. In 2018-19, UGC spent Rs1,100 crore or 9.56% of its annual revenue on scholarships and fellowships. In 2017-18, the governing body spent Rs1,106.55 crore (8.89%) on scholarships and fellowships. UGC’s fellowships and scholarships •Single girl child •Women students •Rank holders at undergraduate levels •Meritorious students •Students pursuing research in science, medicine and technology •Students belonging to SC/ ST categories •Junior research fellowship for various streams •Students from minority communities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ugc-funds-delayed-scholars-in-debt/story-tu6iRwBw8CsMru7iRlVYuO.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 3,314 new Covid-19 cases, 21 returnees from UK test positive||Maharashtra recorded fewer than 4,000 Covid-19 cases for the 11th consecutive day on Sunday, amid authorities focussing on fliers who have recently arrived from the United Kingdom (UK), post the discovery of a new strain there. As of Sunday, 21 people in the state, who returned from UK in the past few weeks, have tested positive for Covid-19. According to a state surveillance report, eight samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing, apart from the 13 sent earlier. This is to test whether any flier was carrying the mutant variant responsible for the widespread transmission in the UK. On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 3,314 cases, taking the total to 1,919,550. The state’s Covid-19 toll reached 49,255 with 66 deaths recorded.Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) continued to hover around 2.57% even as the state administration is looking at bringing it below 1%. On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 578 new infections, taking the tally to 290,914, while eight more deaths took the toll to 11,076. Pune, Nagpur and Nashik cities, which are among the highest contributors, reported 302, 255 and 220 cases on Sunday. State has 59, 214 active cases, while the recovery rate stood at 94.29%. The state health department has also undertaken contact-tracing of all these cases. According to the surveillance report, as of Sunday, a total of 2,935 travellers have been traced and 1,299 have also been tested for Covid-19. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, however, said that there is no reason to panic. “Mutation or change in genomic make-up is normal. It was always expected. There is no reason to panic as the trends in Maharashtra are a sign of hope,” he said. He further explained, “The positivity rate in September 2020 was around 24.6%. Every fourth sample being tested was found positive. The current positivity rate is around 6.5-7%. A Central government-appointed panel has also stated that the pandemic might end in the country by February 2021, however, we are prepared for any eventuality and must not let our guards down.” The government-appointed Covid-19 India National Supermodel committee had stated that if all measures are followed, the pandemic might end by February 2021, with a few sporadic cases being recorded post that. The state government has, however, put the administration on alert after the discovery of the mutant strain, asking civic bodies and district collectors to trace and conduct tests of all those who have come from UK between November 15 and December 23. Dr Shashank Joshi, members of the state-appointed task force said, “While the state did not see a surge post Diwali, there are chances of a wave post Christmas and New Year celebrations as Covid-appropriate behaviour is still not observed in many places. We are on alert for a surge between December 26 and January 26.” N Ramaswami, commissioner of National Health Mission, said, “We have started screening passengers from Middle East also. However, we are looking at UK on a priority basis.” Owing to the risk posed by the new strain, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also alerted people and stressed for the need to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Ruling out the need of reimposing the lockdown, Thackeray earlier this week also justified his move of imposing night curfew by saying it will inculcate the sense of risk of spread of the virus among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-3-314-new-covid-19-cases-21-returnees-from-uk-test-positive/story-7nryx38zByPzDzKRYGRROL.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Metro-2A, 7 trial runs delayed, likely in March 2021||Mumbai The uncertainty owing to the Covid-19 pandemic has further delayed the trial runs for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E). The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is now looking at starting the trial runs from March 2021 instead of January 2021. The MMRDA officials said the pandemic has resulted in delaying the manufacturing of several crucial elements required for both – the civil works and the trains. A senior official, who did not wish to be named, said, “There are some crucial elements required for the rakes, which are stuck in Japan. Similarly, civil works have also been affected because manufacturing has taken a severe hit.” The rakes are being manufactured by the Bengaluru-based Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML). The two corridors, part of the 337-km Mumbai metro master plan, were initially supposed to be operational by December 2020. The official also said, “The station works are in progress and we have also got adequate workforce at the site now, which was a major issue in the initial months of the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-metro-2a-7-trial-runs-delayed-likely-in-march-2021/story-UMJE3vOLARSq2YbhkDN1CO.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Touching hand without sexual intent not assault under Pocso Act: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that merely holding or touching the hand without sexual intent does not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and granted anticipatory bail to a man booked for holding the hand of a 17-year-old while expressing his love to her. A bench of justice Bharati Dangre while hearing the anticipatory bail application of the 27-year-old man from Baramati was informed by advocate Ranjeet Pawar that his client had expressed his love towards the teenager, but he had no sexual intent. It was a plain exhibition of his feelings. Pawar further submitted that the sessions court had rejected the application and hence he had approached HC. According to the complaint, the girl is a student, and the accused is her neighbour. While she was on her way for tuitions, the accused stopped her and expressed his love for her. When she not did respond, he caught her right hand and again expressed his love. She managed to escape, but the man persisted. He warned her from disclosing the incident to anyone and also sent her threatening messages on her father’s mobile phone using different SIM cards. The complaint stated that after going through the ordeal for eight months, the girl decided to lodge a complaint. The man was booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Pocso Act, 2012. Additional public prosecutor opposed the man’s anticipatory bail plea on the grounds that his custodial interrogation was required to ascertain from where he had sourced the different SIM cards. However, the court was not satisfied with the argument. “Prima facie, looking at the allegations levelled in the FIR (first information report), the applicant had expressed his feeling of love towards the complainant by holding her hand on one occasion. This by itself cannot be said to be falling within the sweep of section 7 (Pocso Act), since prima facie, the ingredients of section 7 are not made out in the wake of allegations in the complaint or attempting to contact her by use of electronic communication,” observed the court. “Subject to the stipulation that the applicant will in no manner pressurise the complainant, he is entitled for being released on bail in anticipation of his arrest,” said the bench, while allowing the bail. The court also restrained the man from entering the area where the complainant resides till the charge sheet in the case is filed, and also asked him not make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing the facts to court or any police officer and should not tamper with evidence either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/touching-hand-without-sexual-intent-not-assault-under-pocso-act-bombay-hc/story-n1fUKWna2eD7i1aJHZXt2J.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses bail to 72-year-old accused of sexually assaulting 11-year-old neighbour||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant bail to a 72-year-old man who was booked for sexually assaulting an 11-year-old girl on the grounds that as the trial would take time to commence, the man may threaten and terrorise the minor if he was freed. The court also observed that as the accused is practically the age of her great grandfather, and if the charges against him under the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act are proved, and it would amount to a “heinous crime”, the court dismissed the plea. A division bench of justice RV Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar, while hearing the criminal appeal filed by the accused Harsing Patil from Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district, was informed that the appeal challenged a trial court order that denied him bail. Advocate AJ Patil for the appellant submitted that his client was 72 years old and would never commit an offence such as raping a minor. Patil submitted that his client had taken a house on rent just eight days prior to the lodging of a first information report (FIR), and it was not possible that he would commit a crime against the minor living in the adjacent house. He further submitted that his client did not have criminal antecedents, and as he was behind bars since his arrest on May 26, he should be released on bail. Additional public prosecutor PV Diggikar submitted that the FIR was lodged by Jalgaon Police on May 26, and the victim’s statement was recorded, wherein it was stated that the minor’s parents are farm labourers. On May 23, when the parents were not in the house, the appellant made his first attempt to sexually assault her and repeated the same the next day. On May 25, when the man entered the house, the victim realised that he would make a similar attempt and she started screaming and called her aunt. The man got scared and rushed back to his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-72-year-old-accused-of-sexually-assaulting-11-year-old-neighbour/story-4B5JIhGQVXsTkWjPI0nq7O.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||BJP's Devendra Fadnavis alleges Maharashtra government’s move to rationalise taxes was to favour select builders||Opposition leader and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis has accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government that in the pretext of rationalising of taxes for the realty sector in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was framing policies to favour a few select developers.Fadnavis said this would result in the windfall of ₹20,000 crore to these selected developers.In a letter to Thackeray, Fadnavis referred to the recommendations of the Deepak Parekh-led committee which was formed to suggest ways to revive the realty sector due to the pandemic.“The recommendations suggested by the said committee, it seems, are being implemented selectively without considering the real effect of the same,” said Fadnavis. “There seems to be a systematic method devised to give windfall benefit to said real estate developers by fragmented and prejudiced reduction of ready reckoner of some of their self-owned and interest plots to the extent of 70% of the existing ready reckoner’s rates. It was brought to my notice that when only a few projects of selected five developers were analysed to capture its effect, it was found out that this will lead to a windfall gain of more than ₹2,000 crore,” he added.The Parekh committee was formed as the realty sector was facing a massive slowdown due to Covid-19. It recommended massive reductions of premiums. Fadnavis alleged that the entire cabinet agenda, which was to be kept secret till a decision is taken, is being circulated to the developers and on social media.While signing off the letter, Fadnavis warned Thackeray that if no corrective action is taken, he would be compelled to file a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-s-devendra-fadnavis-alleges-maharashtra-government-s-move-to-rationalise-taxes-was-to-favour-select-builders/story-WeqaiTMGZsrHDWRoMf9rUI.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha summoned by ED in PMC Bank scam case||The wife of Shiv Sena member of Parliament (MP) and party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut has been sent a notice summoning her for an inquiry by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Varsha Raut has been summoned reportedly in connection with a multi-crore scam of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. The ruling parties have, however, claimed the action was out of political vengeance. Two days after Eknath Khadse, who recently joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) after defecting from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was sent a notice for interrogation, Varsha has been summoned by the central agency on December 29. Raut, who has been vocal against the BJP government at the Centre, said that they have not received the notice yet. He said that he will hold a press conference after they receive one. Raut later tweeted a line from Hindi film song, “Aaa Dekhein Zara Kisne Kitna Hai Dum, Jamke Rakhna Kadam Mere Saathiya.” Varsha has reportedly been summoned in connection with transactions related to the PMC Bank scam. The central agency has reportedly found a link of transactions between the accounts of Varsha and Pravin Raut, one of the directors of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, who was arrested recently. Guruashish is a subsidiary of Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), whose other directors Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan have already been arrested in connection with the scam. The ED had initiated an investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in 2019, against directors of HDIL and Joy Thomas, chairman and managing director of PMC Bank, among others. The case was registered for wrongful losses of more than ₹4,300 crore to PMC Bank through forgeries committed by office bearers of two entities. The Maharashtra ruling parties – the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP – have termed the action by the ED as politics of vendetta and an attempt by the BJP to threaten leaders who have been criticising them. “This is nothing but an attempt to threaten the leaders from opposition parties by using the central agencies politically,” said NCP spokesperson and state minority welfare minister Nawab Malik. Congress’s Sachin Sawant said, “ED should now shift its office to the BJP’s headquarters as the central agency doesn’t act autonomously any more. It is expected to take action against wrongdoings under PMLA, but it seems to be acting under the Prevention of Opposition Leaders Act. The BJP has been grossly using the central agencies against opposition leaders, and it has posed a great threat to democracy.” The BJP’s Atul Bhatkhalkar pointed out that ED has been investigating the scam for the past eight months. “It recently attached the property of Ratnakar Gutte, an MLA who has supported our party. This shows that the central agency is not taking action only against the non-BJP leaders. The leaders should not be worried about the notices if they have not done anything wrong,” he said. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said that Raut and his wife should clarify if there was any transaction done by them concerning the PMC Bank scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-s-wife-varsha-summoned-by-ed-in-pmc-bank-scam-case/story-aEE4nprZ3J5PjSFPnzHCLI.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||11 of 738 passengers who returned from UK test positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai||Of the 738 returnees from the United Kingdom tested in Mumbai on Sunday, 11 were positive for Covid-19. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials confirmed their samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing to find if they are infected with a new strain of the virus. The BMC has also traced more than 40 people that came in contact with these 11 people. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “These 40 people will undergo Covid tests if required. The samples of the ones tested positive are being sent to NIV, Pune. These tests will continue for a few days more.” The BMC has identified upto 1, 765 returnees from the UK, who have arrived in Mumbai between November 25 and December 22, to check if they have been infected with the new strain of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. For the next few days, the administrative ward officials have been directed to contact the returnees located in their wards, check on their health, send a medical team if needed and also prescribe RT-PCR test if required. Kakani added, “Of the ones that have been quarantined in private hotels, more than 180 people were tested and none were found positive. Our teams are working tirelessly to ensure contact-tracing of all positive patients.” As a new variant of the coronavirus was found in the UK, the BMC announced that fliers from the United Kingdom, Europe and Middle-Eastern countries will compulsorily be quarantined for seven days after they land in Mumbai. Their stay may increase by another seven days if they test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/11-of-738-passengers-who-returned-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mumbai/story-8IfnoZZXS8tr0KNhMdkfGK.html
28-12-2020||City||Closure of Pakhowal road: Locked in, Ludhiana shopkeepers fume over traffic curbs, seek diversion plan||Already reeling under losses due to the pandemic, a section of businesses fear further losses as customers are unable to come to their establishments due to construction on the Pakhowal Road. The section from Sidhwan Canal Bridge to Hero Bakery Chowk has been closed in view of the ongoing project for construction of a rail overbridge (ROB) and two rail under bridges (RUBs).This has resulted in another ‘lockdown’ for over 50 traders whose shops are located on the 500m stretch. Authorities had barricaded the road overnight without giving shopkeepers or commuters a heads up. Manager of petrol pump situated near Pakhowal road railway crossing, Bobby Verma said, “All roads leading to the petrol pump have been blocked. The situation is even worse than the Covid lockdown announced by the government as customer footfall was comparatively high at that time. The authorities are also not telling us the exact time period for which the roads will remain blocked but the project will take months for completion.”Manager of a meat shop, Gagan said, “Our business has reduced by 80% in just two days after the construction work started as many customers are not showing because of the blocked roads. Home deliveries are also low as many suspect the shop is closed.”Shopkeepers said the authorities should have come up with a diversion. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We understand the problems being faced by the shopkeepers but the project is being taken up for the benefit of shopkeepers and the public at large. I will direct the officials to visit the area and make changes in diversion plans, if possible, to facilitate the shopkeepers.” The project being taken up under the Smart City mission is set to be completed in August 2021. The owner of a garment shop near the railway crossing, Siroj Kumar said that he had inaugurated the shop on Sunday and the civic body had dug up the road outside his shop on Tuesday. “As the road has been blocked, there is no footfall. Now, I am mulling shifting to Vikas Nagar area. The construction company might take months to complete the project and we will not be able to run our business in these circumstances,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/closure-of-pakhowal-road-locked-in-ludhiana-shopkeepers-fume-over-traffic-curbs-seek-diversion-plan/story-q1M8Ygf85mHhQZ6bQCWYfN.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Maximum temperature drops in Mumbai; air quality remains poor||Maximum temperature in the city and suburbs dropped marginally on Sunday owing to north and northwesterly winds.The maximum temperature in Colaba was recorded at 29.4 degree Celsius, a drop by almost 3 degrees from Saturday and a drop of 1.3 degrees from normal. The Santacruz weather station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) also recorded a temperature of 30.9 degree Celsius, a drop from 34.2 degrees recorded on Saturday and a drop of 0.4 degrees from normal.The drop in temperatures was in line with the forecast of IMD, which had predicted slightly colder days for two-three days starting Sunday.“The fall in temperatures is mostly due to the cold northerly and northwesterly winds from the northern plains along with the passage of western disturbance. The conditions are expected to continue for the next two to three days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of the western region, IMD.The minimum temperature at Santacruz was slightly higher on Sunday, as compared to Saturday. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 20.4 degree Celsius, 1 degree higher than Saturday and 3 degrees above normal. In Colaba, the minimum temperature of 21.6 degrees continued on Saturday and Sunday, which is 1.8 degrees above normal.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), air quality continued to remain poor on Sunday. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator — of 252 (poor) was recorded on Sunday.Air quality deteriorating is a routine phenomenon during winter as wind directions change and more wind comes in from the land instead of the sea, according to a spokesperson from SAFAR. Very poor quality of air was recorded at Navi Mumbai with an AQI of 310. Bandra Kurla Complex breathed the worst air in the city with an AQI of 329. Malad and Chembur recorded AQI of 316.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maximum-temperature-drops-in-mumbai-air-quality-remains-poor/story-sKcRrPH3vosni8KjdrVdIJ.html
28-12-2020||City||2 dead, 53 new cases detected in Ludhiana district||Two city residents succumbed to Covid-19 even as the district recorded 53 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. The district’s cumulative count now stands at 24,649. While 23,285 patients have recovered, 958 lost the battle to the virus. The district now has 403 active cases.The deceased include a 54-year-old male from Lakkar Bazar area and an 82-year-old male from Gurdev Nagar. Of the 53 who tested positive, one was a health care worker, 12 were contacts of positive patients, 12 were from outpatient departments of different hospitals and 23 were patients with influenza-like symptoms, among others.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said that swab samples of 2,222 suspected patients were sent for testing on Sunday. He appealed to the residents to follow all directions issued by the state government to prevent the spread of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-dead-53-new-cases-detected-in-ludhiana-district/story-FQxW2Huzfb9NchqdrqBCXN.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula MC polls: Safety key issue for women||Women voters were out in large numbers on Sunday to vote for the Panchkula municipal corporation elections, with safety concerns bothering them the most, something they said the new councillors and mayor had to address urgently. “The city is quite unsafe, especially at night. We want police presence on the streets in the late hours, just like in Chandigarh. Also, the market of sector 12 A should be developed, as it hardly has any shops,” said Shashi Grover, 65.Manju Bala, 58, said women were afraid to move out of their homes at night or allow their daughters to stay out late in the evenings. “The streetlights too don’t work and the playgrounds are not well lit. We have hardly seen any development in the city in the past,” she added.“Snatchings occur frequently,” said Dr Poonam Sharma, 59.Many roads were damaged and some areas were not lit. “We want the new mayor to work on these issues,” she added.Women also wanted the civic body authorities to focus on jobs and skill development opportunities.“Girls from poor families need a source of income, so they need skills training to live dignified and independent lives,” said Neelima Rakhi, 63.Shanti Devi, 37, from Sector 14, wanted jobs and affordable education for children. “Getting admission in government schools is challenging. If you don’t have a reference, your child will not be admitted,” she said.For Barsaati Devi, 60, from Indira Colony, ration had to be made available at affordable rates. “Earlier we used to get pulses and oils from the government, but now we get only wheat. Facilities for the poor are getting scarce. We want the government to provide us ration at affordable rates,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-polls-safety-key-issue-for-women/story-gFV74HUjsL8H7H7T6YAiDJ.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Jumbo Covid-19 facilities in Mumbai will stay open for three more months, says civic body||Though the number of Covid-19 patients has decreased in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will keep running the jumbo centres where asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients can undergo treatment. This decision has been taken after the reports that a new strain of coronavirus has been found in the United Kingdom (UK) and the Middle East.At present, the BMC is running five jumbo Covid Care facilities in Mumbai- Byculla, Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), Nesco grounds (Goregaon-East), Mulund and Dahisar. Though the general ward at the jumbo care centre at Mahalaxmi has been discontinued, the intensive care unit (ICU) at the facility is still functional.“With the news coming in about the new strain of coronavirus, we have decided to keep the jumbo centres functional. In January, we will hold a meeting where we will decide on it. But mostly, those will remain functional for the next three months,” said a senior doctor from the health department.Between September and December, the civic body has shut down nearly 450 small Covid care facilities across all the 24 municipal wards in Mumbai. Civic officials stated, most of these facilities are now on standby mode which means - although they are shut, they can be made operational within 48 hours if the need arises.Additional municipal commissioner, Suresh Kakani, said, “Almost 90% of the jumbo centres are lying vacant. Now, most of the patients are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic who prefer taking treatment at home. However, we want to keep the centres at a stand by position, in case we witness any rise in cases.”Recently, the Nesco jumbo centre has started post-Covid-19 outpatient department (OPD), where recovered patients with Covid-related health complications are consulting doctors. Also, these jumbo centres are providing counselling to the infected patients to improve their mental health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jumbo-covid-19-facilities-in-mumbai-will-stay-open-for-three-more-months-says-civic-body/story-yFaerezWam3GmHpbM6wOlI.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Heroin worth ₹1.2 crore seized, one arrested from Mumbai’s Ghatkopar area||Mumbai crime branch on Sunday arrested a man and seized 610 grams of brown sugar (heroin) worth ₹1.20 crore, concealed at the base of the bag in Ghatkopar (West).According to the police, the arrested accused Azaz Sher Khan, 42, is a native of Rajasthan. Officers of unit 7 acted on a tip-off about a person visiting Mumbai with a consignment of brown sugar. A police team comprising inspector Manish Shridhankar, assistant inspector Santosh Mastud under the guidance of senior inspector Mahesh Desai laid a trap, and as soon as Khan stepped out of Ghatkopar railway station, police nabbed him, said crime branch officer.After police cut open the base of the bag, they recovered 610gm of brown sugar, which worth ₹1.20 crore, said a crime branch officer. During interrogation police learnt that Khan himself makes brown sugar from the opium, urea, acetic acid, the officer added.Police are questioning him about his customer in Mumbai, and if he has other networks in other cities, said the officer.In another case, Ghatkopar unit of anti-narcotics cell (ANC) arrested a Ramzan Gaffur Shaikh alias Kallan, 32, with charas and Ganja worth ₹3.20 lakh and recovered ₹3.25 lakh cash from his possession, on Friday evening. Shaikh has been selling drugs for the past five years in the south and central Mumbai and is a known drug peddler, said ANC officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heroin-worth-1-2-cr-seized-one-arrested-from-mumbai-s-ghatkopar-area/story-cq8hwZw1PrbOrHccuqsRHN.html
28-12-2020||City||Annual alumni day: IIT-Bombay’s silver jubilee batch pledges ₹20 crore to institute for legacy project||The annual alumni day of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) was conducted virtually this year, and the silver jubilee batch (class of 1995) has pledged to contribute Rs20.3 crore towards the betterment of the institute. Every year, the silver jubilee batch of the institute pledges money towards their legacy project – a project adopted by the batch celebrating its 25 years anniversary for the betterment of the institute and of the people associated with it. During the same event, Ashank Desai, an alumnus of the institute, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), pledging a financial contribution of ₹15 crore towards the Centre for Policy Studies in IIT-B. Desai, founder, vice-chairman and managing director of Mastek-Majesco and an alumnus of the 1974 batch, said the aim was to make the Centre for Policy Studies a premier policy institution. “This centre will contribute to India’s need for talent research and advisory to achieve holistic approach to policy-making, particularly with an emphasis on technology,” said Desai.Last year, the silver jubilee batch had pledged Rs12 crore for the legacy project, while the 1993 batch had pledged Rs25 crore for the project.“The value of an academic institution depends on the collective quality, achievements and leadership roles that its alumni play. The fact that the alumni assembled today for the reunion testifies the contribution of the institute,” said Professor Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/annual-alumni-day-iit-bombay-s-silver-jubilee-batch-pledges-20-crore-to-institute-for-legacy-project/story-nlZV4xlKsthaHvaONlwQAI.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Light sprinkling of rain in Chandigarh||Skies turned grey on Sunday evening after a sunny morning as the city received a light sprinkling of rain for about half an hour.Temperatures are likely to go up because of the western disturbance active in the region that brought rain of 0.8mm, though Monday is expected to get colder as the day progresses, with more rain, said India Meteorological Department officials. Highs of 20.2 degrees Celsius were recorded on Sunday after Saturday’s 19 degrees C. Minimum temperature also went up to 4.1 degrees from Saturday’s 4 degrees, a few notches lower than Shimla’s 4.7 degrees.Maximum temperatures in the next three days are expected to range between 17 degrees and 18 degrees with lows of 5 degrees to 8 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-sprinkling-of-rain-in-chandigarh/story-ietJINt2z8kHqwRHIzRiyK.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Centre’s policies are destabilising India’s federal structure, says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Rajya Sabha member of Parliament (MP) and Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the Narendra Modi-led central government and the central policies were destabilising the federal structure of the country. Raut pointed out several issues, including the farmers’ agitation, the new Parliament building, Indo-China tensions, Centre claiming ownership of the land allotted for Mumbai Metro car shed and its alleged attempts in de-stabilizing the Madhya Pradesh government, in his weekly column RokhThok, in party mouthpiece Saamana. “Shockingly, the government is using all its might to see to it that Mamata Banerjee doesn’t assume power in West Bengal, BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) leader Kailash Vijayvargiya made is clear that Modi played a role in destabilising the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. The states ruled by non-BJP parties look up to the Centre. But the federal structure is being systematically weakened. Congress government in Madhya Pradesh was pulled down by the BJP. There is instability in Kashmir valley. RJD’s (Rashtriya Janata Dal) Tejaswi Yadav posed a challenged in recent elections. All this may lead to the disintegration within the country, just like what happened in USSR [post-revolutionary Russia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republic],” he has stated.Raut said that the Centre’s leadership should realise that the people’s interest has been jeopardised for the political gain of the ruling party. The outgoing year 2020 has posed a question mark on the credibility and efficiency of the central government. Farmers in Punjab are protesting, the Metro project in Mumbai is stuck because of the Central government. Tragically, the country’s future is in the hands of only 2-4 people,” the column reads. “Lakhs of people lost their lives owing to the pandemic this year, but what was more horrifying in 2020 was that the country’s democratic foundation – the Parliament lost its soul. The very laws that the farmers are protesting against, because of which they are on the roads today, were passed in majority by this government,” Raut wrote.The Sena leader also came down heavily on the government’s most ambitious project – The Central Vista project – aimed at giving Delhi’s power corridor – a complete makeover. “Instead of spending ₹1,000 crore on a new Parliament building, the money should be utilised to strengthen the health sector, and leaders like Modi must realise this,” Raut wrote.He further said that if the Modi government were to collect funds for constructing the building – like being done for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya – it wouldn’t receive even a lakh. “Countries like the USA and UK helped their citizens in these tough times, but Indians got nothing,” he said stressing on how several people lost their jobs, faced salary-cuts and had to shut down their businesses this year.“The year 2020 was dark, filled with instability and mental stress. We do not know how 2021 will turn out to be. People should take care of their families. Modi will take care of the country,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-centre-s-policies-are-destabilising-india-s-federal-structure-says-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-OD0JEeBPKkLv0blPyQuD0J.html
28-12-2020||City||Pet registration: Despite looming Dec-31 deadline, ₹4K penalty, only 550 pets registered with Ludhiana civic body so far||The deadline to register pets with the civic body is drawing closer with just four days left before owners of unregistered pets are slapped with a ₹4,000 fine. However, only 550 people have registered their pets with the municipal corporation so far. Authorities said that December 31 is the last date to register pet dogs and cats with the MC by paying an annual fee of ₹400. So far, the civic body does not have a tally of pets in the city. However, a thorough drive will be carried out in January.The pet registration drive began in June and despite mayor Balkar Sandhu’s encouragement, most pet owners are yet to do it. Of those who have registered, only 200 residents have collected the brass token which has to be fastened on the pet’s collar.MC officials said that residents can register pets online on the website mcludhiana.gov.in. The pet owners will have to fill the pro forma including details and photographs of the pet and owner. They can also submit the required documents and register by visiting the MC’s zonal offices. They also need to submit a copy of the Aadhar card. The brass tokens can be collected from MC’s Zone-A office (MC headquarters) near Mata Rani Chowk.The officials said that pet registration will also help the civic body and residents identify and locate the pet if it is lost or stolen.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “It is mandatory to tie a token around the neck of a pet and ferocious dogs must be muzzled while being taken for a walk. In addition to the ₹ 4,000 penalty, owners of unregistered pets will have to pay ₹ 100 a day to MC as the civic body will take the pet’s custody till it is registered. If the pet attacks anybody, the owner will have to bear the expenses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pet-registration-despite-looming-dec-31-deadline-4k-penalty-only-550-pets-registered-with-ludhiana-civic-body-so-far/story-ulTQWclrcselzy5L7nluTM.html
28-12-2020||City||₹250-cr bogus bill scam: Ludhiana mastermind’s wife, 2 bank officials booked||The wife of the mastermind of the ₹250 crore bogus billing scam was booked on Sunday for taking ₹17 crore from her husband’s bank locker, a day after his arrest on November 11. Two bank officials were booked for allowing her access to the locker.Those booked are Yashita Jain, Capital Small Finance Bank Limited branch manager Manpreet Singh and assistant manager Manish Verma. The main accused, Sahil Jain, was found to be involved in bogus billing of invoices worth ₹252 crore involving input tax credit (ITC) of over ₹17 crore in respect of 14 firms created and operated by him either in his name or in the name of his family members and friends, without actual movement of any goods and causing a loss to the government exchequer. Yashita was a partner in a number of such firms involved in issuing bogus bills and passing fake ITCs.In his complaint, Principal Commissioner Good and Service Commisisonerate inspector Anil Dogra said that while Sahil was in jail, the evasion wing of the Commissionerate found that the bank accounts and locker of the accused at Capital Small Finance Bank Ltd, Sunder Nagar, had been operated by the accused Yashita Jain on November 12.When the visiting departmental officers summoned the two bank officers, Manish admitted to have allowed Yashita to operate the locker on the directions of branch manager Manpreet Singh. He also forged Sahil’s signature to indicate he had operated the locker. However, Shail was in jail at the time.Manpreet said, “On November 12 , Yashita came to my office saying she immediately needed to operate her husband’s locker but he was out of town. Thus, I directed Manish to allow Yashita to operate the account.” The department found that both the bank officials had violated Reserve Bank of India guidelines and sought action against them for conniving with the accused. A case was registered under Section 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467, ( forgery of valuable security) 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating, 471 (use a fake document as genuine) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The investigating officer Chaman Singh said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/250-cr-bogus-bill-scam-ludhiana-mastermind-s-wife-2-bank-officials-booked/story-uZ73YvcVQSRjwKdNdAUoMK.html
28-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 16-year-old jumps into quarry to save mother, sister; drowns||A 16-year-old girl, who jumped into a quarry in Hedutane village, along the Katai-Badlapur pipeline road, on Sunday to save her mother and four-year-old sister, is feared to have drowned, according to civic officials.As per the Manpada police, the mother, Gita Shetty,38, and her two daughters, went to the quarry to wash clothes around 12.30pm. As Pari, 4, slipped into the water, Shetty jumped in to help her. Seeing them drown, Lavanya, 16, jumped in to save them. The mother managed to rescue the four-year-old, however, Lavanya drowned. Locals informed the fire department of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) around 3pm, after which the rescue operations to find the girl were initiated. The girl was not found until evening and the rescue operations were called off. “As soon as we received a call from the locals our team reached the spot and the search was initiated. The operations will continue in the morning,” said Dilip Gund, chief fire officer, KDMC.“We have not yet registered a case as the body is yet to be found. As per the statement from the mother, it is suspected that she drowned in the water, while she tried to rescue the mother and her sister. Neither the mother nor Lavanya knew how to swim,” said Prashant Chavan, sub-inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-16-year-old-jumps-into-quarry-to-save-mother-sister-drowns/story-kgD4MPEdF1mEr7Reo5H9YI.html
28-12-2020||City||SHO found dead in Panipat||Dalvir Singh, 54, in-charge of Panipat’s Quila police station, was found dead in his rented accommodation in Panipat on Sunday morning. Singh was a resident of Madina village in Sonipat district.The body was spotted by a security guard who informed the police and his family members. Police reached the spot and he was rushed to Panipat civil hospital where doctors declared him dead.Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said the actual cause of death will be ascertained in postmortem report. But prima facie the cause of death seems to be heart attack.He said that the body was handed over to his family and the district police will provide financial assistance to the aggrieved family as his daughter’s marriage is due next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sho-found-dead-in-panipat/story-mWI5uobVPiAWfzy96dDNwJ.html
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||101gm heroin recovered from Punjab youth||Haryana Police have seized 101gm heroin from a Punjab resident in Fatehabad district of Haryana.A police spokesperson said that the arrested accused was identified as Amandeep alias Aman, of Punjab’s Ludhiana. Preliminary probe revealed that the accused had bought the seized drug from Hisar for sale in Punjab.The spokesperson added that during patrolling, police spotted the youth. During search, the contraband was recovered from his possession.“The accused confessed that he had bought the heroin from his friend in Piranwali, Hisar, for sale in Punjab,” the spokesperson said. Police have registered a case against the supplier under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/101gm-heroin-recovered-from-punjab-youth/story-0jrts2Q2LEIxlyEhCVP8cI.html
28-12-2020||City||60% polling in Haryana municipal elections||Nearly 60% voter turnout was recorded as polling remained peaceful in the elections to municipal bodies in Haryana on Sunday, which were held amid tight security and in adherence to the pandemic protocol, officials said.A total of 56.3% voter turnout was reported in the Sonepat municipal corporation elections, and 69.2% in Rewari municipal council polls, on Sunday. The municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Uklana (Hisar) and Dharuhera (Rewari) recorded 78.1%, 79.2% and 74% voter turnout, respectively.Elections in municipal corporations of Sonepat, Ambala and Panchkula, municipal council of Rewari, and municipal committees of Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana were held on Sunday. The counting of votes will be taken up on December 30.With this, the fate of 10 candidates for the post of mayor in Sonepat MC and 100 nominees locked in 20 wards for the post of councillor will be declared.As many as six candidates are in fray for the post of president of municipal council of Rewari, and 147 candidates for post of councillors in 31 wards. Ten candidates are contesting for the post of president of Dharuhera (Rewari) municipal committee and 54 nominees for 17 councillors.Voters started gathering outside polling booths in Sonepat, Sampla, Rewari, Uklana and Dharuhera from 7.45am to cast their vote. Strict guidelines were imposed by the district administrations to ensure smooth polling. The voters were thermal scanned at entry gates of polling booths, social distance guidelines were followed and voters were allowed inside the polling booths only after they wore face masks.Bottles of hand sanitiser were kept at appropriate locations inside the booths and disposable hand gloves were provided to the voters for signing on the voter register and pressing the EVM button.The last hour of voting was allotted to the infected patients, who cast their vote while wearing PPE kits. Heavy security arrangements were made to ensure smooth voting.Stage is set for a direct fight between the BJP-JJP combine, independents and the Congress. The BJP has pitted candidates for the mayor post on all three MC seats apart from president candidate for the municipal council of Rewari. The BJP is contesting the ward elections too but Congress is contesting only the mayoral elections on the three MCs and president election in the municipal council of Rewari. The JJP is contesting the president election in Dharuhera (Rewari) and Uklana municipal committees. However, earlier this month, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) had announced that it will boycott the municipal polls in protest against the alleged atrocities committed on farmers by the Centre and the state’s BJP-JJP government.(With agencies inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-polling-in-haryana-municipal-elections/story-shg1Dk5UuKJAxwQq5LK3fO.html
28-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: DRI confiscates dates hidden in scrap containers||A team of directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) on Sunday carried out a raid at the dry port in Kila Raipur and confiscated dates hidden in 10 containers to exempt tax worth crores of rupees.The 10 containers were shipped by a firm into the country from Dubai by stating it to be scrap material. The raid was carried out on the directions of the additional director general DRI Nitin Saini, GS Bains and deputy director Pankaj Diwadi.As per a DRI official, the import duty on scrap material is around 2% to 5%, while it is 20% on dates.The role of customs department has also come under scanner after the recovery of huge quantities of dates following the raid.It is also learned that the customs department had cleared the shipment from the dry port when the raid was conducted.The DRI is currently scrutinising the documents of the firm which was involved in the shipment of dates in scrap containers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dri-confiscates-dates-hidden-in-scrap-containers/story-c0bamtkNP59h5xRDMFPEjL.html
28-12-2020||City||Punjab lawyer consumes poison at Tikri border||A 55-year-old lawyer from Punjab died after allegedly consuming poison at Pakoda Chowk, 6km from Tikri border where farmers are protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.Sadar Bahadurgarh SHO Surender Kumar said they received information that the lawyer has consumed some poisonous substance and died at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.“We are waiting for his family to lodge an FIR in the case. Farmers had received a suicide note from the deceased,” the SHO said.In the suicide note, he has reportedly addressed PM Modi as “a dictator”.In the note, the deceased had claimed that he is sacrificing his life in support of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws so that the government is compelled to listen to the voice of the people. He wrote that the common people like farmers and labourers are feeling “defrauded due to the three black agriculture laws and a worst life is inevitable”.Police said they are verifying the authenticity of the note, dated December 18.PGIMS spokesman Gajender Singh said the lawyer was referred here from the Bahadurgarh civil hospital and died during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-lawyer-consumes-poison-at-tikri-border/story-wxTVQ49MJSpTxo4UgR12FO.html
28-12-2020||City||Hooda expresses concern over rise in farmer deaths||Former chief minister and leader of Opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Sunday, expressed concerns over rise in farmer deaths during the ongoing farmers’ protest.Hooda said over 40 farmers have sacrificed their lives amid the ongoing agitation against Centre’s three farm laws but the Centre is still silent on the issue.“Centre should hold dialogue with farmers and end the stir by accepting their demands. Farmers are sitting at Delhi border for valid demands for nearly a month,” he added.He said that his party wants to bring a non-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government in the assembly.“The government has lost trust of public and its legislators. Every section of the state’s population is on streets against the government and many independent MLAs have withdrawn their support from it. Many JJP MLAs have openly come in support of farmers,” he said.Hooda added that if the motion of non-confidence comes in the assembly, even the government’s alliance partners will vote against the government.“But still the CM says that there is no need to call a special session of the assembly as the Opposition does not have any specific issues. The CM dismissing this demand indicates that he himself does not trust his government and MLAs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooda-expresses-concern-over-rise-in-farmer-deaths/story-2f8rGZkYrXBGpFsNHod54K.html
28-12-2020||City||Kaithal farmers booked for life threat to minister, JJP MLA||Around 100 unidentified farmers have been booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for life threat and blocking way of Haryana women and child welfare minister Kamlesh Dhanda and JJP MLA Ishwar Singh.As per police, two FIRs have been registered at Kalyat and Guhla police stations, respectively, on complaints of cops under Sections 147, 149 341, 504 and 506 of the IPC.The first FIR was registered at Kalayat police station on complaint of constable Satpal Singh. He alleged that around 50 unidentified persons carrying black flags blocked the way of state minister Kamlesh Dhanda near Kalyat and threatened her life if she does not resign.In another complaint, head constable Praghat Singh alleged that around 40-50 unidentified persons carrying black flags forcibly entered DAV Girls College where Guhla MLA Ishwar Singh was addressing a gathering on ‘Good Governance Day’.When the MLA was leaving the venue, they blocked his way and asked him to resign in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The cop alleged that they gave life threat to the MLA if he fails to resign.Police said on complaint of the police personnel who was on duty at DAV College, an FIR was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kaithal-farmers-booked-for-life-threat-to-minister-jjp-mla/story-adaV1dYKf0ZF1MFFnSbuHI.html
28-12-2020||City||Farmers bang thalis during PM’s Mann Ki Baat address||Farmers agitating against Centre’s three farm laws banged utensils during PM Narendra Modi’s 72nd monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday, to raise their protest against the farm laws.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni joined the farmers at Makrauli toll plaza connecting Rohtak and Chandigarh. He said they banged thalis and chanted slogans against PM Modi during his monthly ‘Maan Ki Baat’ programme.“We want to ask our PM not to lie in every episode of his radio address and ask him to maintain decency of the PM’s post. Instead of solving our grievances, the PM is blaming farmers for not reaching on table to discuss the issues. The PM should talk to farmers with an open heart and refrain from taking decisions to benefit Ambani and Adani,” he added.Farmers sitting on dharna at toll plazas across region banged utensils to protest the PM’s last radio address of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-bang-thalis-during-pm-s-mann-ki-baat-address/story-8qE3nlOxhYHIJxw0KrTm8H.html
28-12-2020||City||Haryana toll plazas to remain free for commuters: Farmers||Intensifying their ongoing agitation against farm laws, activists of farmers’ organisations said that toll plazas in Haryana will remain free for all commuters indefinitely.Earlier, the farmer union leaders had announced that toll plazas will be opened for three days from December 25 to 27. But in a meeting late on Saturday, farmer leaders said they will not allow the toll companies to charge anything from commuters until the Union government accepts their demands.“We met farmers and representatives of farmer unions. It was decided that toll plazas will not be allowed to charge commuters indefinitely,” said state Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni.He added that farmers will continue their protests at all toll plazas in Haryana till protests at Delhi borders are not ended.On December 25, the protesting farmers had gathered at toll plazas, forcing toll collection booths’ staff to leave. The protesters took over Haryana toll plazas and removed barricades from toll gates and providing free movement to motorists.Women and children joined the protests at Kitlana toll plaza in Dadri, while farmers parked their tractor-trolleys on the roadside and sat on dharna near Makrauli toll plaza on Rohtak-Chandigarh highway and at Madina toll plaza on Rohtak-Hisar highway.Farmers took over Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on NH-44, Gullarpur toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway, Thana toll plaza in Pehowa of Kurukshetra on Hisar-Chandigarh highway, Panipat toll plaza on NH-44, and Dahar toll plaza on Panipat-Rohtak highway. Farmers from Haryana and Punjab continued their sit-in at Shambhu toll plaza near Ambala on Delhi-Amritsar NH-44 for the second day.As per information, the concessionaire of Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 near Karnal is among the biggest sufferer as the toll company is likely to suffer a loss of around Rs 1.20 crore per day due to free movement of vehicles from this toll plaza.Officials of the toll plaza said per day collection of Bastara toll remains around Rs 1.20 crore to Rs 1.30 crore as around 40,000 to 50,000 vehicle cross from the toll plaza every day.In Chandigarh, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said this loss is not to the toll companies. Ultimately, the public will have to bear the losses.‘Boycott products of select corporate houses’Farmer leaders have urged Haryana farmers to boycott products of select corporate houses to express their anger against the three farm laws allowing private traders to procure farm produces.“Besides indefinite protests at toll plazas, we have urged farmers to boycott products of Reliance, Adani and Patanjali,” Charuni said.He added that during meeting, it was decided that farmers will boycott politicians in next elections, if they are not supporting farmers’ stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-toll-plazas-to-remain-free-for-commuters-farmers/story-EI5X7krtSShiGfEyEBJmbM.html
28-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida most polluted city; Noida, Ghaziabad air in ‘severe’ zone again||Air quality in Noida deteriorated to the ‘severe’ level on Sunday, with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 405, two days after the region recorded an improvement.With Greater Noida the most polluted city of the country, the three NCR cities of Uttar Pradesh, including Ghaziabad and Noida, were among the five most polluted cities on Sunday, as per the AQI bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the CPCB data, the AQI of Noida Dropped to 405 from a reading of 344 (very poor) recorded a day earlier. Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 418, which was 355 (very poor) a day prior. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 407— the third most polluted city on Sunday — as it dipped from 367 a day prior. An AQI between 101 to 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is poor, between 301 and 400 is very-poor, between 401 and 500 is severe, and readings above 500 severe plus. The CPCB listed ultrafine particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5), which mix in the bloodstream though breathing, as the main pollutant on Sunday in the three cities. The P2.5 levels in Noida was 279.01 microgrammes per cubic metres (ug/m3) for Sunday, against 197.99 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 294.84 ug/m3 against 212.27 ug/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad on Sunday was 279.17 ug/m3 against 226.81 ug/m3 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 ug/m3. The pollution monitoring agencies pointed to low wind speeds as the reason for the spike in pollution levels. The pollutants in the city’s air were locally generated, and not due to the external sources like stubble burning, said experts. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), due to a western disturbance in the Indian Himalayan region, which leads to snowfall in the northern states, wind direction changed and subsequently, wind speeds dropped. “Whenever the wind directions change, the pollution levels spike because the dispersion stops. The wind directions change from north-westerly to south-easterly on Sunday and the speed was around 8 kmph. On Monday, the speed may be around 10 kmph but the pollution levels may be high,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), higher ventilation is expected on Monday. “The surface winds are likely to pick up and AQI is likely to improve to the middle-end of very poor on December 28 and 29. AQI is likely to deteriorate thereafter towards the high-end of very poor by December 30. Low ventilation condition is likely to extend thereafter and it may affect AQI on New Year’s Eve,” read a statement issued by Safar on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-most-polluted-city-noida-ghaziabad-air-in-severe-zone-again/story-0p2LdGL5NDgZRRDJ0amaJI.html
28-12-2020||City||Fire breaks out at a godown in Bhiwandi, near Mumbai||A fire broke out in a godown of a residential building at Jhenda Naka, Bhiwandi, on Sunday morning. No injury or casualty was reported in the incident. The residents living in the building were evacuated on time by the fire officers.The incident took place around 6.15am. Most of the residents were asleep at the time of the incident. The fire broke out in a godown where household utensils were stored.According to fire officers, the cause of the fire is primarily suspected as short-circuit in the meter box.Two fire tenders of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) rushed to the spot. All the stock of utensils inside the godown were charred by the time the blaze was bought under control, after an hour.“The residents managed to rush out of the building soon after the fire broke out. Our team reached there and doused the fire,” said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer, BNCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-a-godown-in-bhiwandi-near-mumbai/story-8cfi2ecNKuoDiOJ3NZFRuJ.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality nears severe; IMD warns of cold wave from Tuesday||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated on Sunday, reaching the end of the very poor category -- just four away from the severe zone even as the Met office predicted cold wave conditions in the city. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the minimum temperature in Delhi may drop to 3 degrees Celsius from December 29. On Sunday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory was 6 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 22.6 degrees Celsius.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin showed that the overall air quality index of Delhi on Sunday was 396, in the ‘very poor’ zone. However, by 8pm it deteriorated to 407. At least 25 out of the 36 pollution monitoring stations were in the severe zone, according to Sameer app of the CPCB. On Saturday, the AQI was 337, also in the ‘very poor’ category. So far this month, the air quality in Delhi was severe for four days and moderate for just one day on December 14, CPCB data shows. IMD scientists warned that the air quality could deteriorate further over Sunday night. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said on Sunday Delhi received winds from the northeastern direction, which was high in moisture. This means that air quality will deteriorate over Sunday night and may enter the severe zone, he said. “The high moisture in the air will keep the pollution levels high, but from Monday morning the wind direction will change back to northwesterly. The wind speed will also improve slightly, which will result in a marginal betterment of the AQI,” said Soni. He, however, added that the improvement will not be significant and the AQI on Monday is also likely to remain in the very poor zone. Union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research forecast also said that from Monday, Delhi’s air quality is expected to improve. “The surface winds are likely to pick up and AQI is likely to improve to the middle-range of very poor for December 28 and December 29. AQI is likely to deteriorate thereafter towards the high end of very poor by December 30 and December 31,” the Safar analysis read. According to IMD, under the influence of an approaching western disturbance, there was snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad. Scattered snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and light rain and thundershowers were also noticed in the northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The impact of this will be seen on Delhi’s temperatures from December 29. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said on Monday the minimum temperature will be around 5 degrees Celsius but this will dip and reach to around 3 degrees Celsius in the coming days. “In Delhi, we can expect clouds and trace rainfall. After the WD passes, cold wave conditions are likely to stay for three to four days from December 29 onwards. We are already recording very low minimum temperatures bordering cold wave conditions,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-nears-severe-imd-warns-of-cold-wave-from-tuesday/story-69ifg8umbYRUTCqU9gODZN.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||ICU beds reservation for Covid-19 treatment in 33 Delhi private hospitals reduced to 60%||The Delhi government on Sunday told the Delhi high court that it has accepted the recommendation of the de-escalation committee of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and reduced the reservation of Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU) beds from 80% to 60% in 33 private hospitals.The court had, on December 24, said it would be “inhumane” to have 80% ICU beds in almost three dozen private hospitals of the city reserved only for Covid-19 patients, especially when the positivity rate and cases in the city were falling. The court was hearing a plea by the Association of Health Providers challenging the government’s September 12 decision reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals in Delhi for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court said the order had to be removed if beds remained vacant.The government on Sunday also passed an order, signed by Delhi’s health and family welfare secretary Amit Singla, ratifying the move to reduce reserved ICU beds.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn December 24, the government had informed the court that an expert committee has recommended reducing the reservation to 60%. The government counsel had also assured the court that the Delhi government is going to pass an executive order for the reservation of beds on the recommendations of the committee by the DDMA.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the government, had told the court a meeting would be held on December 26 in this regard, where the views of Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog and Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will be considered while passing an order on reservation of ICU beds for Covid patients.“In supersession of the order dated 12.09.2020, COVID ICU beds in 33 Hospitals shall be de-escalated to 60% from existing 80%, freeing up 20% COVID ICU beds for NON COVID,” the order passed on Sunday read.In the meeting on December 26, both Dr Paul and Dr Guleria agreed with the DDMA de-escalation committee’s recommendation.However, the Delhi government in an affidavit on Sunday said they would not consider any further de-escalations in the wake of the new strain of the Sars-Cov-2 virus detected in the United Kingdom, as well as with Christmas and New Year’s celebrations in mind. The government said it will review the situation on January 15 next year.The government, in an affidavit filed through advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel, has said that the expert committee took note of the declining trend of COVID infection in the NCT of Delhi.“The new UK strain of COVID-19 is a new development which has witnessed itself to the country very recently. The new strain situation is still evolving in the country. About 20,622 persons have landed from UK (combined list of APHO and Nodal Officer Vande Bharat Mission, GNCT of Delhi) in Delhi, from Nov 25 to December 23. Further till now about 19 UK returnees have tested positive and their genome sequencing in underway in NCDC,” the affidavit said.“In view of the unfolding situation of the new strain, we are of the view that we should take abundant precaution and abrupt de-escalation is not advisable at this juncture,” it added.The matter is now likely to be heard on December 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/icu-beds-reservation-for-covid-19-treatment-in-33-delhi-private-hospitals-reduced-to-60/story-679HTTYt0vLaExhTLOWBMM.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||PM Modi to flag-off Delhi Metro’s first driverless train, National Common Mobility Card today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will inaugurate India’s first-ever driverless train operations on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line — which connects Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden — along with launching the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on the Airport Express Line. In a statement issued on Sunday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that the inauguration will be held via video conferencing at 11am on Monday. “These innovations are going to herald a new era of travelling, comfort and enhanced mobility for Delhi-NCR residents. With the commencement of driverless trains on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line, DMRC will enter the elite league of 7% of world’s Metro networks, which can operate without drivers,” the DMRC statement read. DMRC also announced that after the 37-km Magenta Line, they are also preparing to introduce the driverless technology on the 57-km Pink Line corridor (Shiv Vihar-Majlis Park) by mid-2021. This would increase the driverless network on the Delhi Metro to around 94kms, which is nearly 9% of Delhi Metro’s total network. “The driverless trains will be fully automated, which will require minimum human intervention and will eliminate the possibilities of human errors. Delhi Metro has been a pioneer in introducing technology driven solutions for passenger comfort and this is another step in the same direction,” the Delhi Metro said. Officials explained that the driverless train technology has set standards for automation called grades of automation (GoA). In GoA 1, trains are run by one driver and, in GoA 2 and GoA 3, the role of the driver is reduced to operating doors and for taking over in case of emergencies — the starting and halting of trains is automated. Finally, in the GoA 4, trains are set on a completely unattended operations mode.Beginning tomorrow, at the Magenta line between Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden, GoA 3 will be adopted for the services. Apart from this, the Delhi Metro on Monday will also begin the use of the National Common Mobility Card, on the Airport Express Line. This will allow passengers carrying a RuPay -debit card issued in the last 18 months by 23 banks to swipe these for Metro travel. Passengers from any part of the country will now be able to travel on the Airport Express line using this card, the DMRC said. “This facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022,” DMRC spokespersons confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-delhi-metro-s-first-driverless-train-national-common-mobility-card-today/story-MOoMeWDG5f5DLHvrSl7HaN.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Only 7% of the 1,068 EVs that received govt subsidy were cars: Data||Only 7% of the 1,068 electric vehicles that received subsidy under the Delhi government’s EV policy since August, were cars/four-wheelers, shows data with the transport department. Maximum among the vehicle categories listed to receive benefits under the policy were e-rickshaws (59%), according to the data. On August 7, the AAP government had notified the Delhi EV Policy 2020 -- unveiled in December 2019 by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal -- with an aim to reduce air pollution and to kick-start the economy by spurring demand. The policy offers subsidies,and road tax and registration free waivers, for electric vehicles bought in the Capital.Following the notification of the policy, the government on October 11 notified full waiver of road tax and registration fee for battery-operated vehicles. This benefit is in addition to a subsidy of Rs 10,000 per kWh which is being given to the first 1,000 e-cars or electric four wheelers, capped at Rs 1,50,000 per vehicle. For electric two-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, rickshaw and freight vehicles, the subsidy is Rs 5,000 per kWh of the battery capacity up to Rs 30,000 per vehicle. Records show that since August, Delhi registered over 5,000 EVs. But, of these, only around 21% (1,068) vehicles got the incentives. Of the 1,068 EVs, as many as 625 (59%) new e-rickshaws were given subsidies under the EV policy --- the highest among all vehicle categories. This was followed by electric two-wheelers, 233 of which received the benefits. Even electric-carts, which are e-rickshaws modified to carry light-weight goods, were more than e-cars (72), data till December 22 showed. “The fact that electric two-wheelers comprise the second-highest share among the incentives disbursed to EVs so far shows that Delhi’s EV policy is on the right track. Delhi has over 7.3 million registered two-wheelers and they are also the ones that create a lot of air pollution which usually goes unnoticed. This segment of vehicle has been one of our main target areas to convert into battery-operated or electric mobility,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.However, transport officials said the low demand for electric cars/four-wheelers is because of a lack of options in the market. “There are very few e-car variants that are on offer in the market at an affordable price. Things may look up for the e-four-wheeler segment in 2021 and 2022 with automobile manufacturers like Tata and Hyundai planning to introduce electric hatchback variants,” said a senior transport official. Officials who are handling the EV incentives said the government has received nearly 1,600 requests for subsidies so far of which nearly 180 were rejected, while around 280 requests are pending at various stages. “The most common problem we are facing in disbursing the incentive amount is from the dealer’s end. Aadhaar of the vehicle owner is mandatory for the application to be processed. But, in addition to that and prevent corruption, we asked all dealers to also take and upload a cancelled cheque from each applicant to ensure the government’s incentive amount is being transferred to the genuine beneficiary. So many a times this is not being done correctly. This delays the process,” the official said. While unveiling the policy in December 2019, Kejriwal had termed the policy a significant step towards ensuring cleaner air in the city. “Vehicles are the biggest source of pollution in the capital and amount to 40% of PM2.5 air pollution levels and 80% of carbon monoxide in the air. Over their lifetime, these EVs are estimated to save approximately Rs 6,000 crores worth of oil and liquid natural gas consumption,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-7-of-the-1-068-evs-that-received-govt-subsidy-were-cars-data/story-kG8nOzNlIVbKkBWaoPwvkM.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Police urge trial judge to inspect Pracha’s office||The special cell of the Delhi police on Sunday urged a trial judge to inspect the office premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha, who, they alleged, prevented the investigators from confiscating a “primary evidence” against the lawyer in connection with a Delhi riots-related forgery case.According to the police, Pracha, who represents at least 80 accused and victims in the north east Delhi riots cases, threatened the team that had raided his office and did not allow them to seal a suspect computer, which might have several crucial pieces of information.The police also sought to explain the circumstances in which a fresh FIR against Pracha was registered under charges of obstructing the officials, stating that the lawyer along with his associates presented “stiff obstruction and criminal intimidation” when they proceeded to seal and seize the suspect computer.The investigating agency also opposed the plea by Pracha to receive a copy of the videography footage of the raid, saying that Pracha is “an accused” and that he cannot seek this evidence only as owner of the premises.Countering this, Pracha said that he had sought the video footage as an applicant whose premises has been raided and not as an accused. He maintained that he hasn’t been named as an accused by the police.Duty magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain, however, accepted the contentions of the Special Cell and refused to supply the copy of the video footage at this stage. He said that the concerned chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) will take a call on the supply of footage when the matter is taken up next on January 5.The magistrate asked the police to preserve the video footage under the seal of the court and place it before the CMM court.On August 22, the Karkardooma court had passed a direction to look into the allegation leveled by a complainant Irshad Ali, mentioned in a police report where he had claimed that he was asked to depose falsely by advocate Pracha. Ali also told police on August 12 that he had falsely named three persons --- Navneet, Deepak and Mintu.Following this, an FIR was registered by the special cell against unknown persons. In connection to this, a raid was carried out at the office of Pracha on December 24, which according to the lawyer went on for 15 hours.On Sunday, the police moved its application under Section 310 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which allows a judge to inspect any place in which an offence is alleged to be have been committed for appreciating the evidences.The police also told the court that they have stumbled upon the particular e-mail, which was sent by the lawyer’s office to several senior police officers in the name of one Sharif Malik about a riots case even though Malik denied having sent any email to authorities. Pracha, on his part, has alleged overtures by the special cell officials under the guise of the warrant to search his official premises, and transgressing the attorney client privilege by taking away data from his computers.Meanwhile, the Bar Council of Delhi has also written to the union home minister, complaining against the manner in which Pracha’s office was raided and apprehended breach of the privileged communications between Pracha and his clients.The bar council has said that in this case they are not going into the depth of facts-related information, but the 15-hour search conducted by the police inside the lawyer’s office is against the understanding between the representatives of the bar association/bar council and the Delhi police that in case of any case against an advocate, the bar body will be informed and taken into confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-urge-trial-judge-to-inspect-pracha-s-office/story-eRDPeDhIWTBd6bONdgpo0H.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal visits Singhu, challenges Centre to debate farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday challenged the Central government and its ministers to take part in an open debate on the three controversial farm laws with the protesting farmers in the city. On Sunday evening, Kejriwal visited Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border where farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for over a month. To show solidarity with the agitators, the Delhi government organised a Kirtan Darbaar - ‘Safar-e-Shahadat’ - at the memorial to honour the martyrdom of the Chaar Sahibzaade and Mata Gujri Kaur. Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia attended this event, where the chief minister addressed the farmers.“The government is saying the farmers are being misled. They have little understanding about the farm laws. I have heard all speeches and hence, the government should send its most knowledgeable minister or representative to take part in an open debate with the farmers. It will be clear who has a better understanding. It will be clear how dangerous these new farm laws are,” Kejriwal said. Also Read | ‘Urging Centre with folded hands farmers are our people,’ says Kejriwal as he visits SinghuHe said the farmers have been braving the cold for the last one month to protest along Delhi’s borders, during which more than 40 people have lost their lives. “I want to appeal to the Central government with folded hands to repeal these farm laws. These are our people, our brothers, sisters, mothers and elders. These are the people of our nation, listen to them, and end their struggle here. How many lives will you take,” he said. The AAP chief said the Central government has fielded all their big leaders, ministers, and chief ministers of all states. “I heard all their speeches and I have not heard even a single leader talking about how these farm laws will benefit the farmers. As far as the benefits of these farm laws counted by these leaders, the first they say is that the land will not be taken away from the farmers. Is this a benefit? The MSP and the mandis of the farmers will not be revoked, is this a benefit? Why have you brought the bills then? Instead of telling the benefits, they are justifying that these bills are not harmful to the farmers. Who will benefit then if not farmers?” he asked. “The only benefit they tell us is that the farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere in the country outside of the mandis. If the crop is being sold at Rs 800 per quintal in Bihar where there are no mandis, and the MSP is Rs 1850 per quintal then where do our farmers from Bihar and UP sell their produce for more than Rs 1850? They cannot even get 50% of the price outside of the mandis. This is not a benefit to the farmers but to the big companies and the rich,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-visits-singhu-challenges-centre-to-debate-farm-laws/story-mFfFKUJLVbQCM2rb1VRUPL.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Rise in FIRs under drugs law, drop in seizures: Delhi Police data||The Delhi Police registered more FIRs under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances(NDPS) Act in 2020, even as the overall seizure of most drugs dipped significantly this year compared to 2019, spokespersons of the law enforcement agency said on Sunday. Against 712 FIRs under the NDPS Act showed through all of 2019, this year police filed 726 such cases until December 15. Compared to 909 arrests last year (till December 31), this year the police arrested 882 persons until mid-December.Meanwhile, the police seized 7,859kg of drugs in 2019, compared to 5,207kg till December 15 this year.“The seizure this year was lesser than last year because of our efforts to curb the sale and use of the drugs as well as the lockdown that disrupted the traffickers’ movement,” said Rakesh Paweriya, deputy commissioner of police (narcotics cell).Police said they also analysed the cases to identify where the drugs were being brought into the national capital from. “Marijuana, for instance, is mainly procured from Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar and Assam. It is also being smuggled in from Nepal and by courier services from the USA,” said Anil Mittal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Heroin is smuggled in mainly from Bareilly and Badaun in Uttar Pradesh, Myanmar via Manipur and Bareilly and Amritsar through Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Cocaine is trafficked from west African/South American countries and also locally manufactured by Nigerians,” Mittal said.Police said they have also identified places in the city that are “hot spots for drug trafficking.” The hot spots were identified based on the cases and people arrested in those places. Police said some places they identified were Sultanpuri, Jahangirpuri, Inderpuri, Sagarpur, Uttam Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Nand Nagri, Dwarka, Chhatarpur, Nizamuddin, Majnu ka Tilla and Paharganj, among others, said the officer.Police said they have identified three men as Delhi’s top drug smugglers, all of whom, according to the police’s list, are alleged heroin dealers — Sharafat Sheikh with 85 cases behind him, Pawan with 38 and Sunil Sansi with 36, the police said.“We are using the NDPS Act to go after the assets of the drug traffickers acquired from this illegal business,” said Paweriya about one of the efforts by the police to control drug trade.Barring opium, the seizure of which went up from two kilos to over 29kg, the recovery of other drugs was less this year. The recovery of marijuana dipped from 5,447kg to 4,378kg and heroin from 663kg to 88kg, police data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rise-in-firs-under-drugs-law-drop-in-seizures-delhi-police-data/story-022c3bpIeEGztwhGC69pxL.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||Two held for Trilokpuri clash, cops say no communal angle||Delhi police have arrested two men for the murder of a 40-year-old during a clash that broke out between two groups in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri on Saturday night. Police said the fight was the result of an old enmity. During the clash, more people from the area joined the two groups giving it a shape of mob violence. Though Trilokpuri has a history of communal clashes, police said that Saturday incident did not have a communal angle. Police said one man, Shahid, 40, was killed in the firing, while another named Faizan, sustained bullet injury to his thigh. The clash happened around 10 pm on Saturday. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said police teams conducted raids overnight and arrested two men for the murder -- Mannan, 35, who was leading one of the groups and his aide Salman, 30. “Both of them have been arrested and booked for murder and under sections of Arms Act for illegal possession and use of firearms,” Singh said. The DCP said, while Mannan has 5-6 criminal cases registered against him — such as those of assault and rioting — they are verifying if Salman has a criminal record. According to the police, after recording statements of the witnesses and local residents, it has been established that the violence on Saturday had been triggered by an old enmity. A senior police officer said, “Mannan and his family members run a meat shop near Trilokpuri bus stand. Mannan’s elder brother Asif and Shahid are neighbours and have fought previously also, over petty issues. On Saturday, following some argument, Shahid and his friends thrashed one of Mannan’s aide, identified as Kasim. When Kasim complained to Mannan, he called Shahid. Shahid and his men allegedly then vandalized Mannan’s motorcycle, after which more people joined the two men and the fight snowballed into mob violence,” the officer said. Police said Mannan’s brother Asif is absconding and search for him is underway. DCP Singh said the violence was not communal in nature. “No such incident was reported from the area on Sunday. Adequate staff from our area police station is deployed in the vicinity to maintain law and order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-held-for-trilokpuri-clash-cops-say-no-communal-angle/story-waBeybdoSqObntjpCzk4yJ.html
28-12-2020||Delhi||AAP leaders gherao MCD mayors over Rs 2,500 crore scam||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors and hundreds of volunteers held a “gherao strike” at the homes of the three mayors of the BJP-ruled municipal corporations on Sunday to highlight an alleged Rs 2,500 crore scam of the civic bodies .The protest was led by leaders of opposition in the north, south, and east municipalities. Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the BJP leaders, as well as the mayors of the three MCDs, are equally responsible for illegal waiving off Rs 2,500 crore, which the south corporation owes to the north civic body for using its office space in the Civic Centre building. “The BJP has been in power in the MCD for the last 15 years. In these 15 years, the BJP did not do anything other than corruption. The people of Delhi handed over the MCD to the BJP for the responsibility of cleaning Delhi, which is one of the most important tasks of the MCD, along with hundreds of other responsibilities that come under their ambit. But you go to any street in Delhi today, there are heaps of garbage everywhere. The drains are full of dirt,” he said.AAP leader Atishi said the accounts of south corporation for the last many years clearly state that Rs 2,500 crore was payable as rent for the SDMC office at Civic Centre, which is owned by the north corporation. “But in this year’s budget, the rent payable is shown as 0. The question that now arises is where did the Rs 2,500 crore go? Where has this money been appropriated? Which north MCD BJP leader and south MCD BJP leader received money to turn these Rs 2,500 crores into 0,” she said. The BJP rubbished the allegations and said there was no corruption or manipulation in settling of dues between two government bodies as reportedly done by north and south Delhi municipal corporations. BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “There has been no misappropriation of funds. The south MCD owes the rent to north MCD since 2012 when the trifurcation of the MCDs happened. In the current budget of the MCDs, there is also a provision for waiver on rent payment that is due, but that is awaiting approval of the House. The Delhi government can get it probed by any agency.”Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “ I waited at my residence at Timarpur with details of Rs 13,000 crore dues of municipal corporations in the Delhi government. But nobody came to gherao or seek details .”He also said that the AAP should prove the alleged scam of Rs 2500 crore or the chief minister should resign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-leaders-gherao-mcd-mayors-over-rs-2-500-crore-scam/story-8oVGSTrID0s9T3HdvM4X9K.html
28-12-2020||City||Congress misleading farmers on new agriculture laws: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday charged Congress with having misguided the farmers on the Centre’s three agriculture laws, which he said would provide farmers the freedom to sell their produce anywhere and boost their income.He was virtually addressing a function held by Himachal Pradesh government to mark the third anniversary of its rule in the state.“Unfortunately, some people who don’t know the basics of farming are misleading the farmers. However, I believe that as the farmers will understand these laws, their doubts will get cleared,” said Singh.He said there was propaganda that these laws would abolish the minimum support price (MSP) system. “The truth is contrary. In fact, the PM Modi-led government has adopted the Swaminathan Commission formula for fixing MSP and this year MSP of six rabi crops was announced as per this formula. Resultantly, there was a 1.5 to 2% increase in the MSP of these crops,” he claimed adding that the mandi system will also remain intact.“Nobody can snatch farmer’s land,” he said, appealing to the farmers to let the new laws be implemented for one or two years and that the government would be ready to rework them if not found beneficial.Congratulating the Himachal Pradesh government and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for completing three years, Singh said it was a proud moment for people of the hill-state as well.“Modi government is committed to eliminate poverty and has launched various schemes to achieve the goal. It is for the first time that the country’s budget has been prepared keeping the poor in focus,” Singh said.The minister added that the three-year rule of BJP has written a new chapter of development in the history of Himachal and brought sea changes in the lives of people through welfare schemes.He also mentioned the increased central assistant to Himachal Pradesh and lauded the state government for its achievement under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY).Singh said that the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang, inaugurated by PM Modi in October, has ensured easier deployment of troops and all-whether connectivity to tribal Lahaul-Spiti district. He also listed various public welfare schemes launched by the Centre and state.The Union minister said Himachal is a tourism state and its home-stay model should be replicated in the country.Gift of bulk drug park from Centre soon: Anurag Thakur In his virtual address on the occasion, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur congratulated the state government for its achievements. He lauded the chief minister for schemes like Him Care and Grihni Suvidha Yojna. He said the Global Investors’ Meet was a big achievement as MoUs worth ₹96,000 crores were signed last year.Thakur said Himachal may soon get a big gift from the Centre in the form of a bulk drug park.He expressed hope that the BJP would form the government again in the 2022 elections.Meanwhile, BJP national president JP Nadda in his message (read out by state BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal) said the state has achieved new heights on development front under chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s leadership. He also appreciated the CM and his government for the battle against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-misleading-farmers-on-new-agri-laws-rajnath-singh/story-zTXgt0AsPS7f5AHNHBiZ5J.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Pune police arrest Kolhapur resident in ‘cash for job’ case||The Swargate Police arrested Kolhapur resident, Amit Ashok Nalawade (45) on Sunday, for allegedly cheating a youth of Rs 50,000. According to the police, Nalawade promised employment in the defence forces to the complainant, identified as Ramesh Ubale (24), a resident of Solapur.Nalawade showed him official letterheads with stamps and then took the cash in two amounts, Rs 30,000 and later, Rs 20,000. The crime took place between 2018 until December 25, 2020, and when the victim realised that he has been duped, approached the police and lodged a complaint. The police have lodged a case under IPC 420 (cheating) and other relevant sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swargate-police-arrest-kolhapur-resident-in-cash-for-job-case/story-NWQZ4TwRuaoQ3tHY7hvdoJ.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Students go back home to villages as poll candidates||For Akash Dounde, a final-year student of mass communication from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), it is a matter of pride to contest the gram panchayat elections in his village. “I am contesting the upcoming gram panchayat elections from our village Somthane Nalawade in Ahmednagar district. I am working for student issues during my college time and have fought for constitutional rights of students every time in the university,” said 27-year-old Dounde. Just like Dounde, there are other students from the SPPU, who are contesting the panchayat elections for the first time. Some of them boast got huge support in their villages, and expect to win the election “bin virodh” (without opposition). Talking about his election plans, Dounde further said, “While I was studying mass communication I worked for several corporate and political research firms. Then I decided to work in the rural areas. We are not succeeding in providing clean drinking water and a hygienic livelihood in the rural areas. Gender inequality, increasing illiteracy rate, unemployment and farmer suicides disturbs me allot. I live in a village where not even a printed newspaper has reached yet. Around 30 per cent of the population in our village has migrated to city for employment. Generating employment within the village, gender equality and a hygienic livelihood are my priorities. Highly literate people shouldn’t avoid politics, as it is a way to serve society.”Another student from the SPPU, 21-year-old Ruturaj Gaikwad, has completed his Bachelor of Science in Chemistry and is from Ghatane village in Solapur district. He is also contesting the gram panchayat elections. “In our democracy the gram sabha is supreme in power and then comes the state assembly and then parliament. Gandhiji used to say if you want to change the face of nation then you must make sustainable changes in your villages. Taking inspiration from there I decided to contest the election and made our own panel in the village with all youngsters on it. Three major things we are focusing on – social, financial and environmental development of our village. We have already started work on solar power regeneration in our village through which each house will get 1KW of electricity. Apart from that, skill development projects for students, digital school, ATM machines, health card system, and a special mobile application for the village to give details of all the benefits and solid waste management are the plans we will be working on once our panel gets elected,” said Ruturaj. Another student of SPPU contesting the elections is Devidas Aarde from Chandgaon village in Indapur taluka, Pune district. Talking about his election plans, Aarde said, “Since childhood I have seen that there were no basic facilities available to villagers and we used to struggle daily for our livelihood. Now the time has come for youth to go beyond political parties and take management of our villages in our hand. So I decided to contest our gram panchayat elections. We like-minded youth in our village came together and made a panel, and now we are contesting to win. Once our panel is elected we will try to bring all the state and central government projects and benefits to each and every house in our village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sons-of-the-soil-why-sppu-students-going-back-to-villages-to-contest-panchayat-elections/story-pcMj9D6fXDS79TSrxXDZ0J.html
28-12-2020||Pune||No rush for nursery admissions in Pune as Covid fears linger: schools||Pre-schools in the city are reporting a mixed response from parents, so far, for admissions to the nursery class. Schools have virtual tours however, not many parents have taken admission to the nursery due to the pandemic. Schools said that many are adopting a waiting and watch attitude.Milind Ladge from Aryan World School said that not many parents are keen to take admissions ahead of a new virus strain found in the United Kingdom.“There is a fear among many parents. So they enquire, but that does not translate into admissions. Many parents attended online activities, but for nursery classes they want to wait for another year before taking admissions. For Class 1 and Class 2, parents are keen,” said Ladge.He further added due to fewer admissions and no payment of fees, preschools are struggling.Jayshree Venkatraman, principal, SNBP international school, Rahatani, said that some parents are very keen for classes to start.“We have some parents visit the schools to see the premises with their children. It is great to see that parents want children to join school. There are many parents who have taken admission with the intention that the schools will reopen soon, but they don’t want to miss out on the online classes,” said Venkatraman.She further added that the schools are preparing for safety measures and until the education department gives a nod, there will no offline classes for nursery.“We are taking all precautions and measures to ensure safety. We think that children should know how to be safe outdoors, post the pandemic as well. We are teaching social distancing, the importance of masks and hand hygiene to young children through online classes as well. This will prepare them for offline classes,” said Venkatraman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-rush-for-nursery-admissions-as-covid-fears-linger-pre-schools-report/story-563jNd9kkcyyCSiDfd0zNJ.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch arrest six after week-long raids against illegal ops||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Crime Branch arrested six criminals and recovered illegally stored tobacco from three godowns.The total seizure is been estimated to be worth Rs 9 lakh. The action was taken by Unit 5, under Pimpri Chinchwad Police Commissioner Krishna Prakash, over the past five days.In the first raid, PCMC crime branch sleuths arrested three persons for running a gambling den on the Akurdi link road, and seized cash worth Rs 84,000 from the accused. The action took place in an area under the jurisdiction of the Dehu road police station. In the second raid, crime branch officials unearthed the illegally stored tobacco and seized tobacco worth Rs 6.29 lakh from Alandi road. In the third case, police officials recovered illegally stocked tobacco worth Rs 1.60 lakh from a godown in Dehu road.Commissioner Prakash said that the raids will continue against illegal businesses for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-crime-branch-arrest-six-after-week-long-raids-against-illegal-ops/story-hk48cf9xgPlIqs25uwOKxH.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Assess COEP Jumbo facility, and close down if not needed: Ajit Pawar||Four months since inauguration and with a cost of nearly Rs 80 crore till date, the makeshift, dedicated Covid-19 Jumbo care facility at the COEP is now being assessed in terms of requirement.Given the falling number of Covid-19 cases in the district, closing down the Jumbo centre may be a choice the administration will have to make.At a meeting held on Saturday, chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Pawar opined that the administration must study the requirement and if not needed, then the facility could be temporarily closed. On August 27, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the jumbo facility, virtually. Although the facility was built with a capacity of 800 beds, it operated only 600 beds and was to be upgraded to full capacity in October. However, with the number of cases dropping in November, the administration put a brake on the upgrade of the facility. The facility also came under fire during its initial months of operation due to a high death rate and also, a large number of Covid-19 patients opting for discharge against medical advice (Dama) due to poor conditions at the facility. During the meeting Pawar instructed the administration to review the requirement and also take into consideration the ongoing protests by workers at the facility. The Med Bros agency currently runs the facility. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, who attended the meeting, said, “The deputy CM has instructed us to assess the situation - whether we need the facility or not, as the number of cases is going down drastically. Currently, we have about 150 patients still admitted to the facility, which also includes patients from rural Pune. We do not have any immediate plans to shift the patients out and we have not yet made any decisions on whether to admit new patients or not. This decision will be taken by the commissioner and the divisional commissioner.”The facility currently has 432 beds vacant, which means there are 168 patients admitted on oxygen beds or ICU beds with and without ventilators. The facility has 435 oxygen beds, 135 ICU beds without ventilator, and 30 ventilators. The staff working at the facility has been protesting delayed salaries and salary cuts. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who heads the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “The jumbo facility came at a time when the city had seen six months of the pandemic and then it never operated to its full capacity. It is a makeshift facility which will be brought down once the pandemic ends. Where will the ventilators and ICU beds go after that? PMC’s very own Naidu hospital, which is the state’s only infection control hospital, quite efficiently handled the swine flu pandemic and does not have an ICU unit. This money invested in the Jumbo facility could have been invested into upgrading PMC’s hospitals which would have helped in the long run even after the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assess-coep-jumbo-facility-and-close-down-if-not-needed-ajit-pawar/story-zxIlHQS35aNiofrudnNS8N.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Thieves steal ATM unit in Shirur||Thieves entered an ATM outlet at Pabal chowk in Shirur at 2.45 am on Thursday, and escaped with the unit itself, using what police believe to be a rope.The ATM unit contained Rs 19.50 lakh in cash. The ATM unit itself is valued at Rs 2.50 lakh.Police inspector Umesh Tavaskar said, “There was no security guard stationed at the ATM. It is the responsibility of the bank to have a proper security mechanism inside the ATM. The ATM was entrenched into the ground hardly one-and-a-half inch, which made it easy for the thieves to decamp with the machine.” According to police, the thieves used a four-wheeler to transport the ATM unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-steal-atm-unit-in-shirur/story-vTOdkVzAT1lUt8DIIGkjTK.html
28-12-2020||Pune||Stage is a banyan tree: Bori’s play to create cultural hub for Pune||The construction work of an open-air theatre at the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (Bori) in Pune is in its last phase. The speciality of this open-air theatre, is that an 83-year-old banyan tree will be at its centre. In 1937, this tree was planted by Vaijnath Kashinath Rajwade, the then executive chairman of the institute. Just like the work of the institute, the tree has grown and expanded over the years. Approximately two years ago, the construction of the open-air theatre around this iconic tree started and now it is to be completed. The institute hoped this theatre, which will be able to accommodate 2,000 people, will be a cultural centre in Pune and also a revenue source. Nachiket Patwardhan, a senior architect, has designed the theatre, which is expected to be inaugurated by March 2021. “That such a theatre can be constructed was the idea of Abhay Firodia. The funds required to construct the theatre are provided by the Firodia Trust. It will be a one-of-its kind theatres, as its ‘stage’ will be a tree. This tree was planted by Vaijnath Kashinath Rajwade brother of Vishwanath Kashinath Rajwade, a famous historian, in 1937. The idea was inspired by the open-air theatres at Shantiniketan. We aim for it to be a cultural centre in Pune,” said Bhupal Patwardhan, executive chairman, Bori.The institute hopes it would be a revenue source for research projects. “We do not get any help from the government. We hope to get a source of funds for our research projects from this theatre. The historic banyan tree is so big, that it covers almost the entire area of the theatre,” said Bhupal Patwardhan.Nachiket Patwardhan said, “The design consists of two overlapping circles, 70M and 52M in diameter; the common area of both circles is the stage (around the banyan tree). The 50M wide stage is large enough to provide four different performance spaces for 35, 250, 400 and 800 people. The budget is substantial but I’ve focused solely on design and execution without the burden and responsibility of any budget making and control.” When asked about his inspiration behind the design, he said, “Inspiration was the tree and the frustration of seeing such amazing spaces destroyed by FSI hungry buildings.”The green rooms, washrooms and stores are yet to be built, but work is expected to be over soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-theatre-is-a-banyan-tree-bori-s-play-to-create-cultural-hub-for-pune/story-9IdnlaI8kLI2ZN24v1WsUN.html
