29-12-2020||City||Panchkula and Ambala set to get new mayors, councillors||The six mayoral candidates and 83 others in the fray for 20 councillor seats along with around 1.03 lakh people who voted for them in the Panchkula municipal corporation elections will come to know the outcome on Wednesday.District election officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the counting of votes will start at Government Post Graduate Women’s College, Sector 14, at 8 am. The results are expected to be declared by 1pm.“Necessary arrangements have been made. Separate tables have been set up for counting votes polled for the mayor and councillors. No agent can carry mobile phone, stationery or other items in the counting hall,” he said.Meanwhile, all candidates have been directed to disclose their total expenditure in the election process within 30 days from the date of declaration of results.Elections to the Panchkula MC took place two years after the first House was dissolved. It is for the first time there is a direct contest for the post of mayor, and elections are taking place in a bifurcated MC, as Kalka and Pinjore were separated from its limits earlier this year.In is mainly a two-cornered contest for the mayoral post with former incumbent Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia of the Congress taking on the BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal. The contest is expected to be a close one due to a low voter turnout. Of 1.86 lakh voters, only 55.9% turned up on Sunday, the lowest turnout among the three MCs in Haryana that went to the polls.In the first election held in 2013, the Congress won the mayor’s post and majority in the House with 12 seats. The BJP and INLD won three each and two seats went to Independent candidates.In Ambala, counting of votes will start around 8am at OPS Vidya Mandir in Sector 9. Polling on Sunday saw 56.3% of the electorate coming out to vote for the six mayoral candidates besides 101 in the fray for 20 councillor’s seats from as many wards. Returning officer Sachin Gupta said 24 tables have been placed for counting of votes. Votes polled for the mayor will be counted on 14 tables and the remaining will be used for counting councillors’ votes.The city witnessed a multi-cornered contest as BJP-JJP coalition’s mayoral candidate Vandana Sharma and Congress’ Meena Aggarwal faced challenge from Shakti Rani Sharma and Amisha Chawla, candidates of parties floated by former ministers Venod Sharma (HJP) and Nirmal Singh (HDF), respectively. Rural booths saw nearly 70% turnout, and political analysts feel the ongoing farmers’ protests might have an impact on the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-and-ambala-set-to-get-new-mayors-councillors/story-50MHveGcsZ8X3iC4RxtDmJ.html
29-12-2020||City||80% vehicles lifted from 34 hotspots in Ludhiana: Cops||A comprehensive study of vehicle thefts in the city has revealed 34 areas that are frequently targeted by vehicle lifters as such the police on Tuesday kicked off an anti-theft drive by installing warning sign boards in vulnerable areas to alert motorists. While visiting Rakh Bagh, the most frequented of vehicle lifters’ haunts, commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal said, “We studied the pattern of vehicle lifting in Ludhiana and identified locations from where 80% of the thefts took place in 2020.” Most people haphazardly parked their vehicle in Rakh Bagh, Rose Garden and the bus stand, making them easy targets for vehicle lifters, he said.Vehicles parked along markets such as Ghumar Mandi and outside shopping malls are also frequently stolen. “We have asked market associations and municipal corporations (MC) to install CCTV cameras on these locations,” said AgrawalHe said, “In most cases it was found that drivers had randomly parked their vehicles to avoid parking fee. In some cases it was found that residents had left their keys in the vehicles, making the theft all the more easy. Four cases were reported where occupants forgot to roll up the windows.” Agrawal advised residents to install GPS devices in their vehicles as a safety measure. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Samer Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Jatiner Chopra and Division 8 station house officer (SHO) Jarnail Singh were also present during the time of inspection.The 34 hotspots include Leisure Valley, the Zone-D office, MBD Mall, Urban Estate Phase I Market, Urban Estate Phase II Market, Kipps Market, Gurudwara Shri Alamgir Sahib market, Punjab Agricultural University hostels, cremation ground behind KVM School, Samrala Chowk (near division 3 ), Mata Rani Chowk, Feroze Gandhi Market Court Complex, Civil Hospital, railway station parking, Western Mall, Silver Arc, Deep Hospital, vegetable market, Rishi Nagar Near Abiss Restaurant, Apollo Hospital, Outside Gurudwara Shri Dukhniwaran Sahib, JMD Mall, CMC Hospital, Krishna Sweets Chawni Mohalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-vehicles-lifted-from-34-hotspots-in-ludhiana-cops/story-Wr4jobFbofsFZoV14ZTuVM.html
29-12-2020||Noida||Pollution board slaps ₹5 lakh fine on builder over emission norm violations||Noida: A private builder in Greater Noida was slapped a penalty of ₹5 lakh on Tuesday by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB).According to officials, the builder was not following pollution control norms, leading to emissions thereby contributing to the overall air pollution. “In the wake of high pollution levels, a random inspection was carried out on Monday at construction sites where (at a plot) in Sector 1, Greater Noida, gross misconduct of norms under graded response action plan (Grap) and directions of National Green Tribunal (NGT). It was found that the construction materials were lying in the open and adequate dust and pollution controlling measures were not taken. Thus, the UPPCB is recommending a fine of ₹5 lakh on the builder,” said a notice by UPPCB addressing the city magistrate. Meanwhile, penalties of ₹50,000 each were slapped on two other builders at Site 5, Surajpur, under Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) and at Sector 2, Greater Noida.Greater Noida has been under “severe” air quality for a number of days this month and has been amongst the most polluted cities in country on three days – December 23, 24 and 28 with an air quality index (AQI) of 476, 448 and 418, respectively, all in the “severe” category.“We will continue to hold such regular inspections and do whatever is under our power to discourage emissions. The penalties were recommended under Grap which will stay in action till March 15. The penalty will be recovered through the city magistrate,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pollution-board-slaps-5-lakh-fine-on-builder-over-emission-norm-violations/story-IyjP5Rqi9bKgRx7zAMUblL.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore gives nod to MC ward delimitation in Chandigarh||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has approved the final report of the ward delimitation committee, and the administration is likely to notify the new wards of the Chandigarh municipal corporation within this week.The total number of wards remain 35, as was in the draft notification. However, acting on objections raised by residents in a few areas, the committee reorganised boundaries of some of the newly proposed wards.Major changes have been made in wards covering some parts of Manimajra (or Sector 13) and Sector 38 West, which have been retained with the adjacent urban areas.The UT administration on December 9 notified the draft notification for delimitation, increasing the number of wards from 26 to 35. The committee considered around 180 objections to the draft notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badnore-gives-nod-to-mc-ward-delimitation-in-chandigarh/story-RIEXwH0KAXuvkRNgvVdPeK.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Night curfew-hit hospitality sector wants curbs eased on New Year eve||With New Year’s Eve around the corner, the hospitality sector is in a tizzy over the imposition of night curfew in the state, which is expected to play a spoilsport during the celebrations.Ruing losses, the sector has demanded the withdrawal of night curfew in the state on December 31, to revive the sector, which has already suffered a lot during the lockdown. Hotel and restaurant owners say only 35% people have booked afternoon parties as compared to last year. Punjab Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said, “The sector will suffer losses amounting to crores unless night curfew restrictions are withdrawn. We had also approached the government but we haven’t got a positive response so far.”Vishal Malhotra, owner, Flamme Bois restaurant, Pakhowal Road, said, “New Year revellers are not booking any night events due to the curfew and as December 31 is a working day, few people have made bookings for the afternoon.”Amarjit Singh, who owns a hotel at Railway Station Road, said, “It is a tough time for the hospitality sector, which has already suffered huge losses during the lockdown. The government should take note of our problems and lift night curfew restrictions on December 31 as all guidelines are being followed at restaurants and hotels.”Meanwhile, residents had mixed responses on the issue. Some said gatherings should not be allowed viewing the threat which looms over the city amid the pandemic, while others said exception should be made for a day. A resident of Model Town extension Arshdeep Singh said,”The government should abolish the night curfew so that residents can celebrate with their families. Huge gatherings can still be seen in market places and residents can take all the precautions while enjoying with their friends and family.”REVELLERS HEAD TO HILL STATIONS TO RING IN 2021 With night curfew set to play a party pooper, Ludhiana residents are heading to hill stations and vacations spots in other states to ring in the New Year. This has increased business for travel agents and taxi service providers, who say that they are getting a lot of inquiries for two to three-day trips to Manali, Dalhousie, Shimla and other hill stations.Punjab Taxi union president Jaideep Singh said, “Most of these inquiries are for December 31 as residents don’t want to celebrate New Year in the city due to the night curfew here. Although curfew has also been imposed in Shimla and other districts in Himachal, residents are still opting for these places.” He added that the snow-covered roads at the hill station may make travelling difficult. Munish, a travel agent from Brown Road in the old city area, revealed that residents are opting for short-duration trips of two to three days as hotels have hiked the accommodation charges in view of the New Year rush. Deepak Sharma, a city resident who is planning to spend the New Year’ eve in Dalhousie, says, “My wife and I normally celebrate with friends and family in the city. But this time, we planned to go out of station due to the night curfew here.” With fewer bookings for New Year parties this time around, luxury hotels are offering staycation packages to customers so that people can ring in the New Year without worrying about the curfew.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-night-curfew-hit-hospitality-sector-wants-curbs-eased-on-new-year-eve/story-BgwjnbgkHp7GYbnqj9TH0L.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hourly parking rates to be enforced in Chandigarh in phased manner||With contractors yet to fully install the mandated smart features in all parking lots, the imposition of hourly parking charges will be executed in a gradual and phased manner in Chandigarh.The municipal corporation had given the contractors December 31 as the deadline to start smart parking in all sectors, which was the prerequisite to impose hourly charges.SK Jain, additional commissioner, MC, said, “One of the two contractors has installed the smart features, and he will gradually start charging hourly parking rates. The second contractor hasn’t yet complied.”The MC will start the inspection of parking lots from next week to verify whether the smart features have been installed, said Jain, adding that soon a meeting will be held with the contractors to further assess the situation.The smart features include e-ticketing, HD night-vision CCTV cameras, smart card-based daily and monthly passes, provision for e-payment, LED display of real-time occupancy and online booking of parking space.After the new rates kick in, parking fee for the first four hours will remain the same as the flat rates charged right now: ₹5 for two-wheelers and ₹10 for four-wheelers.Thereafter, these will be doubled. The charges will further be doubled if vehicles are kept parked beyond 12 hours. There will be free entry for pick and drop in the first 10 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hourly-parking-rates-to-be-enforced-in-chandigarh-in-phased-manner/story-vhDoyhKiQ7WByLN99oxjWJ.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature drops to 2.8°C in Chandigarh||Mercury dropped to 2.8°C in the wee hours of Tuesday in Chandigarh, making it the coldest December night the past two years.With maximum temperature of 14°C being seven notches below normal, it was also a severe cold day. Visibility, too, dropped below 50 metres due to very dense fog in the morning.Cold day and cold wave conditions will continue in the coming days, said the weatherman.Minimum temperature could fall up to 1°C depending upon the fog formation.However, with a western disturbance likely to affect the region around January 2, mercury could rise again.In the next three days, it is expected to oscillate between 3°C and 17°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minimum-temperature-drops-to-2-8-c-in-chandigarh/story-PJZxgBmKLNTXE2MbVmTTLL.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Geared up to tackle new Covid strain, says CM Arvind Kejriwal as city witnesses 703 new cases||Delhi on Tuesday conducted more than 84,000 tests for Covid-19 and reported 703 new cases of the viral infection. This is the fifth consecutive day that Delhi has seen fewer than 1,000 cases, even as Delhi chief minister said that the city was ready to tackle the new variant of the viral infection that originated in the United Kingdom. The new variant, which has 23 known mutation, is thought to spread 70% faster sparking fears of super-spreading events. “There have been three waves of Covid infections in Delhi. Over 8,000 cases were seen in a day in Delhi, which was the highest in the world. But Delhi was able to control it. We are ready for any situation now,” said Kejriwal. The city has seen a positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – of around 1% for the last five days as well. The positivity rate had dipped below 5% on December 2, dropping constantly to 0.83% as on Tuesday. Also Read | Delhi govt will provide dry rations to its students under mid-day meal scheme for 6 months: KejriwalThe cumulative positivity rate – calculated on the basis of total number of tests and cases – still remains higher than the national average at 7.35%. The city also reported 28 deaths due to the viral infection on Wednesday, tipping the death toll over 10,500. So far, 10,502 people have succumbed to the infection in the city. With fewer cases being recorded, an average of about 25 deaths have been reported every day during the last seven days have, driving the seven-day rolling average of case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – to 3.14%. The seven day CFR stood at 1.87% at the beginning of the month. “The new variant of Covid-19 is thought to be more transmissible, so if it reaches the susceptible population – which would probably be around 40% of Delhi’s population – it will spread quickly,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/geared-up-to-tackle-new-covid-strain-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-as-city-witnesses-703-new-cases/story-3hwAPUdg74EpF8EHOcPAGP.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Mercury drops to 3.6 degrees, ‘feels like’ 2 °C in Delhi||‘Cold wave’ to ‘severe cold wave’ conditions have set in over several parts of northwest India on Tuesday with Delhi’s Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recording temperatures of 2.7 and 2.6 degrees Celsius respectively. The Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, recorded temperature of 3.6 degrees Celsius.Though, the minimum temperature was pegged at 3.6 degrees Celsius, on Tuesday morning the “feel like” temperature was as low as 2 degrees Celsius, weather scientists said. This is mainly because of strong, chilly winds blowing at 15 to 20 kmph, which makes the perception of cold stronger. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 18.1 degree C, two degrees below normal.The ‘feels like’ temperature takes into account wind speeds and humidity to assess how the human body actually feels temperature. “For example, in winter a strong wind can feel much colder than the measured temperature would indicate. Conversely on a humid day in summer, it can feel uncomfortably hotter than the air temperatures would suggest on their own,” explains the UK Met Office.sMany stations in the northern plains recorded 0 degreez or near zero minimum temperatures. Hisar recorded 0 degrees Celsius; Narnaul was 0.3 degrees Celsius; Amritsar was 0.4 degrees Celsius; Bhilwara was 0.9 degrees Celsius; Pilani was 0.9; Sikar was 0.5 degrees Celsius and Churu was at 0.4 degrees Celsius.“Severe cold wave was recorded in many parts of Punjab and Haryana and cold wave conditions were recorded in Delhi. Extremely cold winds from snow-clad Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh are reaching the plains now. The average wind speed was around 15 kmph in Delhi, which increased the feeling of chill so the feels like temperature was around 2 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperatures will be low for the next two days and may even dip further,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.There is likely to be relief from January 1, when minimum temperature is likely to rise to around 5 degrees Celsius and to around 7 degrees Celsius on January 2 and 3, Shrivastava said. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region around January 4, which may bring light rain and thundershowers to the plains including Delhi.Under the influence of the strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/ northerly lower-level winds, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by about 2 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest and Central India during next 3 days and rise by 3-5 degrees Celsius thereafter for subsequent 3 days (January 1 to 3). ‘Cold wave’ to ‘severe cold wave’ conditions are likely in many parts over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Kutch in the next 3-4 days according to IMD’s Tuesday bulletin.‘Cold wave’ conditions are very likely over Bihar, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha during December 30 to January 1. Dense to very dense fog is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttarakhand during the next 3-4 days.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains. Ground frost conditions are likely over north Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next 2 days.“Many parts of northwest India are reaching the freezing point. We are expecting December 31 to be the coldest. Around January 2, a cyclonic circulation is likely to form over south Rajasthan and anticyclone over Chhattisgarh and Odisha. A confluence zone is likely to develop over Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan which is likely to bring rain to Punjab, Haryana and Delhi,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.Highest weather station in India:• IMD established a meteorological centre in Leh in Ladakh on Tuesday. At 3500 m, it’s the highest met center in India.• Being located on a strategically important Western Himalayan region bordering China, Pakistan, Tibet and Afghanistan, IMD will be reporting daily weather parameters from the region.• Ladakh has a complex mountain terrain with little annual precipitation of only 10 cm/year making it a cold desert.• It often faces extreme weather events like cloud bursts, flash floods, glacial lake outbursts(GLOFs), avalanche, drought etc leading to loss of life and property.• Examples include severe cloud burst in August 2010 and 2015, avalanche at Khardongla Pass in Jan 2019 and frequent blockage of Leh-Manali and Leh- Srinagar Highways due to heavy snowfall on passes.• Meteorological (Met) Center at Leh is established to strengthen weather related early warning system in Ladakh.• To begin with, IMD has established a surface observatory at Leh for reporting daily meteorological parameters like pressure, humidity, temperature, snowfall, etc.• At present Ladakh has got 4 Automatic Weather Stations (AWS), two each in both districts of which one is at Drass, the coldest place in India. Real Time weather data is available online on IMD website.• To improve the network of observations, IMD proposes to install more weather stations next year at the remotest of places like Nubra, Zanskar, Changthang, Parkachik, etc. thus covering the whole of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-drops-to-3-6-degrees-feels-like-2-c-in-delhi/story-rP4rZCOPyRcIU3KMlYMkaM.html
29-12-2020||City||Protests, national recognition: GADVASU saw it all in 2020||At the dawn of 2020, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) grabbed headlines after reshuffling of students to Khalsa College, Amritsar, triggered protests. However, as the year came to an end, the vet varsity was in the news for all the right reasons after the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) ranked it the best vet varsity in India.A ‘controversial counselling’ held at the eleventh hour on September 30 was challenged by students who said they did not get sufficient notice. The Punjab and Haryana high court asked the university to counsel the remaining students and reshuffle seats according to merit.On January 20, GADVASU issued a notice on its website saying counselling for reshuffling students will be held on January 23. As per the reshuffling list, nearly 24 students were to be shifted. The move triggered protests on the GADVASU campus with nearly 68 students camping on the university premises for a day.Students already enrolled at Government Veterinary College, Rampura Phul, Bathinda, staged a protest, saying they did not want to join the trust-run college in Amritsar, which charged ‘₹5 lakh as annual fee and ₹50,00 as hostel charges’ as opposed to ‘₹2 lakh and hostel fee and ₹10,000’ being charged by the government-run institution in Bathinda.The strike was finally called off after the vice-chancellor intervened and told them that the university was merely following the court’s orders.The university was in for another shock when renowned veterinarian Dr Kirti Dua passed away on July 1 after suffering a cardiac arrest. The 59-year-old author of ‘Veterinary Ethics And Jurisprudence’ was known across the state for his humanitarian work and at the time of his death was working on dispelling rumours about the spread of Covid among animals and to humans via animals.‘Murrah man takes varsity’s reins’On June 11, Dr Inderjeet Singh — popularly known as ‘Murrah Man’, for his research and expertise in breeding and management of the Murrah buffalo which is widely reared by farmers in Punjab and Haryana — replaced Dr AS Nanda as the vice-chancellor. The four-year tenure of V-C Dr AS Nanda had ended on February 15, 2019. However, he continued to remain on the position on ad-hoc basis as the government had not been able to decide on his successor. Inderjeet , who was chosen for the post on June 4, had been working as Punjab Animal Husbandry Department director since November, 2018.Top rankingGADVASU ranked first among veterinary universities of India as per the ranking of the agricultural universities and research institutes, taken out by the education division of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi, for the year 2019. GADVASU ranked seventh among all 67 agricultural universities,veterinary universities and research institutes of India.First blood bank for dogs in north IndiaPunjab governer VP Singh Badnore congratulated GADVASU officials on Twitter for setting up the first dog blood bank in north India where dogs’ blood, platelets, plasma will be stored and used to treat ailing or injured dogs. The university and veterinary hospital treats approximately 30,000 animals every year, including 20,000 pets.Covid reliefWith pandemic sweeping across the state, top scientists from the university offered their services to the government. Ten scientists from GADVASU were deputed to different medical colleges in the state to help with diagnosing Covid. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had recommended two diagnostic tests — Genesig Real-Time PCR Coronavirus’ and ‘Cobas SARS-CoV-2 Qualitative’ for diagnosing the disease. The advanced tests could not be conducted in most medical laboratories in Punjab. In these circumstances, GADVASU provided two Real-Time PCR testing machines, and trained medical support staff for conducting the tests. GADVASU is already equipped with well-established research labs in the field of animal viotechnology, virology, cell culture and disease epidemiology. A Covid viral testing laboratory was also inaugurated at GADVASU in August. Medical education and research minister OP Soni and food, civil supplies and consumers affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the lab.New officers appointedThe board of management appointed deans of different colleges. Dr HS Banga was appointed registrar, Dr Sarvpreet Singh Ghuman as dean of the College of Veterinary Science, GADVASU; Dr Manish Kumar Chatli as dean, College of Veterinary Science, Rampur Phul (Bathinda); Dr Meera D Ansal as dean, college of Fisheries and Dr YPS Malik as dean, College of Animal Biotechnology. Dr JPS Gill became the new director of research, Dr Parkash Singh Brar the director of extension education and Dr Satyavan Rampal as director student’s welfare-cum-estate officer.Union minister inaugurates Aquaponics unitUnion minster of state for education (communication and electronics and information technology) Sanjay Dhotre virtually inaugurated an ‘Aquaponics Vertical Farming System’ that had been developed at the varsity in September. The system had been developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, under a collaborative project funded by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY).Vet varsity signs pact with ICAR-CIPHETGADVASU signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research- Central Institute of Post-Harvest and Engineering Technology, (CIPHET) for collaboration in teaching, research and extension activities for the welfare of livestock in Punjab. GADVASU director research Dr JPS Gill and CIPHET director Dr RK Singh signed the memorandum in the presence of V-C) Inderjeet Singhand other officers of the university and scientists of CIPHET.Varsity board member becomes V-P of Canadian varsityGADVASU alumnus and member of the board of management Dr Baljit Singh became the vice-president (research) of the University of Saskatchewan (USask), Canada. Dr Baljit is an accomplished researcher, educator and administrator in veterinary medicine with expertise on cell and molecular biology of lung inflammation. He pursued his bachelors of veterinary science and masters in veterinary science from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in 1989. He studied for his doctorate from the University of Guelph in Ontario and had post-doctorate training from Texas University and Columbia University, New York (USA).Alum named research leader in AustraliaThe Australian special research report (2020) named Dr Navneet Dhand, an alumnus of the College of Veterinary Science, GADVASU, as a research leader in the field of veterinary medicine..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protests-national-recognition-gadvasu-saw-it-all-in-2020/story-BkOVFn9VpyiAgVVKcCQlkL.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER starts 3D exoscope surgery, a first in India||The department of neurosurgery of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has started operating patients with 3D exoscope, a minimally invasive technique.It is the first in the country to do so. A team of neurosurgeons, led by Dr Dhandapani, successfully operated upon two patients with brain tumour and orbital mass using this latest technology for brain and spine surgeries. “Many centres in India have 2D exoscopes, but 3D exoscope in PGIMER is the first in India. This is very helpful in dealing with problems on the surface of the brain, spine and orbit. Compared to a microscope, the system is lighter, occupies less operating room space and is ergonomically better,” said PGIMER in a release. The 3D visualisation is guided by a scope from outside while 2D visualisation is from inside the endoscope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-starts-3d-exoscope-surgery-a-first-in-india/story-jrhBLSKfyrEWm7mj5gKcqO.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||PU to hold re-appear exams from January 15||Panjab University (PU) has decided to conduct re-appear exams for UG/PG/professional courses from January 15, 2021. The exams will be held online and students, who have already filled the re-appear forms for May 2020, don’t have to register again. The examinations will be held for candidates of odd semesters (professional courses re-appear category), deficient subjects of intermediate even semesters, candidates of environment education sitting for golden chance, re-appear candidates of intermediate semesters who could not clear the exam as per instructions/models issued by Panjab University Authority, resulting in the cancellation of their result.Meanwhile, 11 PU syndics have written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar asking for the semester examinations to be conducted offline.“The semester examinations of the undergraduate, postgraduate, and other courses are scheduled to be held soon and we are already quite late. In this context, we would like to bring to your attention that the past experience of conducting online examinations for end semesters has been far from satisfactory,” the syndics have said. “Since you (VC) have failed to conduct any meeting of the Syndicate for the last five months, it is both inevitable and obligatory on our part to convey to you that we are of the considered opinion that in order to avoid the problems encountered during the conduct of semester examinations through online mode, all semester examinations scheduled for the ongoing classes, be conducted strictly in the physical/offline mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-hold-re-appear-exams-from-january-15/story-nnwMqBw6pLtqoUSXY6a0uI.html
29-12-2020||Noida||Residents’ group urges authority to to install barriers at bridge over Hindon||Greater Noida residents have asked the authority to install barriers to prevent dumping of waste into the Hindon river.“A new bridge that connects Noida and Greater Noida over river Hindon has no barriers. We urge the authority to at least install the grills or a barrier, just like on the Yamuna Bridge so that illegal dumping of the garbage and construction waste would stop,” said a letter by city-based social group Progressive Community Foundation. They also urged the authority to clean the river. “Hindon doesn’t look like a river at all. It is a stinking untreated drain. If the authority cannot treat the river, the least that could be done is stop further damage,” said Amit Gupta, resident of sector-77 and member of the social group. Officials at Greater Noida authority have said that they have written to the bridge corporation. “The demand by the group is valid. We have asked the bridge corporation whether they have a proposal to build or install barriers. If not, then the authority will install one,” said Kaluram Verma, senior manager, Greater Noida authority. The Hindon originates from Saharanpur and reaches Gautam Budh Nagar (Greater Noida) after passing through Meerut, Shamli, Mussafarnagar, and Ghaziabad. It merges with the Yamuna at Momnathal in Tilwada village of Greater Noida. Throughout its 50 km of length through the district, the river is fed untreated effluent and non-degradable waste from industries and illegal colonies thereby worsening the situation and suffer a constant absence of the Dissolved Oxygen (DO) making it a virtually dead river. According to the UPPCB assessments, the Hindon at its entry point Chhijarsi was consistently zero throughout the year 2019 and 2020 till October, against a minimum requirement of 5 mg/ltrs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-group-urges-authority-to-to-install-barriers-at-bridge-over-hindon/story-2z2KnrsaqD3NKYuuRLH54N.html
29-12-2020||City||Cashier shot at, robbed of Rs 7 lakh in Ambala Cantt||Three bike-borne men allegedly shot at a cashier of a private firm and robbed him of a bag containing Rs 7 lakh in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday, police said. The victim, Avtar Singh of Munaheri, was heading to a bank when the men intercepted him near a flyover and opened fire, leading him to fall off his bike. He sustained injuries in his knees due to the fall and was taken to the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment by some passersby. He was later shifted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar said, “We are yet to ascertain how much cash the bag contained.” Parao station in-charge Devender Singh said an FIR is yet to be registered as the victim is in Chandigarh for treatment. “We got to know that the bag had nearly Rs 7 lakhs but the exact amount is yet to be known,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cashier-shot-at-robbed-of-rs-7-lakh-in-ambala-cantt/story-bFQ5xBt50bBw77kZP3mwoL.html
29-12-2020||Noida||GB Nagar district health department identifies 32 hospitals for Covid-19 vaccination||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has finalised the 12 government and 20 private hospitals that would be the centres for Covid-19 vaccination in the district. The number of vaccination booths at these centres is also being finalised, the official said. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that all the preparations have already begun for the first phase of vaccination. “We have already prepared a list of 21,543 doctors and other medical staff who will be inoculated in the first phase,” he said. On hospitals and booths, Dr Ohri said that Sharda Hospital can have 10 to 12 booth, and the district hospital and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida could have three to five vaccination booths. “We have also planned to install four to six booths in the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI, or better known as Child PGI), four in Yatharth Hospital, one each in Fortis Hospital and Kailash Hospital,” he said. The CMO also said that there will be three booths in Dadri block and six in Jewar block. “It is mandatory for the hospitals to have three separate rooms for the vaccination purpose. While the first one will be the waiting room, the second and third rooms will be for vaccination and post-immunisation assessment, respectively,” he said. He also said that there will be separate entry and exit points at all the vaccination centres. “The health department will keep the name, address and mobile number of every person, who’ll get the shots in the first phase. Besides, the district’s Covid-19 integrated call centre at Sector 59, a team of doctors will be deployed at every primary health centre (PHC) and community health centre (CHC) to monitor the vaccination process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-district-health-department-identifies-32-hospitals-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-61AnRGGnLJnfOfJn5x7ruM.html
29-12-2020||Noida||After peak in September, active Covid cases fall below 500 in Ghaziabad and Noida||Ghaziabad: Coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar are witnessing a declining trend as the number of active cases in both districts has fallen below the figure of 500. According to the state control figures of December 28, Ghaziabad had 397 Covid-19 cases while Gautam Buddha Nagar had 462. Both districts are in the list of top five in Uttar Pradesh which, combined, account for 32.44% of total cases in the state. Going by the figures, active cases in Ghaziabad peaked to 2,126 on September 14, and have been keeping below the 1,000-mark of active cases every day since December 16. Gautam Buddha Nagar, on the other hand, reached its peak of 2,008 active cases on September 13, and has been able to keep the daily active case count below 1,000 since December 7.Looking at state-wide figures, daily active cases in UP had peaked around the same time – 68,235 cases recorded on September 17. Since then, this number has been on the decline, with 14,710 active cases as on December 28.Experts are looking at the scenario in different ways. “I believe that we are on the descending arm of the epidemic curve, in which cases are on the decline, after a peak. We should see the picture in a larger perspective rather than focussing on small areas. It seems we are on the descending curve of the first wave. The wave got prolonged as we took precautionary lockdown,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “Further, it will also depend on how fast the vaccine comes through so that we may avoid any possibility of a second wave. Hence, face masks and other precautions must continue in 2021 as well,” he added. Dr Ashish Agarwal, the president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad), said many patients are getting negative results in tests conducted.“The declining trend of cases or lesser number of active cases means that either the virus has slowed down or there is prevalence of immunity, due to which the disease came and went on without giving symptoms. There was an expectation that cases will spike in the winter season but the trend (we are witnessing now) is very different,” Dr Agarwal added.With the number of active cases going down, the recovery rate in the two districts has also increased. Ghaziabad, till December 28, had discharged 25,432 of 25,930 overall Sars-Cov-2 patients, with a recovery rate of 98.08%, while Gautam Buddha Nagar has discharged 24,294 of 24,845 total patients, with a recovery rate of 97.78%. Suhay LY, district magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagarm said that the trend of active cases has been on the decline for past 15-20 days. “In the previous months, the number of cases had declined but they again spiked around Diwali. So, irrespective of decline, we are continuing with our efforts against the coronavirus and also focussing on the new Covid variant. Two travellers from the UK have tested positive and their genome sequencing reports are awaited,” he added.Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate of Ghaziabad, said, “Despite the declining trend, we are focussing on surveillance, focussed testing and contact tracing, which will continue further at the same level. We have also completed preparation for Covid vaccine. If the number of cases rises in future, our teams have proper systems and infrastructure in place to act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-peak-in-september-active-covid-cases-fall-below-500-in-ghaziabad-and-noida/story-w2FiKorxjDHFE5JTRbHBgL.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER sends 80 random samples to Pune to check for new virus strain||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has sent 80 random samples of patients who tested positive for Covid-19 since September, to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to ascertain if there is any kind of mutation in the virus.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said that 20 samples each from the last four months have been sent. “PGIMER labs have been conducting Covid-19 tests of thousands of suspected patients from across the region and thus have perfect samples of the positive patients. National Institute of Virology will be conducting further examination on this,” he said. A new variant of SARS- CoV 2 virus [Variant Under Investigation (VUI)-20212/01] was reported by the Government of the United Kingdom (UK) to the World Health Organisation (WHO).This variant is estimated by the European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC) to be faster in terms of transmission and affecting the younger population. This variant is defined by a set of 17 changes or mutations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-sends-80-random-samples-to-pune-to-check-for-new-virus-strain/story-16Oapg9uyy82BDt5TlEfUP.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CB Ojha to take over as UT chief engineer on Jan 1||Going against the recommendations of Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher, the UT administration elevated superintendent engineer CB Ojha to the post of the UT chief engineer, on Tuesday. Kher had written to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on December 17, recommending three-month extension for the outgoing chief engineer Mukesh Anand, citing his crucial role in the ongoing Tribune flyover project. Kher’s recommendations were opposed by different employee unions, contending that it would slow down promotions in the engineering department down the line.Anand will retire on December 31, and Ojha is set to take over the charge on January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cb-ojha-to-take-over-as-ut-chief-engineer-on-jan-1/story-ZA4elpz3KWiDYlBhx9RHFK.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Several cities issue guidelines for New Year’s Eve as India reports new UK strain||Several major cities in India have imposed curfews and other guidelines ahead of New Year’s Eve even as at least six cases of the new coronavirus strain detected in the UK was found in passengers who have travelled from Britain. The Union health ministry, police officials and state health departments have urged residents in major cities to adhere to the guidelines as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to affect people across the country.Here are the rules imposed by these metros ahead of the New Year:MumbaiNight curfew has been imposed by the state government in Mumbai from 11pm to 6 am. Police in Mumbai have asked restaurants, eateries, bars and pubs to close their operations by 11pm. There will be no midnight celebrations held in Mumbai this year due to Covid-19. The state government told Mumbaikars to remain inside their homes even during the day hours despite there being no curfew. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked Mumbai Police to levy fines on people flouting Covid-19 preventative measures.Delhi-NCRDelhi Police will release detailed advisory concerning New Year’s Eve on December 30. Delhi Police have already asked people to celebrate the New Year cautiously keeping in mind that Covid-19 continues to infect thousands across the country. Noida has issued an advisory where it has instructed no more than 100 people will be allowed in a single venue.BengaluruBengaluru Police have issued guidelines prohibiting any public gatherings during the New Year’s Eve in the city. People can celebrate New Year’s Eve along with their family members and friends but public gatherings will not be permitted. People can visit restaurants as they have been instructed to operate by sticking strictly to social distancing measures. However, restaurants and eateries cannot organise parties to celebrate the New Year.ChandigarhChandigarh administration is not planning to impose a night curfew on New Year’s Eve. “Considering that the number of active cases and positive cases being detected every day are coming down, and no case of the new strain found in the UK has been detected in Chandigarh, it was decided that there is no need for any additional restrictions on New Year’s Eve,” an official said on Tuesday.ChennaiPublic places like the Marina Beach will not be accessible to people on New Year’s Eve as well as New Year’s Day. The administration has asked hotels, eateries, pubs and restaurants to operate following social distancing protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/several-cities-issue-guidelines-for-new-year-s-eve-as-india-reports-new-uk-strain/story-UmYCH5RyKjQivvmrwGSpTM.html
29-12-2020||City||3 of Haryana gang involved in selling stolen vehicles online nabbed from Mohali||Three members of gang involved in vehicle-lifting and selling of stolen vehicles through an online portal, have landed in the police net. As many as 14 motorcycles and four cars—two Maruti Zen, a Maruti Esteem and a Tata Indica, have been recovered from their possession. The accused have been identified as Amritpal Singh of Khamano, Navtej Singh of Nabha and Sahil Sharma of Karnal. Two of their accomplices, Rohit and Sandeep, are still at large.Superintendent of police (SP, City) Harvinder Singh Virk, during a press conference on Tuesday, said that eight cases have been solved with their arrest. While four of these cases were registered at the Phase 1 police station in Mohali, one was at the Phase 11 police station and one in Moga. “The accused used to sell old vehicles to scarp dealers while the new ones in good condition would be sold through the online portal OLX, in Haryana.”The accused, Amritpal, has even worked at a company manufacturing tractors. All the accused were produced in the court and sent to police custody till January 1, 2021. The accused have cases registered against them in Chandigarh as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-of-haryana-gang-involved-in-selling-stolen-vehicles-online-nabbed-from-mohali/story-hkijRzeiaGgVpvjlt6VOrK.html
29-12-2020||City||AAP Ludhiana unit gears up for upcoming local bodies’ elections||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has geared up for the upcoming municipal elections in the state and will contest on its election symbol broom. The announcement was made jointly by Ludhiana urban president Suresh Goyal and rural co -president Gurjar Sham Singh Kuhli during a press meet convened at the party headquarters near Preet palace on Monday. In Ludhiana, the elections have to be held for municipal councils of Khanna, Samrala, Jagraon, Samrala, Payal and Raikot. Goyal said that AAP would contest all the seats in the local bodies’ elections. “It is a golden opportunity for people to bring a change by electing councillors who would work for the people,” he added. Gurdarshan Singh Khuli said,”Crores of rupees are being swindled in municipal corporations and committees. To prevent such corruption, it is imperative that an educated and competent person be elected as their representative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-ludhiana-unit-gears-up-for-upcoming-local-bodies-elections/story-ex7gUouHD45Sx8A7SyxRXL.html
29-12-2020||City||Covid impact: Too many tests, not enough learning, rue Ludhiana teachers||The state education department has decided to conduct exams for students of classes 6 to 10 again from January 4. The authorities have already prepared the subject-wise schedule. Tests will be conducted weekly for each subject. Meanwhile, teachers of different schools and teacher union members rued that they have already not had enough time to teach the students as exams had been going on since September and there was a need to conduct classes to clear their doubts. In September this year, the authorities had conducted tests under the Punjab Achievement Survey to check the learning levels of students. They were held from September 21 to October 3. Then again, on October 18, 25, and 31, the higher authorities under the Punjab Achievement Survey conducted revision tests. From November 11, students of all classes appeared in the final tests held under the survey. The last examination was held for Class 10 students on November 20. After that, the authorities declared the December examination from the mid of the month for students of all classes. The students appeared in the last exam on December 24. The teachers of government schools stated that testing is important to know the performance of students but there is a need to conduct classes for the students to clear their doubts so that they can enhance their performance in the final exams. Amandeep Singh Dadahur, president of SSA/RMSA teachers’ union, Ludhiana, said, “Students are under a lot of pressure as they are appearing in exams every month. There is a need to open schools for middle, high, and senior secondary students so that proper classes can be conducted. Concept clarity and revision is necessary to improve students’ performance while conducting online exams is like giving an open book test which will not help them in the future.” A teacher of a government school, who did not wish to be named, said, “I am a science teacher and am handling two classes 9 and 10. In the last four months, I have checked over 400 answer sheets per month and uploaded the marks online. I have also provided free coaching to the students preparing for the National Talent Search Exam for two months.” “There is a need to make the students attend classes so that they can work on the weak areas and can understand the topics,” the teacher added. Harjit Singh Bolari, president of Government School Lecturer Union, said, “Online education is an alternative of a textbook and not of a teacher. Testing is required to make the student get in touch with the syllabus, but at the same time, classes should be held for the students for doubt clearance. Earlier too, exams used to be conducted in September and December, but now due to the online mode, teachers have to put in a lot of time to evaluate the answer sheets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-impact-too-many-tests-not-enough-learning-rue-ludhiana-teachers/story-Sbnu0rymkYfOkYguiSy1jI.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||121 test Covid +ve, 2 succumb in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity on Tuesday reported 121 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths, both of Mohali residents. As many as 64 cases surfaced in Chandigarh, followed by 31 in Mohali and 26 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has reported 19,615 cases so far, of which 362 are active. In Mohali, of 18,049 cases, 1,164 are active, and in Panchkula, the figures stand at 9,945 and 231, respectively.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration has said that any person who has returned from the UK between November 25 and December 23 and has visited or stayed in the city should call and inform on the 24x7 helpline numbers 9779558282 and 01722752038 or send email to idsp.chandigarh@gmail.com.Of 95 UK flyers under surveillance, 35 arrived here after December 9. While one has gone to the US, the remaining 34 have been sampled. Of them, 25 tested negative and results of the remaining nine are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/121-test-covid-ve-2-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-dyGPeq8I4iFALqfpU9uvpL.html
29-12-2020||Ranchi||‘Running on posters and hoardings’: BJP slams Soren govt in Jharkhand||The opposition BJP on Tuesday alleged that Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)-Congress-Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) combine government, led by chief minister Hemant Soren, was running on posters and hoardings with no actual development. The party said that its first one year of reign was marked with complete lawlessness as incidents of killings, rapes, extortion and corruption taking centre stage.The party released a 28-page report card highlighting the alleged failure of the Soren government, which is celebrating its first anniversary of being in office on Tuesday. It gave zero marks out of 100 to the incumbent government.Speaking to media, BJP’s state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash said that Jharkhand government was trying to hide its story of unsuccess by making false claims on posters and hoardings with no real development on the ground level.“The one year rule of the incumbent government is marked with incidents of loot, rape, killing, extortion and corruption of all kinds. People are feeling deceived. It’s a government influenced by politics of dynasticism and familism where people’s aspirations take a backseat and family members assume importance,” Prakash said.He added, “The government has failed on all fronts. It had claimed to provide free 100 units electricity, 5 lakh jobs but nothing was done. Corruption through transfer and posting is rampant. Nearly, 1,700 people have been transferred in the last one year which ultimately posed extra burden to the exchequer.”Prakash pointed out that the government has miserably failed in handling farmers’ issues.Also read: ‘Chinese air force heavily deployed in Ladakh theatre in support of PLA’: IAF chief“Farmers are the most disgruntled lot in this regime. They have been purchasing urea from the black market. They are forced to sell their produce to middlemen at a much lower rate than the government’s minimum support price (MSP). These middlemen have direct links with people at the helm of power. The government also failed to fulfil its promise of farm loan waiver up to Rs 2 lakh,” he said.The party’s state president also slammed the government allegedly for protecting and supporting mining mafia.“Illegal mining of minerals including coal, iron ore, stone chips and sand is being done openly under government’s support and protection,” Prakash alleged, charging chief minister Hemant Soren for supporting separatist forces of Pathalgadi movement.BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi too slammed the government for pushing the state back to 1990s era when law and order was hit maximum during unified Bihar.He said, “The deterioration in law and order in Jharkhand was felt maximum in the last one year. Similar situation that existed in the 1990s in unified Bihar, can now be witnessed here.”“Doctors, businessmen and many others are getting extortion calls. Loots, killings, kidnappings, rapes have become the order of the day in Jharkhand. While other states had witnessed a dip in crime graph during the lockdown, Jharkhand saw a spurt in these figures. The biggest victim of these crimes are women and girls. Left insurgency have resurfaced with the support of people in power,” Marandi added.He said, “The government utterly failed in providing a fearless and peaceful atmosphere to the people. Common man issues are not being addressed.”BJP’s reminds govt about its unfulfilled promisesGrant of Rs 72, 000 to all poor familiesThree-room furnished flat worth Rs 3 lakh to poorFree 100 units electricityRs 2500 pension to old, disabled and widowSetting up of farmer’s and women’s bank in all villagesCreation of warehouse and cold storage in all blocksFree education to students up to class 12thJobs to Jharkhandi under new industrial policyFree 35 kg rice per month to all familiesBicycle to all girl studentsEstablishment of Women’s college in all sub-divisions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/running-on-posters-and-hoardings-bjp-slams-soren-govt-in-jharkhand/story-P9AAzD40epxUIUHlw8cyLJ.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||No night curfew in Chandigarh on New Year’s Eve||Ending nearly a week’s suspense over the imposition of night curfew on New Year’s Eve, the Chandigarh administration on Tuesday decided against it during a review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.“Considering that the number of active cases and positive cases being detected everyday are coming down, and no case of the new strain found in the UK has been detected in Chandigarh, it was decided that there is no need for any additional restrictions on New Year’s Eve,” said a UT official, who attended the meeting.However, the administrator directed the director general of police to ensure that existing Covid-19 protocol, restrictions on number of people and timings for closing hotels and restaurants are strictly enforced. He also appealed to the residents not to crowd public places and return to their homes by 1am.Hoteliers told to follow protocol strictlyDeputy commissioner Mandeep Singh Brar and senior superintendent of police Kuldip Singh Chahal held a meeting with representatives of hotels, restaurants, pubs and nightclubs and asked them follow all Covid-related guidelines, such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. They were asked to operate at half their capacity or keep the gatherings limited to 200, whichever is less, and warned of stringent action for violations.“We welcome the decision to not impose a night curfew. We assure all our patrons that we will follow all guidelines stringently,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.2,000 cops to keep vigil in cityAs many as 2,000 cops will be on duty to ensure law and order in Chandigarh on New Year’s Eve. “Hooliganism in name of celebrations will not be tolerated. Special focus will be on ensuring safety of women,” said Chahal Sectors that are expected to have higher footfall of partygoers and revellers, such as Sector 17, 22, 26, 35 and area around Elante Mall, will see heightened security and nakas to check for drunken driving. Women police staff will also be on patrolling duty. “Any violation with regards to timings of commercial operations will also invite an FIR,” said Chahal. The violators will be booked under the more stringent Disaster Management Act, and not only under the Indian Penal Code.Fresh guidelines issued in PanchkulaDistrict magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Tuesday issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines and protocol for the organisation of New Year’s Eve events in Panchkula.Event organisers will have to take prior approval from the DM, who has ordered that standard operating procedures issued by the ministry of health and family welfare will have to be strictly followed.Only 50% of the capacity of the hall can be used. In open spaces, gatherings will be allowed with a ceiling of 500 people with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks and provision of thermal scanning, and hand wash or sanitisers.No relaxations to curfew in MohaliIn Mohali, so far there has been no relaxation announced to the night curfew imposed by the state government from 10pm to 5am on December 1.“Action will be taken against those who are caught violating the restrictions,” said SSP Satinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-night-curfew-in-chandigarh-on-new-year-s-eve/story-1SmQV6PMcgEz4gpLGTSL8O.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Woman robbed at gunpoint at her home in Sushant Lok-1||A 55-year-old woman was held hostage at gunpoint inside her house and robbed in Sushant Lok-1 on Monday afternoon, the police said. According to the police, Sumitra Vishwas, the victim, was alone at home on Monday when two men on a motorcycle approached her and asked her if any of the houses in the vicinity are vacant and available for rent. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram Police, said that the incident took place around 2pm on Monday. Vishwas told the suspects that an accommodation on the first floor of her building is vacant and invited them to view it to check if it met their needs. “The woman took them to first floor and showed all the rooms and the kitchen. The suspects, claiming that the kitchen was not fine, called her to the area, held her at gunpoint and robbed her of her ornaments. They snatched her two bangles, earrings and one ring and then placed a tape on her mouth . They threatened her not to inform the police and warned her of dire consequences,” he said. The suspects then fled the spot on their motorcycles, said police. The victim then raised the alarm following which a neighbour came to her rescue and freed her. Later, she got down and went towards her daughter’s house in Block C. Vishwas told the police that she narrated her ordeal to a friend near her daughter’s house, following which he informed police and reported the incident. “I have one daughter who lives in Block C with her family. She was away at Rajasthan on a vacation,” she said. The victim told the police that she can recognise the suspects if required. Senior citizens in the area are living in fear now and have requested the police to ensure cops are on day and night patrolling. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that special teams have been formed to visit senior citizens in the area and have alerted the neighbours and domestic helps to take care of them. “We will hold regular meetings with the residents and will deploy extra force on the roads to ensure safety and security of the residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-robbed-at-gunpoint-at-her-home-in-sushant-lok-1/story-vvpK8SdkiKVtmXtm6YIKSI.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Family IDs mandatory to avail of schemes, utility connections||More than 500 government schemes and services provided by at least 38 government departments, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), have been linked with Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) or Family ID Card scheme. The Haryana government on Tuesday released the gazette notification, making Family ID Card mandatory to avail of any government service in the state, including water and sewer connections, town planning schemes, construction of a building, arms licence, tenant and domestic help verification, among others.The departments covered under the PPP are agriculture, education, power, employment, food supplies, finance, health, housing board, backward class and economically weaker sections, agriculture marketing board, women development, labour, scheduled caste finance and development corporation, home, horticulture, industries and commerce, police, public health engineering, new and renewable energy, revenue, social justice, sports, tourism, sainik and ardh sainik welfare, and town and country planning, among others. It is the fourth notification in a year by the Haryana government under PPP to collect details of the people who are domicile to Haryana. In 2019, the state government introduced the PPP — an eight-digit ID for every household in the state — for automatic delivery of services and devising public policy.The data verification process has been ongoing for months now, covering those who are availing of subsidies or benefits under various government scheme. The state, however, did not receive a good response from the other sections, who are not availing of any government subsidy. Also, the enrolment process remained slow due to Covid-19 lockdown.Until now, over 452,000 households in Gurugram have enrolled under the PPP. In a statement issued by the district administration Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner and nodal officer for PPP in the district, said, “Gazetted notification on linking government schemes and services with the PPP has been issued by the citizen resources information department. Citizens should get their details verified for the ID card.” The Family ID Card form contains details of all the members of a family, from their age to Aadhaar card number, Voter ID, date of birth and contact number. An official, who is part of the Family ID Card scheme, preferring anonymity said, “Those above the age of 18 will have to give Voter ID card, a document to prove their date of birth. On the other hand, those who file for income tax return will have to give their Permanent Account Number (PAN) number.” According to him, the Aadhaar number is mandatory for the PPP. As reported by HT on December 8, senior state officials confirmed that PPP will be linked with all government services and schemes, even as people took to the social media to oppose linking Aadhaar with the scheme.Increasing EnrolmentOn Tuesday, Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner of the municipal corporations of Gurugram and Manesar, said, “All the councillors are advised to promote PPP in their respective wards and hold camps.”In each Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) ward, at least two camps are being held, at the councillor’s office of the respective ward and a community centre in that area, said Jai Singh, part of the PPP scheme team. “More than 65 camps are being held across the city,” he said. According to him, the data is uploaded only after the personal details are verified and signed. According to the details shared by the district administration, people can update the data on meraparivar.haryana.gov.in portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/family-ids-mandatory-to-avail-of-schemes-utility-connections/story-LVZmnPZhAdbKExFNa753IN.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG’s territorial jurisdiction expanded||The Haryana government in a notification on Monday night extended the territorial jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), bringing a large number of new sector areas located along Golf Course Extension Road (GCER) and Dwarka Expressway under the civic body. This had been a longstanding demand of the residents, as civic amenities, such as lack of streetlights, drainage system, and road connectivity, have been a major issue in these areas.With the takeover by the MCG, the panchayat system will be abolished and all 16 villages falling within these areas will immediately come under the MCG’s ambit. The 16 villages to be included are Bajgehra, Babupur, Mohammadheri, Dharampur, Daultabad, Kherki Majra, Dhankot, Palra, Ullawas, Nangli Umarpur, Behrampur, Dhumaspur, Bhondsi, Nayagaon, Kadarpur, and Maidawas.According to MCG officials, the stamp duty collected from the 16 villages for the 2019-2020 year was Rs 41.32 crore, while the 16 villages also have a fixed deposit of Rs 181 crore.The report prepared by the MCG’s electrical division revealed that the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) gets around Rs 29.50 crore per year in billing amount, of which the MCG is entitled to 2% of the, as per the Haryana government. This amounts to Rs 59 lakh per year.From the 16 villages, MCG is also expected to earn around Rs 1.8 crore in property tax, around Rs 2 crore in trade licences and Rs 1.5 crore through advertisements.As per MCG officials, the entire process of taking over the 16 villages is expected to be completed by next April. In the interim, the civic body will be floating multiple tenders for more manpower and machinery to execute developmental works in the area.Besides the villages, multiple agencies, such as Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Public Works Department (PWD), and Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), look after the development of the remaining residential and industrial areas located along the GCER and Dwarka Expressway.Although the GMDA will continue to look after master roads and master drains in the area, the MCG will gradually take over amenities from the remaining bodies, sector wise, said officials privy to the matter.Similar to the MCG taking over around 50 sectors of HSVP following its formation in 2008, the process of taking over residential and industrial areas located along the GCER and Dwarka Expressway can take from one to five years, said officials.“The territorial expansion will be beneficial to lakhs of residents living in the newer sectors of the city. We are aiming to start delivering civic amenities in the 16 villages by early 2021 and subsequently, take over the charge of civic amenities of remaining areas falling within MCG limit, gradually. Our main objective is to provide civic coverage to all parts of the city so that development is done in a comprehensive manner rather than a lopsided one,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.With new sector areas, in sectors 77 to 93, also coming under the ambit of the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), new sector areas (sectors 58-115) located within Gurugram district have all been assigned to civic bodies finally.“We are looking forward to the MCG taking over our sector as there are many prevailing civic issues that need immediate attention. Among them, the lack of streetlights in the area is the main point of concern for residents, from both a security point of view as well as illumination. We are hoping the MCG’s resources will be able to solve the nearly decade-long problem in quick time, whenever our sector is taken over by them,” said Alka Sinha, a resident of Sector 58.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-s-territorial-jurisdiction-expanded/story-xeQYvGSg0ceW6919jRTfDN.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Cop booked for bribery, extortion on the run||A day after the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau arrested the head constable of Kherki Daula police station and booked its station house officer(SHO) for accepting bribes, the SHO remains untraceable, said officials. According to the Faridabad vigilance department, one Naveen Bhutani, who runs a call centre and sells religious products in the UK and Australia, had approached the senior officers of the department with a complaint against two officials of the Kherki Daula police station for allegedly extorting Rs 57 lakh from him and demanding another payment of Rs 10 lakh.In his complaint, Bhutani alleged that he had started a business with the owner of a Karnal-based school, as he had a payment gateway for easy transactions. “My Faridabad based friend had introduced me to these people who run this school. Together, we earned Rs 1.2 crore, of which they were supposed to give me Rs 80 lakh, but they started avoiding me and wanted the entire money,” he said in his complaint. The complainant said that after several complaints, they asked him to meet them at a resort near Kherki Daula, on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. When he reached there, two policemen in uniforms and seven others in plainclothes quickly forced him in their vehicle and drove him to the police station. The incident is alleged to have taken place on October 29.Bhutani said that the SHO, Vishal Kumar, assaulted him in his office and got his laptop data scanned, following which he allegedly asked for Rs 1 crore for his release. PK Aggarwal, the director general of police (DGP), Vigilance, said that the policemen threatened the complainant and told him they would put him behind bars for his lifetime. “They got him to make calls to his family members, friends and relatives to arrange money,” he said. Around 12.15am on October 30, the SHO took him to a farmhouse 12 kilometres from the police station and the next morning, three policemen escorted him to his car and kept on driving around the area until he arranged money, the complainant told vigilance officials.A friend of the complainant, who was bringing the money, was met by the head constable, Amit Kumar, near Panchgaon on the Western Peripheral Expressway and collected the same. The police dropped them near Rajiv Chowk around 6.30pm, but took his car documents, laptop, cheque book and asked him to remain in touch.Bhutani did not leave his house for a few days. He said he was regularly in touch with the head constable and started recording all calls. The head constable told Bhutani over phone that each currency packet was short by around Rs 5,000. When Bhutani asked the police to return his laptop as it has entire business data, they asked him for Rs 10 lakh more, said officials, following which the complainant approached the Vigilance Bureau. Aggarwal said the policemen called Bhutani to an eatery, Vishal Dhaba, where he paid the head constable Rs 5 lakh. Accompanying officials caught Kumar red-handed. “A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 384 (extortion ), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the police officials. Meanwhile, the investigation is in progress,” Aggarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cop-booked-for-bribery-extortion-on-the-run/story-jhRKF8lJlFJUfRJ5pKdufO.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Finance committee approves five developmental works||Five developmental projects of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were approved by the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) during a meeting at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday, as per a release issued by the MCG.In the meeting, one developmental work was given administrative approval, while tender allotment for four developmental projects were approved.The F&CC tender allotment approvals included the renovation of two schools — Government Primary School in Madanpuri and a Government Secondary School in Arjun Nagar. The MCG will be spending Rs 1.74 crore for the reconstruction of the school in Madanpuri and Rs 1.71 crore on the reconstruction of the school in Arjun Nagar.“I have instructed MCG officials to get the work done quickly and to ensure that allotted works are completed within the stipulated time. I have further directed them to include officials associated with the Education Department for the reconstruction of any school buildings being undertaken by the MCG. Through providing better infrastructure, we hope the number of students enrolled in government schools increases manifold,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG, who heads the civic body’s F&CC committee.The F&CC also gave approval to the tender allotment for construction of stormwater drains in sectors 9 and sectors 9A, for Rs 1.01 crore and Rs 1.72 crore, respectively.The development of an indoor badminton court at a community centre in Sector 4 also received administrative approval. It is estimated to cost around Rs 1.07 crore.Mayor visits Kamla Nehru Park swimming poolAt the behest of Kamla Nehru Park committee, Azad visited the Kamla Nehru Park swimming pool, the city’s only such public facility. In January 2020, the MCG had announced that the 45-year-old pool will be renovated for Rs 2 crore and redesigned according to international standards.The committee members asked Azad if the foot tracks of the adjoining Kamla Nehru Park that will be removed to facilitate the expansion of the swimming pool or if it would be constructed at a different location within the park. The committee also sought parking facility at the park.The committee also asked that the MCG clear the waste collected from around the park and the initiation of programmes at the park’s recently opened open-air theatre.Azad assured committee members she will take up all the matters with the MCG officials and direct them to address the issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/finance-committee-approves-five-developmental-works/story-HDX9F9tT6jkEDvtwlWrayK.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Coldest night yet, as mercury touches 3 degrees Celsius||The city witnessed its coldest night of the winter season, as the minimum temperature dropped to a record low of 3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Gurugram’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not capture the maximum temperature on Tuesday, but the nearest AWS at New Delhi’s Palam observatory showed a maximum temperature of 16.2 degrees on Tuesday.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, temperatures are set to increase over the next week, touching as much as a minimum of 9 degrees Celsius by January 4, and a maximum of 21 degrees Celsius. Dense to very dense fog with visibility under 50 metres is likely in some parts of northwest India on December 30 and New Year’s Eve, warned IMD officials. The IMD, in its impact-based bulletin released on Tuesday, said dense to very dense fog is likely over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, northwest Uttar Pradesh on December 30, 31 and January 1.Air quality in the city, meanwhile, remained in the poor category of the air quality index, with a reading of 224 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily AQI bulletin. As has been frequently observed this season, Manesar remained the least polluted major city in the region, with moderate air with an AQI of 185. Delhi, Noida, Faridabad, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad all reported AQIs in the upper-end of the poor category on Tuesday.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The air quality is likely to deteriorate but remain in very poor category on 30.12.2020 and reach upper-end of very poor category on 31.12.2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coldest-night-yet-as-mercury-touches-3-degrees-celsius/story-N8eb5ZS12GMvPtvQm5qGmM.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP prepares data on real estate in private colonies, to ease registration||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) is consolidating data on residential real estate developed in private licensed colonies that have been sold or are being developed by realtors across the state.The department has estimated that there are 350,000 such properties in Haryana and 81,000 such properties in Gurugram are under process. Apart from creating a centralised database, property owners whose details are fed into the system would not be required to obtain a no objection certificate (NOC) from the department for registration of property deed, required under section 7A of the Haryana Urban Development act. As per Act, an NOC has to be obtained from the enforcement wing of DTCP to register a plot of land less than two-kanals to ensure that the land would not be sub-divided to create smaller plots as part of unauthorised colonies.DTCP officials said that the depository will have data on details on licences, size of the property, land, location, ownership and history. “At present we are seeking details about residential projects that include flats and plots from developers. They have to submit this data in digital format for the department to upload,” said a senior DTCP official. Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram said that the work on creating the database is on full swing and they are holding regular meetings with the developers to expedite it. “This will create a very good knowledge database and help the home buyers in particular. After the residential segment, similar excercise would be carried out for commercial properties,” he said. DTCP officials also said that initially the focus would be to upload the data, which is available easily with the developers but later steps would be taken to ensure that information of properties sold even 30 years back are uploaded on the portal. “The depository will also help the home buyers to get information on actual size of the properties, the ownership history and bring transparency into the realty business as people will know what they are buying,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-prepares-data-on-real-estate-in-private-colonies-to-ease-registration/story-hUXg1g0CpM2OiI6helXIPL.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||GMDA brings out new bicycle scheme for city||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has proposed to set up a city-wide public bike sharing (PBS) system to ease commuter’s last-mile connectivity. The plan involves creating over 797 kilometres of dedicated bicycle lanes and deploying more than 8,000 bicycles in three phases by the year 2031. The project is estimated to cost ₹1,174.5 crore and will also involve strengthening pedestrian infrastructure in the city.The city’s Comprehensive Mobility Management Plan (CMMP), submitted on December 23, had said it had the potential to become a hub for non-motorised transport (NMT).A study by the Delhi School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), which forms the basis of the CMMP, however, had noted that Gurugram currently suffered from a lack of NMT facilities, including poor coverage of tracks, lack of parking facilities and encroachments. The plan added that the infrastructure made it unsafe for bicycles.SPA’s traffic surveys also revealed that over half of all trips undertaken in Gurugram were within a 5-km range.“This distance can easily be covered by cycles, but we are not seeing more people make the switch because streets are not designed to include them, and more importantly ensure their safety,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, a city-based mobility and transport planning expert. At present, bicycles serve as the preferred mode of transportation for just four percent of all daily trips made in the city. “We want to ensure that minimum 15% of the total trips are made using bicycles,” said a GMDA official in the mobility department.The 3-phase planUnder the PBS plan, the GMDA will connect transit nodes, commercial areas and residential areas through dedicated lanes in order to provide direct connectivity between various land uses and activity nodes.Phase-1, with a budget of ₹374 crore and a tentative deadline of 2023, will see retrofitting the core city network (Huda city centre, Rapid metro corridor and MG Road) for NMT infrastructure and provisioning of dedicated tracks on roads with a right of way (where GMDA can construct) of at least 45 m width. Phase 2, with ₹400 crore up to 2026, will have dedicated tracks in newly developed areas in and around Manesar. Phase 3, also with ₹400 crore and ending by 2031, will see NMT infrastructure beyond northern and southern peripheral roads.Roads more than 24 metres wide will have 2.5 m to 5 m-wide cycle tracks based on availability, while narrower roads will have a track with a minimum width of 2.1 m. A minimum requirement of 5,416 bicycles has been estimated for launch in the base year 2023 and later augmented to 8,139 and 12,209 docking stations.Earlier attemptsSimilar smaller pilot projects had failed to take off in recent years.Hindustan Times had reported in April last year that nearly 400 bicycles purchased by the municipal corporation of Gurugram in 2014 for Raahgiri (car-free days) in Gurugram were lying unused at the Sector 29 fire station.Similarly, In October 2017, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) built “open” cycle tracks on service lanes from Signature Towers to Rajiv Chowk to IFFCO Chowk without any fencing or physical demarcation. Officials simply painted a white line, along with few cycle symbols, on the road that sees heavy movement of motorised vehicles at high speeds, resulting in sparse usage of these tracks. Other dedicated cycle tracks, built along Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg and St Thomas Marg as part of the Green Raahgiri initiative (in 2016), and Dundahera Chowk and Mahavir Chowk, have also found few takers.“This is largely because the infrastructure was developed in pockets. There is no interconnectivity or a city-wide network which would allow cyclists to travel beyond a certain area. That is what we are now aiming to create with the PBS proposal. We will initially be focusing on a catchment area of about 2kms radius around each of the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro stations in Gurugram in the first phase, and then expanding to other residential and commercial areas in the second and third phase,” said the GMDA official, preferring anonymity.GMDA chief executive officer VS Kundu could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-brings-out-new-bicycle-scheme-for-city/story-zxdKDKE38yqRMZTrqchrYK.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Housing sale dropped 50% in Delhi-NCR this year: Realty report||Residential housing sale fell by over 50 percent in Delhi-NCR in 2020 compared to last year, said a report released by property consultant Anarock. Despite a lacklustre year for the realty sector, the last two months of the year did see some improvement and 2021 is expected to be better, said experts.As per the consultant, the situation was similar across the country. Housing sales in the top-seven realty markets saw sale of 138,350 units in 2020, almost 47 per cent lower than what was sold in 2019. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) saw the most sales of approximately 44,320 units, followed by Bengaluru with 24,910 units.In Delhi-NCR. 23,210 units were sold in 2020 compared to 46,920 units a year ago. Annually, the top-seven cities saw 1,27,970 new units launched in entire 2020, against 2,36,570 units in 2019 – reducing by 46 percent. NCR kept its new supply restricted to nearly 18,530 units in 2020 against 35,280 units in 2019 - a decrease of 47 percent in a year.The report further said that while residential real estate bottomed out in 2020 against the previous peak of 2014, there are strong revival signs in fourth quarter of 2020 - with home affordability being at its all-time best. Amidst varied offers and discounts, the top 7 cities saw robust sales of approx. 50,900 units in Q4 2020, rebounding to almost 86 percent of the corresponding period in 2019. Last year, the festive quarter saw total home sales of 59,160 units. MMR and Pune drove residential sales, with the two cities accounting for an over 53% total share, it added. “Data reveals that the festive quarter (Oct.-Dec. period) stood out among all four quarters in 2020, witnessing maximum sales due to multiple offers and discounts, low interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra. Buoyed by the rising sales, developers also saw it fit to unleash ample new supply into the market, leading to a 2 percent year on year jump in quarter four of 2020 against the same period in 2019,” said Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock property consultants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/housing-sale-dropped-50-in-delhi-ncr-this-year-realty-report/story-1O1TFwiSkWGIODvxdm1lzK.html
29-12-2020||Gurugram||While pandemic makes history, other histories suffer||In a year defined by the pandemic, heritage conservation across Haryana also took a back seat causing a wide-ranging impact on research, and outreach and education efforts. The 68-day lockdown and subsequent Covid-19 restrictions slowed down conservation projects in Gurugram too as focus shifted towards containing the virus.Conservation work and educationBanani Bhattacharyya, deputy director of the state directorate of archaeology and museums, said that timelines of various projects had been affected and on-ground conservation work were restricted. “Conservation work was not possible for the most part of the year due to physical distancing requirements. Be it site visits or material procurement, we faced a massive roadblock. A recalibration of the chain of heritage conservation activities needs to be undertaken in view of the pandemic,” said Bhattacharyya.She said that the impact of the initial lockdown months could still be felt. “Due to the restrictions on transport, raw materials could not be procured. The budget devoted to heritage conservation was also diverted towards containing the pandemic and affected our ability to purchase necessities,” said Bhattacharyya.Footfall across museums, libraries, and heritage structures dwindled as many patrons preferred to stay indoors. Neither the general public nor researchers could visit museums during the lockdown. “Since museums across the state were closed, heritage awareness programs were also affected. Exploration was not possible due to the combination of restrictions. The impact continues with lower footfall,” said Bhattacharyya.Monument protectionWithin Gurugram, no new monument could be taken for protection this year, said officials. Even monuments such as Qutab Khan Ki Masjid and Lal Gumbad tomb complex in Sohna, under protection since last year, did not see any progress with respect to conservation that the department had planned to undertake.“We were supposed to fence the perimeter around Qutub Khan ki Masjid and the Lal Gumbad, but that couldn’t take place due to concerns arising out of the pandemic. No one could visit the sites as frequently as it was required,” said Bhattacharyya.Besides the projects being helmed by the state department of archaeology and museums, heritage conservation projects under the district administration were also delayed. The deadline for the completion of the first phase of the restoration of John Hall near Civil Lines, scheduled for April this year, was delayed, officials helming the project said. Work is now expected to start only in January 2021, as per officials.The colonial structure, was built in 1925 in the memory of John Goble Brayne, the second son of FL Brayne, who was the deputy commissioner of Gurgaon in 1920. Over the years, it has occupied an important place in the administrative functioning of the city. In November 2019, the district administration had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a city-based firm as a funding partner for a three-year-long restoration project of the structure.Gaurav Singh, additional CEO and regional head of Haryana CSR Advisory Board (HCSRAB), Gurugram, said crucial clearances and approvals could not be taken earlier during the pandemic months. “Construction activity was shut during the lockdown period. The administration was completely devoted to managing Covid affairs. Necessary approvals could not be given to architects. All these factors led to delays in the project,” said Singh.He said that work was picking up gradually. “We have got the drawings of the proposed site made. They were placed before a committee, which has suggested some changes. The final changes will be approved soon and we can start work on the site,” said Singh.In November last year, the district administration had also shared plans of starting heritage walks across the district with the aim of promoting local history and culture. However, it couldn’t take off due to Covid-19 restrictions. “While various issues such as shortage of staff and budget often slow down the process of taking monuments under protection, the pandemic caused a massive setback this time. We, however, hope to expedite our efforts next year,” said Bhattacharyya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/while-pandemic-makes-history-other-histories-suffer/story-nVqmbiM3QmpUETGTYwjdxL.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fraudulent sale of property can now be cancelled by registration authority||In a decision aimed at protecting the rights of property owners, the Haryana government has amended the registration manual to ensure that persons with valid titles would not have to seek legal recourse to get deeds of the fraudulent sale cancelled. The property owners can continue to have the liberty to enjoy their property.Financial commissioner, revenue (FCR), Sanjeev Kaushal said a notification has been issued by the state government to amend the Haryana Registration Manual by insertion of paragraph 159-A.The FCR said the amendment will empower registration officers to accept and register cancellation of sale deeds registered fraudulently by a person who is not entitled to transfer of such property.“If a person has a right in the property and someone else transfers it without his consent, the right in that property will continue to subsist in genuine owner and the transfer will have no effect on such title,’’ he said.Section 23-A of the Registration Act, 1908, empowers the registration officer to re-register a document by ignoring the earlier registration. The amendment in the manual of rules done by the state government draws its power from Section 23-A.According to the amendment, if a document is registered at the instance of a person not duly empowered to present the same, any person claiming under the document, may, within four months from the date of knowledge that such document is invalid, present such document in such event.The registering officer, after following the same procedure contemplated under the Registration Act, 1908, can re-register the document, that is, cancellation deed, as if it has not been registered previously.If a document relating to transfer by way of sale, gift, mortgage, exchange, lease or otherwise, is registered for ‘Shamlat Deh’ land vested or deemed to have vested in the Panchayat Deh under the Punjab Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961, or in municipalities, including municipal corporations, under the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973, and the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, the block development panchayat officer, secretary, executive officer or commissioner, municipal corporation or district municipal commissioner, will get the cancellation deed registered after seeking approval of the deputy commissioner or other superior authority. This parameter will be applicable for ‘Shamlat Deh’ lands illegally partitioned and alienated in the past without getting the title adjudicated under the relevant statute by the competent authority or court, as applicable.In addition, there can be unimaginable number of circumstances when the executant himself, of his own volition, comes before the registering officer and desires to cancel the earlier document. In such cases, the registering officer could re-register (cancel the document, totally ignoring the earlier registration) under Section 23A of the Registration Act, 1908.The amendment also mentions that as per Schedule 1A, Article 17, as applicable to Haryana, of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, and the Indian Stamp (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2018, the cancellation deed, with a stamp fee of Rs 500, is recognised as a legal document in law and a transaction for transfer of immovable property is no exception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fraudulent-sale-of-property-can-now-be-cancelled-by-registration-authority/story-4I0mgB03ZI1RcZJiw4edSL.html
29-12-2020||City||Women join protests at Shambhu border||Women from different villages in Ambala, Patiala and nearby regions, joined the protesting farmers at Shambhu border toll plaza on NH-44 on Tuesday.The women were joined by a group of Asha workers. They raised slogans against the three farm laws in the presence of BKU Ambala vice-president Gulab Singh.Farmers have been protesting here since December 25 as part of a nation-wide sit-in at toll plazas.A protester said, “We are here to show support to the men sitting on Delhi border in this chilling winter. Government has to take back the black farm laws.”‘Langar’ arrangements have been made by nearby gurdwaras. A senior farmer leader said that they will intensify the stir on December 30 and 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-join-protests-at-shambhu-border/story-kUvWuySyuxukWb6ceku09M.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Domestic power connections in Haryana to be issued within 30 days||Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh, on Tuesday, said that domestic electricity connections will be issued to consumers within a span of 30 days. The power department has issued 7,500 tubewell connections and another 3,500 tubewell connections will be released by February next year, he said.The minister added that 24-hour uninterrupted power supply is being given to 5,080 villages under the ‘Mhara Gaon, Jagmag Gaon’ scheme.“About 72% villages have been covered under this scheme. Round-the-clock electricity is being supplied in Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sirsa, Rewari and Fatehabad districts,” he said.The minister added that electricity line loss has been reduced from 30% to 17% and the department aims at further reducing the losses by another 3-4% in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/domestic-power-connections-in-haryana-to-be-issued-within-30-days/story-mt53vsaeZAeFt29I52JiBJ.html
29-12-2020||City||Vehicle-lifters’ gang busted with arrest of three||The Kaithal district police have busted a gang of robbers and vehicle-lifters and arrested three people. Police have also recovered a stolen Maruti Ertiga from their possession.Police said that the accused were involved in multiple cases of vehicle snatching and theft. The accused have been identified as Sonu Kumar and Ramesh Kumar alias Makru, residents of Badanpur village in Jind, said police, adding that the third accused is a 17-year-old and belongs to the same village.Police said the accused used to target people who have taken cars on finance and failed to repay the instalments. The accused used snatch their vehicle claiming to be recovery agents and used to sell these vehicles at throwaway prices, police added.The accused were produced in court, where Sonu and Ramesh were sent to two-day police remand for interrogation for recovery of vehicles and the minor was sent to a juvenile detention centre.Police said that the accused have been booked in several cases of loot, robbery and snatching in the district and police are also investigating their criminal records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-with-arrest-of-three/story-yxoDRUGvQPT0qruP1KfdvJ.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police traced over 1,700 missing kids this year||Haryana Police has traced 1,716 missing children and handed them over to their families in the past one year. Among the traced missing children are 771 boys and 945 girls. Some of these children had been missing for a long time.Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said that the state police also tracked and rescued 1,189 child beggars and 1,941 child labourers this year. These children were found either working at shops or doing odd jobs for their livelihood.The DGP said that 1,433 missing children were traced and reunited by field units and the remaining 283 were traced by specialised anti-human trafficking units of the crime branch.“Under the programme, police visited public places including bus stands, railway stations and religious places, besides institutions such as shelter homes to search for children who may have been separated from their parents,” Yadava said.“Police visited shelter homes and made an effort to track down parents of missing children who are unable to reveal much about their families. Our personnel screened all the children to extract required information to reunite them with their parents,” Yadava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-police-traced-over-1-700-missing-kids-this-year/story-WRtgcCj0nHnLYKShAG8IMJ.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt admits to sacking driver over post against dy CM||The Haryana government has admitted to sacking of a driver in Hisar district over his Facebook post against deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala.In response, sub-division officer (civil), Hansi in Hisar, Jitender Singh, who conducted the probe and sacked the driver, told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the driver’s conduct and work were not satisfactory as he wrote a post on the social media against the deputy chief minister which is a serious offence. After conducting preliminary enquiry, his service was dispensed with.This response came to a plea from one Panna Lal, who is a contractual driver with sub-division officer (civil), Hansi in Hisar, who was terminated from services on December 15. Lal had alleged that he was terminated without being afforded an opportunity of personal hearing and without following the principles of natural justice.The government told court that he was appointed in May 2018 for one year and thereafter his term was extended upto July 25, 2020. He has no right of continuity in service. No fundamental right was violated in his case, upon allegation he was called to SDO (civil) office, where he refused to give a statement in this case.To his claims that the posts in question were made by someone else and not by him, that too in 2018-2019, the government says the post is from 2020 and not earlier as claimed by him.On violation of Article 311 (2) by the government in his termination, which lays down that a chargsheet has to be issued and the employee as to be afforded a reasonable time to put across his stand, the government says him being a contractual employee, these provisions do not apply in his case. The matter stands adjourned now for January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-admits-to-sacking-driver-over-post-against-dy-cm/story-ezyR5rDTFoyDXLFFG3hJVJ.html
29-12-2020||City||‘Wheat production likely to reach over 112MT’||The country’s wheat production is likely to break all previous records in the coming Rabi harvesting season and may reach over 112 million tonnes, claim the scientists of the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), Karnal.As per the scientists, the key reason behind this is that the area under wheat cultivation has reportedly increased by 5% or 1.5 million hectare and reached to 31.3 million hectare.They said that this acreage increase in witnessed in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Haryana.Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have reported slight decline in the area under wheat this year, but the scientists said there is a possibility that the current figures may improve as sowing of wheat is still underway in many states.Dr Gyanendra Pratap Singh, director of the institute, said, “We had predicted that the wheat production in country may increase to 112 million tonnes against the 107.06 million tonnes of last year as the area under wheat cultivation has increased.”“Besides efforts of farmers and scientists, and an increase in the acreage, other factors have also helped to improve the production and yield. This includes high yielding varieties developed by scientists and extended winter,” he added.Dr Narender Goyal of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Damla in Yamunanagar district, said the prevailing cold conditions in the northern states are very good for the wheat crop as it will help growth of the plant and boost germination, especially in the lateral varieties.As per agriculture experts, wheat production in country is increasing considerably over the past couple of years with the increase in minimum support price which was fixed at Rs 1,975 this year.“For the past few years, I was growing cauliflower and tomato, but this year, I have switched back to wheat cultivation as wheat has assured income and prices of vegetables keep fluctuating,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from Dhanokheri village in Karnal.As per scientists, farmers have adopted high yielding varieties including HD-2967, HD-3086 and DBW-187 and this year and area under DBW 187 has reported a significant increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-production-likely-to-reach-over-112mt/story-A2fFqRVK0DFhLVTfKirM1J.html
29-12-2020||City||Himachal reports 216 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 216 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s case tally to 54,896 while the death toll rose to 913 after four more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 43 were reported in Shimla, 38 in Kangra, 35 in Mandi, 24 each in Solan and Una, 17 in Sirmaur, 11 in Bilaspur, 10 in Chamba, seven in Lahaul-Spiti, 4 in Hamirpur and 3 in Kullu. Two were reported in Shimla and one each in Kangra and Sirmaur. The active cases have come down to 3,338 and recoveries have reached 50,596 after 552 more people were cured of the disease. The recovery rate has reached 92%. Shimla is the worst-hit district with its case tally crossing 10,000-mark. To date, the district has recorded 10,016 cases, followed by Mandi at 9,609 and Kangra at 7,662. Solan has 6,376 cases, Kullu 4,349, Sirmaur 3,151, Bilaspur 2,833, Chamba 2,822, Hamirpur 2,814, Kinnaur 1,310, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,237. UK RETURNED MAN TESTS +VEA 28-year-old UK returnee has been tested positive for Covid-19 in Kangra district. He arrived here on December 4. Kangra chief medical superintendent Dr GD Gupta said that his samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for the new UK strain of the coronavirus.The patient hails from the Dehra area of the district. Earlier, a UK returned man from Una district was also found Covid-19 positive. His sample has also been sent to NIV.Meanwhile, health authorities said that four people who returned to Mandi from the UK have been tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-reports-216-new-covid-cases-4-deaths/story-YyByGv8AxBWM74qGfEcIRN.html
29-12-2020||City||15 from Lahaul-Spiti to get ice hockey training in Gulmarg||As many as 15 youths of Lahaul and Spiti who were being trained in ice hockey at a training camp in Kaza will be sent to Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir for advance coaching from January 1. The group consisting of eight girls and seven boys accompanied by their three teachers— Sonam Chodan, Lobjang Chhojam and Chitrang Dorje— left for Gulmarg on Tuesday.The participants who have been selected for advanced training are Karma Yeshi Khando, Tshering Dolma, Nawang Lamo, Sonam Angamo, Riggin Dolma, Tejin Dolma, Nawang Chhutik, Sonam Dechen, Son Bangchuk, Kunga Bangpo, Tejin Yoten, Takpa Yeshe, Tejin Jangwo, Dhodup Gyalasan, and Sonam Dorje.Kaza additional district magistrate Gyan Sagar Negi while addressing the 15-member participants said, “It is a historic day for Lahaul and Spiti that eight girls and seven boys have been selected for National Ice Hockey Camp which is going to be held in Gulmarg.”National-level ice hockey coach Amit Berwal said, “We had selected 30 youths for basic ice hockey training camp in Kaza of which 15 are being sent to Gulmarg for advance coaching. As Spiti valley’s environment is quite suitable for winter sports, our goal is to train local children in such sports so that they could represent the state as well as the country in national and international levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-from-lahaul-spiti-to-get-ice-hockey-training-in-gulmarg/story-kU9lOUqPYox95XsHBC9vsJ.html
29-12-2020||City||DDC polls in J&K: PAGD yet to pick chairpersons, deputies||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), is yet to finalise the names of candidates for the election of the chairpersons and deputy chairpersons for the district development councils even as the alliance managed to sweep ten district councils.Apni party led by Altaf Bukhari is eyeing the post of chairman in at least two or three districts in Kashmir.PAGD, an amalgam of six mainstream parties had won most of its seats from the 10 districts of Kashmir. Earlier the alliance was planning to bag the post of chairperson in all ten districts. All the newly-elected DDC members took oath in their respective districts on Monday. On Tuesday, the NC and the PDP leaders held meetings with the newly-elected members at the party headquarters. However, the alliance leaders did not meet once after the results were declared to formulate the plan of getting its members elected as chairpersons and deputy chairpersons.“No date has been specified yet for the purpose but the alliance leaders will be meeting soon in a few days,” said People’s Conference spokesman Adnan Ashraf.PDP spokesman Tahir Sayeed said that the alliance leaders will meet and decide on the names once the dates for elections of chairman and deputy chairman for the councils will be announced. “From the past two days, the PDP president had been meeting elected DDC members and independent candidates who were part of the party earlier.”PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and NC president Farooq Abdullah who is also president of PAGD held a separate meeting with newly-elected DDC members in Srinagar. “This resounding success has come as a shock to those who wrote political obituaries of our party. In their arrogance they thought by not allowing me to the campaign, intimidating us, arresting our leaders PDP will not perform. Ours is not just a party but a movement which will never compromise on its ideals and core political philosophy of dialogue and reconciliation,” Mehbooba Mufti told the DDC members of the party at party headquarters.She said that for the restoration of lasting peace in J&K dialogue is pivotal. “We will not allow Kashmir to be a battleground but work relentlessly so that J&K acts as a bridge of peace between India and Pakistan. We will fight for our rights. We are not the ones who will raise white flags despite fatal blows being dealt with our economy and livelihoods.”Three to four independent DDC members had joined the Apni party in the past three days that has tilted the balance in favour of the party at least in the Shopian district. The party is also emerging as the front runner in Srinagar district to get the chairmanship and the party is eyeing Bandipore district where PAGD is short of a majority.On Monday, Altaf Bukhari said that newly-elected members especially independent DDC members are joining his party without any pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-in-j-k-pagd-yet-to-pick-chairpersons-deputies/story-WLqEGqHet2ixX62W6gff8K.html
29-12-2020||City||113 drug peddlers arrested in last 14 days in Himachal||The Himachal police have arrested 113 persons with 26kg cannabis, 720g heroin and 265kg poppy straw and registered 90 cases under the NDPS Act throughout the state during the last two weeks.The maximum number of cases were registered in the Kangra district followed by Mandi and Shimla.HP director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said that a special campaign is also being run against drug peddling across the state and in the last few days, several consignments of heroin worth crores of rupees in the international market have been seized by the police in Kangra and Mandi. Apart from this, the state police have also seized a huge cache of banned medicines.“The state police is constantly launching special operations to nab drug dealers. Mapping of all places where drugs are smuggled has been done in the entire state and all new and old routes used by peddlers have also been identified. Criminal profiling of drug peddlers is also being done so that they can be monitored in the future too” he said.“Apart from this, inter-state gangs are also being investigated and blockade is being done by establishing contact with the police of neighboring states. Special operations are also being conducted under the guidelines of the Narcotics Control Bureau” said Kundu.Recently, two persons were arrested with 337 gms heroin in the Mandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/113-drug-peddlers-arrested-in-last-14-days-in-himachal/story-G1tr3GThVi1EULH42KdxTJ.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Discount coupons to segregate plastic waste, a hit in Shirur||Despite the state government’s ban on plastic, there continues to be a wide usage of the material which is posing a problem for many local bodies in collecting and disposing off the waste. Shirur Municipal Council (SMC), located around 70 kilometres from Pune has decided to implement an initiative to offer incentive of coupons for citizens, who can redeem them in restaurants and grocery shops for segregating plastic from waste and giving it to the local body separately. The project, currently on a pilot basis, will be launched in the entire town from New Year’s Day. Mahesh Rokade, chief executive officer of SMC and the scheme’s brain child said, “At present, the contractor is collecting and disposing off the garbage. We are appealing citizens to segregate dry and wet waste. However, very few people are following the instructions of the council. A maximum number of people are handing mixed garbage to the contractors. After that, the contractor segregates plastic, glasses, dry and wet garbage. It takes more time and effort to segregate and dispose the garbage. We have decided to give an incentive to citizens and encourage them to provide separate plastic waste to the contractor.” As per the Shirur Municipal Council (SMC) officials, the city has a total of one lakh population and it generates around 13 tonnes of garbage of which around 2 tonnes is plastic waste. According to Rokade, the SMC has set up two points in the city where residents can hand over the segregates waster to the contractor.“The contractor will weigh the plastic waste; decide the rate as per quality of plastic items and give one coupon mentioning the amount with his stamp. In this scheme, there are four traders showing positive response and ready to provide a cash discount on the purchase of items. Satguru restaurant, Sai darbar pan shop and Uttejan Kirana shop has have given a green signal to the council to redeem the cash coupons,” Rokade said. Suryakant Desarda, owner of Uttejan trading said, “It is social work. I am happy to be a part of this good scheme. It will help keep our city clean and neat as well as it will encourage people to do good things.” The decision was taken after Shirur faced a problem with disposal of plastic which is largely being used by public despite the state government’s ban in 2018. Shyamkant Warpe, owner of Satguru restaurant said, “When CEO Mahesh Rokade explained the scheme, I immediately said yes. We will provide snacks or food to people who will give us coupons. It will help to collect plastic waste which is lying across the city.” Wasim Sayyed, contractor of solid waste management said, “It is win-win situation for the administration, contractor, citizens and shopkeepers. At present, we are facing a problem to collect segregated garbage. We are utilizing more time and money on collection and segregation of waste. This scheme will encourage people to segregate waste such as plastic tins, wrappers, boxes, glass. We will pay them in the form of coupons to people who give us segregated waste. We have-not decided coupon cash back period at present. We will decide later.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to check the feasibility of the program and examine whether such an initiative can be implemented in Pune. On this scheme, Dr. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner of PMC said, “It is a good initiative. We will take information and study it. It will help us to encourage people to give us segregated plastic waste.” Laxmi Narayan, co-founder of Swach, India’s first autonomous cooperative of waste pickers said, “It is good from the point of view of consumers. However, it will not help buyers who will pay money in the form of coupons. They need high-quality plastic. It is okay for small areas. There will be less impact if we compare the problem of plastic waste.” ============================= BOX Where can Pune start? Plastic products have become an integral part of our daily life encouraging its production. 70 per cent of this production is converted to waste. -200 material recovery centres, to reduce, reuse, recycle and recover 170 to 180 metric tonnes of plastic waste generated per day -PET bottle crushing machines at 20 locations with high pedestrian footfalls||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/discount-coupons-to-segregate-plastic-waste-a-hit-in-shirur/story-LXQptigVIPFQKSX9tH7fPP.html
29-12-2020||City||Forest officials rescue male sambar from Chakan factory in MIDC||PUNE Employees at the GE India located at MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation) in Chakan, had a surprise visitor on their premises on Tuesday, when an adult male sambar sought refuge inside the factory. The sambar (rusa unicolor) is a large deer native to the Indian Subcontinent, southern China and Southeast Asia. The incident was reported to the forest department, who in turn contacted Wildlife SOS and RESQ Charitable Trust for assistance in conducting a safe rescue and relocation of the animal. A three-member team, along with a team of forest officers, rushed to the location. Meanwhile, a village rescue team, who have been trained in conflict mitigation, were on site to assist with the setting up safety nets along the periphery of the factory. Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar immobilised the sambar, who had not sustained any injures, using a tranquilliser from a safe distance. The sambar is a vulnerable species under the IUCN Red Data List. This species is also protected under Schedule III of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Jayaramegowda R, deputy conservator of forests, Junnar, said, “Sambar deer reside in the neighbouring forests and they often wander into farmlands to forage. The rescue was well coordinated and we are glad the animal was unhurt and was safely returned to its natural habitat.” “It took us several hours to carry out the rescue as we did not want to ambush the distressed animal. After waiting for it to settle down, we cautiously approached the sambar and used a safety net to carefully transfer it to the transport vehicle,” said Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-officials-rescue-male-sambar-from-chakan-factory-in-midc/story-ZWtHT5wVVMsHZP6DlJL4LO.html
29-12-2020||City||PMC officers refuse to board Swargate-Hadapsar BRTS corridor||PUNE Officers are mum on the closed Bus rapid transit (BRTS) corridor running from Swargate to Hadapsar. Despite demand from the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) to open the BRTS route, work has not begun. The Hadapsar-Swargate-Katraj stretch is India’s first pilot BRTS route, erected four years ago. Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director, said, “We demanded the PMC restart the corridor between Hadapsar and Swargate which has been completely damaged. The corridor is not functional for the last many years.” Former mayor and NCP leader Prashant Jagtap blamed the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) for no fund allocation for the BRTS corridor. Jagtap said, “ It was the responsibility of the ruling party to kick-start the project. The central government is also neglecting the BRTS. The central government had given almost Rs1,000 crore in funds to erecting the BRTS in Pune.” Officers from the PMC are not ready to speak on the issue. On condition of anonymity, one PMC official said that officebearers should take a decision on kick- starting the BRTS route. “It was demolished by an elected member but no action had been taken. If the funds get allocated, it would take at least one year to erect infrastructure on this stretch,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-officers-refuse-to-board-swargate-hadapsar-brts-corridor/story-vHAZWuX0RTr1ttnkBDPrZO.html
29-12-2020||City||UK variant more transmissible, but not more severe: experts||PUNE City scientists have opined that, so far, the information on the new variant of Covid-19 that has emerged from the UK, shows clearly that it spreads about 56% faster, which might lead to more positives and more deaths in absolute numbers. As six new cases of the new strain emerge in the country, experts say that although there have been thousands of mutations of the virus, like any other, mutations in the spike protein are worrisome. Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, who currently resides in the city, was the former head of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and joined the prestigious Dr CG Pandit National chair at ICMR, explained that the much talked about new strain widely in circulation in the UK currently, is not a more severe one in terms of symptoms, but transmits faster, which could mean more number of deaths and more hospitalisations. He said, “Currently what is essential to understand is that the initial reports coming in from UK epidemiologists is that the transmission rate due to the new strain increases by 56%, which means that earlier if we reported 100 Covid-19 cases then 156 new cases would come out perhaps due to this new mutation. Does it result in severe diseases? It does not result in severe diseases. So as a country it means that if the new strain becomes widely circulated, the number of cases might increase and the number of people who could be hospitalised would also increase. The absolute number of deaths might also go up if this mutated virus tends to prevail in India. It does not have any implication on the vaccine as of now. Whatever data we have also says that the same neutralising antibodies which would be produced against the current strain in circulation perhaps will work similarly against the new strain also. These are preliminary findings.” Further elaborating on why this particular mutation has led to widespread discussion. Dr Aurnab Ghose, associate professor, Neurobiology department, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (ISSER) said, “Spike protein is the virus protein on the surface which will bind to the proteins in our cells. This is also the point where you want to interfere with neutralising antibodies to where their major functions would be to prevent interaction between spike proteins and our proteins. If the mutations now make the binding of the virus to our proteins much more stronger then it might infect our cells much more strongly. Secondly, if it changes the efficacy of the neutralising antibodies. Anything that changes the rate at which the virus enters our body is always worrisome.” However, Dr Gangakhedkar also said that ensuring Covid-19 protocols are in place would prevent a second wave. He added, “We need to remember one thing. With lockdown we ensured that the outbreak occurs late and we got an additional five months. Now the first wave is on a decline and we do not want the second wave. This does not depend on the virus or its mutation, but on the Covid-appropriate behaviour by people. The same hygiene protocols need to be followed. Mutations are so common because this is an RNA virus. It is just that earlier this information was only with the scientific community and now it is coming out in the public. The symptoms of the new virus are also the same. The fear is that it might go to the younger population who will then spread it to the more vulnerable population. About reinfection, too, due to the new strain, there are random cases of reinfections reported in the UK which should not be considered a trend as the numbers are so small.” This particular mutation has led to discussion among the scientific community. Dr Gangakhedkar said, “This mutation is worrisome for us as scientists because the mutation has also brought in 23 different mutations with it. The virus has mutated multiple times before, but not in the spike protein. Spike protein is the one we are using in the vaccine and it is the one which is highly immunogenic. This leads to our immune system to fight against the virus, so if that changes then we tend to get worried as scientists. There are only two major mutations that we are worried about, one in Denmark, the mink related one; and the UK one; both of which were reported in the spike protein region. It only means for scientists that we have to keep a watch on how this virus will evolve in countries by starting genomic surveillance, which the government has started.” He further emphasised that contact tracing and isolation is the only way to prevent the spread of this new strain, if it has not already spread in the population. This is even if did enter before, since the strain has been in the UK since September. He added, “Now that the number is low the government can efficiently contact trace every person who came in contact with these six cases who have tested positive for the new strain when the numbers increase then contact tracing and isolation would become difficult. The government is taking all required steps right from the ban on UK flights. The good thing about this virus is its short life span, so if we can isolate that one person for about 14 days then there is no need to worry. Even after the vaccine comes out we have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour for quite some time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uk-variant-more-transmissible-but-not-more-severe-experts/story-X1fQz1qXT1jW6JzZDm57gP.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut slams ED, says harassing those against BJP its ‘national duty’||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said that harassing those who are against the BJP appears to be the “national duty” of the Enforcement directorate.Referring to the central agency’s summons to his wife Varsha in an alleged money laundering case, he also wondered why the ED was now probing cases involving small amounts.“Harassing anti-BJP people seems to be the national duty of the ED. I pity the ED as it used to have some reputation earlier,” the Sena Rajya Sabha member told reporters here.“Now nobody respects these organizations. It is tragic to see these organizations being ordered around,” he said.The ED wants to question Varsha Raut with regard to a loan of about Rs 55 lakh she had taken from the wife of a person who is accused in the PMC Bank alleged fraud case.Saying that the ED generally takes up cases where the minimum amount involved is Rs 100 crore, Raut said, “Looks like there is no other issue before the country so such an old case has been brought up.“The loan and the reason for taking it have been mentioned in my Rajya Sabha affidavits. Whatever information is being fed (to media), is already mentioned in the affidavits,” the Sena leader said.He was aware of the “politics” being played through the ED, he said, adding that a response to the notice will be given soon.“Even if someone is using the law to settle a personal grudge, I respect the law of the land and consider it supreme,” said the Sena leader.Varsha Raut on Tuesday did not appear before the ED.Official sources said she asked for a new date of January 5 for deposing before the central probe agency in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanjay-raut-slams-ed-says-harassing-those-against-bjp-its-national-duty/story-LjuhtJpV7GWviJzRqm7SwI.html
29-12-2020||Dehradun||‘Uttarakhand aims to certify 31% of agricultural land as organic in 2021’: Minister||The Uttarakhand government has a target to certify 31% of the total agricultural land as organic in 2021 to expand the area under organic farming, said state agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal on Tuesday in Dehradun. He informed about the same while addressing a gathering at the seminar on State Focus Paper 2021-22 by the National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) with a theme of collectivisation of agricultural produce for enhancing farmers’ income. “At present, the total area certified for organic farming is about 23 per cent, which would be increased to 31 per cent by the end of 2021. This is a significant move because today, 40 per cent of the country’s total organic farming is being done in Uttarakhand which is also the first state in the country to have an act on organic farming,” said Uniyal. Enabling SHGs to sell their products directly to tourists On the steps taken by the government to improve agriculture, especially in the hilly areas of the state, he said, “The agriculture department is working on mechanisms to enable the self-help groups (SHG)s to sell their products directly to the tourists and to develop zone-based farming”. Also read: Scientists quell Covid-19 variant fears, say staying cautious sufficient“There are about 6,000 SHGs working in the state producing various products. We are working to develop a system in which they would be able to sell their products directly to a large number of tourists visiting the state every year without the involvement of middlemen,” said Uniyal. “We are also working to develop zone-based farming under which an area growing the same crop would be termed as a zone which would help in selling and marketing the produce in a much better way,” he said. Some people giving communal colour to farmers protest During the event, the agriculture minister also spoke on the ongoing farmers protest and said that “some people are giving a communal colour to it.” “It is very unfortunate that some people are giving communal colour to the protest of farmers. Religion and politics should always be kept separate. But some people for their vested interests are doing so which should be stopped,” said Uniyal, adding that “The farm laws are beneficial for the farmers and the Centre is ready to talk to the protesting farmers.” Some irregularities in giving farm loans in banks Uniyal, later while speaking on giving credit to the farmers under various initiatives of NABARD, raised the issue of “irregularities in banks while giving loans to farmers.” “It has come to our notice that there have been some incidents in which the bank staffers provided farm loan to landless people just for their own vested interests. While on the other hand, the deserving farmers had to move pillar to post for a loan. This should be looked into with strict action against those involved from the banks,” said Uniyal. Also read: Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal meet Amit Shah ahead of crucial talks with farmersPer capita income rises to ₹20,2895 Earlier during the event, regional chief general manager, NABARD Gyanendra Mani, while informing about the economic indicators in the institution’s State Focus Paper, said that the per capita income of the state is “slated to increase from Rs 1,91,450 (2018-19) to Rs 2,02,895 (2019-20) with Haridwar district having the highest per capita income and Rudraprayag district having the lowest.” He also informed that the total credit projection for Uttarakhand in NABARD has increased to Rs 27160.16 crore for 2021-22 from Rs 24656.53 crore in 2020-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-aims-to-certify-31-of-agricultural-land-as-organic-in-2021-minister/story-jrUbCggptvBmgm8bPZJFJJ.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||All Mumbai schools to remain closed till January 15: BMC||All schools in Maharashtra’s Mumbai will remain closed till January 15, 2021, news agency ANI reported citing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as a precautionary measure to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city.The civic body had in November decided to keep all schools in Mumbai closed till December 31. The Maharashtra government had earlier allowed Classes 9 to 12 to reopen from November 23.“Considering BMC is Mumbai’s local body, we have taken the decision to keep the schools shut. We have also studied the pattern of Covid-19 spread in other parts of the country after schools were reopened, and hence have decided to keep them shut till December 31,” a BMC official had said in November.Also read | 12 Maharashtra cities and districts record 5 or less Covid cases on MondayMumbai’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 292,008 after 537 news cases and six deaths were reported on Tuesday, according to the government. The city has seen 11,094 deaths related to Covid-19. Maharashtra has 1,925,066 Covid-19 cases and 49,373 related deaths so far.A rise in the cases of Covid-19 has been seen after schools were reopened in several parts of the country. For example, Andhra Pradesh witnessed a similar trend after reopening its schools.Also read | Bring in the New Year at home; seniors, kids stay indoors: Maharashtra government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-mumbai-schools-to-remain-closed-till-january-15-bmc/story-hGUKB4O7dJpZOxacOhNUqL.html
29-12-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka to set up more medical colleges under PPP model: Minister||Karnataka needs more medical colleges to meet the demand for doctors and the government is willing to establish more in Public-Private Partnership (PPP), State Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday.Speaking to reporters after inauguration of new building of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research centre here by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, he said establishing a medical college requires Rs 600-700 crore.“If it is built in the PPP model, it reduces the burden on state exchequer and also helps provide affordable medical education and treatment to the needy.This model is being adopted in Gujarat and the same will be implemented here as well,” the Minister was quoted as saying by his office in a release.Noting that as per WHO guidelines there should be one doctor for 1000 population, Sudhakar said in India, there is a doctor for every 10-12 thousand population.Therefore, there is a necessity to increase the number of medical colleges in order to produce more number of doctors, he said. The Narendra Modi government has added over 157 medical colleges in the last 6 years, he said, adding the Central government has a vision to set up 22 AIIMS across the country, one in each state.“We are committed to bring one AIIMS in our state too.The process of obtaining permission is already in progress and soon there will be an AIIMS functional in the state,” he said.Sudhakar also said that there will be a new health and medical education policy in the state soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-set-up-more-medical-colleges-under-ppp-model-minister/story-highzfITh3OnkFRDlkCTrL.html
29-12-2020||City||VHP to start Ayodhya’s Ram Temple construction fund collection drive from January 15||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) will begin the collection of funds for the Ram Temple at Ayodhya on January 15 and donations above Rs20,000 will have to be made through cheques.Alok Kumar, VHP’s international working president, on Tuesday said they have decided to cover 525,000 villages across the country for the drive. “The funds will be collected in a transparent way. The teams deputed to collect the funds will have to deposit the money within 48 hours in designated bank accounts. Deposits will be made in branches of Bank of Baroda, State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank,” he said.Teams of five people will carry out the collection drive from January 15 to February 27.Also Read: Ayodhya mosque against Waqf Act, illegal under Shariyat law: AIMPLBVHP, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that was at the forefront of the Ram Temple movement, has been authorised by the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to collect donations for the construction.The trust was formed to oversee the temple construction as the Supreme Court paved the way for it.“Indians have accepted the Supreme Court’s decision peacefully. Ram was not against anyone so I appeal to our workers and others as well to remain peaceful. A temple and a mosque are both being constructed and the work should be carried out peacefully,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vhp-to-start-ayodhya-s-ram-temple-construction-fund-collection-drive-from-january-15/story-nvDsXirJZHQAYQd54UgQzL.html
29-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Alleged rapist held after teenaged girl delivers baby||The Rajasthan police have arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly raping a teenaged girl after she delivered a baby at a Jodhpur hospital and identified him as her alleged rapist.Additional police superintendent Deepak Sharma said the girl is a Class 6 student and the 30-year-old allegedly raped her on the pretext of showing her something on his mobile phone.“The girl did not tell the family about this. Her health deteriorated on Sunday when the family first took her to the local hospital, where doctors came to know about her pregnancy. Subsequently, the victim was referred to [the Jodhpur] hospital, where she gave birth to a son,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-alleged-rapist-held-after-teenaged-girl-delivers-baby/story-vfbnYeQW8bnLB9Xw6r5nRL.html
29-12-2020||Kolkata||Don’t like derogatory remarks being made against Visva-Bharati’: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) charging it for spreading a divisive agenda in the state ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held in 2021. Banerjee, during her address at a public meeting in Bolpur, also lashed out at the BJP and said that she disliked the comments made against Visva-Bharati, the university established by Rabindranath Tagore in Birbhum’s Santiniketan.“Conspiracies are being hatched to destroy the culture of Bengal. Stop politics of violence and divisive politics,” the West Bengal chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “I don’t like the derogatory remarks being made against Visva-Bharati,” she also said.Also Read: Amartya Sen urges people of West Bengal to reject communalismA war of words has broken out between the BJP and Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) since Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the university which was founded by Nobel laureate Tagore in 1921. The Trinamool Congress also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his speech at the virtual event to commemorate the centenary celebrations of the university.Banerjee also indirectly criticised Visva-Bharati chancellor after reports surfaced that the university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by the university were wrongfully recorded in the name of private parties, including Nobel laureate and noted economist Amartya Sen.“I congratulate those who are associated with this century-old institution. The legacy of Visva-Bharati is not bound by time. Those who are running it now will be here for a few days only. Their days are numbered,” the chief minister was quoted as saying during a press conference last week.The TMC also pointed out that there were some inaccuracies in the speech given by the prime minister during the centenary celebrations. “I could not understand why there were repeated references to Gujarat when he (Modi) was talking about Tagore. And, some of the things he said were factually wrong. For example, Satyendranath Tagore was not the poet’s eldest brother. Also, it was not from Gujarati women alone that Satyendranath’s wife Gyanadanandini Devi learnt to wear the traditional saree in a different way. She was inspired by Parsi women as well but the Prime Minister will not name Parsees for the same reasons that stop him from mentioning Dalits,” West Bengal minister Bratya Basu said last week.Also Read: West Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari targets Mamata Banerjee for cancelling Nandigram rallyThe heated debates between the TMC and the BJP are likely to increase as the state heads towards the elections. The Trinamool Congress, which saw a few defections from their ranks in the last few months, have been attacked by the BJP over the implementation of the central schemes and the deaths of its workers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/don-t-like-derogatory-remarks-being-made-against-visva-bharati-mamata-banerjee/story-rTIoMEhx2YEyYcpST20XvM.html
29-12-2020||City||Sariska Tiger Reserve revival: As villagers relocate, conditions improve||The relocation of several villagers from the Sariska Tiger Reserve in the past four months to the outskirts has resulted in better visibility of tigers and more inflow of tourists in the habitat, which lost all its native tigers in 2005, forest department officials said.According to officials of the tiger reserve, there 29 villages in the Sariska Tiger Reserve, of which, inhabitants of six in the core areas have been completely relocated to Bardod ki Rundh, Maujpur Kanpura and Tijara areas, years after the process of relocation actually started. Other villagers are in the process of relocation.The officials said a reason for the slow pace of relocation was the less attractive rehabilitation package.Also Read: Congress’ Rajasthan saga continues, Pilot maintains distance from Jaipur on Foundation DayBhagwan Sahay Gurjar of Dabli village said people have realised that they will have to leave the tiger reserve and have opted for the land exchange scheme of the government. “Also, our children will get schooling facility at Sariska Tiger Reserve and later employment there,” said Heera Lal of Kanpura, another villager who has opted for the package.Chief conservator of forests of Sariska Tiger Reserve RN Meena said that due to the government allotting a budget of Rs3.28 crore, the task of relocation of the villagers has picked up the pace.“The impact their moving out has already started showing as tiger sighting has increased,” he said.He said although the area of Sariska Tiger Reserve is around 1,213sqkm, tigers were not sighted easily earlier. “Now, we can spot tigers every day or on alternate days,” he said.That is not all as the reserve management has spotted four new tiger cubs in the recent months, especially from areas where villagers to used to live, taking their number to 22, including six cubs.Sariska had lost all its tigers in 2005 because of poaching. After eight years due to the efforts of then prime minister, Manmohan Singh, and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, tigers were relocated from Ranthambore National Park in the 2008 and the process continued till the year 2013. For over five years, the numbers did not increase. However, records show that the past year has been good as tiger numbers have improved because of better habitat and creation of inviolate conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sariska-tiger-reserve-revival-as-villagers-relocate-conditions-improve/story-rnKYYzyQJHjeceZRcJaGgM.html
29-12-2020||City||Colleges prep to reopen ‘live’, in-person lectures for Class 11, Class 12||Junior colleges in the city are about to start ‘live’, in-person classes from January 4, for Class 11 and Class 12 students, following the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) permission to start the same. Now college administrations are gearing up to resume classroom lectures given the Covid protocols issued by the state government. “We are all set to begin offline classes and practicals for Class 12 students initially at our college. Accordingly, preparations have begun to sanitise each and every bench and have sanitisers on the college premises. Thermal checking of each student will be done on the college premises. We are following all the guidelines given by the state government. Also, medical equipment like thermometer and oxymeter are on hand if any student is found with symptoms. Social distancing will be maintained in the classroom as students will be called in batches,” said S P College principal V M Solapurkar. Aftab Anwar Shaikh, principal of Poona College of Arts, Commerce and Science said, “We are following the Covid guidelines for starting-up of the colleges, but 90 per cent of our students come via public transport buses; and some of them from slum areas. Along with safety precautions inside the colleges, it is also necessary to provide students a safe travelling mode. As schools and colleges start from January 4, thousands of students will travel across the city. We will be checking and doing thermal scanning inside the college, but at the same time it is necessary to have their travelling exposure to the infection secure.” Meanwhile, college principals are also worried about completing of the syllabus for FYJC students. Due to the Maratha reservation case, admissions were on hold for two months, and the re-started from November 26. “It is a challenge for all the colleges to complete the syllabus for FYJC students due to the delayed admission process. Now we are planning extra classes to cover the syllabus. Also our preparations for starting offline classroom lectures are on in full swing. Daily, each and every classroom bench will be sanitised,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/colleges-prep-to-reopen-live-in-person-lectures-for-class-11-class-12/story-RwjlJQ0SOLcCKnzqLXtYKK.html
29-12-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari targets Mamata Banerjee for cancelling Nandigram rally||Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) drew flak from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday for cancelling the chief minister’s scheduled rally at Nandigram in East Midnapore district on January 7. Nandigram, where a three-year-long violent struggle against acquisition of farm land for industry played a key role in helping Banerjee oust the Left Front government in 2011, was the assembly constituency of former minister Suvendu Adhikari till he resigned from the state assembly and joined the BJP in presence of union home minister Amit Shah on December 19. “Those who talked of holding a rally in Nandigram have suddenly vanished. But I keep my word. I will hold a rally on January 8 and there will be more than 100,000 people,” Adhikari said at a rally in Nandigram on Tuesday. Also Read: Bengal assembly polls: Abhishek and Suvendu trade barbs as poll battle heats upAdhikari also took potshots at Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew, calling him a tolabaaj (extortionist). The reason TMC leaders cited on Monday for cancelling Banerjee’s January 7 rally was that Akhil Giri, the legislator from the district’s Ramnagar constituency and the event’s organiser, had tested positive for Covid-19. On November 10, Adhikari threw his first veiled challenge at the TMC while addressing a meeting in Nandigram. Till then, the differences between Adhikari and the TMC had not become public. Adhikari, who hails from East Midnapore and whose father and older brother represent two Lok Sabha seats in the district for the TMC, has claimed in his recent speeches that he played the crucial role in the Nandigram movement from the ground since it began in 2007 while TMC leaders based in Kolkata used to visit the disturbed zone only for media coverage. Engaged in an uninterrupted exchange of allegations and rhetoric since Adhikari’s defection, TMC and BJP leaders on Monday made the rally’s cancellation an issue. “We cannot hold the rally without Giri. A rally will be held later,” said panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee. “Giri is the legislator from Ramnagar. What has he got to do with Nandigram? He cannot even assemble 500 people. The chief minister should stop milking Nandigram for political gains,” quipped Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, referring to the decade-old land movement at a press conference. Significantly, Adhikari himself threw a challenge at the chief minister when he addressed a rally at Kanthi, his hometown, on December 24, a day after he was branded a “traitor” at a TMC roadshow in the same town. The TMC rally, which was addressed by Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and urban development minister Firhad Hakim, was also organised by Giri. “They (TMC) claim Mamata Banerjee will contest the coming assembly polls alone in the state and she has put in place the next generation of leadership. If that is true then why is she sending ministers to Midnapore? She will address a rally at Nandigram on January 7. I know what she is going to say. I will hold a rally in Nandigram the very next day and give her a befitting reply,” Adhikari said on December 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-suvendu-adhikari-targets-mamata-banerjee-for-cancelling-nandigram-rally/story-xEPwMEUdERGbbWn7rSP1CO.html
29-12-2020||Pune||For two weeks, Pune reports single digit Covid deaths a day||Pune city has reported single digit Covid-related deaths each day for the past two weeks as reported by the state health department. The city’s case fatality rate as of Sunday was zero per cent as no deaths were reported in 24 hours by the state health department in the city. The number of deaths due to the infection has come down drastically lately as the spread of the infection has slowed down.As per the report by the state health department, Pune city reported single digit deaths, the lowest being zero on Sunday, December 27, 2020. The highest was a total of eight deaths on December 22. For the second day in a row, Pune city reported zero deaths due to the infection. On most days, the city reported only one death due to Covid-19 infection. Pune district is also reporting a fall in the number of deaths reported every day. Doctors explain the fall in the numbers as the spread of the infection has gone down. Dr RP Karyakarte, head of the microbiology department at SGH and BJ Medical College, said, “The virus will never try to kill its host immediately as with the host the virus will also die. Like any virus, Covid-19 virus would also stay as long as possible in the host’s body and do maximum damage. Therefore, only that mutated strain of the virus will be transmitted which would be mild in terms of effect so that the host can spread it to a maximum number of people. Eventually, the mortality will come down unless there is severe mutation in the virus.” Even though the number of Covid-19 cases has been going down, Pune district continues to report the highest number of active cases in the district which was above 14,000 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment for the infection while the number of total cases in the city went up to 1,90,338 as of Monday with a total of 4,399 deaths reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/for-two-weeks-pune-reports-single-digit-covid-deaths-a-day/story-aFEzYF8hoMtuxZavVz1IiI.html
29-12-2020||Patna||In-laws kill woman over dowry in Bihar’s Vaishali||A 28-year-old woman’s in-laws allegedly killed her by setting her on fire in Bihar’s Vaishali district late on Monday night, a police officer said. Anil Kumar, the officer, said the woman’s in-laws are absconding and raids were on to arrest them. He added the woman was killed after her family was unable to meet the in-law’s dowry demands.Kumar said the woman, who was a mother of two, was her husband’s second wife. “His first wife also died four years ago under mysterious conditions.”“I gave money whenever my daughter asked for it. Nearly two months ago, they again demanded Rs1 lakh for opening a kiosk, which I have refused. So, they have killed my daughter,” said the woman’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/in-laws-kill-woman-over-dowry-in-bihar-s-vaishali/story-JQXEYcIJLHM3iCORSNEvTN.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Pune man held for raping woman he met on online dating app||The Wakad police booked a businessman for raping a 26-year-old air hostess in Wakad. The duo had met over a dating app. The victim had gone to a hotel, where the accused forced her to consume alcohol. He later took her home, where he raped her. PSI Sangeeta Gode said that a case has been lodged under IPC 376 (rape) against the accused. “They met on a dating app,” she said. In another case, the Wakad police have arrested a 28-year-old on charges of raping a woman at a hotel located near Jagtap Dairy on November 11. According to the complaint lodged by the woman, the accused threatened the victim with dire consequences and raped her at the hotel. He threatened to kill her two brothers. The police have invoked IPC 376 (rape), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against the accused. PSI Sangeeta Gode is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-man-held-for-raping-woman-he-met-on-online-dating-app/story-sYDmVIsS2kMYVFpaDj9rGL.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: It’s in the air||I’ve signed up for Safar’s email alerts. After enjoying clean air throughout the lockdowns, it’s dismaying to see the air quality index signalling orange, meaning ‘poor’ air quality in Pune. While northern India has it much worse, air pollution in Pune is a growing and serious health threat.Apart from gaseous pollutants like nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide, the air we breathe has particles that cause breathing difficulties. These PM 2.5 or particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in size, are so tiny that they pass through the lungs to enter the bloodstream and harm the heart and brain. New studies show that air pollution worsens the health impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic.Air quality index apps and websites like Safar tell you what to do to avoid exposure when air quality is poor. The immediate thing is to reduce outdoor and heavy activity like exercise, jogging, travel, and morning walks. After months of suspended animation now we have to give in to these suspended particles!It does not have to be this way.Some years ago, the Japanese contributed the slogan “Build back better” to the UN’s efforts to recover from disasters and prepare for the future. How we adapt and recover from the effects of Covid-19 should help us be better prepared for such shocks.The good news is that the health impacts of air pollution are largely preventable. To understand this, we should go to the root of the problem. In Pune, as the PMC’s annual Environment Status Report tells us, tailpipe emissions from petrol/ diesel vehicles are among the largest causes of air pollution. Waste burning especially in the winters for warmth and to heat water is another.Maharashtra Pollution Control Board has prepared the Pune Air Action Plan. A public review should be done so that it sets actions to bring pollution down to safe levels. And be backed with political will, community support, and some humanitarian care.Good affordable transport helps in economic recovery as people can travel to work. For cleaner, healthier, safer travel, we need to ask our corporators and municipal officials, and work with them, for excellent footpaths, road crossings, safe, comfortable cycling facilities, bus services, and shared-rickshaw shuttles for local and last mile connectivity. Electric vehicles can help, but an electric car is still a car, occupying road and parking space pushing out shared rickshaws, buses, cycle lanes and footpaths. We may just end up stuck in ‘clean congestion’.As a cyclist, I find it ironic that bikers and car drivers honk at me to “get out of the way”. I feel my cycling T-shirt should say “road occupy karne wale, tera muh kala”. But, calling each other names does not really help. We need to rid ourselves of themistaken belief that wider roads and more flyovers for motorized vehicles will make our city better. Instead, can we try to build back better, neighbourhood by neighbourhood, ward by ward? Can our civic conversations be about making our streets safer and air cleaner for children, and elderly and everyone? It’s a choice we can make.On an ending note, it’s winter and it’s the season for giving – why not give out blankets, mufflers, caps to the hard-working people who watch over the neighbourhood at night. Dr Priyadarshini Karve, Samuchit Enviro Tech and Sharmila Deo, Parisar, are experimenting with the help of housing societies to provide cleaner stoves that use twigs and leaves to provide warmth for security guards at night while minimising emissions. I’d love to join. Roasting sweet potatoes could add some tasty fun to the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-it-s-in-the-air/story-JMmUXVx9bRIISyylNwFtpL.html
29-12-2020||Pune||5 steps to apply for a patent in Pune||A patent is a statutory right to the inventor or the applicant by the government for his invention which is either a new process or product. A patent will prevent duplication and safeguard the creator’s rights to make, use or sell his product.Step 1:Fill up the application form available online at www.ipindiaonline.gov.in/online, physically deliver it or courier it to the patent office in Mumbai. (Mumbai patent office address: Boudhik Sampada Bhawan, Antop Hill, SM road, Mumbai - 400 037).An applicant is required to file Form 1 which is a request for filing an application and Form 2 which is either a provisional or complete specification with drawings, if any. In addition to these, an abstract of the invention is also required.Step 2:The patent office will make your application for a patent public including your abstract, drawings if any, name and address, and date of application. A pre-grant opposition to the patent can be filed by anybody.Step 3:The applicant must now file for a request for examination. The request for examination can be filed within a period of 48 months from the date of priority or the date of filing of the application. An examination for patentability and other requirements under the act will be made.Step 4:After the examination, a First Examination Report will be issued (FER). After the issuance of a FER, the application must be put in order by the applicant within six months. A re-examination of amended documents will be conducted.Step 5:If objections are outstanding, the controller will offer a hearing to the applicant. If the objections are met within six to nine months, a patent will be issued.What is patentable?Any article, apparatus or machinery or its component, any substance whether living or non-living, product , pharmaceutical product, any composition of matter, pharmaceutical products, any process, manner or art of manufacturing other than the essential biological process.What does not fall within the scope of Section (3) of Patents Act, 1970?Inventions falling within the scope of Section (1) of sub-section 20 of Atomic Energy Act, 1962- For example : inventions relating to compounds of –Uranium, Beryllium, Thorium, Plutonium, Radium, Graphite, Lithium and more as notified by central government from time to timePatent term:The term of every patent granted is 20 years from the date of filing of application.Fees for e-filing of a patent application:Person or a startup: Rs 1,600Small entity: Rs 4,000Others: Rs 8,000Fees for physical filing of a patent application:Person or a startup: Rs 1,750Small entity: Rs 4,400Others: Rs 8,800“Once you register a patent application online , it takes three to four months for final granting of the patent. After that if anybody tries to copy a patent without the permission of the original owner, then he is liable for criminal prosecution. A patent ensures that the legal right of the original applicant is protected by law at all times.”-Advocate Milind Pawar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-steps-to-apply-for-a-patent-in-pune/story-BulYqTBO760UepMa25aKGM.html
29-12-2020||Pune||FYJC admissions special round cut-off list declared||The first special round of the First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions is underway and on Monday, the junior college allotment list for admissions was displayed and cut-off list of colleges was declared. In this first special round, for the 52,577 available seats, 20,347 applicants were present and 17,722 students were allotted colleges. The remaining 2,625 students who had applied for admission in this round couldn’t match the cut-off list of colleges with their given college preference and marks. Of the 17,722 students who were allotted colleges, 12,306 were given college of their first preference, 2,505 students were given college of their second preference and 1,170 students were given college of their third preference. For this year’s Class 11 admission process, a total of 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad area. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process. However, it resumed on November 26. Earlier in the three regular rounds, of the total 1,07,030 seats in Pune region, 45,284 students completed the admission process and 61,746 seats are still vacant. From December 20, the special round-I admission process started which was postponed after the Maratha community students were declared as socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) by the state government and were allowed to avail the benefits of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) on December 24. “On Monday at 5pm, junior college allotment list for special round admissions was displayed online. Accordingly, cut-off list for special admission round will be displayed and SMS will be sent to students. From December 29 to 31 (6pm), students need to confirm their admission to the allotted colleges. Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by the student login. In view Covid-19 pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect their admission fee only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI), any e-wallets approved by the government of India or Reserve Bank of India,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fyjc-admissions-special-round-cut-off-list-declared/story-nNnWIKWvTknO0NyRBSQz8N.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena puts up posters in Dombivli in support of Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena party workers put up banners and posters across Dombivli on Tuesday in support of Sena leader Sanjay Raut after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) issued summons to his wife Varsha Raut allegedly in connection with the PMC Bank scam. The party slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the posters, calling ED a puppet of the BJP. One such poster said the Shiv Sena respects ED even if ED supports BJP; the poster also had a large photo of Sanjay Raut. The posters also questioned whether ED had set up a cabin in BJP office. Also Read: Need 4 more days: Sena’s Sanjay Raut on summons to wife in PMC bank scam caseThese posters and banners were put up on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, Varsha Raut has sought more time to appear before the ED. Shiv Sena leader from Dombivli Dipesh Mhatre said,”It is not just the Shiv Sena party feeling that the power of ED is being used by BJP to target Sena, the common people also feel the same. The posters and banners are in support of Sanjay Raut and his family who are targeted unnecessarily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shiv-sena-puts-up-posters-in-dombivli-in-support-of-sanjay-raut/story-t2tA7mPG98ZsnCtP8ZIQoN.html
29-12-2020||Kolkata||Amartya Sen urges people of West Bengal to reject communalism||Political parties sure have good reasons to pursue individual goals, but rejection of communalism ought to be a shared value without which “we shall not be worthy heirs of Tagore and Netaji”, Nobel laureate Amarta Sen has said.He said the Left and other secular parties in West Bengal have no less commitment than the ruling TMC to ensuring that communalism does not rear its ugly head in the state.“Secular parties can differ in their detailed programmes, but the importance of rejecting communalism must surely be a strongly shared value. The Left parties should have no less a commitment to that than the TMC (in keeping the state secular),” Sen told PTI in an email interview.The BJP, which has often been subjected to strong criticism by the celebrated economist over its policies, meanwhile, claimed the TMC’s communal side has long been exposed.Exuding confidence that the people of the state will reject non-secular forces, the 87-year-old Harvard professor said, “Bengal had in the past greatly suffered due to communalism.” “Each party may have a good reason to pursue its own goals without harming the overarching objective of keeping Bengal secular and non-communal. First things should surely come first. Otherwise, we shall not be worthy heirs of Tagore and Netaji,” he said.With Bengal’s icons occupying centre stage in political discourse in the run up to the assembly elections, Sen said one must remember that all luminaries “have wanted and argued” for unity.“Rabindranath Tagore, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Swami Vivekananda, all wanted and argued for a united Bengali culture, and there is no room in their social objective for trying to excite one community against another.“That is the Bengali culture that we have come to admire and support. Kazi Nazrul Islam is as big a Bengali leader as the others. Bengal has greatly suffered from communalism in the past and has learned to reject it firmly,” the Nobel winner, a known critic of the BJP, said.Asked about the recent row over his family allegedly being in “illegal” possession of land at Visva Bharati, the noted economist rejected the charge and said the vice chancellor of the hallowed institution has issued “false statements” to the media.“I am baffled by the way the Visva-Bharati VC is doing these very odd things, such as making false statements to the media about me allegedly occupying their land but never writing to me about returning any land to them. I am not sure if the VC is what can I say? - (is) intellectually well- coordinated,” he said.Asked if he feels that it was an attempt to malign him, the professor said, “Maybe, as you say, he (VC) is trying to malign me, but it would be hard to be sure given the lack of cogency in his actions.” Sen, however, declined to hold the BJP responsible for the row, as was suggested by many quarters.“Certainly I am critical of any political party that inflames communal and divisive sentiments particularly between Hindus and Muslims. Certainly, Bidyut Chakravarty, the Visva- Bharati VC, gives evidence of following the commands of the BJP. But it is a big jump from there to conclude firmly that the BJP is responsible for these false accusations,” he said.A controversy erupted last week when media reported that the central university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the name of private parties, including Sen.The Nobel laureate had said that the university land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had offered an apology to Sen on behalf of the state and also wrote to him, asking him to consider her a “sister and friend” in his war against “intolerance and totalitarianism”.Reacting sharply to Sen’s assertions apparently targeting the saffron camp, BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said his claims were bereft of truth as the “the communal side of the TMC government was exposed when immersion of Durga idols was stopped due to Muharram”.“People in Bengal have already voted in favour of the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls. They will vote for us again in the upcoming assembly polls,” he asserted.Elections to the 294-member West Bengal assembly are due in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amartya-sen-urges-people-of-west-bengal-to-reject-communalism/story-3b14NiPzM9uKVdWXx0QumO.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha urges CPCB to intervene as Yamuna pollution rises||Haryana has not stopped discharging industrial pollutants into the Yamuna despite repeated reminders, Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday as he urged the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to take immediate remedial measures.Ammonia concentration in the river at the Wazirabad barrage has increased to 7 ppm (parts per million) against the permissible limit of 0.8 ppm which is likely to affect the water supply, he said.“Discharge of industrial pollutants in Yamuna through Rohtak X-Regulator and DD6 has not stopped despite repeated reminders to the Haryana govt,” Chadha said in a tweet.“Such irresponsible behaviour of Haryana govt adversely impacting the water supply in Delhi must be dealt with sternly,” he added.Chadha urged the CPCB and the Upper Yamuna River Board to take immediate cognisance of the “nonchalant” attitude of the Haryana government and take remedial measures.The DJB on Monday said water supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants would remain affected till the ammonia level in the river reduces to a treatable limit. These plants supply drinking water to Central, North, West and South Delhi.The CPCB had earlier this month raised concerns over pollution and frothing in the river and asked Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ensure effective sewage treatment.According to a CPCB statement, the monitoring of 22 drains in Delhi has found 14 drains “untapped and discharging sewage”.In the past, the CPCB had observed froth formation and increase in ammonia levels in the Yamuna because of discharge of untreated sewage, non-operation of existing STPs, improper functioning of effluent treatment plants installed by the industries and common effluent treatment plants located on the banks of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/raghav-chadha-urges-cpcb-to-intervene-as-yamuna-pollution-rises/story-lKZee4R35ZfSEJ32sfeDaN.html
29-12-2020||Bangalore||‘It is a political murder’: Kumaraswamy on Dharmegowda suicide||Condoling the demise of SL Dharmegowda, Deputy Speaker of Karnataka Legislative Council, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy on Tuesday termed it as “political murder”. “It is a political murder that has taken place today. The truth should come out as soon as possible about who is responsible for his death,” said Kumaraswamy. “Dharmegowda’s suicide is a sacrifice for today’s polluted, unprincipled, and selfish politics. The secularism of JD(S) was tested for the position of Chairperson but in this test, Dharmegowda’s heart became the victim. Those who tested it may now get the answer,” he added. Karnataka Government has also condoled the demise of SL Dharmegowda. The cremation will be done with a limited number of people and by following all Covid-19 norms, according to the State Government. The body of SL Dharmegowda, Deputy Speaker of State Legislative Council was found on a railway track near Kadur in Chikkamagaluru on Monday. A suicide note has been recovered.Meanwhile, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and Former Prime Minister and chief of Janata Dal (Secular) HD Deve Gowda have grieved the untimely demise of Dharmegowda.“The untimely demise of Dharmegowda is the most unfortunate and traumatic event. May his soul rest in peace and give strength to his family and followers,” CMO stated.Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar said, “The news of his demise is shocking. He was a simple man. On behalf of the Congress party, I offer my sincere condolences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/it-is-a-political-murder-kumaraswamy-on-dharmegowda-suicide/story-5qcO4AJVEfUIbSGI5CkNrK.html
29-12-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: AJSU Party functionary found dead in forest, family alleges murder||A 35-year-old All Jharkhand Students Union (AJSU Party) functionary’s body was found in a forest in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district on Tuesday with his family saying he was stoned to death.Sub-divisional police officer Prakash Soy said they were investigating whether Ambuj Kewat was murdered or had died in an accident. He added Kewat was last seen on his motorcycle, which was also recovered. “It seems to be an accident. But we also cannot rule out that he may have been stoned to death. The truth can only be known when the postmortem examination report comes. The body has been sent for an autopsy.”Kewat’s brother, Bansi Kewat, said his sibling had gone to Bokaro on Monday to get his father-in-law’s death certificate. “It seemed he was stoned to death. His motorcycle was found 100 metres from his body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-ajsu-party-functionary-found-dead-in-forest-family-alleges-murder/story-x8NRyPuDuCxEZsGO51n6FO.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver arrested for allegedly raping, threatening to kill 18-year-old in Panvel||A rickshaw driver has been arrested for allegedly raping and threatening to kill an 18-year-old woman in Mumbai’s Panvel on Monday, investigators said.The driver took her to a remote place and raped her. “As there were no CCTV cameras, the police arrested Sachin Sharma, 26, the rickshaw driver, with the help of sources and fieldwork. The girl’s family has been informed. Her condition is completely fine,” said an investigator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-driver-arrested-for-raping-18-year-old/story-VQIy26eVC3zllZK5devHtL.html
29-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Six UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 in past month||Six of the 227 people who returned from the United Kingdom (UK) in the last one month or so have tested positive for Covid-19, said senior officials of the state health department. Of these, four are from Dehradun district, one is from US Nagar and one from Nainital district. One contact of a UK returnee from Dehradun district has also tested positive. JC Pandey, public relations officer, state health department, said, “Six UK returnees have so far tested positive. Also, one contact of a UK returnee has tested positive in Dehradun.”Pandey said all districts have been directed to monitor the rest of the returnees and in case they show symptoms, to administer them RT-PCR tests. He added that 138 of 227 people are from Dehradun district. Also Read: 6 UK returnees test positive for new mutant virus strain: Health ministryMeanwhile, Uttarakhand on Monday reported 205 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 89,850. Six Covid-19 positive patients died in the state on Monday, taking the death toll to 1,489. Of the 89,850 who have tested positive so far, 81,688 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.92 %. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.18 % and the case fatality rate at 1.66%. On Monday, 305 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with the maximum number, 104, from Chamoli district. According to the health bulletin issued on Monday evening, the most cases, 83, were reported from Dehradun district. Almora district didn’t report any case on Monday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum (26,889) number of cases, followed by Haridwar (13,303), US Nagar (11,046) and Nainital (11,060). The state health department has so far tested 1.73 million people of which the results of over 12,800 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 18 containment zones with the maximum number (eight) in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-six-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-past-month/story-rn4H4ZAi7aCeHeRvCJnkaM.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Mobile connectivity hit as power to 1,561 towers disrupted in Punjab||Over 1,500 mobile phone towers in Punjab have allegedly been vandalised, disrupting telecom connectivity in Punjab, a government spokesperson said, adding that 146 towers have been impacted since Monday due to power supply disruption while the remaining have been physically damaged.He said that some of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector allegedly vandalised and disrupted power supply to 1,561 mobile phone towers in the state. So far, 433 towers have been repaired. The state has 2,13,06 mobile towers spread across 22 districts.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday warned against vandalisation of the towers and directed strict action against those involved in it. Singh said he will not tolerate the destruction of any private or public property in Punjab and let the state plunge into anarchy. He added nobody can be allowed to take the law into their hands. Singh said his government has not objected to or stopped peaceful protests in the state against the laws. He underlined damage to property and inconvenience to the citizens cannot be tolerated.Also Read: Protesting farmers gherao Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal’s cavalcade in Fatehgarh SahibSingh cited examinations and online education amid the Covid pandemic and added communication breakdown could seriously affect the future of students. He added the government has distributed 17,50,00 smartphones among class 12 students to equip them for the exams.Singh said the professionals working from home because of the pandemic could lose their jobs due to such acts of violence and damage to the telecom property. He added even banking services, which are also largely dependent on online transactions, have been hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-cellphone-connectivity-hit-as-power-to-1-561-towers-disrupted-in-punjab/story-pWMXFhiWSSMrRI8mKAbNqN.html
29-12-2020||City||Parts of J&K witness fresh snowfall, Srinagar-Jammu highway closed||There was fresh snowfall in parts of Jammu and Kashmir including in summer capital Srinagar on Tuesday, leading to the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway, officials said. Weather officials said there was fresh snowfall mostly in parts of the Pirpanjal range in Jammu and Kashmir divisions owing to a retreating western disturbance—winds blowing from the Mediterranean. “We were expecting the weather system to retreat on Monday but a part of it returned, bringing snow in Pirpanjal range affecting Jammu, south and central Kashmir ,” said meteorologist M Hussain Mir at the Srinagar-based MeT Department. He said Kishtwar, Bhaderwah, Batote and Banihal in Jammu, and Jawahar Tunnel to Srinagar in Kashmir received fresh snowfall. Also Read: Two suspects, part of nexus selling stolen goods in J&K, arrested in Noida; 16 laptops recoveredHe said Gulmarg in north Kashmir received the highest precipitation in the past two days, recording 22cm of snowfall followed by 13.4cm in Bhaderwah. “The system did not affect rest of north Kashmir, “ he said. Mir said that the weather will improve in the afternoon. “The weather will remain fine up to January 3-4 “ he said. The minimum night temperature in Srinagar was zero degree Celsius and was recorded in Gulmarg at -7.5 degrees Celsius. The temperature had dipped in the night to -1.9 degrees Celsius in Jammu’s Bhaderwah while it was -1.5 degrees Celsius in Batote and 0.4 degrees Celsius in Banihal. Jammu was relatively warmer at 3.7 degrees Celsius. Officials said traffic on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway was halted due to the snowfall. “Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was closed after fresh snowfall,” a traffic official said. The 40-day intense winter period “chillai kalan” began in Kashmir Valley on December 21 with sub-zero night temperatures across the region.This year, winter has already started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record -6.6 degree Celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and the second-coldest December night in the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parts-of-j-k-witness-fresh-snowfall-srinagar-jammu-highway-closed/story-zJrHx8HJCZjWtTFIk3ZIgK.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: A dismal year for India, but even worse for Pune||The year-ender is a period when people normally take a review of things planned during the year. The last week of the year is the first instalment of this weekly column that also takes a review of how 2020 has been for Pune. For the city and citizens, the year brought disease and death that many had never seen before. But, it also brought disaster and dearth – on a scale Pune had not seen for decades. The limitations of Pune’s health capacity were exposed by the pandemic, that claimed over 4,400 lives and affected around 1.90 lakh people. Early September, Pune district earned the distinction of reporting the highest number of progressive positive and active Covid-19 cases nationally, surpassing India’s national capital, which has blocked the slot for long. The shortage of beds, unavailability of ambulances, fleecing by hospitals through overcharging of bills, and an overall absence of coordination among government machinery, were some of the highlights patients and their relatives, helplessly watched. The woes of Punekars were not just limited to health. In the penultimate week of 2020, the Pune Metro project completed four years of its foundation laying event that saw the Prime Minister in attendance. The hope offered by leaders was to start the operations by 2021. In reality, only 50 per cent of the work has been completed as the year ends. If operations on the priority stretch –Sant Tukaram nagar to Phugewadi -have been deferred twice due to the incomplete work; the mass exodus of migrant labours during May-June, has only delayed the project that promises to be a panacea for Pune city in absence of robust mass transport. For a city with a population of 50 lakh (including that of Pimpri-Chinchwad) commuting through daily traffic jams, inferior air quality and poor roads, are daily woes no less than a punishment. All this is aggravated when the city streets flood every now and then, even with a few centimetres of rain; something Puneites meekly watch – and move on. Moving a little further – in the first week of December – the long cherished dream of Puneites suffered another setback as the government reconsidered it decision and explored another site for proposed airport at Purandar. When it all looked certain that the project is coming up at Purandar amid notification of land acquisition also issued by the government, the resistance of farmers led by local MLA Sanjay Jagtap forced the powers-that-be to look for alternate land in the same tehsil. This is now the fourth site the government is exploring for the project, which many believe, may not be a reality in their lifetime. The joke now is – for a generation which first heard of the proposed international airport in Pune two decades ago - it will always remain “proposed”. Initially, it was in the Chakan industrial belt, that the government had zeroed-in on land to develop the airport. Opposition of local farmers and entry of politicians, forced the state conduct a feasibility survey at two other sites, including the Khed Special Economic Zone. However, this option also failed to take off, because 74 per cent of this land is under the ownership of the Kalyani Group, which refused to give it up. Fed up of hurdles, the then Devendra Fadnavis government shifted the site to Purandar and obtained clearance from key authorities like Defence, Civil Aviation and Environment. When the project looked to take off, a bunch of farmers protested, putting the proposal in cold storage once again, till the current Maha Vikas Aghadi explored yet another site. This wasn’t the last woe of the year for Pune. The three ring roads, including two passing from the outer parts of the city and one inner elevated road known as the High Capacity Mass Transport (HCMTR), are only on papers. There’s no sign they will kick start even in 2021. 2021 also offers a glimmer of optimism – that a vaccine is just days away and Pune can be an early beneficiary given that it is being manufactured in the city itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-a-dismal-year-for-india-but-even-worse-for-pune/story-VcOiEJiMELewQi4NqGKpMJ.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||12 Maharashtra cities and districts record 5 or less Covid cases on Monday||At least 12 cities and districts reported five or fewer Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra on Monday amid a decline in the number of infections in the state.Gadchiroli reported five cases while Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, and Amravati four cases each. Dhule and Washim reported three cases each. Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, and Malegaon recorded two each and Sangli one.Maharashtra has been reporting fewer than 5,000 cases for the last 24 days.Also Read: Bring in the New Year at home; seniors, kids stay indoors: Maharashtra governmentOn November 28, Gadchiroli reported 31 cases, Sindhudurg 17, Ratnagiri 7, Parbhani 6, Amravati 20, Dhule 3, Washim 5, Ulhasnagar 28, Bhiwandi-Nizampur 14, Malegaon 8 and Sangli 5.Similarly, on October 28, Gadchiroli reported 122 cases, Sindhudurg 40, Ratnagiri 16, Parbhani 26, Amravati 24, Dhule 8, Washim 27, Ulhasnagar 27, Bhiwandi-Nizampur 14, Malegaon 2 and Sangli 29.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who heads the state’s Communicable Diseases Prevention Control and Technical Committee, said the situation is improving but there is no guarantee that it will remain the same. “We all have to be very cautious considering the new variant of Covid-19 found in the UK and many other countries. There is no need to panic but the surveillance needs to be ramped up and Covid-19 appropriate protocol needs to be followed.”Maharashtra recorded 2,498 Covid-19 cases, pushing the state’s count to over 1.9 million on Monday. The toll from the pandemic mounted to 49,305 with 50 fresh deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-maharashtra-cities-and-districts-record-5-or-less-covid-cases-on-monday/story-dgyuTcrIC2AT7p6TDKEuGI.html
29-12-2020||City||Chhattisgarh ready to buy Nagarnar steel plant in Bastar, if disinvested||The Chhattisgarh assembly unanimously passed a resolution on Monday backing the plans to purchase the National Mineral Development Corporation’s Nagarnar Steel Plant if the Centre disinvests it.Speaking during the discussion over the resolution, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel urged the Centre against privatising the plant. “The central government has cleared the disinvestment... First, the demerger will take place before September 2021.” Bahel said his predecessor, Raman Singh, in 2017 wrote to the Centre opposing the disinvestment citing Maoist insurgency in the state. “Singh had said that tribes have given land for the public sector unit. Even the legal advisor of the central government had suggested no for the sale.”Dharamlal Kaushik, the opposition leader in the House, said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will also raise the issue with Centre.Also Read: 50 panchayat body representatives resign over 2 BSF camps in ChhattisgarhState minister Ravindra Choubey said the land was acquired in Nagarnar for the plant and therefore people of the area had given their consent for it with a hope that it will generate indirect and direct employment. “But after knowing that the plant will be privatised, there is anger among local tribals,” he said.An official said around 2,000 people are to be employed in the plant.BJP lawmaker Ajay Chandrakar said the idea of disinvestment was introduced during the Congress’s rule at the Centre. He added during the disinvestment of Bharat Aluminium Company Limited in Korba district, then Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi had also proposed to the Centre that the state government will buy it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-ready-to-buy-nagarnar-steel-plant-in-bastar-if-disinvested/story-NONG3IDSZ7ZXKFIpc7m7qI.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records lowest temperature of the season at 15°C||Mumbaiites woke up to a chilly Tuesday morning as the temperature dipped to its lowest this season.The Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 15°C and Colaba recorded 17°C.“The fall in temperatures is mostly due to the cold northerly to northwesterly winds from the northern plains in association with the passing of a western disturbance. Some pockets in Mumbai could see a further dip in temperature,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.Also Read: Seaplane operations may resume from December 30, aircraft to arrive in Ahmedabad on TuesdayThe IMD had predicted a fall in temperatures for two or three days from Sunday. On Sunday, too, maximum temperature in the city and suburbs had dropped marginally, owing to north and northwesterly winds.Earlier, the lowest temperature recorded this season was 15.8°C on December 23. Last year, the lowest recorded temperature was 16.4°C and the year before that, 14.4°C.Meanwhile, the air quality in and around Mumbai improved slightly from poor to moderate on Monday. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator-- of 180 (moderate) was recorded. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. Safar categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-lowest-temperature-of-the-season-at-15-c/story-d0sa3PMdhEG2fd0BPt4HML.html
29-12-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: JMM-led govt completes one year in office||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren plans to announce 19 schemes worth Rs1,458 crore, lay the foundation of 11 projects online, announce a farm loan waiver, and highlight major achievements of his government as it completes the first year in office on Tuesday.The government will organise a celebration in Ranchi to mark the occasion. Ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief Shibu Soren and Congress leader RPN Singh will be the chief guests at the event, which is expected to be attended by 3,000 people.Also Read: Security forces in Jharkhand foil Maoist ambush, neutralize 22 IEDsHemant Soren on Monday met top officials, including chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, to prepare an outline of key achievements of his government and the announcements to be made on Tuesday. He is also likely to announce Fasal Rahat Yojana to waive agricultural loans up to Rs50,000 of around one million farmers. The government has made a budgetary provision of Rs2,000 crore for the purpose.“The government will also distribute job certificates, ration cards, certificates related to social delivery schemes and the Chief Minister’s Urban Employment Guarantee Programme aimed at providing 100-day jobs,” said an official.Hemant Soren is also expected to announce a scholarship scheme for 10 Scheduled Tribe aspirants annually to pursue higher studies abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-jmm-led-govt-completes-one-year-in-office/story-jLOUQMhB4DWZhm9VYml11H.html
29-12-2020||Lucknow||Sedition charges against Ayodhya students who raised ‘azaadi’ slogans dropped||The police in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya have dropped sedition charges slapped against 13 Saket PG College students there for raising “azaadi [freedom]” slogans on December 16 during a protest demanding that students’ union polls be held.“After an investigation into sedition charges, they have been dropped against students as no evidence was found to substantiate them,” said Ashutosh Mishra, Ayodhya’s Kotwali police station in charge.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Ayodhya students booked for sedition over ‘azaadi’ slogansND Pandey, the college principal, lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against the students on December 23. Mishra also lodged an FIR against six more students.The protesting students also allegedly incited three of them to kill themselves after they climbed atop the college’s rooftop. They had been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 124A (sedition), 147 (rioting), 353 (assault on public servant), 427 (causing damage to property), 506 (criminal intimidation).The college management has since announced the students’ union polls on February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sedition-charges-against-ayodhya-students-who-raised-azaadi-slogans-dropped/story-paK9DUXjWQEVmEfXeuBlaL.html
29-12-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh ordinance on interfaith marriages to be promulgated today||The Madhya Pradesh government will promulgate an ordinance to regulate interfaith marriages in the state on Tuesday after a Cabinet discussion, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday. Singh did not elaborate on the provisions of the ordinance.The ordinance is being introduced as the state assembly’s winter session was postponed and the government could not table the Madhya Pradesh Dharmik Swatantrata (Freedom of Religion) Bill on such marriages.The three-day session scheduled to be held from Monday was postponed due to the Covid-19 situation after an all-party meeting.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Allahabad HC reunites interfaith couple in EtahThe state Cabinet approved the bill on Saturday. The bill provides for up to 10 years in jail for anyone found guilty of “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to undergo religious conversion”. Under this legislation, the re-conversion to the ancestral religion will not be treated as conversion, said the draft law. It defines ancestral religion as the religion of the father of the person at the time of his birth.As per the bill, the marriages solemnised in violation of its provisions will be deemed null and void. The proposed legislation will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act. The provisions of the ordinance are likely to be the same.Home minister Narottam Mishra said the bill is different from the Uttar Pradesh government’s ordinance promulgated on the same issue on November 25. Unlike the Madhya Pradesh bill, the Uttar Pradesh ordinance does not provide for parental property rights to children of an interfaith marriage, monthly maintenance, and a Rs 50,000 fine for an inter-religion union without permission of the district magistrate. In Uttar Pradesh, the fine is Rs 25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-ordinance-on-interfaith-marriages-to-be-promulgated-today/story-nN2mLa5mKShtWmzD1UiroI.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blocked||Traffic situation at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border and at the Delhi-Noida border remained the same on Tuesday with vehicular movement remaining normal for motorists leaving Delhi but blocked for those going towards the Capital. Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continue to remain completely blocked because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said traffic moving from Delhi to Noida is smooth as usual at Chilla border, while the carriageway leading to Delhi remains blocked. Farmers also continue to block one carriageway on the Delhi-Meerut elevated expressway, while the other one for those exiting Delhi is open, he said.Also Read: Farm laws stir: Govt, farmers to resume talks on Wednesday“We are maintaining sufficient deployment of the security personnel at the border to ensure law and order,” Singh said.At the Ghazipur border, the NH-24 service lane that has been blocked by the farmers November 27 onwards, also continued to remain closed for traffic on Tuesday.Apart from the Chilla and Ghazipur borders, seven borders that continue to remain completely blocked are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh borders.The traffic police have advised people to take alternate routes to enter Delhi via Chilla, Anand Vihar, DND Flyway, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The traffic police said the currently open borders to Haryana are Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-singhu-tikri-borders-remain-completely-blocked/story-x6KQCzGLCFBX3sijVTFcnJ.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Expect cold wave, fog in Delhi in the next four days: IMD||A cold wave is expected to the national capital with moderate to dense fog in the next four days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains. On Tuesday, the Safdarjung observatory recorded the minimum temperature at 3.6 degrees Celsius. Also Read: Delhi shivers under cold wave, minimum temperature dips to 3.6° Celsius“In Delhi ,we are expecting moderate to dense fog so visibility may be under 200m in some parts of the Capital. The western disturbance which was affecting the Western Himalayas has just passed so there is moisture in the air and wind speed is also likely to reduce. Its going to be very cold also, leading to the development of fog,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Meanwhile, air quality continued to improve, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recorded at 233. Central Pollution Control Board data showed that on Monday, the overall AQI of Delhi was 253.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/expect-cold-wave-fog-in-delhi-in-the-next-four-days-imd/story-P35ybuijFw6MZWaopcoMEN.html
29-12-2020||Patna||Bihar: Mixed reactions to more villages being brought under municipal limits in Muzaffarpur||Some residents are up in arms against the state government’s move to bring six villages under the Muzaffarpur Municipal Corporation (MMC)’s jurisdiction and plan to protest against the decision.“Different types of taxes would be imposed upon us after keeping us deprived of basic civic facilities. We have seen the last rainy seasons when the entire town under MMC jurisdiction faced hardships due to heavy waterlogging. Not only this, the soaring price of the land would add to our woes. The agricultural land would be reduced due to urbanisation,” said Sunil Kumar Gupta, who led a meeting of residents against the move.Also Read: Bihar cabinet approves 111 new urban bodies, 5 more municipal corporationsSome residents have welcomed the move. Raj Kumar Thakur, a resident, said the MMC expansion was a much-awaited move that will bring more funds for the development.District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said a proposal for inclusion of the areas in the MMC was pending since 2008. “This proposal was sent to the state government in 2014. A population of 150,000 from 32 villages will be benefitted from the decision. They would be able to enjoy much better urban facilities including round-the-clock potable water, electricity, garbage clearance facilities, parks, community halls, motorable roads, and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-mixed-reactions-to-more-villages-being-brought-under-municipal-limits-in-muzaffarpur/story-n5SZX4V1WWfgk5UZdsu3jJ.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Teenager kills grandmother with hammer for not giving him money||Angry with his grandmother for not giving him money to return to his friends, a teenager in east Delhi’s Shahdara killed the 73-year-old woman with a hammer on Saturday night, left her body on a chair and then fled after stealing a few thousand rupees from her, the police said. Amit Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara), said that the teenager was nabbed on Sunday evening, but it is yet to be ascertained with documents whether or not he is an adult. The suspect lived with his parents on the second floor of their building in Shahdara. His father runs a general store in the neighborhood. His grandmother had rented out the first floor and lived alone on the ground floor. “She would receive pension as well as the rent money,” said the DCP. The teenager, meanwhile, was a college student and had borrowed thousands of rupees from his friend, but wouldn’t return much of it, the officer said. On Saturday, he was under pressure from some friends to return the money. “He quietly slid out of his flat that night. His parents thought he had gone out with his friends for the night, the way he usually did,” the officer said.But instead of going out with his friends, he walked into his grandmother’s flat and asked her to spare some money from her pension and rent amount. “When the elderly woman refused to give him any money, he picked up a hammer and struck her head of the woman who was sitting on a chair at that moment,” said the DCP. The woman died on the chair itself. Her grandson then locked her flat from the outside, picked up his scooter and left. That night, when the woman’s son tried to check on her, he found the house locked from the outside and thought she had gone to visit her son who lived in a different building in the same neighborhood. “The next morning, the teenager’s father called his brother to ask about their mother. When he got to know that she had never visited her other son, the lock outside her house was broken and her body found on the chair,” the DCP said. The police were subsequently involved. “We began by probing the role of an outsider. But the woman’s flat was locked from the outside. And the other door was locked from the inside. That made it clear that it was a friendly entry into the victim’s house,” said the officer. Since the teenager was the one missing, he was the prime suspect. “On Sunday evening, we caught him and recovered the hammer used in the murder. We have also traced his friend who he gave the money he stole from his grandmother,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teenager-kills-grandmother-with-hammer-for-not-giving-him-money/story-zLgxF8W7mZGK5Z93DYoVwK.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi shivers under cold wave, minimum temperature dips to 3.6° Celsius||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 3.6 degrees Celsius at 8.30am on Tuesday. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 5.6 degrees Celsius.Most cities and towns in northwest India recorded “poor” air quality with Delhi recording an air quality index (AQI) of 332 in “poor” category. Bhiwadi, Baghpat, Gurugram, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and others in NW India also recorded “poor” air quality. Air quality has improved compared to last week mainly due to moderate winds measuring 8 to 10 kmph across the cities, according to ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system.Under the influence of a western disturbance, there was snowfall over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Also Read: North India including Delhi braces for cold wave in run-up to New YearThere was also widespread snowfall over several parts of Western Himalayas on Sunday—Shimla 9cm; Manali 14cm; Dalhousie 22cm; Kufri 30cm; Jubbar Hati 4cm, all in Himachal Pradesh. Snowfall was also reported from Chakrata in Uttarakhand. Ground frost was reported from Mukteshwar, Mori-10mm; Tyuni/Purola-7mm.After the WD passes, under the influence of the consequent strengthening of cold and dry north-westerly or northerly lower-level wind, a fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius is likely over northwest India during next three days from December 29 to 31 and a slight rise of about 2 to 3 degrees Celsius is likely thereafter.“Cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely in some pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and north Rajasthan during December 28 to 30 and “cold wave” conditions are likely in pockets over these regions on December 31 and January 1. “Cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely over Uttar Pradesh and isolated parts of Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha during December 30 and 31.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains.Dense to very dense fog with visibility under 50 metres is likely in some parts of northwest India on December 30 and New Year’s Eve. IMD in its impact-based bulletin released on Tuesday said dense to very dense fog is likely over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, northwest Uttar Pradesh on December 30, 31 and January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-shivers-as-minimum-temperature-dips-to-4-4-degrees-celsius-today/story-PBq2GSzZQwjUrjO2kmPKLM.html
29-12-2020||City||Protesting farmers gherao Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal’s cavalcade in Fatehgarh Sahib||Protesting farmers on Monday gheraoed the cavalcade of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal at the Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib where he had gone to pay obeisance to commemorate the martyrdom of two younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Sikh master. The security personnel had a tough time controlling the crowd that raised slogans against Sukhbir and his party besides showing him black flags over the farm laws passed by central government.  The police secured an alternative route for Badal’s motorcade to leave the area. Later, SAD district (rural) president Jagdeep Cheema tried to pacify the protesters who manhandled him. “We have come from Delhi and are boycotting political parties for not standing with the farmers over the agriculture laws,” said one of the protesters.Earlier, addressing a press conference, Sukhbir said the BJP betrayed its alliance partners by coming up with anti-farmer laws.“The people of Punjab will give a befitting reply to it. The Akali Dal is with the farmers of the state and will fight of their rights. More than 50 farmers have lost their lives during the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders,” he said.SAD had quit the BJP-led ruling alliance at the Centre in protest against the farm laws and has extended support to the agitating farmers. But the farmers alleged that the SAD and its erstwhile ally BJP have cheated the farmers of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-farmers-gherao-akali-dal-chief-sukhbir-badal-s-cavalcade-in-fatehgarh-sahib/story-jfyV43REO0zrhwtSSVnMBK.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The sound of music||Every morning, they are woken up by the music — and this is true on this chilly morning too, while pop star Honey Singh’s dated Punjabi hit is being played. Rag picker Salman and his wife Ruhana Begum are listening in. So is beggar Chand with his cousin Bablu. So is a woman, a bit farther, while washing some clothes in a bucket. And so are the kids playing around.They all live here, on this vast plaza located near central Delhi’s Subhash Park, with little camps of plastic or canvas by way of homes.But Muhammed Sameer, the owner of the “music deck”, doesn’t live here. “I have a house nearby, but I like coming here in the morning to play the deck music and listen to it with my friends.”Most of his friend here on the plaza work as beggars or rag pickers, he says. This morning, some of them have gathered with Mr Sameer about a little fire concocted from a pile of wood. In his 20s, Mr Sameer has a more professional use of his music system. He uses it in the chhole bhathure stall where he plays popular film songs. Intermittently, Mr Sameer’s recorded voice interjects through the songs, inviting passersby to try his dishes. In the summer, he sells rose sherbet.“Earlier, the speaker ran on a battery that would discharge within one hour only.” The outraged tone of his voice implies that it certainly didn’t do. So, he adds serenely, he has fitted the music system with a better battery, and “if I want, I now can listen to the music for two days nonstop.”The music system obviously commands a position of authority and reverence in the plaza. It is placed on a low table, slightly elevated from the plaza’s floor, looking like a stage. “I always sit beside the deck,” says Mr Sameer, pointing at the canopied bed on which he is sitting. He then explains that most people of the plaza have no mobile, nor TV, and that this morning music is their main source of entertainment while getting ready for the day. Pappu Bhai, a beggar sitting nearby, nods.Now Mr Sameer plays a song from an old Rajesh Khanna film. A lady who was warming her hands over a pot of boiling milk some distance away turns to look towards the “deck”, fascinated. While a majority of dwellers in the plaza are still in the process of getting up—the sun is barely rising—the music is so loud and pervasive that it appears to be part of the very texture of the air.Soon afterwards, Mr Sameer will leave to set up his stall and the plaza will be stripped of its music. Until tomorrow morning, that is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-sound-of-music/story-8y0aR8bLbwgtvgIeuTubIO.html
29-12-2020||City||Calendar row looms on Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th birth anniversary celebrations with different dates||The long-standing controversy over the Sikh calendar is all set to loom over ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th birth anniversary celebrations scheduled next year. While the event is being planned on a large scale by the Punjab government and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the Sikh community is divided over the issue of calendar. Whereas a section follows the original Nanakshahi calendar, the others observe the days as per its modified version. As per the original version, April 18 is the date of the birth anniversary while it varies every year as per the modified version which is basically existing Bikrami calendar. According to it, the anniversary falls on May 1, with a gap of 13 days between the two dates. Last year, the gap was only of five days.As the Akal Takht, the SGPC and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) recognise the modified version, the 400th birth anniversary will be celebrated on May 1 in major historic gurdwaras. On the other hand, most of the gurdwara managements abroad, including the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC), will mark the event as the date is as per the original version which they term a symbol of the distinct identity of the Sikh religion.Over this controversy, the SGPC and DSGMC always pass the ball in the court of the Takht, this highest temporal seat of Sikhism. However, Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh is silent over the issue. Former Takht Damdama Sahib jathedar Giani Kewal Singh, convener of Panthic Talmel Sangathan, an umbrella body of small Sikh outfits, said, “The SGPC president should come forward to re-implement the original Nanakshahi calendar as she took stand in its support during her previous tenure.” A similar controversy erupted during the celebrations of the 351st birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10nth Sikh master, in 2017, when Gurpurb, as per Bikrami or modified Nanakshahi calendar, fell on December 25, coinciding with the sombre occasion of martyrdom anniversaries of his family members. Thus an appeal was made by the Sikh bodies for extending the date of the birth anniversary celebrations to January 5, the date fixed for Gurpurb in the original version.The original version was introduced by the SGPC in 2003. However, SGPC rolled it back under pressure from Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa-led Sant Samaj, which was in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) during the gurdwara committee polls, in 2010. Citing amendments, the original version was replaced with the new one which was modified as per the Bikrami calendar, but its nomenclature ‘Nanaksahi calendar’ was not changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/calendar-controversy-looms-on-guru-tegh-bahadur-s-400th-birth-anniversary-celebrations-with-different-dates/story-5IhH15qZFggluJHjMejNEL.html
29-12-2020||City||Coronavirus vaccination dry run starts in Punjab with registration of 300 beneficiaries||The two-day dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination rollout began in Punjab’s Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts on Monday with the successful registration of 300 beneficiaries on the central government’s Co-WIN application, the online portal for monitoring the real-time vaccine delivery. There was no vaccine involved in the mock drill process, which only aimed at checking the feasibility of the programme involving monitoring through the app. Besides Punjab, the dry run started in Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat keeping in view their geographical locations. “Seven locations in Ludhiana and five in SBS Nagar were selected in Punjab for the dry run due to the spread of the virus in these districts. On the first day, 25 beneficiaries were called to each site to make data entry on the app,” said Punjab Covid-19 Punjab nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. The data of 300 beneficiaries was entered on the portal with all of them receiving messages on their mobile phones about the successful registration. “They will visit their assigned sites for online verification on Tuesday. Once they get shots, their details will be uploaded on the app to avoid any miss or repetition,” the nodal officer said. “The dry run exercise is to assess the entire vaccination process as how it will reach the end-user through our cold chains. Through it, we will identify the challenges and shortcomings,” he added. Besides, the state health department has claimed its readiness for vaccine transportation and storage. “We can store over 1 crore doses in our state-level vaccine store in Chandigarh and three regional stores in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur. Besides, the state has 729 cold chain points, 1,165 ice-lined refrigerators and 1,079 deep freezers to ensure the proper storage of the doses. Also, we are equipped with vaccine vans to transport the doses in each district safely”, Dr Bhaskar added. The state government is expecting to receive shots initially for nearly 1.5 lakh health workers (government as well as private) who have got registered for getting the vaccine in the first phase. About 4,000 vaccinators are being trained for the vaccine rollout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaccination-dry-run-starts-in-punjab-with-registration-of-300-beneficiaries/story-L1b5agIhL4RAaBO7JCAawK.html
29-12-2020||City||23-year-old Delhi man lynched over business rivalry; 2 held||A 23-year-old man was beaten to death with iron rods by two assailants in Ankur Vihar area of Loni in Ghaziabad on Monday morning, police said.Two different video clips of the incident that were widely shared on social media shows passersby recording the attack on their phones as the assailants beat the victim mercilessly. The cops said the attackers, who were arrested later in the evening, held a grudge that the flower shop of the victim outside a temple in Loni was doing well while their business had slowed down.Police said the victim, Ajay Kumar, and the assailants, Govind Sharma, 21, and his friend, Amit Kumar, 22, lived in southeast Delhi’s Sarita Vihar. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja said Govind planned the murder with his friend. “Govind had been selling flowers outside the Loni temple for the past several years. However, his business was affected after the Ajay opened his shop there eight months ago,” said SP Raja while explaining the motive behind the crime.Police said the incident took place when Ajay boarded an auto to return home after closing his shop. The suspects pulled him out and started beating him with iron rods, investigators said. “They kept on hitting him for about 3-4 minutes. Passersby recorded videos of the incident but did not help the victim. Soon after getting the information, the police rushed to the spot and took the victim to a hospital where he succumbed to critical head injuries,” the SP said.Based on police complaint by the victim’s family on Monday, an FIR was registered against the two suspects under IPC section 302 (murder) with 34 (common intention). Police said that they will also add section 120b (criminal conspiracy) as the murder was planned. “We have also recovered the two iron rods from the suspects,” SP Raja said.Meanwhile, another video allegedly related to victim’s brother, Sanjay Kumar, also surfaced on the social media on Monday. It purportedly shows Govind stabbing Sanjay at the shop.“With regards to the old video of a stabbing incident in April, we have informed senior officers and an inquiry is going on against the local police-post officers to find if they had shown any laxity. I have been informed that the two parties had then reached a compromise and gave it in writing to the police. I have directed officials to find the compromise letter and details of the previous case,” the SP said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-beaten-to-death-in-ghaziabad/story-0svukUTvMpEeypB01OwOgK.html
29-12-2020||City||More than 1,200 children drop out of government primary schools in Punjab this year||At least 1,200 children have dropped out of government primary schools in Punjab this year before completing their elementary education, a survey has revealed. The door-to-door survey was conducted by the state school education department for tracking down such school children in December to bring them back into the mainstream education.Ludhiana district topped the chart with the highest number of dropouts at 395, followed by Jalandhar (239), Bathinda (190), Fatehgarh Sahib (105) and Hoshiarpur (103). The teachers who conducted the survey said most of these children did not take admission in the current academic session to continue their elementary education to join the workforce along with their parents as they come from marginalised sections or belong to migrant families. A senior education department official said, “The aim of this survey was to find out of school children up to 14 years. The government needs to set up boarding schools with hostels and food facilities for such children to get their studies resumed.” Amarjeet Singh, district education officer (elementary education), Patiala, said, “Most of the dropouts live in slums. Therefore, we visited such places and motivated the children and their parents to bring them back to schools. Also, teachers even took their class in the slum areas to check their learning level.”“However, the number of out-of-school children in Punjab declined this time against 3,205 last year as we have already admitted such children at schools,” he added. When contacted, director public instructions (DPI, elementary education) Lalit Kishore Ghai said, “The director of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) is the right person to speak on the matter.”Also, SCERT director Jagtar Singh refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-1-200-children-drop-out-of-government-primary-schools-in-punjab-this-year/story-RmQMkA1IbpcXwyxQOaM39I.html
29-12-2020||City||New halt station between Ambernath, Badlapur gets railway ministry nod||The railway ministry on Monday approved a new halt station between Ambernath and Badlapur stations on Central Railway (CR). The new station Chikhloli, which is expected to be completed in 2023, will initially operate as a halt station for long-distance trains, though it may later be converted to a suburban station. According to railway authorities, after examining the passenger count, the railways will decide on making the new station a suburban local train station. “Initially stations are introduced as halt stations [for technical halts or halts for long-distance trains], but when the passenger demand increases, the station is operated as a suburban railway station,” said a senior CR official. The construction work of Chikhloli railway station, which is expected to cost Rs10,947 crore, will be undertaken by the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC). The project is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP)-3A. Land assessment and joint measurement surveys for the new station were conducted recently by the railway and civic authorities. Chikhloli’s construction will be carried out under the construction work of the third and fourth railway lines between Kalyan and Badlapur stations. Passenger associations have welcomed the move and have asked the railway authorities to introduce the station as a fully functional suburban station. “There has been a demand for the station for over 10 years. The station will reduce overcrowding from Badlapur as the distance between Badlapur and Ambernath is long. The station should not be introduced as a halt station but must directly be opened as a suburban railway station,” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-halt-station-between-ambernath-badlapur-gets-railway-ministry-nod/story-5eP4CD5F4ALuFSe29JySlK.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Bring in the New Year at home; seniors, kids stay indoors: Maharashtra government||Amid the fear of a new strain of the virus causing Covid-19, the state government on Monday issued an advisory urging citizens to stay at home on December 31 and January 1. Prohibiting cultural and religious programmes, the government has asked people to refrain from bursting firecrackers and avoid crowding at public places like Gateway of India and chowpatties. The guidelines issued by the home department said: “Though there will be no curfew on December 31 throughout the day, people are advised not to venture out of their houses and celebrate the New Year at home. They are expected not to gather at sea shores, gardens and on roads in large numbers. They should also maintain social distancing and wear masks at public places.” “In the backdrop of pandemic, citizens above 60 years and children below 10 years should refrain from stepping out of their houses. No religious and cultural programmes and rallies can be organised. On the first day of the year, many people tend to visit religious places where they are expected to maintain social distancing and follow Covid-19 appropriate protocols,” added the circular. The state has advised citizens to take care of their health and follow Covid-19 protocol while ringing in the New Year. The guidelines have clarified that other directives issued by the local and state authorities will continue to be in place. The government has already imposed a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 till January 5 in the jurisdiction of 27 municipal corporations and empowered the district collectors to impose similar restrictions if they deem fit to contain the Covid-19 spread. This has effectively imposed restrictions on New Year parties and celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bring-in-the-new-year-at-home-seniors-kids-stay-indoors-maharashtra-government/story-Hl4VFHou1zTBeetXekQkPN.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body turns to corporators for help in finding volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trial||Owing to the low turnout for conducting clinical trials of the indigenous vaccine, Covaxin by Bharat Biotech- the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now turned to corporators for help.According to BMC officials, they are seeking help from elected representatives to get volunteers from their respective areas who are ready to undergo trial for India’s Covid-19 vaccine. The BMC has got only around 137 volunteers till now, even as two Mumbai hospitals, Sir JJ Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital) are going to conduct trails on 2,000 volunteers.Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital said, “We are taking help from all possible resources to get maximum volunteers for the trial. We are also taking help from corporators for getting in more volunteers.”Joshi added, “There is nothing like there is no response or low response. Citizens are coming ahead, but not all are eligible to undergo a trial. There are certain tests we conduct before the ethics committee approves them as a volunteer. Till now, around 137 volunteers already have been shortlisted.”The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in October 2020, had selected two hospitals – the Sion hospital and Sir JJ Hospital for the pan-Indian clinical trial of Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.According to ICMR, 2,000 volunteers in the age group of 18-60 have to be a part of the trial. By December 31, the hospitals were supposed to complete the selection process. However, with insufficient numbers, the process of shortlisting is going to take more time, civic officials said.Apart from Sion hospital that has around 137 volunteers, JJ hospital has also shortlisted around 370 volunteers for the same. Other two civic-run hospitals namely Nair and KEM Hospitals are also conducting stage three trial runs for Covid-19 vaccine, developed by Serum Institute of India along with Oxford University.Meanwhile, Nehal Shah a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Matunga said, “The BMC should optimise the use of its resources to get volunteers for vaccine trials. It should give targets to corporators from each ward to get a given number of volunteers for vaccine trials. The civic body should also use social media widely to ensure proper publicity of the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-turns-to-corporators-for-help-in-finding-volunteers-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial/story-arPLsEIh6LuacMkufL64eI.html
29-12-2020||City||At 20, Ludhiana sees lowest single-day Covid count since June||With just 20 fresh Covid infections, Ludhiana on Monday saw its lowest single-day count since June 27 when 18 cases were reported. One patient also succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The deceased is a 78-year-old male from Daba colony.In the previous few months, the lowest single-day count was witnessed on October 26 when 24 positive cases were reported. Taking into account the number of cases reported on Monday, the total count of positive cases in the district has gone up to 24, 669. So far, 959 patients have succumbed to the virus while 23, 343 patients have recovered. The district currently has 364 active cases, with a recovery rate of 94.6%.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said that 1, 361 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Monday and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-20-ludhiana-sees-lowest-single-day-infection-since-june/story-fpUJ141aEwoGFNo7loo0tM.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Seaplane operations may resume from December 30, aircraft to arrive in Ahmedabad on Tuesday||The much-talked-about seaplane service that was halted since November 26 due to technical reasons is expected to resume operations from December 30.In a statement shared with HT, SpiceJet on December 18 had announced that it would resume its seaplane operations between Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati Riverfront and Kevadia’s Statue of Unity from December 27, with two daily flights on the route. However, in a subsequent statement, the airline postponed the date of resumption of services.HT has learnt that the aircraft is yet to arrive at Ahmedabad from the Maldives, where it had to be flown for maintenance work. Top ministry sources said that the seaplane landed in Kochi around 11.30am on Monday and is expected to land in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. “The aircraft that landed in Kochi on Monday morning will continue its halt overnight and only take off for Goa on Tuesday morning. It has received landing permissions and it will arrive in Goa at 11.30am for refueling. It will then depart for Ahemdabad around 2.30pm,” said the source.SpiceJet spokesperson confirmed that the aircraft landed in the country. “SpiceJet’s seaplane has arrived in India today (Monday) morning,” the spokesperson said. The airlines, in a statement issued to a publication in Ahmedabad, insisted that the date of resumption of seaplane services would be December 30. “As clarified through a subsequent press statement, we had clearly stated that our seaplane operations would resume on December 30, for which bookings are already open,” said the spokesperson on Monday. The seaplane service commenced on October 31 after being inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was planned to boost tourism to the Statue of Unity. However, the services were shut since November 26 due to maintenance issues.The aircraft – a 19-seater Twin Otter 300 – was sent back to the Maldives as it is the property of a Maldivian company, said sources in the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA). It is the first seaplane to operate under the government’s Udey Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) project. The service is being operated by Spice Shuttle, a fully-owned subsidiary of SpiceJet, which wet-leased the seaplane from Maldives Island Aviation Services (MIAS). MIAS is owned by the government of Maldives, making both the aircraft and its crew the property of a foreign entity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seaplane-operations-may-resume-from-december-30-aircraft-to-arrive-in-ahmedabad-on-tuesday/story-D5vZ8dVrypTIQ4p3q9duBM.html
29-12-2020||City||Mumbai Congress vows to go solo in civic body polls||Days after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, comprising his Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), will contest all the civic polls unitedly, the Mumbai unit of the Congress vowed to contest the upcoming municipal corporation independently. The party also reiterated its disapproval of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s criticism of the Congress leadership and call for a need of change in the leadership of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). On the occasion of the party’s foundation day, newly appointed Mumbai Congress chief Ashok Jagtap and working president Charan Singh Sapra took charge at a function organised at YB Chavan centre on Monday. The function was attended by party’s state in-charge HB Patil, Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, state ministers Ashok Chavan, Aslam Shaikh and Varsha Gaikwad as well as city unit’s newly appointed manifesto committee chief Suresh Shetty, campaign committee chief Arif Naseem Khan, coordination committee chief Amarjeet Singh Manhas and other senior leaders. Most of the Mumbai leaders have thrusted upon contesting all the 227 wards in the city independently, without joining hands with Sena and NCP. Jagtap said the party needs to fight solo to give justice to the aspirations of its workers by giving them an opportunity to contest the civic polls. “They are the foot soldiers in Assembly and Parliament elections and ensure that party candidate wins. If they aspire to contest the civic polls, it would be wrong to limit the aspiration. I would request the party leadership to allow us to contest in all wards,” he said. Thorat said it is the time to give BMC a Congress mayor. “The party has capacity to elect its mayor in Mumbai if the elections are fought unitedly. We will leave no stone unturned to achieve this,” he said. Echoing his sentiment, Khan said, “All the party workers in the city want to fight the BMC polls independently and elect our mayor in Mumbai.” The leaders of the party’s Mumbai unit are wary that they may get fewer seats to contest on if the polls are fought in alliance with Sena and NCP. “Also, our traditional vote banks of Muslim and north Indian voters will deviate if we join hands with Sena. It will indirectly benefit the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party),” said a leader from the city unit. Patil, too, assured the unit that the decision to go solo or with allies will be taken only after taking local leaders into confidence. “There will be no final decision taken by the central leadership without consulting the leadership of the Mumbai unit,” he said. He also took a dig at Raut for attacking the Congress leadership. “Leaders or parties that are not part of UPA have no business to speak about the alliance,” he said. Raut had recently raised questions over the leadership of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and had also expressed the need for the change of guard in UPA leadership. Chavan said the state government exists only because of the Congress support, while Khan claimed that his party joined hands with Sena and NCP to keep BJP away from power, and it will operate on the basis of common minimum programme (CMP). “It is the responsibility of all the coalition partners to run the government and it should be based only on CMP. It was decided while forming the government that ruling parties will not weaken each other. Despite this, our corporators are poached [referring to NCP’s induction of 18 Congress corporators in Bhiwandi]. Now it is the responsibility of CM to ensure that ruling parties do not indulge in poaching each other’s leaders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-congress-vows-to-go-solo-in-civic-body-polls/story-dA9HoBJKays1kuC6gCWgyH.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid -19 case count now 1,922,048; active cases reduce to below 3%||With fewer cases recorded over the last few weeks, the number of active cases has reduced to 57,159 with their percentage against total cases dipping to 2.97%.Maharashtra recorded 2,498 cases on Monday, pushing the case count to 19,22,048.With 50 new casualties, the state toll reached 49,305. Of them, 22 occurred in the last 48 hours, five in the last week and the rest 23 deaths are from the period before last week, the health officials said.Maharashtra has been reporting fewer than 5,000 cases for the last 24 days. A comparison with the last two months shows an improvement as the average per day cases of this month has come down to below 4,000. In the last 28 days, it has reduced to 3,950 cases from 4,781 cases in November and 9,909 cases in October in the corresponding period.Health experts insisted upon ramping up surveillance in the wake of a mutant of Covid-19 discovered in the United Kingdom and many other countries, which is believed to be 70% more transmissible than the original strain.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state said that there is no need to panic but the surveillance needs to be ramped up as the virus is mutating but there are no major genome changes found in the state till date. He also said there is no need to change treatment protocol as of now.“The virus is changing. It is doing this even in Maharashtra but fortunately whatever changes took place have not resulted in a major change in virulence or its transmission capacity. We have not found any major genome changes in the virus till date but no one can guarantee that it won’t happen in the coming days,” Dr Salunkhe said.“Even in the UK, where the new variant was discovered, no change in treatment protocol has been made. Thus, there is no need to change it here even if it is detected. In the UK it was found in September and has already travelled to many countries in the last four months which means it is likely to be detected in the state hence we need to be very cautious,” he added.The public health expert also expressed his unhappiness over weak health infrastructure and facilities across the state and the country. “The major shortcoming we are facing is the inadequate number of virological laboratories having facilities for genome studies. It is because health infrastructure is being neglected by the central government in all these years. Only five laboratories in the country have the facility of genome study whereas we should have developed two to three virological study laboratories in every state. The public health capacity including viral diagnostic capacity in public as well as the private sector is too less and we feel ashamed about it,” Dr Salunkhe commented.Showing a decline, Mumbai has clocked 557 cases on Monday, taking the case count to 2,91,471. Of them, active cases are 8,862. There were 12 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 11,088.Nagpur city contributed the second-highest number of infections in the daily caseload and recorded 290 cases. Their tally reached 110,491.Pune city recorded 154 cases, third-highest number of cases. Its case count stood at 1,90,338.The state has completed a total 1,25,43,772 Covid tests with 41,218 tests conducted on Monday. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.32%.The number of recovered patients reached 18,14,449 with 4,501 recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 94.4%.The state government has already imposed a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 till January 5 in all the major cities (municipal corporation areas) across the state, effectively meaning restrictions on new year parties and functions considering a mutation of Sar-CoV-2, which is believed to spread faster than all its previous strains. It has also empowered the district collectors to impose night curfew to contain the Covid-19 spread, with prior approval from the state government.It has urged the citizens to stay at home while welcoming the new year on December 31 and January 1 and avoid crowding at public places especially at seashores, gardens and on roads. It has also started keeping all the travellers coming from Europe, Middle-East and South Africa in compulsory paid institutional quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-count-now-1-922-048-active-cases-reduce-to-below-3/story-IIuJ67g1jiekMsyo5bWNIO.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Teachers’ body approaches UGC for postponement of first-year degree college exams in Mumbai||After repeated attempts to draw the attention of the University of Mumbai (MU) authorities over exam dates, the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) has now approached the University Grants Commission (UGC) in the matter. This move follows a series of letters written to the MU vice-chancellor to point out that first-year degree college exams have been scheduled without complying with the mandatory 90-day working rule of the UGC.“Due to Covid-19, admissions to the first-year batches were delayed and most colleges managed to start regular lectures only by October, despite the university failing to share an official date of commencement of classes for the batch. As a result, online lectures for first-year batches started in a non-uniform manner,” reads the letter submitted by BUCTU. It further states that this has left the first-year batch in a tough spot as many are struggling to cope up with the study portion in order to be prepared for the upcoming exams.As per MU’s November-18 circular, affiliated colleges are supposed to hold online exams for the current batches of undergraduate courses by December, while post-graduate exams should be conducted in January 2021. However, in the first week of December, the varsity released a clarification that all affiliated colleges should complete examinations for their first-year batches by January 9, 2021.Despite repeated letters to the university vice-chancellor, BUCTU received no response in this matter. “Keeping in mind the welfare of students, we request the UGC to direct MU to confirm with the stipulated 90-day teaching rule, and postpone exams until the last week of January 2021,” added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-body-approaches-ugc-for-postponement-of-first-year-degree-college-exams-in-mumbai/story-Tjeo0jEoeVbOqaZIN4cD0O.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Statements under section 67 of NDPS Act not admissible as evidence: Bombay HC grants bail to two||The Bombay high court (HC) recently granted bail to two persons who were booked and arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in April 2018 based on statements by two other accused, who later retracted their statements. The court held that statements recorded under section 67 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 were not admissible and as the bank statements and call records did not confirm the role of the two in the syndicate as alleged by the NCB. The court hence granted them bail. Section 67 of the NDPS Act states that any authorised officer may, during any inquiry, may call for information from any person to satisfy himself whether there has been any contravention of the provisions of the Act.The single bench of justice Prakash D Naik, while hearing bail applications of Shashikant Prabhu and Harshad Gawde, was informed by advocates Rajendra Shahasane and Vinay Nair that the evidence recorded under section 67 of the NDPS Act was not admissible in the court as evidence. They further submitted that the statements under the said section had been retracted by the other co-accused, and as there was no corroborative evidence, the two should be granted bail. The advocates submitted that the bail applications of their clients had been rejected by the special court in December and October 2018, respectively.The first three accused had been arrested in March 2018 by the NCB, and recovery of 4kg of hashish was made from them. While recording the statements of the three accused under section 67 of the NDPS Act, the names of the current applicants came up. While Prabhu was arrested for selling drugs, Gawde was arrested for running the business of buying, selling and procuring drugs on behalf of accused No 2, who owned a restaurant.However, the special public prosecutor for NCB opposed the applications and submitted that the offences were of a serious nature and the applicants were part of the drug syndicate that trafficked hashish and other drugs since 2017. He also submitted that there was evidence in the form of bank transactions between Gawde and accused No 2, and call records between Prabhu and accused No 2.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “Prima facie, there is nothing to indicate that the amount was relating to sale or procurement of the drug. No other incriminating evidence to show involvement of the applicants is on record. There is no recovery from the applicants.” The court also referred to the October 2020 Supreme Court judgement in the Tofan Singh vs state of Tamil Nadu case wherein the Apex court had held that the statement under section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be relied upon. “In any case, there is no corroborative evidence to substantiate the averment in the statements of the accused. Hence, the embargo under section 37 of the NDPS Act would not cause impediment for granting bail to the applicants,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/statements-under-section-67-of-ndps-act-not-admissible-as-evidence-bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-two/story-lAk0VcHKgosCGEnHyriVXJ.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two arrested for setting Charkop temple on fire||The Charkop police have arrested two persons including a minor in connection with the Sunday morning fire at Saibaba Temple at Charkop, that resulted in the death of three persons.Police said the fire was not caused due to electric short-circuit, but it was mischief committed by the two arrested accused. Police said the accused sprinkled petrol and set the temple on fire, to kill two of the three deceased, who were sleeping in the temple - Subhash Khode and Yuvraj Pawar- to settle their scores with them.Bhavesh Chandurkar, 20, is one of the arrested accused, whereas the other one is a minor. Both live in the vicinity of the Saibaba Temple at Bandar Pakhadi road, in Charkop, Kandivli (West). Chandurkar works as an office boy.The incident took place around 4.14am when the victims Subhash Khode, 26, Yuvraj Pawar, 27, and Mannu Radheshyam Gupta, 26, were asleep. The fire spread so fast that they could not escape and received 90 to 95% burn injuries. All of them were rushed to Shatabdi Hospital. Khode and Pawar died at the hospital, while Gupta was later shifted to Sion hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, on Sunday afternoon, said an officer.Locals informed the fire brigade. Police said Khode and Pawar took shelter often in the temple, while Gupta slept at the temple for the first time, the officer added.After questioning several people in the area, the Charkop police learnt that deceased Khode and Pawar had fought with Chandurkar two days ago. Khode and Pawar had assaulted him. Both had beaten Chandurkar, two years ago, added the officer.Fed up with the regular harassment by Khode and Pawar, Chandurkar decided to teach them a lesson and saw them sleeping in the temple. He removed five litres of petrol from his vehicle and poured inside the temple on Sunday, and set it afire. He also sustained burn injury on his hand while setting the temple on fire, said additional commissioner of police, Dilip Sawant of the North region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-arrested-for-setting-charkop-temple-on-fire/story-qVUNI4qw4iJ6ENlNKWe08L.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||FYJC special list: Cut-offs for arts, science seats across Mumbai see a dip||Cut-offs for the science and arts streams saw a substantial dip in the special merit list for junior college admissions which was declared on Monday evening. Prominent colleges saw a dip of 16 and 11 percentage points for the two streams respectively, as compared to that of the third merit list which came out on December 15. Of the 68,178 students who had applied for seats under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the special round, 59,322 were allotted colleges on Monday. As per the rules laid down by the state education department, every student who wanted to participate in the round had to give consent through the portal which would ensure that students who have secured admissions elsewhere are not allotted seats again. Principals said that this might be a key reason for the dip in cut-offs, especially in the science stream. “Many students who had secured admissions in diploma programmes or other courses might not have withdrawn from the admission portal, thus leading to higher cut-offs in the three rounds. With the fresh consent, these names would have dropped leading to a dip in the cut-offs,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college. Especially in minority colleges, the cut-offs went down across streams, with vacant seats under the minority quota being surrendered for other students. As per the data shared by the education department, after the third admission round, nearly 62,000 seats were vacant in the three quotas, with the highest being from the minority quota – nearly 42,000. Overall, nearly 1.85 lakh seats remained vacant after admissions to the round concluded. With the state government’s decision to extend the economically weaker section (EWS) quota to students from the Maratha community, such students were allowed to change their quota preference from socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) to EWS or general category for the special round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-special-list-cut-offs-for-arts-science-seats-across-mumbai-see-a-dip/story-DNL6Mnnz79zgG2vDHjQplM.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Putting Mumbai’s 30 dangerous spots on the road to safety||The 30 most deadly junctions and roads in the city that have claimed 501 lives and caused serious injuries to 1,172 people in the past three years are now being studied in detail by the authorities, and efforts are being made to make commute at these spots safer.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), traffic police and Bloomberg Philanthropies Initiative for Global Road Safety (BIGRS) along with World Resources Institute (WRI) are preparing designs to change infrastructure of these junctions and roads and alter the black spots to reduce the fatal accidents and road mishaps to a great extent.According to a report released by Bloomberg and the traffic police, between 2017 and 2019, pedestrians in the 30-59 age group were the most vulnerable accident victims, followed by motorcyclists. In 2019, pedestrians and motorcyclists accounted for 90% of the total deaths and 83% of the injuries owing to accidents at these 30 junctions, the report stated.The traffic police also released a report on road crash deaths for for January-August 2020. During this period, the city recorded 172 fatalities, of which 47% victims were pedestrians.Experts analysing the black spots said Amar Mahal junction in Ghatkopar was found to be the most dangerous intersection where had 25 people died and 40 others were seriously injured between 2017 and 2019. Majority of the victims were pedestrians. The second highest number of accidents took place at Godrej Junction in Vikhroli, which had claimed the lives of 18 people.Minute study of the data revealed that of the 15 junctions and 15 road stretches spread over 184 kilometres, the maximum (210) deaths took place on roads and junctions in zone 4 (areas covering Sion, Matunga, Wadala TT, Antop Hill, Bhoiwada and Kalachowkie). Zone 10 (stretch from Kherwadi in Bandra East to Andheri East, mostly covering the Western Express Highway) witnessed the second highest number of deaths, as 18 pedestrians died in 2019. The accidents on these two stretches claimed the lives of 183 motorcyclists and 45 four-wheeler drivers and passengers. “The efforts we’ve taken over the years have led to a decline in accidents and deaths by 27% in 2019 as compared to 2015. We’ll continue working to bringing down the loss of lives by studying the pattern of road crashes and suggesting ways to curb them,” said Yashasvi Yadav, joint commissioner of police (traffic).Dr Sara Whitehead, public health and preventive medicine consultant of Vital Strategies, a partner of BIGRS, said, “The continuous decrease in road traffic deaths from 2015 to 2019 is an impressive testament to the hard work done by city officials and the police in Mumbai. But too many Mumbaiites are still at a risk of injury or death merely while walking on the streets. The data from reports point the way to where and how to prevent these needless mishaps.”Experts said more number of deaths and injuries took place on weekdays during peak hours — between 7pm and 9pm. On weekends, the must number of accidents took place between 10pm and 11pm. “Due to high density of traffic in peak hours, the risk of accidents increases,” said Yadav. After the data was released, WRI conducted a road safety inspection of these sites to understand the risks associated with every road. “Based on our assessment, we have suggested detailed design recommendations that can improve safety,” said Dhaval Ashar, senior manager of WRI. Some recommendations include improving pedestrian accessibility at the locations, streamlining traffic movement, traffic calming and improving pedestrian visibility. Ashar said if the authorities design the streets and intersections it will not only improve safety, but also help vehicular efficiency as each pedestrian and motorist will have a well-defined space to traverse. Pointing out an example, he said in 2016, WRI in partnership with BMC and the traffic police had carried out safety improvement on the HP petrol pump intersection in Bandra. The trial was carried out using temporary installations such as traffic barricades, cones and paint. The objective was to monitor operations during the trial period to make the case for permanent implementation. The larger objective was to create a scale-up plan for all high-risk intersections by documenting typical challenges and developing a toolkit with a template of standard solutions.Following the example set by HP junction, the experts are now working out plans to improve the deadly 30 spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/putting-mumbai-s-30-dangerous-spots-on-the-road-to-safety/story-3fGf6YqBeqctJP2XluY2hI.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 measures lead to dip in seasonal ailments in Mumbai||Cases of monsoon-related illnesses and swine flu have dropped by over 50% this year compared to 2019, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Officials attribute the dip to restricted movement during the lockdown and preventive measures taken by the civic body.As per data from the BMC, a total of 8,020 people have been diagnosed with malaria, dengue, leptospirosis, hepatitis, gastroenteritis and swine flu this year (till December 20) in the city. In 2019, there were 15,328 cases of these seasonal ailments. Till December 20, the city has recorded 237 cases of leptospirosis; 128 cases of dengue; 2,478 cases of gastroenteritis; and 259 cases of hepatitis. Last year, there were 281 cases of leptospirosis; 920 cases of dengue; 7,785 cases of gastroenteritis; and 1,534 cases of hepatitis. There has been a dramatic fall in swine flu incidence in the city, with 44 cases this year till December 20 compared to 451 last year.Civic officials from the health department said the marked drop in numbers may be due to people remaining indoors due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“People didn’t step out much because of lockdown restrictions, which has helped to control the risk of exposing them to potential mosquito breeding sites,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The civic body also said it carried out extensive sanitisation and fumigation drives across the city, which also contributed to containing vector breeding. Many vector-borne diseases share symptoms similar to Covid-19 and consequently, doctors said it was fortunate that measures to contain the pandemic helped to tackle these other illnesses.“The Covid-19 preventive measures were initiated in March when the first case was reported. This included extensive disinfection work which was done in public places. Mosquito breeding grounds were also targeted. Last year, we had destroyed around 53,000 mosquito breeding grounds. But this year, we have destroyed over 62,000 breeding grounds,” said Dr Mangla Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. Another factor may be the adoption of better hygiene habits such as frequent washing of hands, use of sanitisers and eating home-cooked food, said city doctors. “Every monsoon, we get hundreds of people with gastroenteritis and hepatitis. Most of these are related to the consumption of contaminated water and outside food. But now, even with the relaxation of the lockdown, people are avoiding outside food,” said Mumbai-based epidemiologist, Dr Om Srivastava.The one cause of concern remains the number of malaria cases, which saw an increase compared to last year. Till December 20, the city had recorded 4,874 malaria cases while last year, there were 4,357 cases of malaria.“We are looking into the matter to understand the reason behind the growth of malaria cases,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-measures-lead-to-dip-in-seasonal-ailments-in-mumbai/story-UIhiX4NIu9kkstk1xWHNZP.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai experiences a chill as the temperature continues to dip||The city and its suburbs experienced a slight nip in the air on Monday as temperatures continued to drop for the second consecutive day.Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degree Celsius, a sharp decline of 4.4 degrees from Sunday, and 1.4 degrees below normal. Colaba, too, saw the minimum temperature drop from 21.6 degree Celsius on Sunday to 18.8 degree Celsius, a 1-degree dip from normal.Maximum temperature also dropped slightly on Monday. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 27.6 degree Celsius, a drop from Sunday’s 29.4 degree Celsius and 3.1 degrees below normal. The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) also recorded a maximum temperature of 29.4 degree Celsius, down from 30.9 degree Celsius on Sunday and, a drop of 1.9 degrees below normal.“The fall in temperatures is mostly due to the cold northerly to north-westerly winds from the northern plains in association with the passage of western disturbance,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of western region, IMD.IMD had predicted a fall in temperatures for two to three days from Sunday.Meanwhile, the air quality in Mumbai and its surrounding areas improved marginally from poor to moderate on Monday. The overall air quality index (AQI) – a pollutant measuring indicator – of 180 (moderate) was recorded by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).A spokesperson for SAFAR said that the improvement in air quality could be attributed to increasing winds. “It’s a temporary improvement. With temperatures dipping, the air quality is expected to deteriorate further in the coming days,” he said.Even as the overall AQI improved, some pockets breathed poor quality air. The AQI at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) was 325 (very poor), while Andheri recorded AQI of 249 (poor) and the AQI in Navi Mumbai was 266.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-experiences-a-chill-as-the-temperature-continues-to-dip/story-vHhyx41BhDM7ql2z8Yr2DK.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||Fliers taking detours to evade quarantine, finds Mumbai civic body||Many passengers are taking flights to neighbouring states and then coming to Mumbai to evade the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) tracing and quarantining of returnees from the United Kingdom (UK), Europe, Middle East and South Africa, the civic body found.The civic body is quarantining fliers from these places to detect those infected by a new, more transmissible Covid-19 strain.In the wake of this, the BMC, along with airport authorities, are tracking the travel patterns of incoming passengers as they fear that by exploiting such loopholes, these fliers may end up spreading the new strain. “As there is no mandatory quarantine for domestic passengers, international fliers from these countries take connecting flights to states such as Goa or Kerala, where Europe, Middle East and South Africa fliers are not quarantined. They, later, either take another domestic flight or probably travel by road or train back to Mumbai,” said a BMC official. Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have alerted airport authorities and our own staff also to identify such travellers. We have come to know about such loopholes adopted by passengers to escape quarantine. Hence, we are going to find the travel patterns of passengers.”Gomare added, “We cannot stop any citizen from taking any detour, considering it is their personal liberty, but this issue definitely needs a policy decision from our end to put an end to this practice. But again, there is little that we can do. Citizens should act responsibly before it is too late.”According to BMC officials, passengers who are landing at Mumbai airport and seeking exemption from hotel quarantine, citing further travel plans, are allowed to go ahead via a quarantine stamp on their hand. However, BMC officials said there is only little they can do further from there, wherein authorities of their destination states are informed. But there is a chance of these passengers going to these destination states and mixing with others, considering other states are not having a rule of mandatory quarantine. According to BMC’s data, more than 1,500 passengers who have landed at Mumbai airport between December 23 and 26 have opted for travelling to other states, and due to this, BMC have exempted these passengers from hotel quarantine and have allowed them to take connecting flights by informing the destination state government authorities.Passengers on the other hand said they are using the loophole, considering quarantining themselves is a costly affair. Vikas Patil (name changed), a Mumbai resident said, “I landed at Mumbai airport on December 25, and BMC informed me to take up a hotel, wherein I would have spent around ₹50,000 if my quarantining would have extended to 14 days. I cannot afford so much, and hence I took a connecting flight to Goa. After spending a few days in Goa, I will start my journey towards Mumbai via road.”Patil added, “The BMC should rather than forcing passengers to take up hotels, pay for hotel bills or keep us in Covid-19 isolation facilities, considering not every citizen can afford hotels. The Covid-19 isolation facilities are vacant, and passengers should be isolated there.” According to BMC’s data, as of December 27, out of 16,437 beds for Covid-19, 12,470 beds are vacant.Meanwhile, Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task-force, said, “Mumbai has already gone through a lot, and citizens should adhere to all rules and regulations of quarantining now, rather than using loopholes in the system to escape quarantine. We need to avoid any surge due to irresponsible behaviour of citizens. The Central and state government have been very kind to take precautions and not go for a complete lockdown instead. Hence, citizens should ensure taking precautions rather than being super spreaders by using loopholes to bypass the system.”Meanwhile, the standard operating procedures (SOPs) unveiled by the state government for tourism destinations and tourists stressed on maintaining social distance and directed local authorities to set up a mechanism for crowd management and training of staff. Some of the measures include disallowing tourists from getting their guests in their hotel rooms and also restricting staff from coming into the rooms. “Tourists who have checked in at the accommodation unit should not allow guests into their rooms. Staff of accommodation units shall not enter the guest’s room unless necessary. The guests should ensure they follow social-distancing guidelines with any staff,” said the SOP. It also advises them to wear protective masks inside the tourist premises and adopt a zero-contact policy. With regards to tourist places, the authorities need to set up a Covid-19 team, which will have the responsibility of various functions such as crowd management, training of staff, compliance with hygiene and sanitation/ disinfection guidelines, social-distancing norms and coordination with the local health department.It advocates a physical distance of at least 2m (6 feet) should always be mandatorily maintained by all and a clear signages of this to be displayed at frequent places at the tourist destinations. It also disallows tourists from entering the kitchen area. However, tourist operators are not convinced with the SOPs. “The SOPs should ideally be prepared in consultation with representatives of the tourism sector. However, there are lot of grey areas which invite corruption,” said Subhash Motwani, founder, Namaste Tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fliers-taking-detours-to-evade-quarantine-finds-mumbai-civic-body/story-wSb0jPuIwa6dCqdo6p8cmM.html
29-12-2020||Bhopal||Retired IAF officer’s body found in semi-burnt state, police suspect murder||Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district suspect that a retired Indian Air Force officer, whose semi burnt dead body was found in a car in the district on Sunday afternoon, was murdered by someone. However, a post-mortem report is still awaited, said a police officer on Monday. According to the police, deceased Rajesh Sahu, 53, who lived in a housing colony in Bhopal, left for Chhindwara on Saturday to see his parents who live at Guraiya Marg in Chhindwara city. However, his dead body was found in his car in a semi burnt condition away from the road in a 20-foot deep ditch between Jhirpa and Rainikheda under Mahuljhir police station on Sunday afternoon.Police said the deceased retired as an Air Force officer. However, they were trying to know from which rank he retired from service. Also read: India’s first indigenous pneumonia vaccine by SII launchedAdditional superintendent of police (SP), Chhindwara Sanjeev Uike said, “The dead body has been found in suspicious circumstances. The body of the retired Air Force officer is found burnt but there is no sign of fire in the car. There is a possibility that someone murdered him and pushed the car into the ditch. However, we are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death.”(With input from Sachin Pandey in Chhindwara)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/retired-iaf-officer-s-body-found-in-semi-burnt-state-police-suspect-murder/story-DZs7hUypd6Y5ZWYB6i2moM.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||PU senate elections: No relief to former senators from high court||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday refused to pass any directions on the plea by seven former Panjab University (PU) senators demanding directions for continuation of present varsity bodies, including the syndicate, till the senate elections are held.The former senators had moved an application over their December 22 plea seeking urgent intervention of the high court stating that in the absence of the senate and syndicate, there would be no administrative body left for decision making and the varsity administration would “collapse”.The high court vacation bench of justice Karamjit Singh has sought a response from the varsity on this application and adjourned the matter for January 12, on which date the main case is already fixed for hearing.The HC took note of varsity counsel’s submissions who had told court that there is no need to issue any interim directions and had referred to ‘Regulations of Panjab University Calendar’ which says “whenever there is an urgency, the vice-chancellor (V-C) may take such action as he deems necessary, and report the matter at the next meeting of the syndicate for approval.”The fresh plea had stated that the syndicate’s term would expire on December 31 and there would be no executive body left to administer the matters of the university. “As a matter of fact, all decisions are been taken by its V-C, in anticipation of approval of the syndicate and when there would be no authority, the entire functioning of the university would collapse,” the court was told adding that interim directions as per the existing arrangement be allowed to continue till the elections of the senate are held.The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31 and the syndicate’s term would get over on December 31. The varsity has not decided on holding elections due to the pandemic.In their December 22 plea, the former senators had demanded holding of senate polls and quashing August 15 orders of PU V-C whereby elections were deferred indefinitely. They had alleged that political party at the Centre and people affiliated with it were deliberately delaying the polls. It was also demanded to examine whether the V-C could defer the elections of the senate without approval of the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-senate-elections-no-relief-to-former-senators-from-high-court/story-qtkn4CWWFB4rOU1pgzMSBK.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s road mishap deaths at 37-year low this year||In 2020, the city saw the least number of road accident deaths since 1983, registering a 37-year low, revealed the official traffic police data.This year, vehicular movement was restricted due to the pandemic outbreak and subsequent lockdown as people preferred to stay indoors rather than venturing out unnecessarily.As per the data, there were 48 fatal road accidents this year and 51 deaths, less than half as compared to 2019, which recorded 104 deaths in 100 fatal accidents. Police records show that the number of FIRs registered under section 304-A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code is the lowest in the city since 1983, when 46 fatal road accidents were reported.A significant drop in non-fatal road mishaps was also witnessed this year. There were 109 non-fatal accidents in 2020 till date as compared to 205 in 2019. As many as 146 people were injured in these accidents this year, while this figure was 275 in 2019. During the lockdown, the number of road fatalities went down, and in April, there were zero road accident deaths as with the exception of essential services, vehicles weren’t allowed on the roads.Superintendent of police (traffic) Ketan Bansal said, “The decline can be attributed mainly to the traffic restrictions in place in the city due to the lockdown. However, we are also checking how effective our enforcement strategies were.”He added that the deployment of traffic cops to prevent accidents is done around the most accident-prone areas of the city. This targeted deployment will continue next year as well.Figures dip across country Speaking about the decline in road deaths, Chandigarh road safety panel member and Punjab traffic advisor Navdeep Asija said, “There has been a reduction in fatal accidents throughout the country owing to the pandemic. A 30-35% drop has been observed on average, but if Chandigarh has registered a drop of 50%, it is owing to the enforcement agencies here.”Road safety activist Harpreet Singh said, “This year, a trend for cycling began as Chandigarh residents are fond of exercising. This needs to continue in 2021 as well, The administration should ensure infrastructure and facilities for cyclists’ safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-road-mishap-deaths-at-37-year-low-this-year/story-fBOQjpkrHqauf3etMTqL1O.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||No decision on Pandharpur seat for Parth in Maharashtra by-polls, says Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar said that there was no decision taken by the party to field his son Parth Pawar in the Pandharpur by-polls after the Assembly seat fell vacant owing to the death of sitting party MLA Bharat Bhalke a month ago. Dismissing reports that Parth received the candidature, Pawar said that the candidate will be finalised after consulting with local party leadership and two other ruling parties in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA). He said it is the first Assembly election after the MVA government was formed and the alliance will fight it with full strength. After the demand at the local level propped up for the candidature of Parth, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from the Maval constituency, speculations have been rife in the political corridors over the candidature. “The reports about Parth Pawar getting the candidature are unfounded. “The final decision over the candidature is taken by our state unit chief Jayant Patil and the selection committee after discussing it with local leaders and MVA allies. This is the first Assembly election after formation of the MVA government and its candidate will win with a huge margin of votes,” Pawar said. A local leader Amarjeet Patil had written a letter to NCP chief Sharad Pawar, demanding to field his grandnephew Parth as the party’s candidate from the seat. Patil on Sunday had said they have yet to decide in this regard.In August, Parth was publicly rebuked by the NCP supremo and his grandfather Anantrao Pawar for going against the party stand and demanding that the Central Bureau of Investigation look into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Pawar had called him “immature” and had also said he doesn’t give a damn about what Parth says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-decision-on-pandharpur-seat-for-parth-in-maharashtra-by-polls-says-ajit-pawar/story-TpByVlSsNmxYkleUMQsfwI.html
29-12-2020||Noida||Effigy rally irks farmers at UP Gate||The arrival of politician Pappu Yadav and a mock funeral at the UP Gate protest site on Monday was termed a “mistake” by farmer leaders there.Despite farmers deciding that no politician or political party will be allowed to use their dais, Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav on Monday addressed a gathering at UP Gate for 20 minutes, during which he accused the government of “favouring the corporates”.He was accompanied by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader and national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.This is the second time Yadav has come to the UP Gate protest site – his previous appearance was on December 1 when he came along with Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and lent support to farmers.Earlier in the day on Monday, a group of protesting farmers prepared an effigy and carried out a mock “shav yatra” (funeral procession) as a symbolic protest at UP Gate, after which police officers from Khoda and Kaushambi police stations intervened and snatched the effigy.“It was a small group which resorted to carrying out a ‘shav yatra’ but our officers intervened and took the effigy away. Their leaders have been informed of the incident and we expect that they will ensure no such unruly activity is carried out at the protest site,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), Ghaziabad. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and also part of a committee leading the protest at UP Gate said that those involved in the procession were a small group of protesters who had joined the UP Gate site only recently. “We will ensure no such activity takes place in future. No group will be allowed to carry any such activity out of enthusiasm. Our protest is peaceful and will remain peaceful. We had earlier decided that no politically affiliated person will be allowed to share the dais but this happened on Monday. When we came to the dais, he (Pappu Yadav) was almost ending his speech. It has now been decided and reiterated that no politician will make use of the dais,” Bajwa said.Leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, also reiterated said that Yadav delivering a speech there and the “shav yatra” were a “mistake.” “We know that such incidents have happened but they were a mistake. We will ensure that such incidents are not repeated. We will take up the issue when committee members at UP Gate sit down for discussions on Monday night,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Ghaziabad police on Monday took into preventive custody about 25 supporters and leaders of the Congress party and took them to police lines. “We were celebrating our party’s foundation day at our office (near Old Bus Stand) and thereafter heading to pay tributes to martyrs, but the police did not allow us and even used lathis to beat our supporters. They later brought us to police lines. Our office bearers had conveyed our program to district officials,” said Satish Sharma , a Congress leader and a former state minister. The police department, on their part, said that no force was used and that about 25 people were brought to the police lines. “They were bound down under Code of Criminal Procedure sections as about 100 of them were carrying out a procession without permission, with prohibitory orders already in place,” said Abhishek Verma, the superintendent of police (city 1), Ghaziabad.“Later, they were allowed to leave,” the superintendent of police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/effigy-rally-irks-farmers-at-up-gate/story-jD7QJnETjhBR2lckQEK0yJ.html
29-12-2020||Mumbai||16 UK returnees test positive for virus across Maharashtra||Even as Maharashtra recorded 2,854 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 1,916,236, 16 people across the state, who have returned from the United Kingdom (UK) recently, have tested positive for Covid-19, as of Saturday.The local administration will be sending their samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to ascertain if they are infected with the new, more infectious strain, which originated from the UK.Of the 16, four are from Nagpur, three each from Mumbai and Thane, two from Pune, one each from Nanded, Ahmednagar, Raigad and Aurangabad.The state government has put the administration on alert after the discovery of the mutant strain, directing civic bodies and district collectors to trace and conduct tests of all those who came from the UK between November 15 and December 23.Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll reached 49,189 after 60 casualties were reported. Of them, 34 were in the past 48 hours, five in the past week and the remaining 21 were from before last week, officials said.A woman, 57, in Aurangabad, central Maharashtra, who had travelled to the UK, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The local civic body has kept her in isolation.“This woman arrived in Mumbai on December 15 and reached Aurangabad by taking a connecting flight. Following the directives, we traced her and her RT-PCR report on Friday confirmed that she is positive to Covid-19. However, she is still asymptomatic,” said Dr Nita Padalkar, assistant municipal commissioner and medical officer of health, Aurangabad municipal corporation.Dr Padalkar said her RT-PCR test conducted in London on December 11 was negative and thus it is difficult to say if she is a carrier or she got infected in transit or after arrival in the country. To know the type of virus, they will send her sample to the NIV (Pune) on Monday,” she said.On Friday, another UK returnee tested positive in Pune. “This man returned to Pune on December 13 and tested positive on December 17. We are sending his swab samples to NIV to check if the virus is the same or is it the new strain,” said Dr Sanjiv Waware, assistant chief health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation.Dr Padalkar further said that there are many possibilities in such a case. First, she (Aurangabad woman) may be in the incubation period, which means she came in contact with the virus but it (virus) is yet to start the multiplication process and thus her first report may have come negative. The second possibility is that the virus may have died, but owing to intermittent shedding, a phenomena in medical terms, her first report may have come negative and second have come positive. This is because in the RT-PCR test we test only RNA particles and not the whole virus. Thus even if the virus is dead, the small particles continue to shed and sometimes be detected in the subsequent test reports, she explained.Despite Maharashtra’s heartening trend of fewer cases of late, state officials still want people and authorities to be extra cautious for two reasons, first, the concern of a surge from next month and second, a new variant of Covid-19 found in the UK and some other countries, which is believed to be 70% more transmissible than the original strain.“Instead of complaining about the night curfew, people need to understand the seriousness of the situation. If we are getting fewer cases doesn’t mean that it won’t rise again. Also, the new mutant spreads much faster than all the old strains, which means a carrier can infect much more people. Hence, it is advisable to take as much precaution as possible because many people returned from the UK have tested positive, although it is yet to ascertain if they are infected with the old virus or the new mutant,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.Mumbai has clocked 536 cases, highest in the state, on Saturday, taking the count to 290,336. Of them, active cases are 8,262. There were 12 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 11,068.Nagpur city contributed the second-highest number of infections in the daily caseload and it has recorded 282 cases. Their tally reached 109,946.Pune city recorded 226 cases, third-highest number of cases. Its count stood at 189,882.The state has completed a total of 12,451,919 Covid-19 tests with 50,282 conducted on Saturday.The number of recovered patients reached 1,807,824 with 1,526 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 94.34%.The state also imposed a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 for the next 15 days till January 5, which is effective in all major cities (municipal corporation areas) across the state between 11 pm and 6am. It has also empowered district collectors to impose night curfew to contain the Covid-19 spread, only after taking approval from the chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/16-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-virus-across-maharashtra/story-UOCamoWEkuhIEzXYTT10FO.html
29-12-2020||Noida||In Noida, no more than 100 people allowed at New Year’s Eve parties; permit necessary before organising||NOIDA: No more than 100 persons would be allowed at a venue for New Year’s Eve parties this year in Noida, the district administration and police department have said. Besides, owners of all hotels, restaurants and clubs organising parties and events in Gautam Budh Nagar on December 31 would have to obtain permissions from the district magistrate or commissioner of police (CP) before doing so, as well as intimate the number of guests expected. Further, guidelines issued by the police say that any violation of protocols put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease would invite police action.District magistrate Suhas LY said it is mandatory for all hotels, restaurants, clubs and bars, to acquire proper licences under Uttar Pradesh Cinematography Act, 1955 (amended as UP Cinematography Act) from the competent authority, i.e. the district magistrate. “Similarly, they will have to get licences for fire, air-conditioners, electricity and safety from the competent authorities. Since possible gatherings during the New Year celebrations could pose a greater risk of the spread of Covid-19, ensuring full compliance of the Covid-19 safety protocols is mandatory at all these venues,” he said. Commissioner of police Alok Singh said that as per directions issued by the state government, only 50% of the capacity of a closed venue, up to a 100 persons, will be allowed at a time. “Permission for organising a new year’s programme will have to be obtained from the local deputy commissioner of police office, and the organisers will have to provide their names, addresses and mobile numbers. The maximum limit for the open spaces, meanwhile, will be 40% of total capacity, with all other arrangements like thermal scanning, sanitization, masking, social distancing, etc., will need to be in place,” he said. Singh further said that adequate forces have been deployed for patrolling near places where New Year celebrations will be held. “Stern action will be taken against anyone found spreading fake or inflammatory messages through social media. Our officers will keep the round the clock vigil on liquor shops, hotels, restaurants, malls, metro stations, bus stations and railway stations to avert any mischievous activities there by the anti social elements,” he said. The police commissioner also urged people to stay at home to avoid the risk of the disease. The police chief also warned that the DJs and sound systems used at such events must adhere to the Supreme Court guidelines. “The organisers will have to inform in advance the estimated number of people participating in the program. The organisers will also have to follow Covid-19 protocols. For the purpose of ensuring compliance with Covid-19 safety guidelines, monitoring by drone cameras will also be undertaken at sensitive sites concerned,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-noida-no-more-than-100-people-allowed-at-new-year-s-eve-parties-permit-necessary-before-organising/story-nlsBeq7PX5yW2bLgrfEFvL.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||An arts school for poor kid comes up at Singhu protest site||Khushboo Kumari, 9, loves drawing and painting but since the government school she studies in is closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic since March and her parents are unable to afford stationery, she was unable to fulfill her hobby. Like Kumari, seven-year-old Pawan Singh’s studies were also affected since the classes in the school are suspended and his family was unable to afford private tuitions. But for Kumari, Singh, and scores of other children living in areas around the Singhu border, a tent erected near the spot where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws, is serving as a tuition centre. Here at this tent, they are taught basic lessons and trained in various arts. Set up by eight “like-minded people” from Punjab 17 days ago, the tent initially worked as a space for storing mattresses, blankets and other items for the use of the protesting farmers. Later, a library was set up and books related to agriculture and various farmers’ revolutions were provided to the protesters for free. All eight volunteers behind the initiative belong to the families of farmers but are educated and established in various business and professional fields. Also Read | A month on, farmers have made highway their home“Recently, we started using the space in the tent for educating poor children and training them in various arts,” said Garry Birring, 34, a graduate from the University of Oxford and a resident of Ludhiana, who is now into the business of water purifier manufacturing. Seven others who were part of the group that launched this school-library are Dinesh Chaddha, advocate, Parminder alias Goldy, an RTI activist, Inder Wajwa, a former model, Sukhwinder Singh, Navdeep Singh, Amritpal Singh, and Gurtez Singh -- all involved in farm trade. All of these are from Ropar, Mohali, and Muktsar.Besides the eight founders, several other volunteers teach the kids at school.  Sharing the story of how it all started, Birring said they had met at Singhu border during the protest. As sanitation and health hygiene was an issue for the farmers, our group collected money, purchased items and distributed to the farmers free of cost. “We set up a tent and named it Sanjhi Sathh which means a shared or common chaupal (meeting place). Apart from supplying mattresses and blankets, we are now running a school and library in our tent. At least 60 poor children are taught daily. They are provided with free books, notebooks and stationery items,” he added. The temporary school not only provides space to children for free education but it also organises drawing, painting and storytelling competitions and arts exhibitions to make their studies entertaining. The classes are organised every day between 11 am and 2 pm. “Drawing and painting is my passion but my parents are daily wagers and they don’t have money to buy drawing sheets and colour pencils for me. I learnt this art in the school. As the school is closed for the past nine months, I was not able to practice it. My parents sent me to this school run by the farmers when they learnt about it. I can now continue my drawing practice,” said nine-year-old Kumari. The facility that was started by eight people now has around 20 volunteers – all from Punjab – and is imparting free education to poor children at Singhu border. One of the volunteers is Navjot Kaur from Bathinda who recently completed her B.Ed course and had been camping at the Singhu border with her parents for the past 20 days. “I learnt about this temporary school through my friend Kanwal Preet as she was coming here to teach children. Being an aspiring teacher, I found it an opportunity to train myself. It gives me so much satisfaction,” said Kaur. Thousands of farmers are protesting at Singhu border for over a month now against the three new farm laws enacted by the Parliament in September that seek to open up agricultural trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/an-arts-school-for-poor-kid-comes-up-at-singhu-protest-site/story-uhH2b3JJySkeywSsuIUffK.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since May 26||Daily new Covid-19 infections in the national capital touched a 219-day low on Monday, with the city adding 564 new cases — the fewest in a day since May 26, when 412 cases were reported.To be sure, fewer tests were conducted on Sunday as compared to the weekly average. Even then, the positivity rate — which experts regard as a vital metric to understand the spread of an infection — remained below 1% for the fourth time in seven days. Of the total 57,463 samples collected on Sunday, 0.98% tested positive. Further, 32,484 of these tests were conducted using the reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method — regarded as the gold standard diagnosis for the coronavirus disease.While cases and deaths have waned over the past few weeks, experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.The seven-day average cases too fell to 801, the lowest in 213 days, since an average of 724 cases in the seven days ending May 29.The city recorded 21 deaths of the viral infection on Monday’s bulletin, which primarily records data from the previous day. Delhi has now seen 10,474 deaths of the illness.Meanwhile, a vast majority of hospital beds reserved for the treatment of Covid-19 patients continue to remain vacant in the capital, with only 2,499 of 18,774 beds occupied. With this in mind, the Delhi government on Sunday scaled down the percentage of intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals in the city. While informing the Delhi high court on Sunday that 60% such beds would be reserved instead of 80% previously, it added that it was not looking at scaling down this number further in view of New Years’ celebrations as well as a reportedly more contagious strain of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that emerged in the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fewest-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital-since-may-26/story-JGnACWIi1QBO4Tv8QaIi3K.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Police questions Pracha for questioning over October protest against Pakistan||The Delhi police on Monday questioned lawyer Mehmood Pracha for allegedly violating social distancing norms during a protest outside the Pakistan High Commission in October even as the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) condemned Thursday’s police raid on the lawyer’s office in connection with another case as a “malicious act”.Pracha, who represents at least 80 accused and victims in the north-east Delhi riots cases, describe the police summon in the protest case as harassment. “I told them that they should be happy that I protested against the ill treatment of minorities in Pakistan. The police officers who questioned me for over one and a half hours said that I should stop protesting against Pakistan. It made no sense. I could not make head or tail of what my crime was. It is clear that police are harassing me,” he said. “First, my office was raided by the special cell on Thursday. They then registered a case against me at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station. And today (Monday), they summoned me at Chanakapuri. It is clearly their way of harassing me for speaking the truth and fighting the riot cases. They did not even give me a copy of the FIR (Chanakyapuri police station case), they have registered against me for protesting,” he added. Around 4pm on Monday, Pracha tweeted a photograph showing him outside the Chanakyapuri police station. He tweeted, “ Entering PS Chanakyapuri on the dot.”Police said on October 3, a protest was organised at Teen Murti in Chanakyapuri without police permission. Accordingly, a case under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC was registered at the Chanakyapuri police station against Pracha, the organiser of the protest. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “A notice was served to the organiser (Pracha) for recording his statement in the case at the police station.” A police officer associated with the case said Pracha’s statement was recorded on Monday afternoon and stayed in the station for about 15 minutes.Last Thursday, confusion and controversy had surrounded the raid by police’s special cell at Pracha’s office. After the raid, Pracha accused police of assaulting him and stealing data from his office. He had also filed a complaint against the police team at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station. Police are yet to act on his complaint.Delhi police have maintained that they had obtained a warrant and had searched his place, during which Pracha got violent and did not cooperate. The raid, police said, was in connection with a case registered on August 22, after one of the riot victims told a court that the lawyer has asked him to fake a deposition and frame three people in riot cases. Reacting to the raid on Monday, the SCBA and the Bar Association of India (BAI) condemned police action by issuing separate statements. The SCBA described the raid as a “malicious act that defeats the rights of an advocate to practice his profession without fear or favour.” It emphasised that the seizures of confidential information that is protected by “lawyer-client privilege”, in a search conducted by the very police authorities who are prosecuting Pracha’s clients, will prejudicially affect the rights and guarantees of the accused. “It is illegal and contravenes all cannons of protection to a client and his lawyer,” read the statement. It also questioned the manner in which a magistrate had issued the warrant of search and seizure, saying exercise of authority of the court in such a “routine, mechanical manner” is antithetical to rule of law and constitutes a disturbing violation of this privilege directly affecting the administration of justice. In its statement, the BAI also implored the judiciary to be mindful of the importance of attorney-client privilege in such matters. “The issuing of a search warrant in respect of a lawyer’s communication and correspondence is a grave violation of client-attorney privilege, and can cause a chilling effect in clients providing true and complete disclosures to their lawyers, and would impede the administration of justice”, said the BAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-questions-pracha-for-questioning-over-october-protest-against-pakistan/story-Kdo3HwB7AgzhmqDNp6I2GM.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Driverless trains take Metro commuters by surprise||Rajesh Meena, a 42-year-old resident of west Delhi’s Janakpuri was among the first passengers to board India’s first driverless train on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) on Monday. After boarding at Janakpuri West Metro station, where the train picked up its first batch of passengers, Meena said he was not aware the unit he had boarded was running without a driver. “Till a few stations after I boarded, I was not aware that the train was driverless. But when I was told about this, I started feeling that the train was running faster than usual. This could be psychological,” Meena said. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday entered the elite league of 7% of the world’s Metro networks that can operate without drivers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the first driverless train via a video event, after which the first train set off from Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh station towards Janakpuri West. The first trip was a preview for media houses, and the first trip for general passengers was operated from Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden, the DMRC said on Monday.  While many commuters like Meena said they were not aware of being on board a driverless train, others had especially come to take a ride aboard these trains. “There was no way of knowing if the train we were aboard was driverless or not but we have to take a ride after the news channels flashed that the Prime Minister had inaugurated this new technology. We did not feel like the ride was any different,” said Manju Raj, a resident of southwest Delhi’s Palam. DMRC on Monday said that a limited number of trains was operated on the driverless technology. This number will be gradually increased over the coming days, they said. By mid-2021, the driverless operations will be extended to the Pink Line, which connects Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar. On Monday, some commuters also said that they were a little apprehensive of the safety measures in place on a driverless train but were confident of the DMRC’s safety standards. “Once you know that the train is being automatically operated and that there is no driver on board, you tend to wonder what happens in case of emergencies. Maybe eventually these doubts will clear out,” said Radhika Uppal, a commuter who boarded from south Delhi’s Munirka. DMRC officials assured that initially there will be a driver in these automated trains to win the confidence of the commuters. “In DTO [driverless train operations], initially, the train operator will be present in the train to instil a sense of confidence and assistance. DTO’s higher level of diagnostic features will help move from conventional time-based maintenance to condition-based maintenance. This will also reduce maintenance downtime of trains,” the DMRC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/driverless-trains-take-metro-commuters-by-surprise/story-U2avj9qYuLAo3ShfNBGqNI.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||10 more contacts of fliers from UK test positive for Covid-19||Ten more contacts of fliers who recently returned from the United Kingdom and tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi have been diagnosed for the infection and admitted in a special ward at Lok Nayak hospital, a senior government official said on Monday.As of Monday evening, 31 patients were admitted in the special ward at Lok Nayak hospital of whom 20 are UK-returned Covid-19 patients and 11 are their contacts who tested positive.Of the 20 patients who returned from the UK, 11 were moved to the ward directly from the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) after being tested on arrival between Tuesday and Wednesday. They had arrived in the last few flights from the UK before trips were suspended in light of a new, more contagious variant of Covid-19 reported to have emerged in the country.“The other nine UK-returned patients were found Covid-19 positive after being traced and tested by the government since Wednesday under an ongoing outreach drive,” the senior official said.The swab samples of all such individuals who have tested positive have also been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi for genome sequencing, to ascertain if they have been infected by variant discovered in the UK. The results of these tests are awaited, said the official, who asked not to be identified.“Of the 11 contacts of UK-returned Covid-19 patients who were found infected, one was identified on Friday – and 10 more were identified over the weekend,” the senior official said.While people arriving from UK on December 22 and 23 — after the government announced flights would be suspended till December 31 — were directly scanned, tested and quarantined (if needed) from the airports, state governments have been entrusted with reaching out and conducting Covid-19 tests on all passengers who arrived from UK between November 25 and December 21, even if they had previously been tested on arrival.A senior official in Delhi’s revenue department said around 14,000 passengers arrived at the Delhi airport between November 25 and December 21 — of whom around 1,500 are Delhi residents. District officials said they are in the process of tracing them all and, so far, around 1,200 of them have been tested, said another senior official in the government’s revenue department.Once a UK returnee tests positives, all her /his contacts are to be tested. The contacts awaiting test results and those who test negative have to complete mandatory institutional quarantine. They can either opt for a government facility in Chhatarpur – which currently has around 100 individuals lodged -- or a paid facility in hotel at Aerocity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-more-contacts-of-fliers-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-wkiDRYro9zwfCLghswDnRN.html
29-12-2020||Delhi||Scuffle in EDMC House over alleged scam in north Delhi municipality||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) got into a scuffle during a House meeting of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday when the latter raised the alleged Rs2,500 crore scam in the North Delhi civic body. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain suspended two AAP councillors, including leader of the opposition Manoj Kumar Tyagi from the House for 15 days and also issued disciplinary action warning against AAP councillor Geeta Rawat.While AAP lodged a police complaint against former mayor and BJP councillor Bipin Bihari for using “casteist remarks” and assaulting some councillors, the BJP alleged that opposition members hurled slippers at their councillors and also tore copies of the agenda.The Delhi government had ordered an inquiry into alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of more than Rs2,500 crore in the North Delhi municipal corporation. It concerns payments between the North and the South Delhi municipal corporation. According to EDMC functionaries, as soon as the meeting started and the leader of the house Pravesh Sharma started reading a condolence letter, the opposition members protested and demanded a discussion on alleged misappropriation of funds and on farm distress. EDMC, in a statement, said the opposition created a ruckus during the House meeting. AAP councillor Geeta Rawat reached the Mayor’s seat and the leader of opposition Manoj Kumar Tyagi got into a scuffle with former mayor Bipin Bihari, the EDMC said in the statement. Nirmal Jain, EDMC mayor, said opposition councillors behaved in a “undemocratic, rude and indecent” manner. “It was a predetermined move by the AAP to not let the House function. The agenda of the meeting was also pulled from the leader of the house and torn by Tyagi. AAP councillor Mohini Jeenwal hurled her slippers at BJP councillors. I have suspended Tyagi and Jeenwal for 15 days from the House for their indecent, insensitive and rude behaviour. AAP councillor Geeta Rawat will be issued a letter for disciplinary action due to her indecent behaviour,” Jain said. AAP’s Tyagi denied allegations and blamed BJP councillors for indulging in fighting and using foul language against AAP councillors. “BJP doesn’t want to discuss Rs 2400 crore scam done by north and south corporations. When we demanded a debate, they indulged in violence and used abusive language. Former mayor Bipin Bihari manhandled our councillors, including a woman. When I objected, they started fighting with me as well. Instead of taking action against Bihari, the mayor suspended me for 15 days which is completely wrong and shows his bias,” Tyagi said. Bihari, however, refuted allegations against him. “All these allegations are false...The recording of the House can be checked as a proof,” Bihari said. Senior AAP leader and party’s MCD-incharge Durgesh Pathak said BJP councillors had started the ruckus. “We demanded a discussion on Rs 2,500 crore scam but instead of the debate they started abusing our councillors and manhandling party leaders. If they have done no wrong then why are they running from debate and not ordering CBI inquiry. We have lodged a complaint against Bipin Bihari at Patparganj police station,” Pathak said. The AAP councillors also displayed banners regarding Rs 2,500 crore scam in the north and south corporations at the North corporation’s office. Chhail Bihari Goswami, chairman standing committee in north corporation, dismissed the allegations of “misappropriation of funds” and said the AAP was in the habit of making baseless accusations. “North MCD is outrightly denying the allegation of any misappropriation of funds on account of waiving of the ground rent purportedly to be paid by SDMC to North MCD as there is no truth in the said allegation,” Goswami said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scuffle-in-edmc-house-over-alleged-scam-in-north-delhi-municipality/story-mTERGIuwuKd1B8WblPg8BO.html
29-12-2020||Pune||DYDE orders audit of seven schools in Pune over funds utilisation||Many upset parents’ association in the city have planned protests after some schools stopped online classes for students due to non-payment of fees. However, the Deputy Director of Education (DYDE) has now formed three teams to assess the financial situation of seven schools in and around Pune. The teams will carry out audits to examine the utilisation of funds in these schools. The teams will also submit a report in the next 10-15 days. The decision came as a relief to many parents who have been filing grievances with the education department as well as related authorities.Members of the parents’ associations also met state education minister Bacchu Kadu on Monday in Pune.Jayshree Deshpande, president of the parents’ association of Pune said that the decision has come as a relief.“We have demanded audits against these schools. Many of our children are not receiving online education due to non-payment of fees. Even in this pandemic, many schools have asked parents to pay the full fees. We want our parents to get relief and students should get back to online education,” said Deshpande.She further said that many schools have repeatedly not responded even to the education department’s notices.“This step by the education department will ensure that these schools are under scrutiny for denying education to children,” said Deshpande.“We discussed many important issues. Some of our parents whose wards are in ICSE and CBSE schools are unaware about how they can apply for external examinations in these boards. The minister has assured us that every school in Maharashtra has to obey the rules made by the state,” said Deshpande.Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of education said that the report is expected in 10 to 15 days. “We have appointed teams who will carry out the audits. In these audits we will assess the schools for the utilisation of funds that were charged from parents in various activities. If there are discrepancies found, then the report will be sent to the government for appropriate decisions,” said Ukirde.Despite several attempts to contact him, minister of school education Omprakash (Bacchu) Kadu wasn’t available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dyde-orders-audit-of-seven-schools-in-pune-over-funds-utilisation/story-MczNLG48pqxznGwmpLWKGL.html
29-12-2020||Pune||PMC appoints contractor for garbage processing||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appointed a contractor for garbage processing at the cost of Rs 879 per metric tonne.As the citizens from Uruli Devachi carried out an agitation last month, 40,000 metric tonnes of garbage has piled at the garbage depot. Some garbage was also seen piled up at Ramtekdi.In order to process the garbage without executing the tendering process, the standing committee appointed the contractor. The cost is almost Rs 250 to Rs 300 per metric tonne more than the existing rates, said officials.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “This is a temporary arrangement to clean up the piled-up garbage. The contractor would establish the mobile garbage processing unit and clear it. We have instructed the administration that this is a temporary arrangement on the request of residents around the garbage depot. We would execute the tendering process later.”While putting the proposal in front of the standing committee, PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Due to the Covid-19 situation and model code of conduct, PMC is not able to float a tender for the garbage processing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-appoints-contractor-for-garbage-processing/story-sA53FWHZkrsIJg7VAx78zK.html
29-12-2020||Kolkata||‘BJP trying to break spine of Bengali culture through distorted facts’: Mamata Banerjee||Sharpening her attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee alleged that the BJP was trying to break the spine of Bengali-culture with the help of distorted facts. “Of late, the BJP is trying to break the spine of Bengali culture. They are trying to break the Bengali pride, erase our history, change the geographic boundary and hit the political ideology with violence. Bengal’s culture is not the one which they are trying to present,” said Banerjee while adding that she never tagged Indians as outsiders. The Trinamool Congress supremo was addressing the media at Birbhum district on Monday. She is on a two day visit to the district. “All information and cultural hubs in the country are being attacked so that their spines could be broken. Be it Puducherry University, JNU or Nalanda University. Outsiders have captured Visva Bharati (set up by Rabindranath Tagore),” she added. Also read: MHA extends Covid-19 guidelines till JanuaryUnion home minister Amit Shah had visited Visva Bharati on December 20 while he was camping in the state for two days to bolster the BJP’s campaign in the run-up to the crucial state assembly elections in 2021. Shah, who had held a mega roadshow in Birbhum, was impressed with the huge turnout. Banerjee is scheduled to hold a roadshow on the same route on Tuesday. The BJP has hit back. “The Mamata Banerjee administration has failed to address the burning problems of the state. They know they would lose and are hence attacking the BJP with baseless allegations and opposing the Narendra Modi-led government,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state. Banerjee also said that Nobel laureate Amartya Sen is being attacked by the BJP for his views against the Union government. This is, however, not the first time that she has said this. “Amartya Sen is being attacked for his views against the Union government. This is completely unacceptable. Just like, I am being attacked for my political views,” she said while talking to reporters. Banerjee had earlier written a letter to Sen expressing her anguish after Visva Bharati, a central university, and had allegedly said that Sen’s family was in illegal possession of land on the campus. Amartya Sen in his letter to Banerjee wrote, “Your strong voice, along with your full understanding of what is going on, is, for me, a tremendous source of strength.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-trying-to-break-spine-of-bengali-culture-through-distorted-facts-mamata-banerjee/story-9E7bdF8WYDYU5Zxfj86NhK.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Pune reports 327 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death on Monday||Pune district on Monday reported 327 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection and only one death in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 1, 90,338 Covid cases and 4,399 deaths till Monday whereas PCMC has reported 93,126 cases so far and a total of 1,268 Covid-related deaths.Pune rural has reported 87,498 total cases so far and a total of 2,059 deaths due to Covid-19. In Pune district, there are a total of 3, 70,962 Covid cases. Of these, 3,48,970 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 7,726 deaths in the district and at present, there are 14,231 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 4,501 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total of such patients to 18,14,449 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.4 per cent.Across Maharashtra, 2,498 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Monday and 50 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57 per cent.The state health department stated that of 1, 25, 43,772 laboratory samples, 19, 22,048 tested positive for Covid which account for 15.32 per cent.At present, 4, 52,535 people across Maharashtra are in home quarantine and 3,138 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-327-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-on-monday/story-oEQRVSbN9cvZ1hooPIwp1J.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Builder booked for cheating client of Rs 16.45 lakh in Pune||The Sinhgad police have booked a builder on charges of cheating a customer to the tune of Rs 16.45 lakh. An FIR against the builder was lodged by Nikhil Potdar (37), a resident of Solapur, who in his complaint stated that he had booked a flat in a property scheme in Dhayari by the developer in June 2019.However, the builder did not sign any official agreement with him and did not hand over possession of the said flat and cheated him despite receiving payments, estimated to be worth Rs 16.45 lakh.The police have invoked IPC 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 ( cheating ) against the accused. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/builder-booked-for-cheating-client-of-rs-16-45-lakh-in-pune/story-MqyvOSUOh3EAfrIPDPuAiP.html
29-12-2020||Pune||Prominent jeweller Milind Marathe succumbs to bullet injuries in Pune||Prominent jeweller Milind Marathe alias Balwant (60) succumbed to bullet injuries after he had shot himself on December 16. Marathe who had been admitted to a private hospital passed away early Sunday morning.Marathe had shot himself with a licensed gun and had informed the police about it at the time of his admission to the hospital.Marathe was the scion of Marathe Jewellers, a prominent jewellery shop, located on Laxmi road and was a resident of Shivajinagar. The incident occurred at 8pm on December 16 while he was in his office, which is located inside the jewellery shop. At the time of the incident, the shop was shut at 7.30pm and Marathe was alone in his office.The preliminary investigation done by Vishrambaug police found that Marathe was facing financial problems. After shooting himself, Marathe called his wife Meena on the phone and informed her about the incident. Meena had called their son Pranav, who alerted the police.Vijay Tikole , incharge, Vishrambaug police station, said that the statements of his wife and son have been recorded. “Both the family members informed in their statements that he was disturbed over financial problems which resulted due to the lockdown,” said Tikole.A case has been lodged and the pistol has been seized for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prominent-jeweller-milind-marathe-succumbs-to-bullet-injuries-in-pune/story-LZTiFq98vdI04elqbYK0uI.html
