30-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Despite lockdown, no respite for Hindon, Yamuna from pollution this year||Noida: Yet another year comes to an end with Gautam Budh Nagar continuing to be the district of two dying rivers.While experts call it ‘an opportunity missed’, the condition of two rivers – Hindon and Yamuna — which flow through a patch of the district is back to the square one as all the good that lockdown had incurred has been reversed.According to the reports of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), while Yamuna was found to be highly polluted despite lockdown this year, the condition of Hindon worsened with more coliform content signalling higher dumping of untreated sewage into it.This year too, both the rivers continue being rated under category ‘E’ making it unfit for drinking, bathing and fisheries, despite conventional treatment and disinfection.According to the data (till October), Yamuna had a dissolved oxygen (DO) level while leaving Noida was 1.0 mg/l against 3.4 mg/l while entering (minimum requirement of 4 to 6 mg/l), against 0.3 mg/l (exit) and 2.6 mg/l (enter) last year. For the month of September and October, the DO levels in Yamuna in Noida was nil. For Hindon, however, DO has been consistently nil throughout the year.Hindon starts to lose DO from an average of 1 mg/litre at Mohan Nagar, Ghaziabad to nil by the time it reaches Noida and meets Yamuna. This year, however, it managed to sustain its DO levels a little further till Chijarsi village, Ghaziabad till it became nil by the time it reached Kulsera bridge, Noida.Apart from that, Hindon also saw higher levels of total coliform content this year, against last year.“Dissolved oxygen level is basically the life of the river, which being nil means that the river is virtually dead with water unfit for any consumption. Whereas higher levels of the total coliform shows that high volume of sewage is flowing through it,” said Rashmi Verma, senior policy fellow, department of science and technology (DTE) of the central government.The average total coliform levels in the river Hindon for 2020 was 8,67,143 most probable number (mpn) /100ml against 2,56,667 last year. The permissible limit for total coliform ranges from 50 to 5,000 mpn/100ml Hindon emerges from Shivaliks and enters the district after travelling over 300 kms. Throughout its 50 kms of length across the district, with scope of revival and before it disappears in almost equally polluted Yamuna, the water quality only worsens after being fed by untreated effluents being discharged from industries and illegal colonies, experts said.“There had been no efforts either at administrative or local levels to improve the condition of river Hindon, while the pressure like sewers, etc. had been mounting. As the exploitation of Hindon and excessive load due to the population and industries would continue, there has to be a serious plan to improve it, else next year the condition of river would worsen,” said Vikrant Tongad, Noida-based environmentalist.Meanwhile, even as Yamuna enters the city at Okhla Barrage with some life in it and an average DO value of 3.4 units this year (1.7 mg/l in September), it almost dies at Tilwada in Greater Noida where it meets Hindon.According to the experts, condition of Yamuna is back to square one. “We can’t even visualise what Yamuna had been during a lockdown as it’s again highly polluted and back to square one. All the effect of lockdown has been worn out. There were two reasons that Yamuna revived during lockdown -- reduction in industrial waste and also due to western disturbances the river received fresh water due to rains,” said Manoj Mishra, environment activist who leads the campaign, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan.He, however, still sees some scope of improvement in both Hindon and Yamuna.“There had been some takeaways from the lockdown which is that the rivers can revive if there is a flow of water and that the industries have to be upgraded in such a way that they have zero liquid discharge. Only this way we can revive both Yamuna and Hindon,” said Mishra.According to the officials, the river requires flow and the illegal colonies need to be regularised.“There has to be a sustainable flow in the river to improve dissolved oxygen levels. Also, the sewers have to be tapped to reduce faecal and total coliform. There are several illegal colonies along the Hindon and they are direct contributor to its pollution. For Yamuna, the Kondli drain that comes from Delhi and meets Yamuna at Tilpata that further worsens the pollution levels. There are plans being made with local agencies in loop and we hope for some improvement within next few months,” said an official at UPPCB on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-despite-lockdown-no-respite-for-hindon-yamuna-from-pollution-this-year/story-Z6outoQHiDMTX6vj0gkcWI.html
30-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Today is last day to submit property tax without penalty||The last day for submission of property tax for the year 2020-21 without incurring penalty is December 31. From January 1, the municipal corporation (MC) will slap a 10% penalty on defaulters’ taxes. As per the information, there are around 2.7 lakh taxable properties in the city and over 1 lakh property owners are yet to file the tax return.Officials said that apart from submitting the tax at MC suvidha kendras, residents can also pay their taxes online on the MC’s website - www.mcludhiana.gov.in. An official, on condition of anonymity, said, “This year, a large number of residents are yet to submit the tax as many of them suffered a financial setback due to the pandemic. Managements of different malls have also not paid taxes. Therefore, the MC has not been able to meet the recovery targets this year. The MC has only recovered around ₹63 crore against the annual recovery target of ₹130 crore.Vivek Verma, MC superintendent, property tax wing, said, ”The civic body is sending text messages to and calling up residents to remind them to submit their pending tax to avoid a penalty. Reminder notices have also been served.”  “Residents will have to pay a 10% penalty after December 31, and if they fail to pay the tax by March 31, a 20% penalty along with 18% annual interest on the pending amount will be imposed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-today-is-last-day-to-submit-property-tax-without-penalty/story-8GUvqUuGsBEWAfew2zegbO.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana BJP unit seeks FIR against MP Bittu||Accusing Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu of making inflammatory remarks to disturb peace in the state, the district unit of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) sought an FIR against him on Wednesday. While BJP leaders led by district president Pushpinder Singal submitted a memorandum with the office of the commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal, members of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) staged a protest outside Bittu’s official residence near Rose garden. The protest rally was led by BJYM state president Bhanu Pratap and district president Kushagar Kashyap. Heavy police force was deployed to stop protesters from reaching Bittu’s house.The BJP, who blamed Bittu of trying to malign protesting farmers, also urged the police to include Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code in the FIR as Bittu allegedly took responsibility for attack on BJP state chief Ashwani Sharma. Singal said,”Bittu has been continuously been making inflammatory remarks, which will disturb peace in Punjab. Recently, he said ‘there will be uncountable corpses if farm laws are not repealed’. Such statements may result in riots.”Meanwhile, Bittu slammed the BJP for trying to ‘torpedo’ the farmers’ agitation. Bittu said, “Rather than express solidarity with farmers, BJP leaders are protesting against me in Punjab. I am merely supporting the farmers and will continue to do so. If the BJP is concerned about farmers and peace in the state, they should come to Delhi and take a stand against the Union government. They are clearly pulling a political stunt as they know my house in Ludhiana is vacant as I am protesting in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-bjp-unit-seeks-fir-against-mp-bittu/story-7dHziIZTaDGZu6IkzxlbLN.html
30-12-2020||Noida||After talks with government, farmers to continue protest at UP Gate with ‘key issues’ remaining||Ghaziabad: After the sixth round of talks between the protesting farmer unions and government representatives ended on Wednesday evening on a positive note, the farmers protesting at the UP Gate border expressed satisfaction over the development but said that the “key issues” of the rollback of the new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP) still remain to be resolved. Leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that they will continue with their protests at the UP Gate till their main demands are not met. While the talks between the union leaders and the government were underway in Delhi, Chaudhary Naresh Tikait, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), held a ‘Mahapanchayat’ at the UP Gate and said that he had spoken to the farmers’ leaders who were part of the talks with the government. “We had asked the farmers’ leaders to make way for ‘faisla’ (decision). Earlier, I had said that we are ready to take two steps backward if the government draws two steps back. Now, I say that we are ready to take two and half steps back. So, we have also told our leaders that there should be a soft approach for reaching to a decision,” Tikait said. He, however, reiterated that if there is no decision on farmers’ main demands, the protest will continue and the farmers will move afoot and on tractors as part of “Dilli Chalo” call on the Republic Day. “If talks fail, we will move to Delhi even if they fire at us. With the stern stance of the government, farmers are also getting tough. They adopted tactics but the farmers did not bow down. If the government is incurring losses due to farmers’ protest, our farmers are also incurring losses,” Naresh Tikait, added. The farmers have been protesting at UP Gate since November 28 and the their number over one month has now swelled to about ten thousand at the site with the protesters occupying the place in tractor-trolleys, temporary shelters and tents. Most of them have come from UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar after Wednesday’s meeting said that consensus has been reached on two issues out of four and the next meeting will be held on January 4. Tomar also said the union leaders kept insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain to them the benefits of the Acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers. On farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at MSP, the minister said the government has already said that it is ready to give a written assurance. “It is good that the talks have progressed and we have our focus on repeal of the three farm laws and a new law on MSP. Till these demands are met, farmers will stay and continue with their peaceful protest,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand. Earlier in the day, Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of BKU, before leaving for talks, said that no one at any of the protest sites at Delhi borders was ready to make amendments to the new laws. “I found no one who was ready for amendments. The farmers in villages are spearheading the protests and they are not afraid of guns. The government has two options – to repeal laws or fire at us. So far, we have only demanded repeal of laws and not asked them to vacate seat. In the world, whenever such revolutions have taken place, the governments get toppled. We have not said such things and only demanding repeal of three laws,” Rakesh Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-talks-with-government-farmers-to-continue-protest-at-up-gate-with-key-issues-remaining/story-l2sc1rk76B4EDUViaan79K.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality slips towards New Year’s Eve||Noida: Noida and adjoining areas’ air quality began to slip on Wednesday. Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida had “very poor” on the day, which was “poor” for the last two days. According to the weather analysts, the drop in temperature, a slight rise in humidity and calm winds made matters worse for the three cities. Experts and pollution monitoring agencies said that the air quality is likely to worsen on New Year’s Eve. “Wind speed has dropped due to which the dispersal of the pollutants has become difficult. Also a number of places across national capital region (NCR) are experiencing cold waves with minimum temperatures around 3 degrees Celsius and maximum temperatures about four degrees below the season’s average, this makes ventilation even more difficult as the colder winds trap the pollutants. The condition will persist till January 2 and pollution levels may stay high,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting centre, Skymet. According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500 on Wednesday was 302 or ‘very-poor’ against 258 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 315 against 272 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 310 against 283 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate further. “Due to the cold dry north-westerly winds and a fall in minimum temperature is likely in the region and a gradual decrease of surface wind speed is forecasted. Very calm surface winds along with low boundary layer height will lead to extremely low ventilation conditions on 31st and 1st January. AQI is forecasted to deteriorate to the high-end of the Very Poor category by 31st Dec. AQI may touch the Severe category for a shorter period on New Year’s Eve. Very Poor to Severe AQI is forecasted on 1st January. Calm wind low ventilated condition is likely to extend for the first few days of New Year,” said SAFAR on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-slips-towards-new-year-s-eve/story-FyDznVJuyQWHXWcS4CwvpK.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Aviation minister reviews Noida airport project||The Uttar Pradesh civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Gupta on Wednesday reviewed the Noida International airport project proposed at Jewar. Officials of Swiss company Zurich that will develop the airport project also briefed him about their plans.“We informed the minister about the connectivity plans, passenger terminal design and other works related with airport. The work is on schedule,” said Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty and nodal officer for the project.Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary RK Tiiwari and Noida Authority Ritu Maheshwari on Wednesday also attended the annual general body meeting (AGM) of the Noida International airport Limited that was formed to monitor the development of the airport. “The AGM approved the accounts and financials for the year 2019-20. This was the only agenda discussed and approved,” said Bhatia.Switzerland Company Zurich International AG will invest Rs30000 crore in the project and it gets 40 years to fully develop this project. Under PPP model Zurich will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to government after 40 years. It will start with two runways by 2023-24 under phase-I and it will have five runways on completion to full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/aviation-minister-reviews-noida-airport-project/story-ChcxavcdKmGPNsasBoKGeN.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Noida sees sharp decline in street crimes this year||Noida: Street crimes such as robbery, snatching, and vehicle theft have declined by up to 60% this year in the Gautam Budh Nagar district as compared to the last year, shows the police commissionerate’s data released on Wednesday. However, cases of cyber crime went up by over 30% this year, the data showed.With regards to crimes against women are concerned, cases of rape have gone down by 61%, but the dowry deaths are up by 48%. Also, cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act went down by 30% (from 121 last year to 85 this year), the data showed.The decrease in the number of crimes can be attributed to the “aggressive” policing in the district, senior police officers said. The police commissionerate system was launched in GB Nagar on January 13. Addressing media during the maiden annual press conference on Wednesday, commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said, “Despite the challenges of the pandemic like border sealing, migrant movement, and awareness drives, among others, policing in the district has been aggressive, resulting in reduction in street crime and more action against organised crime.”According to the police data, from January 15 to December 15 this year, there were a total of 2,316 valuables-related crimes (like snatching, theft, pickpocketing) as against 4,406 last year, registering a decline of 47%. Similarly, there were 398 cases of bodily harm (like murder, kidnap, attempt to murder) this year as compared to 511 in 2019 (a reduction of 22%). The maximum reduction was seen in the number of rape cases, from 89 last year to 35 this year.The police officials said that assets worth over Rs 100 crore have been attached under the Gangster Act this year. As compared to last year’s 82 encounters in which 150 criminals were arrested, 135 encounters have taken place this year in which 244 criminals were nabbed, the officials said.When asked about the lockdown effect on the crime cases, the police commissioner said that crime during the lockdown increased manifold in many districts of the state.On the sharp decline in rape cases, deputy commissioner of police (woman and child safety), Vrinda Shukla, said, “There have been arrests in all registered rape cases. Charge sheets have been filed in all and we are working on fast tracking them. However, dowry death cases this year have gone up from 25 last year to 37. We are working on providing necessary counselling in such cases. Since May, 7,000 women have been provided assistance in domestic violence cases.” The officials said that cyber crime in the district is on the rise and efforts are being taken to handle the situation. “Cyber crime this year went up from 3,050 to 3,956. To curb it, experts are being brought in, training is being provided to personnel and awareness is being created among public,” said Luv Kumar, joint commissioner (law and order).The traffic police department is also working on improving the situation in the district. “The personnel strength has gone up from 421 in 2019 to 513 this year. We have identified 33 black spots and are working on eliminating them all while PRV personnel have also increased from 307 in 2019 to 448 this year. Also, more than 1,000 people have applied for traffic volunteers,” said Ganesh Saha, DCP (traffic).The officials said that focus has also been on the smuggling and circulation of narcotics in the district. While in 2019, 856 kg narcotics worth nearly Rs 37 lakh were seized, the figure went up to Rs 64 lakh this year with the seizure of 2,093 kg of drugs.Over 290 police personnel have contracted Covid-19 so far and three policemen on active duty died due to coronavirus, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sees-sharp-decline-in-street-crimes-this-year/story-hsvQ6cYtwXZFGMcPBq7OYO.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||The year of the pandemic: Panjab Agricultural University charts its own course||Confronted with a contagion, labour crisis, staff strike and contentious farm reform bills, the year 2020 was no walk in the park for Panjab Agricultural University (PAU) officials. Undeterred, the university went on to embrace the virtual medium, promote alternative techniques of sowing, win national and international recognition and support the farmers’ cause. After the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, the university reached out to students virtually. It also successfully organised the first-ever virtual Kisan Mela in September. When travel restrictions led to paucity of trained farm labour across the state, experts from the university, under the aegis of director agriculture MS Bhullar, proposed the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique for sowing, which was met by widespread scepticism. However, all detractors were silenced when the farmers reported a bumper crop. The university is on the verge of expansion with the state government deciding to set up PAU Colleges of Agriculture at Ballowal Saunkhri village in SBS Nagar and Kalanaur in Gurdaspur.Teaching and non-teaching unions staged agitations against the varsity authorities and demanded regularisation of contractual employees , implementation of the old pension scheme for employees recruited before July 9, 2012, bringing the grade pay of library and meteorological attendants at par with lab attendants, promotion of employees, and filling up of vacant positions. Though the employee union staged a 60- day strike, and Punjab Agricultural University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) president HS Kingra went on a marathon eight-day hunger strike, no committee has been set up to consider the demands so far. With the ongoing agrarian agitation on the border, principal soil chemist Varinderpal Singh refused an award, a gold medal and citation during a function in New Delhi and PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon submitted a report compiled by the economics department to the Punjab government, highlighting flaws in the three farm laws.In June, the university’s name cropped up in a seed scam after it was found that Brar Seed Store near the university’s Gate Number 1 managed to procure and sell a large quantity of uncertified paddy variety seeds (PR-128) from the institute’s Ladhowal Seed Farm. This raised questions over the sales protocols followed by the institute. An investigation was ordered and a few were arrests made.Amid hue and cry over farm fires in Punjab contributing to pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), a study carried out by department of climate change and agricultural meteorology head Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu found that stubble burning in Punjab was a localised problem that did bot add to air pollution in New Delhi or the NCR. Rather, the practice affected the health of farmers and their kin, especially children, the study found. In November, days after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in New Delhi announced it had found a solution to the paddy stubble menace in the form a bio-decomposer, PAU scientists said microbes in the form of a decomposer were not the answer. The Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, had developed the decomposer. “Microbe-based technologies, promoted and widely advertised, are being offered as stand-alone interventions. It is, however, clear that the application of microbes needs to be integrated with machine-based solutions,” said Shammi Kapoor, dean, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, PAU, in its study. Kapoor and additional director research GS Manes have also submitted a study to the vice-chancellor, which says a multipronged approach is the only way to manage stubble burning.The university’s first virtual Kisan Mela that was held on September 18 and 19 was carried out successfully. Punjab chief minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh inaugurated the fair, in which 2,65,740 men and women participated. Panel discussions (paddy straw management and direct seeded rice technology), technical sessions and field demonstrations were some of the major highlights.The ‘PAU Live Programme’, which takes place every Wednesday on Facebook and YouTub, has received an overwhelming response from farmers of Punjab and adjoining states. Over 40,000-50,000 farmers view it. The programme was started to apprise and guide farmers about improved crop varieties, their production-protection technologies, allied agriculture occupations, and weather forecast. Interestingly, the programme also became a hit in Pakistan, where several agricultural science students and farmers have become avid viewers of this programme and routinely post questions to experts. Training programmes on diverse aspects of agriculture such as integrated crop production, crop residue management, mushroom cultivation, beekeeping, jaggery making, preservation of fruit and vegetables, soybean processing, bakery and confectionery products were also held.PAU alum and United Nations World Food Programme Representative and Country Director to India Bishow Parajuli won the Nobel Peace Prize for his world food programme. Harjit Singh Sandhu, senior investigations advisor, World Food Programme, Rome, Italy, is also an alumnus of the Ludhiana-based university. Rattan Lal, a PAU alumnus and trailblazer in soil science, was conferred with the World Food Prize 2020.Baljit Singh, a PAU alumnus and incumbent dean, veterinary medicine, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, has been selected to lead USask (University of Saskatchewan) vice-president research office.Professor Zora Singh, a PAU alumnus and foundation professor post-harvest horticulture, department of agriculture and environment, Curtin University, Perth, was named the ‘2017 Innovator of the Year in Western Australia for his commendable research work.The university secured the first position among state agricultural universities and second position among agricultural universities and institutes in the 2019 ranking of agricultural universities by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi.It also ranked 192nd in the ‘6th Annual US News Best Global Universities’ rankings for the year 2020. PAU is the only university from India to have made it to the list in the area of agricultural sciences.The Mohinder Singh Randhawa Library was conferred with “J-Gate CeRA (Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture) Best Usage Award 2020” by the ICAR, New Delhi in the North Zone for the third consecutive year.ICAR conferred the maize section of the department of plant breeding and genetics with the ‘Chaudhary Devi Lal Outstanding All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) Award 2019’. The maize team of PAU is led by JS Chawla, principal maize breeder and in-charge maize section, and includes principal maize breeder Surinder K Sandhu, senior agronomist Mahesh Kumar; senior entomologist Jawala Jindal; senior pathologist Harleen Kaur, and maize breeders Tosh Garg, Gagandeep Singh Bajwa, Rumesh Ranjan and Ashutosh Kushwah.Satnam Singh, Entomologist (cotton), Regional Research Station, Faridkot, was awarded the prestigious International Future Food Beacon Fellowship, hosted jointly by Rothamsted Research and University of Nottingham, UK.Gaurav Kumar Taggar, senior entomologist (pulses), department of plant breeding and genetics, was honoured with ‘Indian Society of Pulses Research and Development (ISPRD) Recognition Award 2020’ for his endeavour to pursue excellence in education and science, and making significant contributions in the areas of host plant resistance to insects, especially, the assessment of pigeonpea resistance to pod borer complex. Besides, three scientists of the pulses section — Upasana Rani, senior plant pathologist; Asmita Sirari, plant pathologist and Harpreet Kaur, agronomist were elected as Indian Society of Pulses Research and Development fellows.Principal pulse breeder Inderjit Singh and senior plant pathologist Upasana Rani bagged the second prize for the poster presentation for their respective papers during ICPulse 2020 ‘International conference on pulses as the climate smart crops: challenges and opportunities’ organised by ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur at Bhopal from February 10-12, 2020. Pulse breeder Shayla Bindra bagged the third prize for the poster presentation of her paper.The university developed and recommended several new varieties for general cultivation in Punjab. These include PR 128, PR 129 and HKR 47 varieties of rice; J 1007 variety of fodder maize; J 87 variety of groundnut; JC 12 variety of maize; PCB 165 of bajra; PBG 8 of gram; LL 1373 of lentil; PGSH 1707 of gobhi sarson; OL 13 and OL 14 of oats; Punjab Ryegrass 2 of ryegrass and CIM Kranti of mentha.Four of PAU’s vegetable varieties were identified for cultivation on the national level during the 38th annual group meeting of ll India Coordinated Research Project (Vegetables Crops), held on September 25 and 26, through the online mode. The Varieties included PBL 234 of brinjal for Zone 4 (Punjab, UP, Bihar and Jharkhand) and Zone 6 (Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Gujarat); Punjab Sona Cherry variety of tomato for Zone 3 (Sikkim, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands), Zone 4 and zone 6 ; Punjab Barkat variety of bottle gourd for Zone 5 (Chhattisgarh, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh), Zone 7 (MP, Maharashtra and Goa) and zone 8 (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Pondicherry); and PP 225 variety of pumpkin for Zone 6 .The varsity inked several memorandums of agreement (MOAs) with Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh-based firms for commercialisation of different technologies, including evacuated tube collector solar dryer, brewed fruit vinegar, sugarcane juice bottling, beetroot powder as a natural colorant, pumpkin seeds flour, mosquito repellent cotton fabric and the pumpkin variety ‘Punjab Nawab.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-year-of-the-pandemic-panjab-agricultural-university-charts-its-own-course/story-x8jGPXy0JDJ2Pzo2ebvW4J.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Covid-19 effect: Only one commercial project manages to get permission for registry||NOIDA: Out of 15 big commercial projects, only one project in Sector 75 has got permission between April and December this year for registry execution to buyers after it deposited the lease rent, officials of the Noida authority said on Wednesday. The remaining 14 commercial projects have turned defaulters due to the negative impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the realty sector, said the officials.“We issue permission for registry of commercial space in a shopping mall only if the developer deposits lease rent. Since April this year, no commercial allottee came forward to deposit the financial dues except one due to the pandemic. Only Spectrum Mall has obtained permission for lease after depositing the dues,” said Kumar Sanjay, Noida authority’s officer on special duty who looks after the commercial department.As per the rules, once a commercial project is ready, the developer has to first obtain the occupancy certificate and subsequently it has to deposit lease rent to the Noida authority to seek permission for executing registry in the name of property buyers. The authority said that the promoter of Spectrum Metro has deposited ₹17 crore lease rent.The Noida authority has been struggling to recover around ₹500 crore financial dues from commercial projects, the officials said. As a result, many property buyers are unable to get the registry done, they said.Amit Kumar, executive director of Spectrum Metro project, said, “Right after getting the permission, we started registry to buyers on Tuesday. Now, our buyers can get their registry done in the project that has around 6 lakh square feet commercial space ready.” Property buyers of Spectrum Metro project have expressed happiness. “We are so fortunate that we can get our registry done for the space in Spectrum Metro during this tough times. We are happy at getting our commercial space on time,” said Rashmi Bahl, a buyer of Spectrum Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-effect-only-one-commercial-project-manages-to-get-permission-for-registry/story-sm8zlfOpHXRlB805ERmqfO.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Property transfer charges may be uniform in three industrial bodies||The Greater Noida Authority board on Wednesday gave in-principle approval to a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme proposal allowing property allottees who had defaulted on payment to settle dues without penalty. The Authority also proposed to cut transfer of memorandum (TM) charges by up to 50%. Narendra Bhooshan, Authority’s chief executive officer (CEO), said the proposals were introduced during the 121st board meeting to provide relief to those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.OTS schemePeople who have residential plots, residential plotted house, industrial plots, commercial plots and IT-enabled plots but have defaulted on dues of all kinds, including water supply fee, lease rent, land cost dues and other non-compliance penalties, would be able to avail the scheme’s benefits. The board forwarded it to the state government for its approval before implementation.TM ChargesThe authority levies 10% of total property cost as TM charges while selling a property in Greater Noida. With 70,000 individual plot owners and 600,000 flats in Greater Noida, TM charges form a significant revenue stream.While the authority proposed to cut it, a final decision was kept in abeyance. This is because the board decided to ensure uniformity in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway regions. They recommended a committee be formed with members from the three authorities to decide on the matter.The Authority board also approved a proposal to make it mandatory for all defaulting builders to open an escrow account for each realty project so that the authority could monitor their finances and recover dues. It also approved a decision to acquire land for industrial development and to expedite the allotment of plots to farmers who gave land for it.The board meeting was chaired by Alok Tandon UP infrastructure and industrial development commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/property-transfer-charges-may-be-uniform-in-three-industrial-bodies/story-qLFc41jN2xJ6Oti0uDAUwN.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP councillors suggest names for mayor’s post||BJP national general secretary and state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam met all 20 BJP councillors at the party’s city headquarters, Kamalam, in Sector 33 on Wednesday.During their one-on-one meeting with Gautam, the councillors were asked to suggest two names each for three posts - mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Their resumes were also taken.Gautam will now convey his feedback to the party high command which will decide the names.Gautam also met party workers, former BJP MP Satya Pal Jain and former president Sanjay Tandon.The mayoral election is scheduled for January 8 and the nomination papers can be filed by January 4. The party is expected to announce the names of candidates for the three posts on January 4.Even as different councillors proposed their own names for the mayor’s post, most of them, it is learnt, opposed the candidature of the incumbent state party chief Arun Sood. Councillors asked the central leadership to follow the principle of “one man one post”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-councillors-asked-to-suggest-names-for-mayor-s-post/story-aZQyvtWHYnPanBj5LxhKCL.html
30-12-2020||Noida||After Meerut, second case of new Covid-19 strain found in Noida||A 33-year-old woman on Tuesday became the first person in Noida to be found infected with the new strain of the Covid-19 virus.She had returned from the UK, where the strain was first detected, on December 18 and is a resident of sector 50. After she was detected with the new strain, she was quickly transferred to an isolation centre where she reported a fever, but her condition was stable. She is the second person in the state to be found with the new strain. A day earlier, a two-year-old girl was found to be infected with it.Gautam Buddh Nagar district magistrate (DM) Suhas LY said that she is among the two UK returnees who tested Covid-19 positive. “In the district, 189 people who had returned after December 8 had been tested with the RT-PCR method. The other one to test positive was a 28-year woman from Greater Noida and she also has been admitted to the isolation ward of the Government Institute of Medical sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. However, she doesn’t have the new strain,” he said.The DM said that health officials had traced three primary contacts of the 33-year-old woman and their samples tested negative for the virus. “We’ve also traced 28 other people, identified as secondary contacts. Their test reports are awaited. Till then, all of them have been asked to be on home quarantine,” Suhas said.He also said that there is no need to panic. “We should must adhere to all the Covid-19 safety protocols like facemasking in public, maintain social distancing and use sanitizers,” he said.The Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that altogether 260 persons have returned from UK after December 8. “While 43 of them have gone on holidays, the other 28 are living in other states despite having addresses of Gautam Budh Nagar district in their passports. We have cross-notified to all the districts concerned, where they are living presently,” he said.The new variant, referred to as SARS-CoV-2 VUI 202012/01 (Variant Under Investigation, year 2020, month 12, variant 01), was detected in that country earlier this month and was reported to be more transmissible. The Indian government suspended flights from the UK from December 23. Several people who had travelled from that country over the last few days too had tested positive although it was not immediately known whether they had the new variant of the virus.The state government had issued guidelines that said that all such persons who arrived from the UK since November 28 to December 8 will be kept under surveillance for 28 days and tested with the more accurate RT-PCR method if they develop symptoms. Those who arrived after December 8 will have to mandatorily undergo the test. Both groups of people will have the option to be isolated at home till they receive their test report.The SOP requires those who have returned from UK on or after December 9 to be mandatorily tested. If found positive, their isolation will be continued and the sample will be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to sequence the viral genome to figure out whether it is the new variant. If confirmed to be the new variant, the patient will be shifted to a separate ward at the districts’ Covid centre. Those found positive with the older variant will have the option of following home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-meerut-second-case-of-new-covid-19-strain-found-in-noida/story-l4A6sgM6VhU7HQx7epx5zH.html
30-12-2020||City||Contractor in cahoots with transport mafia, allege Punbus staffers||Raising hue and cry over the “shoddy maintenance work” of the contractor at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal and accusing him of supporting the transport mafia, the Punbus employees’ union organised a gate rally against him at the bus stand on Wednesday.The protesting employees also raised slogans against the higher authorities who allegedly failed to take action against the contractor despite several complaints. Protesters alleged that proper facilities were not being provided to visitors at the bus stand and cleanliness was not upto the mark . Further, the contractor is also allowing private bus operators, which illegally ferry passengers to other states, to install their vends near the entry gate of the bus stand, hence encouraging the transport mafia.President of Punbus employees’ union, Shamsher Singh said, “We have been complaining about the irregularities and illegal activities being taken up by the contractor, but the authorities have failed to take any action so far. The contractor is also causing a loss to the state exchequer by supporting the transport mafia. We will continue the agitation if the authorities failed to resolve the issue.” The union members said that the general manager of Punjab Roadways (Ludhiana), Inderjit Singh Chawla has assured that the state authorities have been apprised about the issues raised by the union and director, state transport will conduct a meeting regarding the same on January 6. Despite attempts, Chawla could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contractor-in-cahoots-with-transport-mafia-allege-punbus-staffers/story-rNxOkwDUEfJ40JlozDhEyO.html
30-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: 12 booked in 8 cases of dowry harassment||Police have booked 12 people on charges of dowry harassment in eight cases.In the first incident, a case was registered against Inderpal Singh, a resident of MIG Flats, Sector 32, on the complaint of Khushpreet Kaur. The woman said she married to Inderpal in March last year and soon after he started harassing her for dowry. In another case, Harjap Singh, his mother Satpal Kaur and father Didar Singh, all residents of Pratap Enclave, New Delhi were booked for dowry harassment on the complaint of Kulwinder Kaur. The third case was registered against Kuldeep Singh and his mother Bhabri, hailing from Sangha village in Haryana, on the complaint of one Pooja. In another incident, police booked Ankush Ralahan and his mother Chandra Prabha, residents of Salem Tabri, on the complaint of Deepakmal Kaur. A was registered against Hazur Singh, a resident of street number 1 of Gautam Colony of Rahon Road, on the complaint of Mamta Rani. They had married on January 16, 2017. In yet another case, Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Chhabra Colony Phase-4, was booked on the complaint of Sukhninder Kaur, a resident of street number 3 of Shimlapuri. Both were married on 29 November 2015. Bhawanjeet Singh, a resident of Sahibana village and Kuldeep Kaur, a resident of Bhamian village were booked on the complaint of Ramandeep Kaur. The police registered a case against Dinesh Sehgal, a resident of Panchkula Sector 21, on the complaint of Priya.In all the , the women had levelled allegations of domestic violence against their husbands. The cases were registered after the couples failed to reach a compromise during a marital dispute redressal camp . The accused were booked under Sections 406 (breach of trust) and 498-A (harassment) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-12-booked-in-8-cases-of-dowry-harassment/story-XhihHlH7tQgftdOQxReDvM.html
30-12-2020||City||Jamia to conduct online open-book exams in January||New Delhi: Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Wednesday announced that it will conduct online exams in the open-book format in January for all undergraduate and postgraduate students.The University on Wednesday issued a statement saying, “The Academic Council (AC) of the university took a decision to hold semester exams in mid-January through open-book method. Mock tests to be conducted before the final date sheet.”University media coordinator Ahmed Azeem said, “The University will conduct proper mock tests to make students familiar with the format. Also, all issues faced by the students will be fixed before the actual exams. The University will soon release further guidelines.”Earlier, Delhi University (DU) had conducted exams in open-book format between August and September.Jamia had earlier this month announced it would conduct semester exams in the proctored format, where students are supervised by an approved, neutral person (a proctor) who ensures the identity of the test taker and maintains the integrity of the test environment. In this case, the proctor will monitor the student using their webcam and microphone. The university had asked students to attend exams using laptops and prohibited the use of smartphones.The decision was met with criticism from students who called it “exclusionary”. Later on December 12, the university said it was putting those exams on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamia-to-conduct-online-open-book-exams-in-january/story-EszmS09UTC35isuUSjWREI.html
30-12-2020||City||Two critical after being shot in Narela||New Delhi: Two men are battling for their lives after being shot at by unidentified persons in outer Delhi’s Narela on Wednesday night, the police said. The duo includes a 24-year-old driver and another man who could either be a passerby or someone known to the other victim, said Jeetendra Meena, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north). The duo was shot by men who fled in a car immediately after gunning them down, the DCP said.“The men are critical and we are awaiting a response from the hospital on the possibility of their survival,” the DCP said. The family of the injured driver have named some suspects, but the police are yet to pin the attempted murders on them. The crime was reported around 9pm on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-critical-after-being-shot-in-narela/story-GXOfpik4XLjMqLaQQG0uFP.html
30-12-2020||City||J&K admn extends lockdown measures by a month||Amid reports of mutant coronavirus cases in some parts of the country, the Jammu and Kashmir administration extended the existing lockdown and unlock measures by one month.The state executive committee (SEC) issued the order after the Union home secretary, as chairperson of national executive committee, on Monday, issued guidelines for the implementation of extended lockdown in containment zones and continuation of unlock guidelines outside containment zones till January 31, 2021.The SEC orders stated that all existing protocols will continue to be valid till January 31. The instructions come after a few cases of mutant coronavirus, which was first reported in the UK, were found in passengers who have returned from the UK.Meanwhile, the Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) sounded alert and urged health authorities in Kashmir to prepare for potential spread of the new strain of Covid-19 in the Valley.“We need to be prepared,” said DAK president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan.“We have to prepare in advance to deal with the virus. Advanced planning and preparedness is critical to help mitigate the impact of any eventuality. We need to intensify surveillance activities and gear up hospitals to prevent an outbreak,” Dr Nisar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-extends-lockdown-measures-by-a-month/story-mBt64XVuBOtzHBhCKHMDWO.html
30-12-2020||City||Arms, ammunition recovered from village along LoC in J&K’s Poonch district||Security forces recovered arms, ammunition and explosive materials from a militant hideout in Dabbi village along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Wednesday, officials said.The arms and ammunition were kept there by terrorist handlers from Pakistan and have been recovered on the disclosure of three terror associates arrested on Sunday.Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said that during questioning of arrested person Yaseen Khan, some vital clues were developed after which a team of police headed by subdivisional police officer Mendhar Zaheer Jafri along with the army launched an operation in the area of Dabbi and recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition kept in a polythene bag in the bushes.“Two pistols, 70 bullets and two grenades have been recovered so far and more searches are going on,” said Angral. He added that militant outfits were trying to target religious places of Poonch but their nefarious designs have been foiled by the army and police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arms-ammunition-recovered-from-village-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch-district/story-EwnJnuOE6igFDKy7Wl16WJ.html
30-12-2020||City||Himachal logs 220 new Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 220 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s case tally to 55,114, while the death toll rose to 919 after six more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 40 were reported in Kangra, 38 in Solan, 31 in Shimla, 27 each in Chamba and Mandi, 15 in Hamirpur, 13 in Bilaspur, 12 in Sirmaur, 10 in Una, four in Lahaul-Spiti and three in Kinnaur. The active cases have come down to 2,796 and recoveries have reached 51,351 after 755 more people were cured of the disease. With this, the recovery rate has reached 93%. Shimla is the worst-hit district as 10,047 people have detected positive till date, followed by Mandi at 9,636 and Kangra at 7,700. Solan has 6,414 cases, Kullu 4,349, Sirmaur 3,163, Bilaspur 2,846, Chamba 2,849, Hamirpur 2,829, Kinnaur 1,313, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,241.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-220-new-covid-cases/story-W5lyK381EyzrZautCroKgL.html
30-12-2020||City||Migratory birds found dead in Pong Lake wetland area||State forest minister Rakesh Pathania has ordered probe into the death of migratory birds in the Pong Dam wetland area.“The matter of death of migratory birds in Pong Dam Lake is being investigated by officials of the wildlife wing. After receiving reports of samples sent to different institutions, strict action will be initiated against the guilty,” said Pathania.He sought full details of the incident from officers of the wildlife wing and directed that the causes of death of migratory birds should be ascertained at the earliest. He directed the officials to go to the site and investigate the matter.As per reports, on December 28, the field staff of Dhameta Range reported sudden death of four Bar-Headed Geese and one Common Teal in Fatehpur area. Postmortem was done by veterinary officers and in the preliminary findings, poisoning was not suspected. These samples were sent to veterinary laboratory at Shahpur for further testing.Next day, the field staff of Pong Dam Lake wildlife sanctuary was ordered to search the area of wetland and 421 migratory birds of different species were found dead in Majhar, Bathari, Sihal, Jagnoli, Chatta, Dhameta and Kuthera areas of wildlife range Dhameta and in Guglara area of Jawali Beat of wildlife range Nagrota.The samples of the dead Bar-Headed Geese were taken to veterinary laboratory in Shahpur for testing. The viscera samples were prepared at the laboratory and sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, North Zone, Jalandhar and Veterinary College, Palampur.Meanwhile, a team of veterinary doctors from Kangra will visit Guglara area for assessment of ground realities and send samples to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly; RDDL, Jalandhar, and Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, for further examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migratory-birds-found-dead-in-pong-lake-wetland-area/story-4g8cOUv6ji2p26rCQjZ1TM.html
30-12-2020||City||‘Construct rain water reservoir, provide fire extinguishers to avoid fire incidents’||Taking action against increasing fire incidents in Shima district, state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj has suggested the state government that rainwater harvesting tanks should be constructed in every panchayat besides providing them with fire extinguishers.Bhardwaj has written to Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to consider his suggestions. He cited his visits to rural areas of Shimla where many houses were gutted. He said that houses in villages; especially in hilly areas, are made up of woods and more susceptible to fire.“Every panchayat should have a rainwater reservoir. It will help fire tenders in refilling their tanks. And fire tenders do not get a water source for refilling,” he said.The distance of between fire spots from fire station is also a cause of concern. “If all panchayats are provided with fire extinguishers, villagers can start fire fighting operations in time. Containing fire, in the beginning, will help reduce the losses,” the minister said.In many cases, people could not start fire fighting as neither there was adequate water nor any other equipment and they had to wait for fire tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/construct-rain-water-reservoir-provide-fire-extinguishers-to-avoid-fire-incidents/story-wAmQI1gyNQWCcYfyPwKDzO.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||War on Covid must go on in New Year: Experts||Over the past 10 months, Gurugram has witnessed nearly three Covid-19 waves since it reported the first case on March 16. The total tally has now reached 56,634 cases. From the first Covid-19 case reported in March — a 26-year-old woman who came back from Malaysia — to series of lockdown lasting for nearly 75 days, the city has witnessed several ups and downs while tackling the pandemic. At present, although the average daily cases have come down to nearly 243, health department officials believe that there may be another wave with the drop in temperature and the winter season setting in. In March, the Covid-19 cases were mostly linked with travel history. They were reported from the condominiums and residential societies. A couple of new infections were confirmed every day. On March 24, a complete national lockdown was announced for 21 days. During that time, Delhi’s Nizamuddin emerged as one of the Covid-19 hot spots due to a religious congregation, which allegedly acted as a superspreader event. Some of the people who attended the event were traced back to Gurugram through active police surveillance. By April, the infection began spreading in crowded areas of the city. Covid-19 clusters started emerging,including Jharsa, Sirhaul, Dundahera, Jyoti Park, Khandsa and Sector 12, among others. In May alone, at least 713 new infections were recorded. It was the first wave of infection despite the lockdown getting extended, first till May 3 and then till May 17. But Gurugram, despite having the highest number of cases in Haryana, gained relaxations in lockdown, for being in the relatively safer “orange zone” category. Until the third phase of lockdown till May 31, Gurugram reported almost 24 new cases every day. By then, hospitalisation started increasing, as a result of which, three big private hospitals of the city came together to run the Medeor Hospital in Manesar as a designated Covid-19 facility.Rapid uptick in casesThe Covid-19 death count which was at least 15 in May drastically surged to 91 in June.The city was hard hit by a Covid-19 wave that month, with the total tally breaching the 1,000-mark on June 2. Within a month, more than 4,000 cases were confirmed, escalating the tally to almost 5,347. Cases were doubling every four days, indicating that the infection was spreading at a faster rate. Considering the surge, Delhi-Gurugram borders were sealed with only those having a movement pass issued by the district administration being allowed to commute between cities and states. In June alone, 86 deaths were confirmed, which is the highest till now in a month.Likewise, the hospitalisation reached 567 — the highest so far. The bed capacity in private hospitals was raised from 600 to almost 1,428. At least 25% beds was reserved in 35 private hospitals. To tackle Covid-19 crisis in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) region was treated as a single unit by the union ministry of home affairs to maximise the bed capacity for Covid-19 in the region. Unlock and rapid antigen testingThe downward trend in the test positivity rate started in July and August at a time when nearly 20-50% of the overall tests started being administered through rapid antigen kits. Although the test delivers test results in 30 minutes, it fails to give accurate results every time. Data shows that in July, out of the 71,167 tests administered, nearly 20% were through rapid antigen testing. It increased to almost 50% in August when the total tests declined to 63,132 cases. Overall, by July-end, almost one lakh people were tested for Covid-19. During this time, the Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) emerged as a point of contact for all Covid-19 tests to increase the testing numbers. Camps were being organised in all 19 UPHCs. Cases in August crossed the 10,000-mark and at least 10 deaths were confirmed that month. As the rate of hospitalisation fluctuated between 77 to 378, the health department opened the first plasma bank at Rotary Blood Bank, Sector 10, to support seriously ill patients of Covid-19. Third Covid-19 waveFollowing the various phases of unlock, the festive season and poor mask discipline, Gurugram witnessed a third wave of infection from the end of September. At least 293 cases were confirmed every day that increased to 300 by October and 653 by November — the highest number of average positive cases in a day since the outbreak of pandemic. Testing was subsequently increased with more than one lakh tests being administered in a month. The antigen testing, however, came down to 20% with the more reliable RT-PCR or Rapid Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction tests taking precedence. In December, the positivity rate plunged from 12% to 5%. Meanwhile, the state government decided to administer maximum number of tests every Saturday. Increased testing, stricter enforcement of mask discipline and the end of the festivities led to the gradual decline in the number of cases, starting early December. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said, “Another surge in Covid-19 cases can be expected. In order to bring it under control, it the department is continuing with increased testing in different areas of the city. Apart from routine testing, the number of testing camps has also increased.” Even though Covid-19 is currently on the wane in Gurugram, with active cases coming down to almost 900, health department officials believe that the district can be hit once again by another wave, following a dip in temperature next month. The union ministry of health and family welfare has directed the state to keep a strict vigil on superspreader events, which might lead to an escalation in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/war-on-covid-must-go-on-in-new-year-experts/story-gSlP9GCWTkNPwqcnWDs4tM.html
30-12-2020||City||Summer closing schools to remain shut till Feb 12 in Himachal||In view of the current Covid-19 situation in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided that summer closing schools will remain closed till February 12, 2021, however online studies through Har Ghar Pathshala will continue in these schools.A notification regarding this has been issued by the education secretary.Earlier, in November, the state government had ordered the schools to be reopened for higher classes after regular schools being closed since March due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic but immediately had to withdraw the decision after several students and teachers tested positive for the virus.The state government had also decided to conduct final examinations of Classes 5, 8, 9, and 11 will be conducted simultaneously for winter and summer closing schools in March 2021 and Board examinations of Classes 10 and 12 of both winter and summer schools in March 2021 with 30% reduction in the syllabus and increased options which are already been notified by Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/summer-closing-schools-to-remain-shut-till-feb-12-in-himachal/story-EY3z7nj7Hu5pHcuAJLTipL.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP carries out demolition drives in Bhondsi, Nayagaon||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning(DTCP), on Wednesday, carried out demolition drives in two large colonies in Bhondsi and Nayagaon, located on the outskirts of the city. DTCP officials said illegal colonies being developed on nearly six acres of land were demolished by their team with the help of Gurugram Police. Around 10 officials of the enforcement wing, three earth-moving machines and 80 police personnel were involved in the drive. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, Gurugram, said that 10 shops, one warehouse, three under-construction houses and 15 plinths were demolished during the drive. “The drives against illegal colonies will continue throughout the next year as well. We are once again appealing to city residents not to invest in illegal colonies. We are working in close coordination with district administration and police in this regard. This has helped in curbing such colonies,” said Bhath. Earlier on Tuesday, the department had carried out a demolition drive in Jhundsarai village in Farrukhnagar tehsil, in which four warehouses, 10 shops, and five other structures were demolished. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, who was part of the team, said that the developers have repeatedly raised illegal structures. As such, the department was forced to initiate action. Bhath, meanwhile, said that department will conduct a review of its drives in the last three months and, starting next year, they will create a quarterly plan for these actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-carries-out-demolition-drives-in-bhondsi-nayagaon/story-IwMcr0mZS7jeSpD35T7EdO.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||RTA starts public awareness campaign to promote road safety||The regional transport authority (RTA) has started a public awareness campaign to promote road safety among commuters. The officials said they are aiming to reduce road fatalities by 20% in 2021. A total of 20 hoardings have been put up at prime locations across the city to create awareness regarding road safety and emergency services in case of an accident. The department has designed creative pictures with clever messages across the city. It has also started putting up road safety stickers on taxis, buses and autos to spread the message, said officials. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram, said that department has also identified the key accident-prone zones in the city and teams are already working on remedial measures. “Initially, we have put up 20 hoardings at major locations, which are used by the maximum number of commuters. It is important to rush an accident victim to the nearest hospital for timely first aid, which can save his or life. The commuters should have all the helpline numbers saved and it is important to highlight them on hoardings so that the ambulance can reach on time,” she said. The hoardings also list common traffic violations, such as speeding, jumping traffic signals, drink driving, unnecessary honking, violations of designated traffic zones, not wearing seat belts, riding without helmets, modification of two-wheelers and the use of mobile phones while driving, among others. As per the official data, 675 road accidents took place in city between January 1 to December 24 this year. The police have also issued 318,332 challans for various traffic offences during the same period. This is the first time that a comprehensive analysis of accident trends at the “black spots” in the city has been undertaken. While the number of deaths was 433 in 2019, it came down to 307 in 2020, the police said. There are around 20 black spots in the city that report a high number of road accidents. The RTA has flagged off a programme to identify black spots on roads for the first time in December this year. Yadav said the authority wants to reduce the taken by an ambulance to reach an accident spot.In many cases, victims die due to excessive bleeding and not receiving any timely medical help. As per the data, it takes 18 minutes on an average for a road accident victim to get medical aid. RTA officials say that this time should be reduced to at least 12 minutes. The campaign also aims to raise awareness against drink driving.Challans for drink driving constituted 23% of the total number of fines issued, said the police. The number of challans have increased 10 times in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rta-starts-public-awareness-campaign-to-promote-road-safety/story-QQsh7LtmTCnZmOGq4ru4mO.html
30-12-2020||City||Army to pay tribute to martyr Capt Mridul Sharma on martyrdom day||The Indian Army is all set to observe the martyrdom day of Captain Mridul Sharma of Hamirpur who had laid down his life while fighting with Pakistani mercenaries on January 1, 2004, in Jammu and Kashmir. Capt Mridul Sharma displayed courage and unyielding fighting spirit and laid down his life for the nation. He was awarded the Sena Medal (Gallantry) for his act of bravery and supreme sacrifice.In order to observe the martyrdom day of Capt Sharma, a team of five jawans/officers of the 514 AD regiment of the army are giving new look to his statue installed at the Gandhi Chowk area of the town. Subedar Srimanta Bose who is leading the team said that the jawans would return to their regiment after the main function on January 1. He said that Captain Sharma was a great worrier and had done a lot for the nation.People of the town are appreciating the work of the army jawans in giving a new look to the Shaheed Mridul Park and the statue on the occasion of his martyrdom day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-to-pay-tribute-to-martyr-capt-mridul-sharma-on-martyrdom-day/story-YE0LEZEhIk1FwXxRay8rwK.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||4,000 police officers to be deployed across the city on New Year’s Eve||The Gurugram Police have started preparing for the New Year by putting in place measures to maintain social distancing and prevent overcrowding on New Year’s Eve. Around 4,000 police personnel will be deployed across the city to disperse crowds, maintain physical distancing and tackle law and order situation, said the police. The police have strengthened security arrangements to keep a vigil on crowded places of the city, including the Mall Mile on MG Road, which witnesses a high footfall on the night of December 31. The police have also instructed local intelligence officials to keep an eye on parties and functions on New Year’s Eve. As per the authorities, bars, restaurants and pubs are not allowed to remain open after 12 midnight and only those who have paid additional fees can operate until 3 am. Apart from the Mall Mile, other areas such as Ambience Mall, Golf Course Road, Sohna Road, Golf Course Extension Road, Galleria Shopping Complex and Business Centre (Vyapar Kendra), where some of the famous pubs and bars are located, will be strictly monitored by the police. Each police station will check people’s movement and potential suspicious activities, said officials. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that policemen will be posted at all major locations in both plainclothes and uniform to maintain law and order. “All police personnel have been instructed to compulsorily wear face masks during duty and to try and not be in close proximity of people,” he said. Nine teams of counter assault, bomb disposal, police riders, PCR, intelligence, crane, fire brigade and ambulance will be on alert. Apart from station house officers (SHOs), crime branch staff members and traffic officials will also be on duty, said the police. Weekly offs and holidays have been cancelled for all officials — starting from senior police officials to the members of constabulary for Thursday and Friday, the department said. There are special guidelines for the pubs and bars as well. The police have strictly instructed them to allow guests as per the capacity of their premises and keep a check on anti-social elements. A duty magistrate, excise officials and police officers will be on duty to implement the orders. Apart from police personnel, 900 home guards will also help the city police during the period. Extra force will be deployed to keep a watch on party places, gardens, promenades and terraces, said the police. From Thursday evening to Friday morning, security personnel, will be posted on roads, metro stations, bus stands and railway station. Rao said special police arrangements have been made at Sahara Mall, Vipul Agora building, DT City Centre, Metropolitan Mall, JMD mall, Ambience Mall, Kingdom of Dreams, Sector 29, Huda Ground, Galleria market, South Point Mall, Goof Earth Mall, Cyber Hub, Bristol crossing, Sikanderpur Iffco Chowk. No parking will be allowed near these areas, he said. There are currently 71 check points across the city and 42 additional points have been set up. Barricading has been put in place at all these places, said the police. Rao said teams will check all vehicles entering and exiting the city. Teams will be deployed at all border check points until Friday morning. Teams of police, excise and district administration officials also will do rounds of major areas, such as MG Road, Cyber Hub, Golf Course Road and Sohna Road, to prevent any untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/4-000-police-officers-to-be-deployed-across-the-city-on-new-year-s-eve/story-ISHVfhCcCl9d5gUvntiB1H.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||21 MCG officials given responsibilities of Manesar civic body||At least 21 senior officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have been assigned additional duties in the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM). The Directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) issued an order in this regard on Wednesday evening after approval from the Haryana government.Apart from these 21 officials, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, was given the additional charge of the commissioner of MCM on Monday. This is the first time that the state government has appointed any staff members for a newly formed civic body, said officials privy to the matter.The 21 officials include the additional municipal commissioner, deputy municipal commissioner, chief town planner, senior medical officer, and officials from the engineering, electrical, taxation, and sanitary wings. ULB’s letter to the MCG, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, states that the matter regarding the assignment of additional duties or charges to officials working in the MCG was “referred to the government for consideration and approval.”The required approval has now been granted and the concerned officials presently working in the MCG have been deputed to look after various responsibilities at MCM. However, they would continue to draw their salaries from their existing place of posting, the letter further stated.Singh has also been authorised to assign additional charges to the officials working in the MCG for the newly formed MCM.“This is purely a time gap arrangement till the regular postings are made by the government and this arrangement will ensure smooth functioning of the newly created MCM. No extra remuneration or seniority will be given on the account of this arrangement (sic),” read the ULB letter.On December 24, the Haryana cabinet approved the proposal for the formation of MCM.Spread across 125 square kilometres, the MCM has 28 villages under its jurisdiction, apart from residential and industrial areas falling within the sectors 77 and 93 and a few areas located near the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/21-mcg-officials-given-responsibilities-of-manesar-civic-body/story-EsL0TyOb9yI5mo08XjAqKI.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG’s executive engineer under probe for discrepancies in release of funds||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has initiated an investigation against one of its executive engineers for allegedly sanctioning the release of funds for a project in Ward 34, even before work had started at the site. His charge as an executive engineer (XEN) has been withdrawn with immediate effect, said officials.According to the MCG joint commissioner, Hariom Attri, the civic body had last month floated tenders to re-carpet roads in wards 34 and 35, a project that primarily involved fixing of potholes. The cost of the project was estimated to be around Rs 47.50 lakh and Rs 24 lakh in wards 34 and 35, respectively.Attri said that the concerned XEN, in collusion with the contractor, had paid Rs 47.50 lakh, the entire cost of the project for fixing potholes in Ward 34 to the contractor.“For both wards 34 and 35, I had received a letter from the area councillors concerned that they had not issued any work satisfactory certificates to the MCG. Funds were sanctioned to the contractor for work in Ward 34 and were under process for Ward 35. Both the councillors alleged that their certificates had been forged by the XEN, and the matter has been investigated and a report in the matter submitted to the MCG commissioner for perusal and further action. In both wards, no work on the ground had been started,” said Attri.In July 2019, the MCG introduced a policy that for ward-specific projects, payment to a contractor can only be made after the councillor of the area checks the work on-ground and subsequently, issues a work satisfactory certificate. This way, there was greater scrutiny on the quality of work executed.The issuance of forged work satisfactory certificates has been a major problem in the MCG recently. In November, the civic body found at least 12 forged fake satisfactory certificates, bearing either fake signatures of the councillors or missing key details, such as the type of project or the date, based on which contractors were paid the entire project amount.The MCG has already withdrawn the charge of two XENs, an assistant engineer, a junior engineer over the allegations and further written to the directorate of the Urban Local Bodies (ULB) to take legal action against the four officials and three contractors.One of the XENs who is already under probe is also the XEN who is under probe for the alleged wrongdoings in wards 34 and 35.The withdrawal of charge of the XEN comes at a point when the MCG is struggling with a shortage of senior officials. The charges of four of 10 MCG’s XENs have been withdrawn over the last two months for negligence or corruption, leading to a major delay in developmental projects. Several MCG XENs are currently holding dual charges.The MCG is considering reshuffling the entire engineering wing to overcome the shortage of manpower. The transfers are expected to take place early next month, said officials.Besides the issuance of fake certificates, over the last 12 months, the MCG has also had several cases where the contractor has been paid the entire or partial amount even when the project is either yet to start or is at a nascent stage. As per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, the MCG can only pay the contractor for running costs of a project, while the final sum is only paid after the work is completed.The XEN concerned did not respond to phone calls and messages for comment.Instances of payments to contractors before the work have been cropping up regularly. In one instance, the MCG’s engineering wing had paid Rs 35 lakh to a contractor in December 2019 for constructing a 1.7-kilometre track between Khushboo Chowk and Bristol Chowk, along the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road. Only 600 metres of work, worth Rs 11 lakh, had been completed.In February 2020, the MCG’s engineering wing had paid Rs 1.67 crore, the total project cost, to a contractor for building a two-kilometre road in Ward 1 even before the construction had started.In September 2020, a contractor was paid Rs 50 lakh, nearly a quarter of the total project cost of Rs 2 crore, for laying pavement tiles in ward 25, by the MCG’s engineering wing, despite only 10% work being completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-s-executive-engineer-under-probe-for-discrepancies-in-release-of-funds/story-qFu8BJIMPgcGxRAgb7X3dI.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||Jams at Kherki Daula toll due to digital experiment||The Kherki Daula toll plaza on Wednesday witnessed frequent jams, as the toll operator closed the cash lanes and experimented with totally digital modes of payment, as directed by the National Highways Authority of India. Toll plazas across the country are to accept fees only through FASTags.Officials of the Millennium City Expressway Private Limited, the concessionaire, said that jams were caused as 20% of the vehicles had problems with FASTags while 10% did not have the tags at all.An MCEPL official said that the first experiment started around 9.30am on Monday but it had to be stopped due to traffic build-up. “Several vehicles don’t have functional tags because of which jams happened,” he said, adding that jams were inevitable if the toll plaza is turned fully digital.Around 65,000 to 70,000 toll-paying vehicles pass through the toll plaza at Kherki Daula every day, said an official.Suraj Bhardwaj, CEO, MCEPL, did not respond to phone calls and messages seeking a response on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/jams-at-kherki-daula-toll-due-to-digital-experiment/story-GFrGL0H1cZUMaA7IfpmhoI.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers to stay put, hold off tractor rally until next round of talks||Farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Jaisinghpur Khera in protest of the new farm laws on Wednesday said that they will continue with their agitation and not leave until their demands are met even as cold wave conditions intensified over the last two days. Farmer leaders also said that a tractor rally that was scheduled to take place on Wednesday had been postponed in view of the sixth round of talks between farmers and the government. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for the past 18 days. They seek to join the farmers’ agitation in Delhi but have been restricted at the Haryana border by the Rewari Police. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September this year. They fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of corporations and put an end to the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. “Despite the dipping temperatures, farmers are continuing their agitation. We will not withdraw from here till our demands are met. Farmers will be spending New Year’s Eve at the border. A tractor rally had been planned for December 30 but it has been deferred in view of the talks with the government. We have been getting support from hordes of people who are joining us and our agitation will continue till the laws are not repealed,” said Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan. Amra Ram, the national vice-president of All India Kisan Sabha and former CPI (M) MLA, said that the movement would continue under the leadership of the farmers and will intensify in the coming days if the government doesn’t accept their demands. “The three black laws are akin to a death warrant for farmers. Farmers are clear about this and will not back down despite attempts by the government and media to divide the agitation. The union of farm leaders will continue to guide the agitation. We will abide by the instructions of the farmers’ union,” said Ram. On Wednesday, Swaraj Abhiyan president Yogendra Yadav also spoke to farmers about the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Yadav said that the Act would benefit corporations and big industrialists, whereas smaller farmers would suffer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-to-stay-put-hold-off-tractor-rally-until-next-round-of-talks/story-kcRv3Y6ZaHbZJh9wX2ZV7J.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||Cold continues, minimum temperature at 5.2°C||The cold wave conditions in the region continued on Wednesday, with Gurugram recording a minimum temperature of 5.2 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory.The maximum temperature on Wednesday, as per the Palam observatory, was 15.2 degrees Celsius. While the maximum temperature was five degrees below the normal, the minimum was two degrees below the normal temperature for this time of the year.The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the city’s temperature on Wednesday. However, the Palam observatory, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather.As per the IMD’s forecast, no significant change is likely in the minimum temperatures over most parts of northwest and central India over the next two days. The temperature is expected to rise by 3-5 degrees Celsius after that. Cold wave conditions, along with dense fog, in isolated pockets of Haryana, are expected over the next two days, as per the IMD. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 16 degrees Celsius and four degrees Celsius, respectively, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast. Light rain is expected from January 2.The air quality in the city deteriorated slightly on Wednesday, with Gurugram recording an air quality index (AQI) of 227 (poor), as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. On Tuesday, the AQI stood at 214, in the poor zone, of the daily bulletin. Experts attributed the improvement over the last two days to high-speed winds and change in the wind direction, but said that air quality might worsen in the next two days.“The air quality is likely to deteriorate around New Year’s Day. However, we are expecting rain this week, which would help in cleaning up the air. Once the temperature starts dipping again, the air quality is likely to decline,” said Sachin Panwar, an independent air quality scientist.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category on Thursday and reach the upper-end of the very poor category on Friday. Extremely poor ventilation conditions, unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants, are likely to prevail on Thursday and Friday. Subsequently, air quality is likely to improve from January 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cold-continues-minimum-temperature-at-5-2-c/story-kuwGbBZnOyBO5Gw9ZHMSnK.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||Vij discharged, to remain on oxygen support at home||Haryana home minister Anil Vij was discharged from Medanta Hospital on Wednesday after undergoing treatment for lung infection caused due to Covid-19. The minister tweeted about his discharge, stating that he will stay home on oxygen support. According to the health bulletin issued by the state health department and hospital, Vij was discharged after confirmatory negative Covid-19 report, following an improvement in clinical condition and improved CT chest. For the last 14 days, 67-year-old Vij, who is also the state health minister, was undergoing treatment in the city for Covid-19 pneumonia. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 on December 5 and was admitted to Civil Hospital in Ambala and then shifted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak. As his health failed to improve, Vij was admitted to Medanta for treatment, where he was directly admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on December 15. “The home minister went through aggressive treatment including chest physiotherapy, relaxation techniques, sleep monitoring, vital parameters and blood sugar maintenance,” read the bulletin. Initially, the minister had to be kept on high flow oxygen support.The bulletin stated, “There was a gradual improvement in his general condition with reduction in oxygen requirement. His blood test and CT-chest also showed improvement. He was shifted to ward on December 23 where cardiology, gastroenterology and endocrinology opinions were taken.” As reported by HT earlier, Vij had health issues due to multiple co-morbidities. It also said that after the discharge, a team of two doctors, physiotherapist and technician from Civil Hospital, Ambala, will take care on medication, tests, monitoring and follow up of Vij’s health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/vij-discharged-to-remain-on-oxygen-support-at-home/story-0Qnzl8ZEa1YuRq3B1gCCsI.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||Two UK returnees have mutant virus strain, at isolation in Delhi hospital||Two Gurugram residents who returned to India from the United Kingdom on December 23 have tested positive for the new mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus, according to the Gurugram health department. The two positive cases are currently admitted to the special isolation ward at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital in New Delhi.“Two men were tested positive for the Covid-19 at the Indira Gandhi International Airport upon their arrival on December 23. Since then, they have been in Delhi and were confirmed positive for the UK strain on December 29,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.He said that based on the information shared with the state health department, both the positive patients have been kept in isolation at the Delhi facility. “Their three contacts are also isolated at Delhi since their arrival on December 23,” said Yadav.The mutant coronavirus strain, which surfaced among the UK returnees, is believed to be 70% more transmissible than the strain prevalent in India. Besides, the district health department on Tuesday sent the sample of a 22-year-old man, who had tested positive on Tuesday, to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi for genome sequencing to confirm the presence of the new strain. The UK returnee arrived in Gurugram on December 19 and was confirmed Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. He is currently at a separate isolation facility set up by the health department in Gurugram.Yadav said that the results of genome sequencing are likely to be revealed in the next two days. He said, “His three immediate contacts (family members) were also tested and were found negative for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday.”According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 20 persons across the country have been detected with the new mutant variant of Covid-19 reported in the UK. These are out of the 107 samples processed until December 29 at 10 labs that, together, form the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) for genomic sequencing of new Covid-19 strain. In the wake of the development, the government has extended the temporary suspension of flights to and from the UK till January 7.At the district level, health teams are also conducting mandatory testing of UK returnees, who have returned to the city since December 8. Based on the list shared by the state health department, the number of travellers who arrived since December 8 exceeded 721 on Wednesday.Of the 721, 525 have been traced by the health department, 164 moved to other cities or countries, while 32 people continue to remain untraceable.At least 369 people who arrived in the city have been tested, of whom 354 have tested negative and the results of others are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-uk-returnees-have-mutant-virus-strain-at-isolation-in-delhi-hospital/story-A2TH6jvA0DK66xR6dIryOI.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bars face 3-day closure for defying hookah ban in Chandigarh||With at least 13 clubs and bars found flouting the hookah ban in the past two months, the Chandigarh administration has decided to invoke strict penal provisions under the Disaster Management Act against the violators and close such establishments for three days. The administration had banned serving of hookahs to contain the spread of Covid-19. Sub-divisional magistrates will ensure proper implementation of the order. Meanwhile, managements of Pipe and Barrel Bar in Sector 9 and Poison Bar in Sector 17 have been booked under the strict provisions after police teams found them flouting the ban. A case was registered against Sumesh Gagneja of Pipe and Barrel besides Naresh Bhandhari and Sushant Nagpal of Poison under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 58 (offence by companies) of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bars-face-3-day-closure-for-defying-hookah-ban-in-chandigarh/story-XnDkzmtDq37xZYiGrFMqRK.html
30-12-2020||City||Himachal Congress seeks plan to tackle new Covid strain||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore on Wednesday expressed concern over the new strain of Coronavirus in the state and has sought information from the Jai Ram government about the measures being taken to tackle the new strain. In a statement issued by Rathore, he said that the present state government has proved to be a total failure in controlling the virus and now this new strain of Coronavirus will prove to be more dangerous for the people of the state.He has also demanded the state government to strengthen the healthcare services in Covid care centres due to the rising number of deaths being reported in the state and said that the state government has not taken any measures to improve the healthcare services in these centres and have left people on their own to deal with the pandemic.Expressing grief over the death of Santosh Sailja, the wife of former chief minister and senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar, Rathore said that when he is not getting enough health services in these Covid centers, then we can only imagine what difficulties common people have to face during the treatment in these centres.Rathore said that Shanta Kumar’s departure to Chandigarh from Tanda Medical College for treatment indicates that there was some lapse in the treatment being provided to his wife. “Those who have recently returned from the United Kingdom should come forward for health checkup in the public interest so that we can prevent any community spread of this new strain,” said Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-congress-seeks-plan-to-tackle-new-covid-strain/story-CJA3b2PiX9Fzv7wSVgzYSJ.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||10 roads made vehicle-free on New Year’s Eve in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police have declared 10 roads as vehicle-free zones to maintain law and order on New Year’s Eve. No vehicle movement will be allowed on these roads for four hours, between 10pm on December 31 and 2am on January 1. These include the inner market roads of Sectors 7 to 11, inner roads of Sector 17, the road from Aroma light point to the dispensary in Sector 22, and the road around Elante Mall. People who live in these sectors will have to carry a valid ID with proof of residence in order to access these roads. Around 2,000 cops will be on vigil to prevent hooliganism, with special focus on safety of women. Traffic police will also set up nakas to check speeding and drunken driving. It is not clear yet whether alcometers will be used. “We will be deploying nakas at important locations, particularly where large gatherings are expected, to ensure smooth flow of traffic. Anyone found breaking traffic rules and speeding or driving drunk will be dealt as per law,” said senior superintendent of police, traffic, Manisha Chaudhary.In Panchkula, police will place barricades at 41 places besides setting up 12 nakas to check drunken driving on New Year’s Eve. Around 600 cops will be on the field in Mohali, where no relaxations to the ongoing night curfew have been announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-roads-made-vehicle-free-on-new-year-s-eve-in-chandigarh/story-hGOZy2Bo9NqUpw1sDnDs1N.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||677 fresh coronavirus cases in Delhi, positivity rate 0.8%||Delhi recorded 677 fresh COVID-19 cases and 21 fatalities on Wednesday, even as the positivity rate dropped to 0.8 per cent, authorities said.The infection tally in the city mounted to over 6.24 lakh and the death toll rose to 10,523 on Wednesday, they said, adding that over 84,000 tests were conducted on the previous day.From December 21 to 23, the daily cases count has been below the 1,000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported; 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23.However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily cases count was 564, the lowest in the last seven months.On May 26, Delhi had recorded 412 COVID-19 cases.           The latest 677 cases came out the 84,680 tests conducted on Tuesday, including 44,221 RT-PCR tests and 40,459 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The number of active cases dropped to 5,838 on Wednesday from 6,122 Tuesday.The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 6,24,795.The highest single-day spike till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11.Meanwhile, sources said eight people who recently arrived here from the UK have tested positive for the new strain of the coronavirus.According to the bulletin, out of the total number of 18,718 beds in COVID hospitals, 16,433 are vacant.The Delhi government had significantly ramped up testing in the past few weeks, with the count on several times crossing the 80,000-mark.The number of tests done per million, as on Tuesday was over 4.5 lakh, while the total number of tests stood at over 85 lakh.The bulletin said 6,08,434 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/677-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-0-8/story-jf56ivG68T9xIOtHr6kJDJ.html
30-12-2020||City||Three suspected militants killed in gunfight with security forces in J&K||The security forces on Wednesday said three local militants were killed in an encounter at Lawaypora on the outskirts of the Srinagar city in Jammu and Kashmir. Their families, however, rebutted the claim of the security forces and said the youth killed in the encounter were civilians. The families held protests outside the police control room in Srinagar.The encounter began on Tuesday evening and continued till Wednesday morning after the forces resumed with fresh firing close to the building where the trio was hiding. The J&K Police, army, and the CRPF launched a cordon and search operation in the locality close to the national highway after inputs about the presence of militants.Sources said that the army had received the inputs, and subsequently, an operation was launched by joint forces in the area.By late night, sources said the operation was stopped and all the entry and exit points towards the area were completely sealed. The army claimed the militants killed in the encounter were planning a big attack on the national highway. At a press briefing general officer commanding (GoC) Kilo Force H S Sahi said the militants had planned to launch an attack on the forces on the national highway and different agencies were getting inputs about the same.“We had been getting inputs about the militant movement on the national highway. The operation was launched last evening after getting inputs that militants were inside a house close to the national highway. They were asked to surrender, however, they responded with firing and the operation was suspended for the night and when it was resumed again in the morning, they were again given a chance to surrender however, they again started firing and hurled grenades which gave an indication they had no intention to surrender.”Families of the three youths killed in the encounter identified them as Zubair Ahmad of Turkawangam in Shopian, Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq of Putrigam in Pulwama. The families said that they were students and had left their home yesterday and alleged that they were picked up and then killed in an encounter.Police spokesman said that one AK 47 rifle and two pistols and ammunition among other incriminating material were recovered from the possession of militants.“From the recoveries their identity has been established as Ajaz Maqbool Ganie, Ather Mushtaq both residents of Pulwama and Zubair Lone, a resident of Shopian. Some families from South Kashmir came to the PCR and claimed them to be their wards. A case under relevant sections of law has been registered and an investigation has been initiated,” the spokesman added.Former J&K chief minister and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti said that authorities should come clean on this encounter.“Worrying that in the past few months after the Shopian fake encounter other families too in J&K have alleged that their sons were innocent and killed in a staged encounter. Authorities need to come clean on this,” tweeted Mufti along with a video of protesting relatives of the youth killed in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-suspected-militants-killed-in-gunfight-with-security-forces-in-j-k/story-uBZdQKqoutVBQ5JPciqN3L.html
30-12-2020||City||IC-814 hijack: 21 years after release, Zargar remains elusive||In June last year, five CRPF were killed and as many injured in a terrorist attack on a busy road in Anantnag district of South Kashmir whose responsibility was claimed by the Al Umar militant group which was dormant for many years. The attack brought in focus the leader of Al Umar Mujahideen, Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar, one of the three terrorists, who, along with JeM chief Maulana Masood Azhar and Omar Sheikh of Harkat-ul-Ansar, was released in Kandhar of Afghanistan, in exchange for over 150 hostages of the Indian Airlines Flight 814 on December 24, 1999. Zargar was lodged in Kote Balwal jail in Jammu at that time. The Indian Airlines IC-814 Kathmandu-Delhi flight, carrying 178 passengers and 11 crew members, was hijacked by Pakistan-based Islamic terrorists belonging to Harkat-ul-Mujahideen with the active support and assistance of the Pakistan army. The flight, which made stops at Amritsar and Lahore, ultimately stationed itself in Kandahar, Afghanistan. Nobody knows the whereabouts of Zargar since he was released in 1999. Police officials, however, said that he was in Pakistan at a “safe house” and could revive the group which is otherwise inactive for the last two decades. Police had started pursuing leads on Zargar-led Al Umar after it gave a strike call in Kashmir. “Zargar is currently in Pakistan. In old city, there is no presence of Al Umar. We have seen no activity of theirs. I don’t know about their claims in other districts,” said SP North Srinagar Sandeep Gupta. “He hasn’t come out openly after his release but he is on the police radar, especially after his group claimed responsibility for the attack on CRPF personnel in Srinagar. Like other militant groups, Zargar’s group is also under constant watch, though it has no presence in the Valley, not even in Srinagar,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity. Another officer, who didn’t want to be identified, said the attack in Anantnag, though the responsibility was taken by Al Umar, was actually carried out by Jaish. “We reported that Al Umar only claimed the responsibility for the attack, but it was carried out by Jaish,” he said. No contact with him: Family Mushtaq’s elder brother Fayaz Ahmad Zargar, 48, said he was not in contact with Mushtaq and have no information about him since he left home 30 years ago. “He was 16 when he left home amid a wave of militancy and since then we have not been in touch,” he said, adding that the family came to know about his release in 1999. He said the family, including Mushtaq’s three brothers and three sisters, suffered immensely since he left home. “We have witnessed a life of torment all these years. Each day we have seen tribulations. Our two children are in jail for the past four years. I was jailed for 10 months for no reason for the second time in August 2019 when the Article 370 was revoked,” he said. Mushtaq’s two nephews Adil Siraz Nazir (sister’s son) and Dawood Fayaz Zargar (Fayaz’s son) were arrested in 2017 in connection with the killing of DSP Muhammad Ayub Pandith, who was lynched on June 22, 2017, at Nawhatta. “These kids are innocent and they were arrested because of their lineage. Now, their careers are finished,” he said. Zargar’s father Ghulam Rasool Zargar was a photographer who died in 1983 and Fayaz is also into photography, while his two brothers own garment and cosmetics shop in the old city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ic-814-hijack-21-years-after-release-zargar-remains-elusive/story-KdEtpXFlH9NUFQyzuqjF0J.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Couple that left brazier on in their room, found dead in Kapashera||A couple, who had lit a brazier (angithi) in their room to keep themselves warm, was found dead on Tuesday morning in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera , police said on Wednesday. The couple’s three children, who were sleeping in another room, survived.Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), said that prima facie the couple seem to have died of asphyxiation from carbon monoxide produced from the brazier. “There were no external injury marks on their bodies or ligature marks on their necks to suggest any foul play,” said the DCP.The officer identified the couple as Ram Parvesh, 38, and his 34-year-old wife, Kavita. They lived in Samalkha in Kapashera, where Parvesh ran a grocery store.“The couple had been living here for the last 15 years with their three children — a daughter aged 12 years old and two sons, who are seven and five years old,” said the DCP.The police received a call about their deaths around 8am on Tuesday morning.“Usually, the couple woke up before 7am and went about their work. But when they didn’t wake up by 8 am on Wednesday, their daughter knocked on their door and received no response,” said another police officer who didn’t want to be identified.Their daughter then called a relative for help, after which the police were informed.The police then broke into the room and found the couple lying unresponsive. They were rushed to a hospital where they were declared brought dead.This is the first known case this year of death due to asphyxiation from a braziers. Delhi police on Wednesday advised citizens to avoid using braziers in rooms at night while sleeping or urged them to keep their windows open for the smoke to escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/couple-that-left-brazier-on-in-their-room-found-dead-in-kapashera/story-Xrp4os7XXdN4EQBDUK4nXK.html
30-12-2020||City||Delhi: Man arrested for killing friend, dumping his body in gunny bag||New Delhi: Unable to return Rs 77,000 that he had borrowed from his friend during the lockdown cost a 35-year-old his life in outer Delhi’s Prem Nagar, police said on Wednesday after arresting the 24-year-old alleged killer. After killing Ravi Kumar,35, the alleged killer, Ankit alias Bitto(identified by his single name in police records), had stuffed the body in a gunny bag, carried it on his scooter and dumped it in a pond. The suspect carrying the body in the bag was captured in at least six CCTV cameras installed on the 2-kilometre route that he took for dumping the body in the pond. The CCTV footage helped investigators identify and nab the suspect, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said that on Tuesday morning, the Prem Nagar police received a call regarding a body stuffed in a gunny bag. A police team reached the spot and preserved the body in a nearby government hospital’s mortuary, since local enquiry could not help them ascertain the dead man’s identity. A murder case was registered and teams were formed to probe it, said the DCP.During the probe, investigators scanned CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity of the pond where the body was found. In at least six CCTVs, a masked man was seen carrying the gunny bag with body inside it on a blue scooter. All the police personnel was tasked to locate and verify all blue scooters in the radius of five kilometeres in Prem Nagar.“Our effort led us to a similar scooter and its owner, Ankit aka Bitto, a tailor by profession. We confronted Ankit with the footage and he confessed to the crime. He was arrested and the scooter was seized,” said a senior investigator, who did not want to be identified.Ankit’s interrogation, the investigator said, revealed that he knew Kumar for the past five-six years, when they worked together in a shoe manufacturing factory. During the lockdown, Kumar had borrowed Rs 77,000 from Ankit, as he had lost his job and had no other source of income. Kumar had promised to return the money soon but was unable to keep it.“Recently, Ankit planned to buy a bike and needed money for it. He began demanding his money back from Kumar, who had been seeking more time. A few days ago, Kumar showed his helplessness in returning the money,” said the officer.On Monday, Ankit called Kumar to see his new rented room. Kumar reached there around noon. The two had an altercation over the money issue and during that Kumar allegedly slapped Ankit.“Ankit pushed Kumar against a wall in a fit of rage. An iron nail pierced his forehead and he became unconscious because of the bleeding. Ankit panicked and feared that he will be arrested if Kumar filed a police complaint. He brought a rope, strangled Kumar, and stuffed his body in a gunny bag,” the officer said.The officer added the Ankit kept the body in the first-floor room for nearly 11 hours. Around midnight, he took the body in the bag, kept in on the scooter and transported it to the pond, where he threw it and returned home, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-arrested-for-killing-friend-dumping-his-body-in-gunny-bag/story-8E3hUnFxW8MGAxPhjRLt7M.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Safe Mohali Project: 32 automatic number plate detection cameras installed||With the installation of 32 automatic number plate detection and recording (ANPR) cameras in the city, senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh launched the “Safe Mohali Project” on Wednesday. The cameras have been installed at 16 locations falling under the Phase 1 and Mataur police stations covering an 18-kilometre stretch. They have been set up at New Bus Stand,Spice Chowk, PTL light point, Phase 5/3 light point, Phase 3/7 light point, Phase 7 light point, Phase 1 light point, Franco Hotel light point, Phase 2 light point, CBL light point, Mohali Tower light point, Godrej Chowk, Ivy Hospital light point, Sector 70/71 light point and Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan. “Installation of 200 similar cameras is under progress at Kharar and Zirakpur at a cost of over Rs 2 crore,” Singh said, adding that the work will be completed by January 15, 2021. He said that the state government is also going to initiate a Rs 10 crore surveillance project for the entire city. “The cameras are equipped with artificial intelligence and they can automatically capture number plates, identify the digits and record them with historical information of location and time,” he added. Each camera also provides for real-time live viewing at the central control station. This will help authorities know if a camera is not working, making management easier. The project is being developed and executed by Egis Engineering, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/safe-mohali-project-32-automatic-number-plate-detection-cameras-installed/story-yNmfDk60qQSV4t7Jg6FPXP.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Delivery apps report curfew impact on orders an end-of-year downer||The night curfew imposed by the Maharashtra government has slowed down the business for delivery platforms, and restaurants thereof, according to Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association.“The curfew has been a loss to us. We had just picked up business, because in October we were permitted to reopen our restaurants with 50 per cent occupancy. But in reality, it isn’t 50 per cent it is just 35 per cent because, on a table of four or six, we have to accommodate only two, then we can’t make anyone sit near them and we lose that business. We had finally started breaking even after seven months and the government imposed the curfew.” said Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune restaurants and hoteliers association (PRAHA) and the owner of Kalinga restaurant. The restaurants are struggling even with deliveries increasing marginally. As it seems, there are some limitations on deliveries by restaurants and other delivery apps too. “The number of deliveries has increased compared to the lockdown and especially in the last week of the curfew. It is slowly coming back to normal,” said Ismail Ansaari who works as a Zomato delivery executive. “Because of the curfew, not many people have organised big parties as they used to and many are cooking their own food for the small gatherings they have. So, we don’t get much there either,” added Shetty.“We don’t have a lot of big deliveries coming in. The restaurants are open but not a lot of people are placing orders the way they used to. Last year, I delivered orders for many parties and it used to be all big orders at this time of the year, but now not many,” said Paresh Kale, a 30-year-old a Swiggy delivery agent. “A lot of our deliveries have been cut short. As there are restrictions on Zomato and Swiggy deliveries and even we cannot send our boys out due to the curfew. We used to get a lot of orders late at night, but now we don’t,” said Aman Aurora, owner of Lovely restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/delivery-apps-report-curfew-impact-on-orders-an-end-of-year-downer/story-Q8UgqVZ6zT0pprzi0IeJUP.html
30-12-2020||Pune||30 chowks under surveillance; signals operating till 1pm: DCP traffic||For December 31, the Pune traffic police department has made all preparations to monitor possible crowds at 30 chowks that have been identified by the traffic department. Traffic signals at these chowks will be kept operational until 1 a . Already, a night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am has been imposed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its jurisdiction. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and to prevent the spread of the infection, several restrictions have been imposed by the PMC and Pune police department for New Year’s Eve. “In light of the public celebrations and people coming to celebrate the arrival of the New Year, our policemen, along with local police station personnel will be deployed at several check posts. As the night curfew is in place, an appeal has been made to the people to not come out after 11 pm, unless it’s an emergency. We have identified 30 chowks which are some of the crowded places in the city. To monitor the vehicular movement at these chowks, traffic signals will be kept operational until 1am of January 1,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). According to Shrirame, along with the drink and drive action, speed checks will be made on vehicles. “Our policemen will be all around the city to maintain traffic movement . I appeal to Punekars to please follow traffic rules while you are celebrating and take all the safety measures if you are out,” added Shrirame. BOX The chowks under surveillance tomorrow 1. Pune University Chowk 2. Nal Stop Chowk 3. Tilak / Alka Talkies Chowk 4. Puram Chowk 5. Marketyard Chowk 6. Sinhagad Road junction 7. ABC Farms Chowk 8. Golf Course Chowk 9. Bopodi Chowk 10. Khandoji Baba Chowk 11. Dnyaneshwar Paduka Chowk 12. Simla Office chowk 13. Shahir Amar Shaikh Chowk 14. Jedhe / Swargate Chowk 15. Rajaram Bridge Chowk 16. Fatimanagar Chowk 17. Nehru Memorial Chowk 18. Shastrinagar Chowk 19. Sadal Baba Chowk 20. Goodluck Cafe Chowk 21. Jhansi Rani Chowk 22. Jehangir Hospital Chowk 23. Seven Loves Chowk 24. Sawarkar Statue Chowk 25. Lullanagar Chowk 26. Khanya Maruti Chowk 27. Keshvnagar Mundhwa Chowk 28. Koregaonpark Junction 29. Church Chowk, Khadki 30. Kharadi Chowk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/30-chowks-under-surveillance-signals-operating-till-1pm-dcp-traffic/story-Y8wFt7UZQ1YKhdAZ4PYv2O.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Hotels-bars to be open till 10.45pm in Pune; no fire crackers or late-night home deliveries allowed||All hotels, bars, and food courts will be closed by 10.45pm on December 31 and even home deliveries past this time frame has been banned in Pune city, as per civic administration orders. Bursting of fire crackers to welcome the New Year is also not allowed. Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the orders considering the Covid-19 pandemic. Vikram Kumar in his order said, “All the food courts, hotels and bars will be closed by 10.45pm. No home deliveries after this time too.”Kumar said, “Fire crackers are not allowed. Even while organising programmes in the evening, noise pollution should be avoided.”Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued the order on Wednesday and appealed to citizens to cooperate with the administration. “Instead of going out, citizens should celebrate at home. Citizens should avoid going to tourist places, gardens and late night drives,” the civic administration added.PMC officials said, “Usually every year on the first day of the new year, many citizens visit religious places. The citizens should avoid crowded places at religious places and need to maintain social distance.”Citizens need to wear masks and use sanitisers while stepping out, stated the PMC order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hotels-bars-to-be-open-till-10-45pm-in-pune-no-fire-crackers-or-late-night-home-deliveries-allowed/story-vFMOIwA06GbSdCSVX0dKHI.html
30-12-2020||City||Senior official of Pimpri-Chinchwad College of Engineering falls to his death in Aundh||PUNE A senior official from the Pimpri-Chinchwad College of Engineering fell to his death at his residential society in Aundh late on Monday night. While his family claims that there is no possibility of suicide, the police are claiming it as a death by suicide, with the statement of the deceased man’s wife yet to be recorded even after 35 hours of his death. The 60-year-old was found on the ground floor of the building by security guards. While the police claim that he fell off the third floor, his wife who was the only family member present with him, claims that he was not even in the house when it happened. “He worked in CoEP for a long time before moving to Walchand College in Sangli and returning to CoEP briefly. He was supposed to join PCCoE in April itself, but it was delayed due to the lockdown. He joined in June and he has not taken a day off since then. My husband sat next to me that evening and watched the TV serial that we watch every day from 7pm to 7.30pm. He then went for a walk, as he usually does, while I started cooking. He had prepared for himself, and his sub-ordinates, a plan for the next entire week. Why would he opt for suicide?” said his distraught wife. “It is a case of suicide. There is no suicide note,” said senior police inspector Anil Shewale of Chaturshrungi police station. “While I have not checked the details of the case, it appears to be suicide, prima facie. The injuries indicated that it was a fall. Further details need to be investigated,” said Ramesh Galande, assistant commissioner of police, Khadki division of Pune police. An accidental death report was registered at Chaturshrungi police station in the matter while the family is awaiting the return of the deceased man’s two children from abroad to perform last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-official-of-pimpri-chinchwad-college-of-engineering-falls-to-his-death-in-aundh/story-C1QOEumnTjmberrmHooHwM.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records coldest day of the season||The city recorded its coldest day this season on Wednesday as maximum temperature plummeted to 11.5°C, over 9°C below normal. Visibility was also severely affected as it dropped to less than 50 metres in the morning due to dense fog which cleared out by afternoon.As per airport officials, only one flight was delayed due to bad weather. The Air India flight from Leh which was scheduled to arrive at 10:15am reached at 11:40am. As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Wednesday was a severe cold day and similar conditions are likely to continue till January 2.IMD director Surender Paul said, “Maximum temperature dropped due to the foggy conditions. Similar conditions are likely on Thursday. However, Western Disturbances with low-level Easterly Winds will cause light to moderate rain from January 2 to January 5. The fog spell is likely to be broken during that period.”Maximum temperature in the city went down from 14°C on Tuesday to 11.5°C on Wednesday and minimum temperature rose from 2.8°C on to 4.6°C . In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 14°C and 17°C, while minimum temperature will stay between 4°C and 8°C. In 2019, the lowest maximum temperature was recorded at 8.8°C on December 28 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-coldest-day-of-the-season/story-CFaZHdSqIFxk8oXLFKkOHM.html
30-12-2020||City||Pune district reports 7 deaths, 628 new Covid-19 cases||PUNE The Pune district reported seven deaths due to Covid-19 infection and 628 fresh cases in 24 hours on Wednesday, according to the state health department.This takes the final toll to 3.72 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.50 lakh have recovered, 7,796 have been reported dead and 13,743 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 294 new cases taking the total count to 1,90, 883 and one death which took the death toll to 4,406. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 161 new cases taking the final count to 93, 399 and two deaths took the death toll to 1,277. Pune rural reported 173 new cases taking the final count to 87, 821 and four deaths which took the death toll to 2,077 according to the state health department.The department reported that 4,913 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.24 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.62%. Also, 3,537 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 19.28 lakh. In addition, 70 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 50,603. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.56%. Out of 1,26,72,259 laboratory samples, 19,28,603 have been tested positive (15.22%) for Covid-19 until December 30. Currently 2,80,682 people are in home quarantine and 3,127 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-7-deaths-628-new-covid-19-cases/story-kGavumSYcLzVhE7nvqZ3nO.html
30-12-2020||City||Four UK returnees test positive for Covid-19, samples sent for genome sequencing||PUNE Four out of the 560 people who returned to the city from the United Kingdom have tested positive for Covid-19 the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said on Wednesday.The civic body has now sent their samples for genome sequencing to detect UK-like variants which are found to transmit 56% faster than the current strain.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer, PMC, “We got a list of over 667 people who had come to Pune from the United Kingdom before the flights could be banned. Out of these, we could trace about 613 which means that their samples have been sent for RT-PCR testing for Covid-19. We have got the reports of 560 of these out of which four have tested positive.”“We have now sent their samples for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology to detect if they have been infected with the existing strain of or the new (UK) strain of the virus,” she said.As per the PMC circular, these four patients have now been admitted at Naidu hospital for treatment and quarantine.The administration is having a tough time to trace the returnees who are unwilling to come forward to get themselves tested. It has now also sought help from the local police to trace those who have not been able to be traced or have not reported to the local administration yet after returning from the United Kingdom.To ease the contact tracing process of those who have returned from the United Kingdom in the month of December, the PMC has now issued a letter to the citizens to come forward and report themselves to the local administration.In its letter, the civic body stated that currently 109 such returnees have not been traced as they have given a wrong address or a wrong mobile number. The letter stated, “Since it has been over ten days since these returnees came from the UK, the mandatory isolation period is over and so they are requested to submit their negative RT-PCR reports so that the contract tracing process could be registered.”An officer in charge of contact tracing on condition of anonymity said, “It is difficult to trace the UK returnees because they have to be convinced of testing and isolation. They ask too many questions and to explain to each person the rules which have already been made public by the government is a huge task.”“We have to further contact those who came in contact with these people if they turn positive,” he said.Those who came before the December 22 notification, from the UK or the Middle East have been advised home isolation if they test negative while those who came after that will be directed to the nearby hotel for mandatory isolation for 14 days and will be released only after two consecutive negative reports.If any foreign traveller is symptomatic then that passengers would be directed to PMC’s Naidu hospital for quarantine.Contact detailsThose who have returned to the country before December 22 have to submit a negative report to the administration or could contact the PMC at 020-25506800/01/02/03||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing/story-6DbX0Qf9D2UKrpWkLWUp5M.html
30-12-2020||Jaipur||‘Colder than Shimla’: Rajasthan’s Churu breaks record of coldest Dec night in 46 years||Severe winter cold is breaking records in Rajasthan with Churu and Mount Abu recording sub-zero temperatures, resulting in these places witnessing colder nights than the hill station of Shimla which recorded snowfall on Monday night. Churu recorded lowest December temperature on Tuesday night.On Tuesday night, the minimum temperature recorded in Churu was minus 1.5 degrees, the lowest in December after 46 years. Earlier, the lowest temperature in Churu had gone down to as low as minus 4.6 degrees on December 28, 1973, and. In 2011, the town recorded minimum temperature of minus 1.4 degrees.This summer temperature in Churu had touched 50 degree Celsius, bringing to fore extreme temperatures in the western Rajasthan town close to Thar desert. According to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin, Mount Abu, Fatehpur and Jobner in Rajasthan also recorded sub-zero temperatures. The lowest temperature, minus 4 degree Celsius, was recorded in Mount Abu, which was much lower than the minimum temperature in Shimla, where night temperature recorded was minus one degree Celsius.Also read: Centre proposes committee to review farm laws, rules out repealOn Wednesday, Fatehpur recorded minimum temperature of minus 3 degrees Celsius whereas Jaipur witnessed colder nights than Shimla and many other places in the hills such as Dalhousie. Many places in the plains of north India such as Hisar, Panipat, Amritsar and Gurdaspur recorded zero or sub-zero temperatures.The IMD had warned the cold conditions would continue in the New Year. For December 31 and January 1, the weather department has issued a yellow alert for several places in Rajasthan such as Alwar, Churu, Sikar, Jhunjhunun, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur and has warned of cold wave in entire northeastern India. After January 1, the temperature will rise in the state, which will give relief from the cold, the IMD said.The IMD said a western disturbance could lead to “scattered to fairly widespread” snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in the first week of January.Cold and dry northerly and northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperatures down in north India, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/colder-than-shimla-rajasthan-s-churu-breaks-record-of-coldest-dec-night-in-46-years/story-V4hyq26PcZ9k2kYN8YrowI.html
30-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Kindly consider action against Governor of West Bengal’: TMC urges President||The acrimonious relationship between the Trinamool Congress and West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhakhar nosedived further on Tuesday, with the state’s ruling party sending a memorandum to the President of India urging him to take action against Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “Kindly consider initiating action against Jagdeep Dhankhar, Governor of West Bengal for his acts of omission and commission taking into account all legal, constitutional aspects together, before it is too late for the people of West Bengal,” the memorandum said.The six-page memorandum with annexures running up to 14 pages was signed by five senior parliamentarians of the party including Sudip Banerjee leader of the TMC parliamentary party in the Lok Sabha and Derek O’Brien, leader of the TMC parliamentary party in The Rajya Sabha.“Clause 1 of Article 156 of the Indian Constitution says the Governor shall hold office during the pleasure of the President. In the memorandum we have urged the President to consider withdrawing his pleasure for holding office of Governor of West Bengal by Jagdeep Dhankhar for serious breach of oath of his office,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, chief whip of TMC in Rajya Sabha. There was no response from Dhakhar till 5 pm.Also read: Cabinet approves export of Akash missilesThe TMC in its memorandum has raised multiple allegations against Dhankhar including issuing provocative statements, defaming senior bureaucrats and police officers, transgressing upon the jurisdiction of constitutional authorities and refusing to sign bills passed by the state assembly. It also cited multiple tweets by the Governor some of which the TMC alleged were targeted against the chief minister. The memorandum also criticized the Union home minister of spreading canards against the state government. “Union home minister Amit Shah spread canards against the government of West Bengal during his visit to the state in November,” the memorandum said. Meanwhile, the BJP has reacted sharply to the development. Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal said, “The TMC-ruled government has not been able to answer any of the questions raised by the Governor and is hence attacking him. Shah has not spread any canards. He has given statistics. Mamata Banerjee has not been able to answer any of the questions and issues raised by Shah”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kindly-consider-initiating-action-against-governor-of-west-bengal-tmc-urges-president/story-n1HgoT9AOgrCL6poacMMFJ.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi police’s traffic advisory for NYE: No entry for vehicles without passes to Connaught Place, parking limited||The Delhi Police on Wednesday issued a traffic advisory for New Year’s Eve which will be applicable to all private and public transport vehicles and will come into effect from Thursday 8 pm in the city. Special arrangements have been made for the areas in the vicinity of Connaught Place in the national capital.While alcometers (device to measure alcohol content in a breath sample) are not being used in the city due to the Covid-19 outbreak, action will be taken it anybody is found driving in an inebriated state.According to the advisory, no vehicle will be allowed to proceed towards Connaught Place from the Mandi house roundabout, Bengali Market roundabout, north foot of Ranjit Singh Flyover (Barakhamba Road-Tolstoy Marg crossing), Minto Road–Deen Dayal Upadhaya Marg crossing and Chelmsford Road near Munje Chowk (New Delhi Railway Station).It said vehicular movement towards CP will not be allowed from R K Ashram Marg-Chitragupta Marg crossing, Gole Market roundabout, Gol Dakkhana roundabout, Patel Chowk, Kasturba Gandhi Road-Feroz Shah Road crossing, Jai Singh Road-Bangla Sahib Lane, Pachkuian Road- Bangla Sahib Lane, Windsor Place roundabout, Buta Singh Marg roundabout and State Entry Road-New Delhi Railway Station.No vehicular traffic will be allowed in the inner, middle and the outer circle of Connaught Place without valid passes, the advisory added.It said vehicles can be parked near Gole Dak Khana, Patel Chowk on Rakab Ganj Road behind AIR, Mandi House on Copernicus Marg up to Baroda House, Minto Road on D D Upadhaya Marg and Press Road area, Panchkuian Road on R K Ashram Marg, Chitragupta Road and Basant Road towards Paharganj.Parking will also be allowed near K G Marg-Feroz Shah Road crossing on Copernicus Lane as well as on K G Marg towards C Hexagon, near Bengali market roundabout on Babar Road and Tansen Marg, Windsor Place and Gol Market on Peshwa Road and on the service road along Bhai Veer Singh Marg and R K Ashram Road, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Manish Kumar Agrawal said in the advisory.Limited parking space for vehicles with valid passes will be available in Connaught Place on first come-first serve basis. Unauthorised or wrongly parked vehicles shall be towed away and prosecuted, it stated.Agarwal said alternative routes have been arranged for commuters travelling to New Delhi railway station. However, routes to the Old Delhi railway station will not be affected, he added. Traffic arrangements have also been made at areas having high footfall like Saket, Greater Kailash, Lajpat Nagar, New Friends Colony, Hauz Khas, Defence Colony, Vasant Vihar, R K Puram, Nehru Place, Dwarka, Palam airport, Rajouri Garden, Ashok Vihar, Model Town and Mayur Vihar, the advisory stated.Motorists should use alternative routes for north–south movement which include Ring Road from ISBT to Ashram or via Delhi Gate, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Mathura Road to reach Ashram and vice-versa or via ISBT, Rani Jhansi Marg, Punchkuyan Road, Mandir Marg, Park Street, Mother Teresa Crescent Road and beyond or via Rani Jhansi Marg, Punchkuyan Road, Hanuman Murti and Ring Road, it said.Ring Road, Bhairon Road, Mathura Road, Subramaniam Bharti Marg, Rajesh Pilot Marg, Mother Teresa Crescent, roundabout near R M L, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman Road and Shankar Road have been suggested for commuters using east-west directions, the advisory stated.Strict action shall be taken against drunken driving, stunt-biking, over speeding, reckless driving, zig-zag and dangerous driving, it said.“We are not using alcometer due to the Covid-19, but if someone found in inebriate condition, then we will medically examine him and the action will be taken accordingly. We also want people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines,” Agrawal said.For Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police has made elaborate arrangements for the area in and around India Gate for regulation of both pedestrian as well as vehicular movement.In case of heavy pedestrian movement, vehicles may not be allowed to go through the C-Hexagon, India Gate area, after 10 am and diverted, officials said. Visitors are advised to use public transport as there is an acute shortage of parking space at India Gate, the advisory said.In view of the large gathering expected at Delhi Zoo, resulting in congestion on Mathura Road, motorists are advised to avoid Bhairon Road and Mathura Road between Hazrat Nizamuddin and Pragati Maidan, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-s-traffic-advisory-for-nye-no-entry-for-vehicles-without-passes-to-connaught-place-parking-limited/story-T1LgFye6OPXnRIc8HdefVL.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Amid gang violence, Chandigarh sees 150% spike in Arms Act cases in 2020||With gangster violence rampant throughout the year despite the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, Chandigarh Police registered 33 cases under the Arms Act in 2020, highest in a decade, following increased recovery of weapons. Only 13 cases were registered in 2019 and eight in 2018. Gangsters from the neighbouring states, including the jailed ones such as Lawrence Bishnoi, Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, Sukhpreet Singh Budha, Sampat Nehra and Dipu Banur, tried to dominate the crime scene in the city, leading to targeted shootings and extortion bids. This not only led to illegal weapons making their way into the city, but it also came to the fore that many gangsters had already hidden away their weapons in Chandigarh.“The crackdown against gangsters and their sympathisers led to an increase in recovery of weapons. Over a dozen people were arrested for providing support to criminals as well as supplying weapons,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal. “There has been increased involvement of gangsters of Punjab and Haryana in crime in the city, but we have been able to arrest most of them.” A few weapons recovered this year had the name of Ankit Bhadu, a sharpshooter of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang who was killed in an encounter in Zirakpur in February 2019, engraved on it, said a senior police official, not wishing to be named.“It read RIP Ankit Bhadu. The gang was using these weapons, including countrymade, semi-automatic and automatic ones, with the same engraving to sort of pay homage to Bhadu,” he said.Most weapons being brought to the city are purchased from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh or from Madhya Pradesh, said another cop privy with investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-gang-violence-chandigarh-sees-150-spike-in-arms-act-cases-in-2020/story-bV0Bq5azpskrfvy64VJiKL.html
30-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC writes to President seeking recall of Bengal governor Dhankhar||West Bengal’s ruling TMC Wednesday intensified its war of attrition with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, demanding his recall for “transgressing constitutional limits”.An angry Dhankhar shot back, claiming free and fair elections are not held in the state and that it is his duty to ensure people exercise their franchise without fear.A team of TMC MPs has sent a letter to the President on Tuesday listing “all such transgressions” by Dhankhar in recent times and urged him to take action as per Article 156, Clause 1 of the Constitution, the party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told reporters here.“The governor holds office during the pleasure of the President as per Article 156, Clause 1. We have urged the President to withdraw the pleasure, which translates into removing this governor,” Roy said.The relevant article of the Constitution relates to a state governor holding office as long as the President does not withdraw the “pleasure”.“We have noticed that since he arrived in the state in July last year, he has been regularly tweeting, holding press meets and participating in TV discussions, where he is regularly passing comments on the functioning of the state government, our officers, ministers, the chief minister, even once on the conduct of the speaker of the assembly. Every such action is violative of his constitutional rights,” Roy said.Alleging that Dhankhar has been making such statements in the public at the behest of the BJP-led government at the Centre to embarrass the TMC government in the state, Roy said, “This had never happened earlier in the 75-year-long history of West Bengal. If he has to say anything, he can communicate that in the way as provided to him by the Constitution, not by tweeting or holding press meets.” Dhankhar, who has been locked in a seemingly interminable battle with the Mamata Banerjee government, shot back, asserting his duty is to ensure that people get the opportunity to exercise their franchise without fear.“Free and fair elections without fear are not held (in the state),” Dhankhar told reporters during a visit to a temple in the western part of the city.The governor said it does not concern him for whom the people vote, but it is his duty to make sure that they get to exercise their franchise without any intimidation.He also urged the government machinery to be neutral during the West Bengal Assembly elections likely in April- May next year.Dhankhar has often accused the state’s civil and police administration of succumbing to the pressure exerted by the Mamata Banerjee government.Roy cited Dhankhar’s statement seeking expenditure details of the Bengal Business Summit, his demand for an apology from the chief minister over some of her recent comments and his “threat to 25 IPS officers” as instances of the governor “violating his rights and limitations”.“He has also said it is his duty to ensure free and fair polls. Who is he? It is the domain of the Election Commission. Similarly, only the CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) has the authority to seek details of the expenses of state-organised events like the Bengal Business Summit,” Roy said.“A constitutional head chosen by the Centre cannot interfere in the functioning of the state in this way. It is akin to interference in the parliamentary system. He is intentionally doing these things. He is not fit to occupy the seat of the governor which he has been occupying,” Roy said.Reacting to the development, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the governor is performing his constitutional duty as he finds that the state government is not performing its functions properly on certain parameters.“I don’t think the TMC’s action of moving the President for the removal of the governor will have any impact. The President will go by his own understanding of the governor’s role,” he told reporters.“The governor is acting within the constitutional parameters as the head of the state. The TMC is doing this as it is scared,” the senior BJP leader added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-seeks-recall-of-bengal-governor-dhankhar-hits-back/story-VErelBygwqXFBqDERGQSQK.html
30-12-2020||Patna||Minor girls head out for walk, didn’t return; were held captive at tailor’s shop||The Patna police on late Tuesday night rescued two minor girls from a Royal Jeans maker tailor shop located on Chandmari Road no-8 under Kankarbagh police station and arrested its owner Mohammad Jaffar and his associate Deepak Kumar. The girls were tied with rope and cold water was poured on them at the shop for more than 48 hours.The police sent the girls to the hospital for the medical examination to know whether they had been physically assaulted. Their parents had lodged a case with Jakanpur police station on Monday in connection with the missing of both the minor girls, aged around 12 years to 13 years. The girls had left their houses near TPS college saying that they were going for a walk, however, they didn’t return.The police said that a startling fact came to light on Tuesday night after acting on a tipoff. Kankarbagh police raided the tailor shop and rescued the girls. “During the investigation, it came to light that the girls were allegedly held captive by the shop owner Mohammad Jaffar and Deepak for the last 48 hours and were tied with rope. When the girls protested, the accused poured cold water on them and did not give food,” the police said.Also read: 6th round talks - Piyush Goyal, Tomar join farmer leaders during lunchOne of the girls started vomiting because of cold when the police rescued. “She has been admitted to the private nursing home for treatment, she is out of danger. The girls denied any physical assault but the accused assaulted them when they protested. It seemed that the accused were planning to sell them,” an official added.Station house officer (SHO) of Kankarbagh police station, Suman Kumar, said that both the girls had left their homes at around 10 am on Monday for a walk in the park. Suddenly, the girls met Jaffar who knew them from before. Jaffar lured and brought them at the shop. A case has been lodged with Kankarbagh police station against the accused Jaffar and his associate Deepak who have already been arrested in this case. The girls are at the PMCH for the medical examination,” he added.The SHO said, “So far, it is not clear that the accused were going to sell them. The investigation is on”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/minor-girls-head-out-for-walk-didn-t-return-were-held-captive-at-tailor-s-shop/story-h69j3WJ9gCqxskmia9vIBM.html
30-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police on hunt for wanted criminals, those hiding in UP top the list||The Uttarakhand police have launched a manhunt to nab 189 wanted criminals with reward money on their heads. The department is focusing especially on the gangsters based in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh (UP), who enter Uttarakhand to commit crime and then vanish without a trace. Among the 189, the maximum, 72, are wanted in Haridwar district, followed by 36 in US Nagar and 35 in Dehradun districts, which all share a border with UP.The other districts including Pithoragarh, Champawat and Almora have five wanted criminals each, while Nainital has 19. Similarly, Bageshwar and Rudrapur have two wanted criminals each while Tehri Garhwal and Chamoli have one each. Uttarkashi and Pauri Garhwal districts have none. The drive to nab the wanted and absconding criminals was launched on the directions of newly appointed director general of police, Ashok Kumar. He had directed all the 13 district police departments and the special task force (STF) to nab the wanted criminals. AP Anshuman, inspector general (law & order) and chief spokesperson of police headquarters in Dehradun said, “The drive is very significant because it would help putting the wanted criminals behind bars which is their actual place so as to prevent them from committing more crime.” He informed that under the drive, police are hunting two types of criminals-- one involved in organised crime and other wanted at police station level for less serious crimes. “The ones involved in organised crime or gangsters committing an inter-state crime are being nabbed by the state STF while the remaining by the respective district police departments,” said Anshuman. Also Read: Uttarakhand to learn from Prayagraj’s Magh Mela template for hosting KumbhTo make the drive “successful”, police teams involved in other tasks, such as law and order maintenance, have been roped in. “To know the whereabouts of the criminals, we have activated our informers’ network and increased electronic surveillance. This has yielded us results also with the arrests of some notorious wanted criminals in the past few days, including the one based out of UP, who was wanted in US Nagar district for nine years for allegedly abducting and looting a general manager of a five-star hotel,” said Anshuman. The UP-based gangsters involved in serious crimes like contract killing, extortion, murder and others in Uttarakhand are being chased by the STF on the instructions from the police headquarters. “We have a list of about 20-22 such gangsters who have inter-state operations including Uttarakhand,” said Ajay Singh, superintendent of police, STF.“We have already held a meeting with the Western UP STF for coordination on the matter, which is much needed as UP based criminals come here to commit a crime, while the UP police is looking for those who come here (Uttarakhand) to hide after committing a crime in their area,” said Singh. “We hope to get much better results in the next two months,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-on-hunt-for-wanted-criminals-those-hiding-in-up-top-the-list/story-nbGUZAb8sqx4UE9ncmDLGN.html
30-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police launch drive to arrest 189 wanted criminals||The Uttarakhand police have launched an operation to arrest 189 wanted criminals, including gagsters from the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh (UP), who have committed crimes in the state. A bulk of the criminals (72) are wanted in Haridwar followed by 36 in Uddham Singh Nagar and 35 in Dehradun. The three districts share borders with Uttar Pradesh.Newly-appointed police chief Ashok Kumar has directed his force across the state’s 13 districts to constitute special task forces (STF) to arrest the criminals.Also Read: Uttarakhand: A year of turmoil for tourism, economyUttarakhand police spokesperson AP Anshuman said the drive has been launched to prevent the criminals from committing more crimes. “The ones involved in organised crime or gangsters involved in inter-state crimes are being nabbed by the STF while the remaining ones by the respective district police forces,” said Anshuman. He added police teams involved in other tasks like law-and-order maintenance have been pressed into service to nab the wanted criminals. “We have activated our informers’ network and increased electronic surveillance. This has yielded us results also with the arrests of some notorious wanted criminals in the past few days. They include one based in Uttar Pradesh, who was wanted in Uddham Singh Nagar district for nine years for allegedly abducting and looting a general manager of a five-star hotel.”Police superintendent Ajay Singh, who is involved in the drive, said they have a list of about 20-22 gangsters involved in inter-state crimes and have held a meeting with their Uttar Pradesh counterparts for coordination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-launch-drive-to-arrest-189-wanted-criminals/story-nT2GXxlx3FPPnh9CTzmEdI.html
30-12-2020||City||Kashmir: 3 militants killed, say security forces; families allege the deceased were civilians||Security forces on Wednesday said three local militants were killed in an encounter at Lawaypora on the outskirts of Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir. Families of the slain, however, rebutted the forces’ claim and said the youth killed in the encounter were civilians. The families held a protest outside police control room in Srinagar.The encounter started on Tuesday evening after the J&K police, the army and the CRPF launched a cordon and search operation in the locality close to the national highway after inputs about the presence of militants.Security sources told Hindustan Times that the army had received the inputs, and subsequently an operation was launched by joint forces in the area.By late night, sources said the operation was stopped and all the entry and exit points towards the area were completely sealed. The army claimed the militants killed in the encounter were planning a big attack on the national highway. Also Read: Kashmir shivers as temperature dips below zero degree in most of valleyAt a press briefing, General Officer Commanding (GoC) Kilo Force HS Sahi said, “We had been getting inputs about militant movement on the national highway. The operation was launched last evening after getting inputs that militants were inside a house close to the national highway. They were asked to surrender, however, they responded with firing and the operation was suspended for the night. When the operation was resumed in the morning, they were again given an offer to surrender; however, they again started firing and hurled grenades at the forces, which gave us an indication they had no intention to surrender.”Families of the three youth killed in the encounter identified them as Zubair Ahmad from Turkawangam Shopian, Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq from Putrigam Pulwama. The families said that they were students and had left their home yesterday and alleged that they were picked up and then killed in an encounter.Former J&K chief minister and Peoples’ Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said that authorities should come clean on this encounter.“Worrying that in the past few months after the Shopian fake encounter other families too in J&K have alleged that their sons were innocent & killed in a staged encounter.Authorities need to come clean on this,” tweeted Mehbooba along with a video of protesting relatives of the youth killed in encounter.Worrying that in the past few months after the Shopian fake encounter other families too in J&K have alleged that their sons were innocent & killed in a staged encounter.Authorities need to come clean on this https://t.co/Zoh0zUhJjNStone pelting was also reported in the area even after the operation ended on Wednesday.So far 203 militants have been killed in J&K this year, among them 166 were local militants, most of them were killed in four districts of south Kashmir. The security forces have also arrested 49 militants and ensured surrender of nine of them during the year, an official said.There have been 96 terror-related incidents in 2020. While 43 civilians were killed, 92 others suffered injuries in these incidents, they said. In 2019, 47 civilians were killed and 185 persons were injured, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-3-militants-killed-say-security-forces-families-allege-the-deceased-were-civilians/story-rNGqSiYfnPpn26litH2wNN.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||BFUHS extends admission date for MBBS, BDS courses to January 15||Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, on Wednesday announced the extension of the last date for admission to MBBS and BDS courses in all colleges for the academic session 2020-21 up to January 15. The medical university has extended the last date of joining seats in provisionally allotted colleges during the mop-up round from December 30 to 31. The stray vacancy round, which was scheduled to be held on December 31, was also postponed by the university. “The detailed schedule for stray vacancy round will be declared on the website later,” Dr Ruhee Dugg, the university registrar, said. The new academic session will start in February. The National Medical Commission allowed the extension after getting a nod from the Supreme Court. Earlier, the NMC had filed an application in the apex court, seeking an extension as the time schedule prescribed in the commission’s regulation could not be followed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The NMC had sought extension of the last date of admission in MBBS, BDS and super specialty medical courses for the academic session 2020-21 from August 31 to January 15. BFUHS is holding a mop-up round of counselling to fill 94 MBBS and 480 BDS seats, which remained vacant after two rounds of counselling. The university has declared the final result and provisionally allotted the seats. Fifteen dental colleges in the state, both private and government, have 1,140 BDS seats. Nine medical colleges of the state offer 1,385 MBBS seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bfuhs-extends-admission-date-for-mbbs-bds-courses-to-january-15/story-293k5HZ3RLrkQMZaQzICJI.html
30-12-2020||City||Kashmir shivers as temperature dips below zero degree in most of valley||Most of the Kashmir valley witnessed sub-zero temperatures on Wednesday night after the wet weather conditions improved and the sky cleared.The weather office said that the coldest place in the valley on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday was the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir where the mercury plunged to -11 degrees Celsius, around five notches below normal.The tourist resort of Pahalgam in north Kashmir recorded -9 degrees Celsius while the temperature went to -6.5 degrees Celsius in Kokernag.Also Read: 3 terrorists killed in an encounter outside Srinagar city“The summer capital Srinagar witnessed -2.1 degrees Celsius, dipping further from zero degrees Celsius a day earlier while winter capital Jammu was slightly better at 2.9 degrees Celsius,” said an official of MeT centre in Srinagar.Jammu division’s Bhaderwah and Batote regions recorded -3.8 degrees Celsius and -0.9 degrees Celsius respectively.In the union territory of Ladakh, Leh was extremely cold at -14.2 degrees while Kargil was even colder at -17 degrees Celsius. The coldest place of the country Drass recorded -26.1 degrees Celsius.Fresh snowfall was witnessed in parts of Jammu and Kashmir including in summer capital Srinagar on Tuesday, leading to the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway for a few hours.Meteorologist M Hussain Mir at Srinagar-based MeT department said that the weather will now remain dry up to January 3-4.The 40-day intense winter period “chillai kalan” started in Kashmir valley on December 21 with sub-zero night temperatures across the region.This year, the winter has already started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record -6.6 degrees Celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and the second-coldest December night in the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-shivers-as-temperature-dips-below-zero-degree-in-most-of-valley/story-ZmtT96WKSx0v64reu0EohO.html
30-12-2020||Pune||2020, Pune’s year in Covid: Specialised tertiary care hosp must in every district, says Mhaisekar||Deepak Mhaisekar is currently appointed as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s advisor on the Covid-19 pandemic. He retired as Pune divisional commissioner on July 31. Mhaisekar has been at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle ever since the first case was detected in Pune. In conversation with Steffy Thevar Mhaisekar draws on lessons learnt from the pandemic and how Pune fought to bring it under relative controlBeing one of the first officials to handle the Covid-19 pandemic head on, during the initial months, how did you tackle the situation? I had the experience of more than 30 years in various administrative fields. In Chandrapur or Nanded, I had handled natural disasters and even in Pune, when I was divisional commissioner, we had floods in Sangli. However, Covid-19 is something unique and unknown. The clinical expression and the treatment protocol was not known to the world at the time. In fact, the WHO was also not clear about the treatment protocol. The only thing that we knew is that in the initial phases it was more about giving IEC (Information, Education and Communication); training or letting people know how it spreads and the precautions we need to take. In the initial months, even WHO was not keen on using masks and there was no insistence in using masks, but at the same time the proper etiquettes, like sneezing in public, maintaining social distance and washing of hands was very clear. Initially we had very few cases.Pune, in September, had the highest number of active cases in the country. What went wrong? I do not think that there is anything wrong in controlling the situation in Pune. This was because Pune did maximum testing and maximum tracing, as this was the only way to control the spread. Identifying the positives and isolating them was the only way out. We had only five hotspots initially in Pune, which were the crowded places where social distancing was not possible; like Bhavani peth, Kasba peth, Dhole Patil road or likewise. Initially, people feared this disease and so they did not report themselves in. This could probably be one of the reasons for the spread of the infection to such an extent. One must also understand that places like Pune, Mumbai or even Delhi are metropolitan areas where the movement of people cannot be stopped. Ultimately everything depends on how much people follow social distancing norms, washing of hands or wearing masks; if not, then there could be a rise in number of cases. Are you satisfied with the way the administration performed, especially in Pune? The administration tried their best. One has to understand the type of disease that we were facing. Right now, at this juncture, one of the best facilities is in the USA and UK and you can see the situation over there. So it is not a question of administrative failure, USA is reporting more than two lakh cases a day and in UK, 40,000 cases a day. So even the most developed countries are now battling their second or third wave and they are even worse than what we faced in our first wave. I do not want to blame people, as well as it was totally new virus and a totally new way of the virus spreading. Pune’s overall public health infrastructure needs a revamp as the pandemic exposed it. What needs to be done? In one of our recommendations we have mentioned that not only Pune, but public health facilities in nearby cities like Solapur, Satara or Ahmednagar, also need to be ramped up. We have recommended that every district headquarters must have a specialised tertiary care hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2020-pune-s-year-in-covid-specialised-tertiary-care-hosp-must-in-every-district-says-mhaisekar/story-0CWUmvbLkKT6ihuYUuoOJI.html
30-12-2020||Pune||2020, Pune’s year in Covid: Doctors go extra mile to help patients||Back in August, when I received an order to serve in Covid-19 war room, my initial reaction was coupled with confusion and a gasp – the opportunity was big, but I had no idea how these war rooms function. I was barely settling into my job, when, on a rainy evening, I had to call a family of four – all had turned positive – to crosscheck about recovery from Covid. The man in 30s picked up my call and said, rather angrily, “This is the third call I have received from your war room. I have lost my mother today.” Stunned, I disconnected the call as the enthusiasm of my new job was taken away through this incident. But, this wasn’t the first such call and not going to be last in the near future; I have been shuttling between the psychiatry department of the LTMG Hospital and the BMC-established war room for the past five months in Mumbai, the city I shifted to more than a year ago from Pune. The staff working here comes from a diverse background, ranging from teachers from MCGM schools, volunteering medical students, interns from MCGM hospitals, war-room coordinator doctors - all contributing to the service of people in difficult times. Our health teams work on the ground. They visit and check-up all the positive cases and facilitate their quarantine or admission procedures. They also arrange for sanitisation of the area, putting up banners on the quarantined patients’ houses or buildings as necessary. During August and September, when the city was reporting a higher number of cases and fatalities, the war room was flooded with calls from patients with requests for beds in hospitals. On one occasion, a single mother with a six-year-old daughter tested positive. Coming from lower income group, the woman did not have the separate infrastructure for her quarantine while protocols dictated that she be shifted to isolation facility nearby, leaving her small child alone at home. This unprecedented challenge was eventually resolved as we coordinated with her neighbor, who took care of daughter, while her mother completed the quarantine period at government created facility. These days we also get calls from patients who express gratitude. One day a gentleman walked right into the war room and we all got little scared as we have had some bad experiences. But, this one, had come to thank us for the coordination we did. Both his parents were cured of Covid-19 and he was grateful for all the help. Covid-19 demanded we not just to be good doctors, but go beyond our regular duties and be all that a patient needs, sometimes their teacher, counselor, friend and sometimes their family. This pandemic made me realise that it is not just the illness or virus we are fighting, but we are growing together as humanity. Dr Tejaswini Kulkarni works in the psychiatry department, LTMG Hospital Sion, Mumbai, and is currently posted as supervisor at the Covid-19 war room in Bandra West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2020-pune-s-year-in-covid-doctors-go-extra-mile-to-help-patients/story-W3adWTzRNzDYkhpMcIdZGO.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||No exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station after 9pm on December 31, says DMRC||The Delhi Metro Railway Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday told passengers that the Rajiv Chowk metro station will not allow exit of passengers after 9 pm on New Year’s Eve on December 31. DMRC also said that the entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of the last train. The DMRC in a tweet said, “New Year Eve Update... To ease overcrowding on New Year’s Eve (31 December 2020), exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station will not be allowed after 9 PM onwards. Entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of last train. Please plan your journey accordingly.”The announcement made by the DMRC comes in the wake of discovery of new cases of the mutated strain of Covid-19 strain in India, which was initially discovered in the UK. The health ministry has asked the state governments to ensure that they maintain a strict vigil over New Year’s celebrations of December 31 and January 1 as these events could become a ‘potential super-spreader events.’ The health ministry outlined that celebrations need to follow Covid-19 preventative measures as cases are on the rise in Europe and North America. Delhi Police has asked people to celebrate the New Year cautiously keeping in mind that Covid-19 continues to infect thousands across the country. The Delhi police will issues guidelines for New Year’s Eve celebrations on December 30. Other cities like Mumbai and Bengaluru have imposed night curfew in order to stop the spread of Covid-19. Night curfew has been imposed by the state government in Mumbai from 11pm to 6 am. Police in Mumbai have asked restaurants, eateries, bars and pubs to close their operations by 11pm. Bengaluru Police has also issued guidelines prohibiting any public gatherings during the New Year’s Eve in the city. People can celebrate New Year’s Eve along with their family members and friends but public gatherings will not be permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-exit-from-rajiv-chowk-metro-station-after-9pm-on-december-31-says-dmrc/story-zZAVohIZqKgRUJ0CZ0efUP.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai slum development project gets HC nod, relief to Shapoorji group||In a relief to the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, the Bombay high court has cleared the way for its subsidiary to carry out a slum rehabilitation project in about 113,321.54 square meters in the Cuffe Parade area near the World Trade Centre in South Mumbai. The Court observed that the slum dwellers have been waiting for rehabilitation since over two decades and such schemes are implemented to mitigate the hardship of the slum dwellers and they should not be casually set aside by the writ courts only on technical grounds unless a case of gross illegalities or failure of justice is made out. A division bench of justice Nitin Jadhav and justice Milind Jadhav heard the petition challenging the decision of the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) to assign the redevelopment project to Precaution Properties Pvt Ltd. The petition was filed by Dyna Estate Pvt Ltd and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Nagar Sahakari Griha Nirman Sanstha, both represented by senior advocate Birendra Saraf.Saraf further told the court that the petition also challenged the February, 2020 order of the Apex Grievance Redressal Committee, which rejected the challenge to the grant of the project. The petitioners also challenged clause 6 of the 2017 circular which allowed the project to be given to Precaution after considering the net worth of its holding company. Precaution, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shapoorji Pallonji Group, objected to the petition, stating that the petitioners claim was only over 6% of the land and the petitioners did not present any credible alternative to Precaution’s scheme.Advocate Aspi Chinoy, representing Precaution, further argued to limit the judicial scrutiny of the legality of the Letter of Intent (LOI) and opposed a free-ranging enquiry of issues no longer relevant. The court observed that the petitioners’ proposal was only for 7252 sq. meters, approximately 6.4% of land earmarked by Precaution for the redevelopment project. “No alternative is presented before us by the petitioners for the entire land,” the court said. The court further held that there was no merit in the objections with regards to the financial capacity of Precaution.“Because the circular has only clarified the position which was never prohibited, it cannot be said that the stipulation was brought into force on the date of the circular, i.e. January 2, 2017 and that there was earlier an embargo on considering the financial capacity of the holding company. Therefore no challenge can be raised on the ground that it cannot be made applicable to the pending applications,” the court said. Also Read: Kangana Ranaut back in Mumbai, Congress tweets reminder for anti-drugs agencyThe bench concluded that piecemeal implementation of the scheme is not viable and that the firm’s project had the backing of close to 85% of the affected slum dwellers.“84% of eligible slum dwellers of 23 co-operative housing societies are supporting Precaution’s proposal. The financial position of Precaution and its holding company has been found sufficiently robust to ensure that the project is completed and the slum dwellers are housed,” the court said. The court also had a word of advice for the writ courts as it called for keeping the hardships of the slum dwellers in mind before casting such projects aside.“Ultimately such schemes are implemented to mitigate the hardship of the slum dwellers and they should not casually be set aside by the writ courts only on technical grounds, unless a case of gross illegalities or failure of justice is made out,” it concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-slum-development-project-gets-hc-nod-relief-to-shapoorji-group/story-HpbJInTm1Zz1wSwT9Nu3WK.html
30-12-2020||Pune||2020, Pune’s year in Covid: Gave the dead their last touch of humanity||For crematory operator Arun Jangam (49), the lines between his work responsibilities and social service have largely blurred since the outbreak of the pandemic. Jangam has been instrumental in the cremation of 3,000 deceased Covid-19 patients. Neither the crematorium staff, nor the family members of these patients were ready to touch the corpses, given the apprehension surrounding the virus, especially at the outset of the pandemic. “The corpses of Covid victims used to be sent to the crematorium by the hospitals. The families of these patients used to be absent most of the time, and even if they did show up, they would be standing away from the corpses. Right from transporting the bodies from the ambulance to the crematory machine, to also performing final rites, there are a series of tasks that require manpower,” explains Jangam, adding how he shouldered all of these responsibilities single-handedly, especially in the months of March and April, when the number of those infected was heading to its peak. For the last nine months, Jangam has been working round-the-clock, to the point that he had shifted base to Yerawada’s Amardham crematorium from April to June. These months had seen a particularly sharp rise in Covid-19 deaths in the city. “I had a very humanitarian perspective while cremating the bodies of abandoned Covid patients. While doing the work, I wasn’t thinking of contracting the virus or about the monetary returns. I did what I thought was right, and somebody had to do it,” says Jangam, in the most nonchalant manner. The man has spent nearly two decades working in PMC-run crematoriums, and at present, he has joined hands with PMC to supervise the cremation of Covid-19 fatalities. This undertaking, on-paper, came through very recently, but during the most crucial months of the pandemic, Jangam was doing the work all by himself, sans any direction, team or remuneration. Gradually, he built his own team of 26, and now they have formed groups of four, working in shifts. “From May till July, work was overwhelming. Every day, there would be about 15-20 bodies, and I used to be exhausted and sleepless. There came a point that I reached the fag end of my endurance, and I was taken ill. Thankfully, I recovered, and got back to work,” he says, underlining how post his recovery, his family, too helped share the burden. He says: “In the initial days of the pandemic, I used to come back after a long day at the crematorium, only to realise that the neighbours had begun to ostracise me and my family. The stigma about the virus was staggering. Later on, I stopped coming home and started staying at the crematorium as the workload had increased.” PMC’s assistant health officer, Dr Kalpana Baliwant, who is handling the management of Covid mortalities, lauds Jangam’s dedicated work, “Jangam did his work in the most crucial times. Managing more than 3,000 cremations without any mistakes and confusions is only the work of a humane and meticulous individual. He is a Covid hero.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2020-pune-s-year-in-covid-gave-the-dead-their-last-touch-of-humanity/story-EY3nFjxptiuiEJxrAYKoOL.html
30-12-2020||City||Goa: Prisoner escapes after accomplices attack police escort with pepper spray, fire shots in air||An undertrial prisoner escaped with the help of two men on Wednesday after they attacked the policemen escorting him at a hospital with pepper spray. They also fired gunshots.Vivek Kumar Gautam, who faced trial for an alleged robbery attempt, was in handcuffs at the hospital where he was taken with complaints of stomach uneasiness and vomiting.Police said Gautam escaped after midnight when one of the policemen was doing paperwork while the other looked for the ambulance to take them back to the Goa central jail. Gautam took advantage of the situation and ran towards the hospital gates, where the two men attacked the policemen chasing him with the spray. They fired in the air using a country-made revolver forcing the policemen to back off.Also Read: Goa govt considering legalising cannabis cultivation, opposition sees red“We have intensified our search efforts to try and nab the three. It clearly was a pre-planned move and points to the use of mobile phones within the jail. We have recovered the used cartridges from the scene and have begun interrogating key persons including the ambulance driver who went missing at the time of discharge,” said senior divisional police officer Gajanan Prabhudesai.This is the third such escape involving undertrials at the central jail this year. One of them has been found while Ramchandran Yellapa, who is accused of raping and robbing a British tourist, remains on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-prisoner-escapes-after-accomplices-attack-police-escort-with-pepper-spray-fire-shots-in-air/story-lOmHZQ86eapQo6dgVBCAfM.html
30-12-2020||Pune||5 steps to renew your passport in Pune||Renewing the passport before it expires is important for a hassle-free international travel. The passport also acts as an important certificate of identity and nationality of its holderStep 1:Register online to fill in the application at www.passport.gov.in On the homepage, click on, “New User? Register now” and follow the given instructions. After you have registered yourself on to the website, use your login id and password to login.Step 2:Once you have logged in, click on “Apply for Fresh Passport/Re-issue of Passport” button to navigate further. You will have two options for filling the form: (a) you can download the form, fill it and then upload it back on to the website or (b) fill the form online.Step 3:Upload documents online, when you are done filling the form and have all the required documents in place, including address proof, date of birth proof, Annexure F, scan and upload the soft copies. Pay and schedule the appointment.Step 4:Choose the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) of your convenience and fix the date and time. Once you do this, you will get an automated SMS confirming your appointment and an email carrying the slip that will give you access to the PSK on the given date and time.Step 5:Once inside the PSK, your biometrics will be recorded. You will meet two officials, who will do the final verification before all your details are finally saved and your file is given a green signal for passport re-issuance/renewal. The passport will be delivered at your doorstep in 3-4 days.To register visit: www.passport.gov.inDocuments required to renew passport* Original old Passport* Self-attested copies of the first two and last two pages of the passport.* Self-attested copy of the ECR/Non-ECR page.* Self-attested copy of the page of observation, if any, made by the Passport Issuing Authority.* Self-attested copy of the validity extension page, if any, with respect to the Short Validity Passport* Proof of documents which eliminate the cause of issuance of Short Validity Passport (SVP).Remember:* On the appointment day, make sure you have hard copies of every single document you have uploaded online.* Carry multiple copies, the authorities often ask for more than one and carry the originals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-steps-to-renew-your-passport-in-pune/story-lAOrQzK1xOHDoDZMtOL5qO.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Geography begets history, and a river runs through it||So, what does commuting in Pune look like to you? Stressful? Frustrating? But, beyond that have you ever noticed how many times one has crossed bridges?; how many times the vehicle suddenly ascends or descends a slope? How you are taken aback by sharp bends on roads, roads meeting at odd angles, round-about ways at arriving at a destination, or a sudden joyride on an occasional meander? Why is there no grid pattern of horizontal and vertical roads to help us navigate easily? No, it is not faulty city planning that we see in all this, it is the function of things that existed before the city, the geography and the landscape. Pune is not a settlement planned in 20th century, like the city of Chandigarh, but has grown organically over atleast two millennia and has responded to the natural settings for most part of its life. Folks, today we take a tour of Pune’s environs through the school geography text books. Pune is part of what we call western Maharashtra. It is settled on western slopes of the mighty Sahyadris - the Western Ghats running along a north-south parallel to India’s western coast. Various west flowing rivers, originating in the Sahyadris have excavated the volcanic Deccan trap layers to form broad river valleys and leave behind moderate reliefs of secondary hill ranges, such as the Shambhu Mahadev range. With Sahyadri in the backdrop, Pune is nestled in cosy valleys of the Shambhu Mahadev ranges sinking in the plains to the east. In doing so, Pune forms a strategic connection and central space. The continuous Katraj hills form the western southern boundaries where the Parvati-Taljai-Waghjai ranges enter the city centre from the south west. The hills travelling from Sahyadri in the west form the connection via NDA, Mhatoba, Vetal, Chaturshringi and end with the Fergusson hills across the river Mutha. The Range hills, Baner-Pashan hills occupy the north eastern corners. The east is relatively open with lone Yerawada and Dighi hills where the grasslands dominate. Pune is located amicably at a height of 560 metres above sea level, blessed with ambient climate and three moderate seasons. Climate is on hot arid side, but the physical settings make it more conducive and comfortable, the quintessential Pensioner’s Paradise! The original source of water for Pune region, west flowing rivers and the streams is the Southwest Monsoon and it receives the decent annual rainfall of 722 mm. The rainfall last for four months and further the seasonal rivers carry water for the next four months thus providing water for an average of eight to 10 months in a year (this was before dams, canals and wells!). This is a decent average for seasonal rivers to support a settlement in harsh Deccan region. So, how many rivers do you think flow through Pune? Mula and Mutha are principal rivers which are known to average Punekar (some ignorant folks still confuse the Mutha and Mula.) Like major river-based civilisations, Pune enjoys its settlement on the banks of river Mutha and Mula which are tributaries of the river Bhima meeting the larger river Krishna. Even today, the epicentre of growth of Pune is located on banks of river Mutha from which the city grew to the present size. The sacred confluence of important rivers, Mula and Mutha in Pune is marked at Sangam, near the present College of Engineering, not by any large pilgrim site, but the settlement of Pune itself. It is roughly situated in a saucer shaped basin with two main rivers and hills on all sides. But, as we take stock of greater Pune, we can count six rivers, namely Mula Mutha, Pavana, Indrayani, Ram and the youngest and shortest Dev (originating near NDA hills), which flow through this city. Till recently, the Ram and Dev were not acknowledged as rivers by the town planning authorities, but now thanks to historical evidence and vigilant citizens’ movements their status as rivers have been duly reclaimed. Various rivulets and streams which originate in the hills of Pune further divide the river basin to form distinct landforms. Nagjhari stream, Ambil Odha, Bhairoba nala and such freshwater streams (once!) were revered as sacred water sources. They formed the physical boundary dividing cultural landscape of Pune in later days. River Mutha enters Pune it as it rolls down from the steeper Sahaydri slopes and hits the wider valleys which allow it to meander through. The meander invariably causes the excavation of and deposition on the alternate river banks. These eventual deposition processes create the safe grounds which stay above the seasonal flood lines of the river. It also creates fertile agricultural lands ready for cultivation. Early settlers have favoured this arrangement and have taken refuge on the same as we shall see in our further conversations. Politically, Pune is part of Western Maharashtra located in state of Maharashtra, but it is the physical features such as mountains, rivers, ridges and hill ranges that have determined its expanse in the past. These physical environmental features have allowed expansion or limit the spread in of the Human settlement of Pune and hence, have been acting as boundaries. These physical landscapes and waterscapes continue to provide the amicable, life giving foundation to the life-scape and people-scape of Pune. So while we take great pride in calling ourselves most liveable city in India, we should not forget respecting the blessed land and definitely strive to protect, conserve the “Punya-Bhumi” of Pune.Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sutradhara-s-tales-geography-begets-history-and-a-river-runs-through-it/story-lwEUnG5xDAFzSQl1bBfEMJ.html
30-12-2020||Patna||Smuggling of diesel from UP causing huge loss to Bihar coffers, dealers||Rampant smuggling of diesel from Uttar Pradesh (UP) is causing a huge loss to Bihar exchequer and hardship to authorised pump owners in the districts neighbouring UP, said people in the know.Most of the companies in the state, involved in the construction of road, rail and other projects, are purchasing diesel from UP and bringing it illegally in unauthorized small tankers. This is causing the government loss of crores of rupees in Value Added Tax (VAT), they added.The problem is compounded by smuggling of diesel from the neighbouring state for illegal retail sale to farmers and vehicle owners in remote areas.What is even worse, unlicensed tankers being used for the smuggling are hazardous and can cause dangerous accidents. The tankers licensed by Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization (PESO) are the only ones allowed to transport diesel.A delegation of the Petroleum Dealers’ Association led by the association’s divisional president, Piyush Shukla, met the Bhabua district magistrate and superintendent of police on Tuesday, requesting for immediate and firm action to check the menace.Association’s district organization in-charge Chandra Prakash Arya said that three petrol pumps near the UP border had already been closed and several others were running in huge losses due to the diesel smuggling. There are 38 petrol pumps in the district, 15 of those are on NH 2. They claim that from 80 lakh liters of diesel per month, the sale had come down to 32 lakh liters a month. Same was the situation in other districts bordering UP.Also Read: 7 IAS officers promoted in Bihar, Patna DM gets secretary rankThe body informed the administration that National Highway 2, Dharuli-Chand, Hata-Mahadaich, Adhaura-Khaliari, Sarki-UP, Ramgarh-Baraura and Devhalia-Kakrait roads were being used for smuggling.Shukla said the situation worsened after 2016, when the Bihar government imposed excessive VAT and surcharge on fuel to compensate for the losses suffered due to the liquor ban. Presently, the price of diesel and petrol is cheaper by Rs 7/litre in UP.District magistrate, Nawal Kishor Chaudhary said that a team of district supply officers and sub divisional officers has been formed for taking strict action against the smugglers and also for regular surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/smuggling-of-diesel-from-up-causing-huge-loss-to-bihar-coffers-dealers/story-LhS1bboJpBWmDQoQZ4kHNJ.html
30-12-2020||City||Section 144 to be imposed in Mahabaleshwar, Panchangani on Dec 31||PUNE In a bid to make the year-end celebrations safe at tourist spots Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has imposed Section 144 here on New Year’s eve at Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani.Under Section 144 of CRPC assembly of five or more people is barred.In two different orders issued by Singh, all hotels and restaurants should close by 11 pm from December 28 till the next orders are issued. While in Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani all parties and programmes held on December 31 should end by 10pm.The order states, “To contain the spread of Covid-19 infection in Satara district and to maintain law and order situation, all the hotels, restaurants and dhabas in the district should be closed by 11 pm till the further orders are given. Only hotels, restaurants and dhabas on the national highways are exempted from this order.”“If the orders are not followed and any hotel or restaurant is found violating it, then it will be closed for next seven days and strict action will be taken against the owner,” the order states.The second-order states, “On New Year’s eve, many tourists visit Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani for celebrations. As the Covid-19 pandemic continues it is necessary to impose restrictions on December 31. Accordingly, orders are given to end all the programmes and parties organised on December 31 strictly by 10 pm in Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani. If orders are not followed by any person strict action will be taken against him/her as per the relevant sections.”Meanwhile, resorts and hotels outside the PMC jurisdiction have started giving offers for December 31 parties. As the night curfew has been imposed in municipal corporation jurisdictions by the state government, people are opting for options out of the city limits.Sunny Nikam, a youth from Katraj, said, “Our group of boys have already booked a resort outside Pune city for December 31 celebrations. We are aware of the Covid situation and will follow precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/section-144-to-be-imposed-in-mahabaleshwar-panchangani-on-dec-31/story-16kP8bdtYNiSptg5udkQlI.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||PAU scientist objects to varsity wanting profs to listen to Modi||At a time when the farmers and the Centre are locked in an impasse over the three laws, intellectuals are also lending support to farmers, in their own way. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) principal soil chemist Varinderpal Singh has objected to the varsity, sending an email to teachers to attend a programme, online, of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 25. Modi was to address farmers and transfer money into their accounts. The varsity, incidentally, has been opposing the laws. After refusing to receive a national award in Delhi earlier this month to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, he has now written an open letter to university vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon.“Maximum registrations should also be organised at campuses of all universities/institutes/KVKs inviting farmers, scientists, students and other stakeholders. Viewing of the program telecast/webcast should be arranged. This should be considered as top priority and a report should be compiled,” the email that Trilochan Mohapatra, director general, Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR), sent reads. Each individual had to click to the link with the mail, Varinderpal said, “It is perhaps for the first time that attendance of students was made mandatory and even a report was compiled on this. The entire exercise has made my head hang in shame. Instead of listening to the lecture, as mute spectators authorities are duty-bound to highlight the flaws in the new laws.”Varinderpal had refused an award that comprised Rs 2 lakh, a gold medal, and a citation. The video of his refusing to accept the award had gone viral. A few days later, the PAU V-C had submitted a report compiled by the economics department to the Punjab government, highlighting flaws in three farm laws. PAU additional director, communication, TS Riar said forwarding such communications on email was a routine matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-scientist-objects-to-varsity-wanting-profs-to-listen-to-modi/story-vbl1mnqwo54tHD6EstFAzL.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver of truck involved in a hit-and-run accident on western express highway held||The Vanrai Police have arrested a driver of the dump truck who rammed a two-wheeler on Western Express Highway in Goregaon east on Tuesday, resulting in a traffic police officer’s death and a traffic warden’s serious injuries The victim, identified as Pandurang Maruti Sapkal (40), was travelling on his scooter when the dump truck hit his two-wheeler from behind while overtaking it from the left side. Dinesh Pitale, a traffic warden, who was riding pillion, and Sapkal fell due to the impact of the collision, as the dump truck’s driver fled after the accident.Also Read: Maharashtra: Covid-19 restrictions to continue till January 31A police officer said that the two were travelling towards Goregaon when the accident took place. The passersby rushed them to a hospital where Sapkal was declared dead on arrival while Pitale was admitted with grievous injuries.The Vanrai Police scanned CCTV camera footage from the area, tracked down the owner of the dump truck and apprehended the driver Mannakumar Chauhan (31). Chauhan has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-driver-of-truck-involved-in-a-hit-and-run-accident-on-western-express-highway-held/story-TDZ19JnRbTyjytV8HKBYdI.html
30-12-2020||Kolkata||New Covid-19 strain detected in Kolkata man after return from the UK||The new and more contagious Covid-19 strain found in the UK has been detected in a Kolkata resident, who returned from London this month. He is among at least two people to have tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolkata after returning from the UK. “One was found to be carrying the new strain. He is now kept in isolation in a state-run hospital in Kolkata. The persons with whom he came in contact were being asked to stay in isolation. All precautions have been taken,” said a state health department official.Also Read: UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so farThe Kolkata resident was among 222 passengers, who arrived on December 20 in the city on the last flight from London before the government suspended flights from the UK from December 23.At least 33,000 passengers arrived in India from the UK from November 25 to December 23. They are being tracked and tested.The Union health ministry on Wednesday said 20 of the infected people among them have been kept in isolation and the fellow travellers and close contacts were being traced and quarantined. Genome sequencing of samples of the passengers was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/new-covid-19-strain-detected-in-kolkata-man-after-return-from-the-uk/story-JyJSIgfFcKglmdsdbLvlNK.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||BSF seizes 7-kg heroin, 3 pistols after firing at Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Gurdaspur||The Border Security Force (BSF) seized 7 kg of heroin after firing near the Metla border out post (BoP) along the India-Pakistan border in the Dera Baba Nanak sub division of Gurdaspur district on Wednesday morning. Besides the contraband, personnel of the BSF’s 89th Battalion recovered three pistols and six magazines after a search of the area. The incident took place at 6.15am when the personnel on patrol duty noticed suspicious movement between the barbed wire fence and zero line on the border, BSF officials said. Head constable Pritam Singh and constable Gulab Singh opened fire on noticing two persons moving suspiciously near the fence from the Pakistan side. They fired 12 rounds but the suspects retreated, taking advantage of the dense fog, the officials said. “The search operation of the area is on. So far, we have recovered 10 packets of heroin, weighing about 7.3kg in all, and three pistols with magazines,” a BSF official said. On December 21, Punjab Police recovered 11 hand-grenades, suspected to have been airdropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan, from a sugarcane field at Salach village near Dorangla town of Gurdaspur. On December 22, the police seized an AK-47 rifle and 30 cartridges reportedly dropped by a Pakistani drone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bsf-seizes-7-kg-heroin-3-pistols-after-firing-at-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-s-gurdaspur/story-WNVv7XhQRSouiXURNYXcaP.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid-19 restrictions to continue till January 31||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday extended the restrictions imposed in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic till January 31. A notification to that effect was issued by the chief secretary Sanjay Kumar.Although almost all the restrictions imposed in the state under lockdown, which began from the third week of March this year, have been lifted, curbs on the reopening of private and government offices, schools, swimming pools, and interstate activities are still in place. Local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region are yet to begin operations for all commuters. The state government is yet to allow schools and colleges to reopen. Further, the ban on large gatherings for social, religious and political purposes is also in place.Also Read: ‘Covid-19 wake-up call’: WHO warns future pandemics to be far deadlierMaharashtra has been witnessing a low number of Covid-19 cases for over two months. For 25 consecutive days, there have been less than 5,000 cases. As of Wednesday, the case tally stood at 1,925,066 and death toll reached 49,373.The state government had, on December 22, imposed a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 till January 5 in all urban areas governed by 27 municipal corporations, and empowered districts collectors to impose similar restrictions in rural areas if they deemed fit. The government urged citizens to stay at home while welcoming the new year on December 31 and January 1 and avoid crowding in public places, especially on seashores, in gardens and on roads. It has also started quarantining all travellers coming from Europe, Middle East and South Africa for seven days as a precautionary measure in view of the mutated strain of the coronavirus being discovered in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-restrictions-to-continue-till-january-31/story-z7Z39cWj5ctaNd3j0MkWJN.html
30-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttarakhand to learn from Prayagraj’s Magh Mela template for hosting Kumbh||A team of officials from Uttarakhand would visit the holy city of Prayagraj on Friday to see how Magh Mela, the 57-day religious fair, is being organised in Corona times with a view to using the lessons for management of Haridwar Kumbh, starting from January 14. The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the top decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country, had invited Uttarakhand chief Trivendra Singh Rawat to Prayagraj to see how a religious fair could be held on a grand scale while taking care of covid concerns.All the 13 Akharas participate in the Kumbh and the Akara Parishad has made it clear that they would like the Kumbh organised on a grand scale, as before, while taking the necessary precautions. Rawat is unlikely to visit himself, but officials from his government would be arriving to see the preparations done by the UP government, an ABAP office bearer said. The Haridwar Kumbh is set to begin in January with the first Shahi Snan, the holy dip in the Ganges by saints, would happen on March 11. “We had got the information that the Uttarakhand CM is unwell and we have prayed for his health at the Bade Hanumanji temple here at the Sangam. As he won’t be able to come personally on January 1, some of the officials of his administration would be coming to see the magnitude and method of preparations put in place by the UP government to organise Magh Mela-2021 amid the corona crisis,” ABAP chief Narendra Giri said. Also Read: Amid Covid-19, Mahakumbh 2021 to be of shorter format of 48 days“If things could be provided here at Prayagraj, why can’t it be done at Haridwar too, especially, when the numbers of active corona positive patients are declining,” ABAP chief said. After the visit by Uttarakhand officials, ABAP meeting will be held in Baghambari Gaddi Mutt of the Sangam city on Friday. Representatives from all the 13 akharas (monastic orders) would be present at the meeting scheduled to start from 11 am, Giri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttarakhand-to-learn-from-prayagraj-s-magh-mela-template-for-hosting-kumbh/story-fzm72bRY2vCw60UEvmswUK.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt extends Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in state till January 31, 2021||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday extended Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in the state till January 31, 2021.“The state is threatened with the spread of Covid-19 virus. Therefore, to take certain emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of the virus, the lockdown in the state has been extended till January 31,” a circular issued by the state government read.The activities already allowed and permitted from time to time shall be continued, the circular issued on December 29 stated.In a bid to allow economic activity in the state, the government has eased several lockdown restrictions as permitted by the MHA guidelines.In November, the government had allowed the reopening of places of worship. Additionally, schools for students from class 9 to 12 were also reopened in some parts of the state.Maharashtra’s coronavirus caseload rose to 19,25,066 on Tuesday as it recorded 3,018 new cases. With 69 new fatalities, the death toll in the state reached 49,373.The state currently has 54,537 active cases of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-extends-covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-in-state-till-january-31-2021/story-vFDpjF9jzmO9WSgAJFrfUK.html
30-12-2020||Lifestyle||2020 Life in Mask: One for the market, one for the Metro, and one for the wedding down the lane||Adjusting to the new normal has certainly been difficult for every one in the year that was spent fighting Covid-19 pandemic. But one accessory that not just helped many survive, but has now acquired a character of its own in our day-to-day lives, ie mask, is something that a few are yet to adapting to wearing whereas other consider as a boon to remain guarded from unwanted pollution and social exchanges of smiles. From a daily necessity to a fashion statement, a mask has been all this in 2020, and after having many transitions, is ready to step along with us into 2021. But, before that, here’s a glimpse of the life that most of us lived while being masked! Safety first or fashion?“I personally chose to use the same kind of mask throughout. Many people had different masks for different purposes — one for work, one for the markets, one for low key formal events. In this time, there was also sort of an evolution of masks, where we learnt about the pros and cons of surgical masks, cloth masks, and even the fact that we shouldn’t use masks with respirators etcetera. For me, I chose to go with the safer option rather than the fashionable one to suit the occasion,” says Abhir Bhalla, an 18-year-old student of political science and international relations at a Sonipat-based university. Missing the smiles: warm or cheeky“One of the most visible impact of 2020, the face masks are something that initially I also took time to get used to. But now, they are part of my attire like I’ve a simple cloth mask for my running and cycling while N95 masks are for going out to the market and other places. The great thing about masks is that they give a sense of safety, which is very important in these difficult times of Covid-19. The only flip side is missing people’s smile,” says Amit Bhatt, a Delhi-based expert on urban transport planning. Mask must match with outfit“Initially I was really put off with the fact that I’d have to wear a mask as it makes it difficult for me to breathe, but obviously I didn’t have choice and had to wear one. So, I bought masks that would go with my outfits, and started switching gradually from the boring old masks to custom-made masks. These made it easier for me to deal with the concept of wearing one all the time, when out of home. The incentive? It does a good job of hiding my acne,” chuckles Vanshika Rana, a Gurugram-based student.Three must picks - Spectacles, phone and mask“Before 2020, my spectacles and my phone were the only two things that used to go with me everywhere. And now in 2020 it’s spectacles, phone and mask. Like most of us, I too made it a part of my daily life. At first, it was irritating because we were not used to wearing it or even the fact that one has to remember to carry it like other essentials! But now it’s normal. Be it a festival or any event, I wear a mask everywhere,” says Mahak Bhalla, a Delhi-based freelance photographer.Eat, drink or click pics, mask is must “We have got used to living with a mask. When we get together with friends and colleagues, the mask is on for a long time. It only comes off when we sit to eat or drink. And when the time comes to take pictures, we look like members of a rock band with our faces visible, but standing in a zigzag formation to maximise the number of people who can get into the frame while maintaining social distancing,” says Manas Fuloria, head of an IT firm.Mask for corona today, oxygen tom? “It’s a way of life now. I’m quite comfortable wearing a mask for three hours at a stretch now,” says Nitima Arora, Gurugram- based teacher, adding, “We can’t keep our eyes shut to the demand of these times, to stay safe. The pace at which we are eating away our planet’s resources, we might even have to wear oxygen cylinders one day. The question is: Are we ready to make amendments? If no, then I don’t think many of us would really leave any legacy for our future generations.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/2020-life-in-mask-one-for-the-market-one-for-the-metro-and-one-for-the-wedding-down-the-lane/story-tE9gUn6HBLozefcDcqYqeK.html
30-12-2020||Patna||7 IAS officers promoted in Bihar, Patna DM gets secretary rank||he Bihar government on Tuesday promoted seven IAS officers, including two 1996-batch officers, to the rank of principal secretary and five from the 2005-batch to the rank of secretary. Chief electoral officer H R Srinivasan and Bihar State Examination Board chairman Anand Kishore have been promoted to the level of principal secretary.Srinivasan, will continue to serve as the chief electoral officer.2005-batch IAS officer Manish Kumar, who is special secretary in information and technology department, has been promoted to the secretary grade. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi, Divesh Sehra, managing director of Bihar State SC/ST Cooperative Development, Balamurugan D, commissioner (self-employment) and Radheshyam Shah, special secretary, land and reforms department, have also been promoted to the secretary rank. The government notification in this regard said the promotions would be effective from January 1, 2021 and the promoted officers would be entitled to the concomitant financial benefits from the date they get the elevated ranks. Decks have also been cleared for the promotion of 11 IPS officers to the rank of additional DGs (ADGs), inspector general (IGs) and the director general (DG). A big reshuffle in the police brass is in the offing and is likely to take place within a couple of days. Also Read: Bihar govt to distribute 73 lakh face masks among students as schools set to reopen from January 4The departmental promotion committee (DPC) comprising chief secretary Deepak Kumar, development commissioner Arun Kumar, home secretary Amir Subhani and director-general of police S K Singhal, which met on Monday evening via video conference, has cleared the file pertaining to the promotions, due for the last few weeks. They recommended the promotion of 11 IPS officers of 1990, 1996 and 2003 batches, respectively. The officers whose names have been recommended for promotion include IGs Bachchu Singh Meena (special branch), Sunil Kumar (special secretary, home), Paras Nath (budget, appeal and welfare), Nayyar Hussnain Khan (headquarter), Anil Kishore Yadav (training), Kamal Kishore Singh (State Crime Record Bureau) and Amit Kumar Jain (modernisation). The DPC has already cleared the names of three DIGs, Vikas Vaibhav (ATS), Vijay Kumar Verma (Saran range) and Suresh Kumar Choudhary (Koshi Range), for promotion to the rank of IG. ADG Sobha Ohatker has also been promoted to director-general (DG) rank. Officials familiar with the development said that the recommendations have been sent to chief minister Nitish Kumar. Once approved, the IPS officers would be posted accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/7-ias-officers-promoted-in-bihar-patna-dm-gets-secretary-rank/story-BIkBK3zF5g0kAywiiDt1dP.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body seeks info on UK, West Asia returnees amid concerns about new virus strain||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked its ward officers, private hospitals, and societies to inform the civic body if they find any returnees from the UK and West Asia. The request comes amid concerns about the spread of the new and more contagious Covid-19 strain found in the UK.Civic officials are closely monitoring the UK, West Asia returnees and their close contacts. Special arrangements have been made for Covid-19 positive patients among them at a hospital in Marol.As many as 1,200 of 2,600 passengers, who have returned from the UK and West Asia to Mumbai from November 25 and December 28, have been tested.Also Read: UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so far“Many passengers are not coming forward to reveal their travel history or their close contacts. So, we are also trying to trace them through local bodies. Thus, ward officers, hospitals, and societies are being instructed to inform us if they know anyone who has returned from the UK and the Middle East [West Asia] post-November 25,” said BMC’s additional commissioner, Suresh Kakani. He added six of the 12 passengers, who were found to be Covid-19 positive, have since tested negative. Kankani said all the returnees will be retested.The BMC has sent the samples of the returnees to Pune’s National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing.Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said the state government has provided them the details of the returnees to Mumbai and added officials are following up on their health through telephone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-seeks-info-on-uk-west-asia-returnees-amid-concerns-about-new-virus-strain/story-HJHnmMGe6N8DaeXSeh2gsM.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana municipal polls: Counting underway, BJP-JJP candidates trail||The early trends of the municipal corporation elections in Haryana seem to have jolted the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ally Jannayak Janata party (JJP)—the alliance has suffered a defeat for the post of president in three municipal committees, Uklana (Hisar) , Dharuhera (Rewari) and Sampla (Rohtak), at the hands of independent candidates. The BJP is trailing in the election for the post of mayor of Sonepat municipal corporation and in Rewari for the post of president.The counting of votes is underway for the elections to three municipal corporations of Sonepat, Ambala and Panchkula, the municipal council of Rewari and three municipal committees—Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana.Also Read: Panchkula and Ambala set to get new mayors, councillorsIn the Uklana municipal committee election, independent candidate Sushil Sahu defeated JJP’s Mahender Soni for the post of president. In Sampla, independent candidate Pooja , who was backed by former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, defeated the BJP nominee for the post of president. In the Dharuhera municipal committee election, independent nominee Kanwar Singh became the president by defeating rival Sandeep Bohra by 632 votes. Singh got 3,048 votes, BJP’s Bohra got 2,416 votes and JJP’s Man Singh got 1,657 votes.In the Sonepat municipal corporation election, the Congress’ Nikhil Madaan was leading BJP’s Lalit Batra by 4,440 votes after 12 rounds of counting, of the total 18 rounds. Madaan got 47,572 votes and Batra polled 43,132 votes.Independent candidate Upma Yadav was leading BJP’s Poonam Yadav by 3,079 votes for the post of president of the Rewari municipal council. Upma Yadav got 9,677 votes and Poonam Yadav bagged 6,598 votes, while the Congress candidate Vikram Yadav received 5,202 votes.However, in Panchkula, BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal was leading by a margin of 2,917 votes till the ninth round of counting.There are 37 rounds, of which till the ninth round, 31,634 votes had been counted. The counting is going on at the Government College for Girls, Sector 14 amid tight security. Special teams of 230 cops are on duty and anti-mob vehicles have been deployed.The roads to the college will remain sealed till results are announced.Till 11am, BJP’s Goyal got 16,202 votes, while Congress’ Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia got 13,285 votes. In Ambala, former union minister Venod Sharma’s wife and Haryana Janchetna Party’s (HJP) candidate Shakti Rani Sharma is ahead of BJP-JJP’s Vandana Sharma by 5,269 votes in the election for the post of mayor of the municipal corporation, as of 11am, after the ninth round of counting.Shakti Rani Sharma has been leading in every round since the counting began at 8am, except in round six, where she trailed by a mere 47 votes. After the ninth round, Shakti Rani Sharma received 23,832 votes, Vandana Sharma received 18,573 votes, Congress’ Meena Aggarwal is at the third spot with 9,756 votes, while the Haryana Democratic Front’s Amisha Chawla is at the fourth position with 8,232 votes.The counting of 66,579 of the total 105,683 votes polled (56.3%) on Sunday, is taking place at the strong room at OPS Vidhya Mandir in Sector 9 here. The counting for the elections of 20 wards is also going on simultaneously, of which results of three have been declared. From ward 3 and 7, BJP candidates and from ward 1, an HJP candidate have won.(With inputs from Yojana Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-municipal-polls-counting-underway-bjp-jjp-candidates-trail/story-nZ5EWBdYoaDkntjVMzrBpL.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh in deep freeze, Keylong coldest at -10.3° Celsius||Intense cold wave swept across Himachal Pradesh with the minimum and maximum temperatures plummeting several notches below freezing point, even as skies were clear on Wednesday. Keylong, the administrative centre of Lahaul and Spiti, continued to be the coldest place in the state at -10.3° Celsius, a significant dip of over 3°compared to the minimum temperature of -6.7°C on Monday. The minimum temperature at Kalpa in Kinnaur was -6° C. The area shivered at -3.1°C the day before. The maximum temperature at Keylong and Kalpa was -1.5°C and 0.1° C, respectively. Meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the minimum temperatures were up to 3° below normal, while the maximum temperatures were up to 7° below normal in the state. Dalhousie recorded a low of -2.9°C and maximum of -0.5°C. The minimum temperature at Manali was -2.6°C, while state capital Shimla and the hill stations of Kufri, Dharamshala and Palampur recorded lows of 1.6°C, -0.2°C, 1.4°C and 1°C, respectively. Nahan was the warmest place in the state and recorded a high of 17.9°C. SNOWFALL FROM JANUARY 4 The weather department has forecast snowfall from January 4 when a western disturbance becomes active over the region. A yellow weather warning of thick ground frost and intense cold wave in the lower hills, including Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Kangra, on Wednesday and Thursday. 3 HIGHWAYS CLOSED DUE TO SNOW Three highways and more than 300 other roads in the state remained closed for traffic due to the inclement weather, resulting in disruption of 211 bus routes of Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (HRTC). Ninety-seven buses have been stranded at various places across the state. A maximum of 73 roads are closed in the tribal Lahaul-Spiti district. Himachal Pradesh public works department has cancelled the leaves of its employees and thousands of workers have been deployed in the field to remove snow from various stretches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-in-deep-freeze-keylong-coldest-at-10-3-celsius/story-o828KZGXtMpWfhw67PFADP.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Lower legal drinking age to 21, reduce number of dry days: Delhi panel||A committee set up by the Delhi government to suggest ways to augment excise revenue has suggested that the legal age for drinking be reduced from 25 years to 21 years in Delhi, the number of dry days in a year be reduced to three, issuing of licenses to departmental stores to sell beer and wine be convenient, and there be more equitable distribution of government-run liquor stores across the city, said a senior government official.The senior official said that the legal drinking age of 21 years will be at par with several other states and so will be the policy of lesser dry days. If approved, the three dry days are supposed to be on Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti.Also Read: Government doubles penalty for missing ITR due date this yearDelhi has 864 liquor stores that are operated by government agencies such as Delhi tourism corporation, Delhi state civil supplies corporation limited, and Delhi state industrial and infrastructure development corporation. The committee has recommended an equitable distribution of such stores across all 272 municipal wards, NDMC areas and the indira Gandhi International Airport, said the official citing a report prepared by the committee.There are also 125 department stores in Delhi which sell beer and wine under the L12 and L12-F excise licenses. Under these categories of licenses, the stores are required to ensure that not more than 10% of their total floor area is utilised to store wine and beer. Last year, after 41 departmental stores were found violating such norms, the government had refused to invite renewal applications for all stores under the L12 and L12-F categories. The committee has recommended ease of license norms for such stores from the financial year 2021-22, said the official.The committee was set up in September by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance and excise portfolios, to suggest measures to augment state excise revenue, including measures to check malpractices and evasion of duty in liquor trade and supporting the driving mechanism. The recommendations of the committee are yet to be put up in public domain for feedback from stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lower-legal-drinking-age-to-21-reduce-number-of-dry-days-delhi-panel/story-VALbdqcLHiZQO02L2S73UL.html
30-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC sets up medical board to examine minor’s abortion plea||A minor girl, who got pregnant after she was raped by her cousin, has approached the Rajasthan high court with a request to allow her to abort her 21-week-old foetus. The court has asked for a medical board’s view on the girl’s petition before it takes a decision.Justice Sandeep Mehta of the special bench, set up during the winter vacation of the high court, directed the additional advocate general to see that the minor survivor was examined by the medical board to be constituted at the MDM Hospital, Jodhpur.“The report of the medical board shall be submitted for the court’s perusal on the next date of hearing. The child shall also be present in the court on that day,” the bench said.In late January 2020, the government amended the 1971 Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, in turn raising the upper limit of MTP from 20 to 24 weeks for women including rape survivors, victims of incest, differently-abled women and minors. Also Read: Rajasthan: Alleged rapist held after teenaged girl delivers babyWhile the Act allows termination of pregnancy on various grounds until 20 weeks, in exceptional cases, a court may allow a termination even after 24 weeks allowing women to seek abortions as part of their reproductive rights and gender justice.According to the petition, the survivor was abducted by his cousin on January 5, 2020 before she was taken to Telangana. The minor’s father lodged an FIR at Pipad police station, following which the police located the petitioner on December 17. She was found to be pregnant in subsequent medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-hc-sets-up-medical-board-to-examine-minor-s-abortion-plea/story-vtDpkZsNFEFQqUq8rsTSRP.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Four in Delhi test positive for UK Covid-19 strain, isolated at Lok Nayak Hospital||Four people in Delhi have been found to have the new UK variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday. All of the four have been isolated in separate rooms in a special ward at Lok Nayak Hospital. None of them have shown any symptom of Covid-19 and continue to be stable, authorities said. “The viral sequencing of eight persons admitted to the hospital has been done; four were found to have the UK variant,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. So far, the hospital has admitted 35 people to the special ward designated for isolating patients infected with the new variant of the virus. Of these, 20 have returned from the UK and the other 15 are people who have come in contact with them. Also Read: UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so farThe 2,000-bed Lok Nayak Hospital was designated as the nodal centre for isolation of persons who are suspected to have the new variant of the viral infection – those who have either returned from the UK between November 25 and December 21 or those who have tested positive after coming in contact with UK returnees. The Indian government suspended flights from the United Kingdom December 23 onwards and tested those landing in India from the country two days prior to it. The measure was initiated in light of London and other parts of the United Kingdom going into a lockdown because of a fast-spreading mutated variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. The UK variant has 23 mutations, one of which is on the receptor binding domain of the spike protein that the virus uses to enter the human body. The new variant is thought to be 70% more transmissible that the previous one. Doctors and scientists have, however, not seen a high number of people with severe disease or deaths due to the new variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-people-in-delhi-test-positive-for-uk-covid-strain/story-dof8Tz5KpaUE69iAZoirKM.html
30-12-2020||Lucknow||Ram Temple: New technique may be used to build the foundation||A new technique is likely to be adopted for the construction of the foundation of Ayodhya’s Ram Temple after it was halted when loose sand was found around 200 feet below the surface during testing work for its pillars.“Engineers of Larsen & Toubro and Tata Consulting Engineers will suggest a new technique for constructing Ram Mandir’s foundation,” said Anil Mishra, a member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which has been formed to oversee the temple construction.This decision was taken at a meeting of the Trust and Ram Mandir Construction Committee in New Delhi on Tuesday.Also Read: VHP to start Ayodhya’s Ram Temple construction fund collection drive from January 15On September 11, the loose sand was found during a test conducted to lay the pillars below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation.Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the ground-breaking ceremony of the temple in Ayodhya in August after the Supreme Court in November last year paved the way for its construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ram-temple-new-technique-likely-to-be-adopted-for-construction-of-foundation/story-nbGyEuvkbJeNMtRP5QrdfP.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man slips into coma due to blood clots in brain after Covid-19, recovers||After weaning a man recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) off a ventilator, doctors from a city hospital were left perplexed when he did not wake up and instead slipped into coma. The doctors discovered he had multiple swellings in his brain and nearly 400 micro-clots. The condition has come to be known as Covid encephalitis worldwide. The condition, which before Covid-19 was known as acute haemorrhagic leukoencephalitis, is a rare disorder that follows a viral or bacterial infection and causes sudden swelling in the brain and the spinal cord, damaging the myelin layer of the nerves or the white matter in the brain. This, doctors from Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Delhi say, might be the first reported case of Covid encephalitis from India. Also Read: UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so farThe man, 55-year-old Mithilesh Labru from Jammu, was advised home isolation after he was diagnosed with Covid-19 as he was thought to have a mild course of the disease. However, after four or five days of home isolation in early November, his condition started deteriorating rapidly. He was admitted to a local hospital in Jammu with shortness of breath. The doctors there found that he had developed pneumonia – inflammation in the lungs because of an infection – and put him on a ventilator to help him breathe. They then consulted a team of doctors from Apollo, Delhi, as the patient’s condition was critical and he also had comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A team of doctors from Apollo, including senior cardiac surgeon Dr Mukesh Goel, senior interventionist Dr Devjeevan and head of emergency department Dr Priyadarshini Pal were flown to Jammu to stabilise the patient. Even with the support of a heart-lung machine the patient was unstable and could not be flown to Delhi. The team of doctors stabilised his condition for two or three days there before flying him to Delhi in an air ambulance. At Indraprastha Apollo hospital, he was admitted to the Covid ICU under respiratory disease specialist Dr Rajesh Chawla. “He was admitted to the Covid ICU on a ventilator at the hospital and his condition was monitored closely. When he started showing signs of recovery, he was removed from the ventilator. But he had slipped into a deep coma,” said Dr Chawla. Usually, when patients are weaned off a ventilator, they wake up after a few hours. “When patients recovering from Covid pneumonia are removed from sedation and muscle relaxants after being on a ventilator, they come back to consciousness within hours. But that did not happen with the patient. His MRI revealed that there were multiple swellings in the brain along with over 400 micro blood clots,” said Dr Vinit Suri, senior consultant of Neurosciences, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. With immune therapy and steroids, the doctors were able to gradually revive the patient to complete consciousness within seven days. He still had slight weakness of the limbs. “However, his post treatment MRI shows more than 50% recovery and the patient has been discharged on December 26,” said Dr Suri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-who-slipped-into-coma-due-to-blood-clots-in-brain-after-covid-19-recovers/story-xeXXWAeDs3saCiq2biJW3N.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Several borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against three new farm laws. The Delhi-UP border at Chilla and Ghazipur is closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad. The traffic police advised motorists coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND Flyway, Loni DND and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. Also Read: Centre, farmer unions to hold sixth round of talks today, protesters firm on demand for repeal of lawsThe entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders have continued to remain closed. The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. The ongoing farmers’ protest entered Day 35 on Wednesday. The leaders of several farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders will be meeting the Centre for another round of talks Wednesday evening to discuss the three contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted/story-DnHTUEFVa1wDgMHRse7k6N.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi witnesses moderate fog, min temperature drops to 3.5 degrees||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 3.5 degrees Celsius at 8.30am on Wednesday. There is moderate fog with Delhi’s Palam recording visibility under 200 metres Wednesday morning. Amritsar, Patiala and Jammu have visibility of less than 50 metres. Air quality in most towns and cities in northwest India is in “poor” category. However, it has improved significantly since Sunday because of strong winds. The average wind speed in Delhi on Monday was around 15kmph.Under the influence of the strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/ northerly lower-level winds, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by about 2 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest and Central India during the next two days and rise by 3-5 degrees Celsius thereafter for the subsequent three days (January 1 to 3). “Cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely in many parts of Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Kutch during the next three days according to IMD’s Tuesday bulletin.Also Read: Don’t let the winters eat up your fitness regime“Cold wave” conditions are very likely in Bihar, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha during December 30 to January 1. Dense to very dense fog is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttarakhand during the next three days.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains. Ground frost conditions are likely in north Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next two days.“Many parts of northwest India are reaching the freezing point. We are expecting December 31 to be the coldest. Around January 2, a cyclonic circulation is likely to form over south Rajasthan and anticyclone over Chhattisgarh and Odisha. A confluence zone is likely to develop over Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan which is likely to bring rain to Punjab, Haryana and Delhi,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-witnesses-moderate-fog-min-temperature-drops-to-4-1-degrees/story-PrAgUsX1mKcvWRIiXPxNYO.html
30-12-2020||Bhopal||‘Playing with lives’: MP CM backs life term for adulteration||Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday approved the draft of an Ordinance that provides for life term in jail to those found guilty of food or drugs adulteration in the state, as was announced by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan after the cabinet meeting. The draft was sent to Madhya Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel for promulgation of the Ordinance, along with drafts on certain other ordinances. The cabinet also approved MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance for stringent punishment to those found guilty of forcing religious conversion by way of allurement, misrepresentation, threat, force, undue influence, coercion-marriage and any fraudulent means. The cabinet approved the drafts on Ordinances for its promulgation as the state government couldn’t table the bills to the effect in the state assembly during its scheduled three-day winter session from Monday, which was cancelled on Sunday evening due to prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state in general and in state capital Bhopal in particular. In a video message released to media, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “The state government received information about food and drug adulteration. There were reports about adulteration even in plasma... fake plasma. What can be a bigger crime than this? Whether it’s adulteration of food or medicines, it’s nothing but playing with the lives of people. This can’t be allowed in Madhya Pradesh at any rate.” The Ordinance draft will amend sections 272 (Adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), 273 (Sale of noxious food or drink), 274 (Adulteration of drugs), 275 (Sale of adulterated drugs) and 276 (Sale of drug as a different drug or preparation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) to enhance quantum of punishment from 6 months to life imprisonment in jail.“But our focus through the ordinance is on those who manufacture these items and the factory where such items are manufactured, not the traders who sell,” said Chouhan. “A sub-section (273-A) will be added to section 273 of IPC to ensure punishment up to 5 years in jail and Rs 1 lakh fine to those who sell food items after its expiry date. I think this law will play a major role in checking adulteration in our campaign against the same in the state,” he added. On MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance, the CM said, “We have made a provision for stringent punishment for religious conversion of women, daughters, especially minor daughters and scheduled castes and tribes, in violation of the law. The punishment is a minimum of two years to a maximum of 10 years in jail and also a fine of Rs 50000.” He said marrying a girl after conversion done by way of allurement, threat, coercion, impersonation or with bad intention will be unlawful. “Such a crime is going on a large scale in Madhya Pradesh. This can’t be tolerated”, he said. Also Read: Retired IAF officer’s body found in semi-burnt state, police suspect murder He said the government had also made a provision that mass religious conversion of two or more people will be held in violation of the law and will attract a minimum jail term of 5 years and a maximum of 10 years apart from a minimum fine of Rs one lakh. On another Ordinance draft aimed to amend public service guarantee, he said, “As per the existing provision, the government officer/personnel who is supposed to ensure delivery of the service faces a fine on delay and the amount of the fine is given to the complainant. We are adding one more provision to it that if the service is not delivered in the stipulated period of time, the person who seeks the service will get it as deemed one, generated through the computer. And the government officer and personnel concerned will have no role in it.” State Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said there was no need for MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance and Public Service Guarantee Ordinance, claiming existing laws in the state served a similar purpose.“For an instance, in case of marriage with a minor girl whether with consent or lure or intimidation, it is considered as a rape under the IPC. Forced conversion is already a crime. The ordinance on adulteration was brought as the then Kamal Nath government had launched a massive state-wide campaign against adulteration instead of a lip service and action was taken against several adulteration mafia under the National Security Act across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/playing-with-lives-mp-cm-backs-life-term-for-adulteration/story-BaJVtbRGuyM2R1Wjh9sYUK.html
30-12-2020||Bhopal||Section 144 imposed in parts of Indore after stone-pelting incident||Indore district administration imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in Chandankhedi, Dharmat, Rudrakhya, Sunala, Devarakhedi, Gautampura city council, and Sanwer city council areas after an incident of stone-pelting was reported on Tuesday.According to the order issued by the Additional District Magistrate on the instructions of Collector and District Magistrate Manish Singh, a group of five or more than five persons will not be able to gather under the said police station limits without the permission of the competent magistrate.“In these areas, sharp weapons and firearms will not be carried nor transported by anyone other than the police forces/officers present on duty. No procession/general assembly/rally/dharna/demonstration or any other activities can be done in the restricted area without prior and competent permission. No action will be taken by any person, group against any class, religious person, or particular group, for any indignant sloganeering or promoting mutual anger. Anything that warrants public anger and affects the public peace should not be done,” the order stated.Notably, a public awareness rally was organised from Dharmat to Chandkhedi, Kanwasa, Sunala back to Rudrakhya via Khadotya in connection with the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Tuesday where an incident of stone-pelting was reported after some people opposed the rally.The situation was controlled after police intervention and then Section 144 was imposed in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/section-144-imposed-in-parts-of-indore-after-stone-pelting-incident/story-LtnReENoiUsVXfD0KMs52H.html
30-12-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka gram panchayat poll results: Counting to begin at 8 am on Dec 30||The results of the Karnataka gram panchayat elections will be announced on December 30. The Karnataka gram panchayat elections were held in two phases on December 22 and December 27. A total of 5,728 gram panchayats voted on December 22 and December 27.Candidates have been elected unopposed for 8,074 seats. More than 2 lakh candidates contested the recently conducted elections which saw 82% voter turnout in the first phase and 80% voter turnout in the second phase of the elections. On December 22, elections were held for 43,238 seats in the first phase. On December 27, elections were held for 39,378 seats on the day of the second phase of the election. Close to 3 lakh people have voted in the recent gram panchayat polls. The state election commission and government officials had made adequate efforts to ensure that people can vote safely amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Special efforts were undertaken to ensure that Covid-19 infected individuals could also cast their vote. The results of the Karnataka polls can be accessed at karsec.gov.in and ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa is hopeful that BJP has performed well in the elections. “According to my information it is certain that 85-90 per cent BJP supported candidates will get elected in Gram Panchayat polls,” the Karnataka chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Local body election allow political parties to assess their grasp of the state or region’s politics at its grassroots level. It also helps political leaders to understand the demands of the electorate ahead of any major elections.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-gram-panchayat-poll-results-live-counting-to-begin-at-8-am-on-dec-30-latest-updates/story-oGLciBxsi6C6iEjPFsXvXI.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants bail to man booked for raping woman at her husband’s behest||The Bombay high court (HC) has granted bail to a man booked for allegedly having sexual relations with a woman at the behest of her husband. Though the woman had identified the accused, he was granted bail on the grounds that it was not clear if he had sexual relations with the woman and as the act was done on the prompting of the husband, it did not attract section 376 of the Indian Penal Code which deals with punishment for rape. A bench of justice PD Naik, while hearing the bail application of the man accused for raping the complainant between 2015 and 2018, was informed that the applicant had been arrested in the course of investigation after the woman complained that she was forced by her husband to have sexual relations with other men in his presence. As per the complaint, the woman was married in 2009 to a person who was working in the merchant navy. She alleged that after his return from the ship in 2015, the husband invited a couple to their home. After consuming liquor, the husband’s friend had sexually assaulted the complainant. The next day, the husband informed her that he had recorded the act and had himself asked the friend to have sex with her. Similar incidents took happened in 2016 and 2018 also, allegedly at the behest of the husband. The woman claimed that she was forced to comply as the husband had threatened to make the objectionable video viral. The complaint further stated that the woman was sexually abused by the husband too and was also forced to have unnatural sex. She finally lodged the complaint in February 2019 against the husband and other persons who had sexually assaulted her. The advocate for the applicant submitted that though the incidents had occurred between 2015 and 2018, the complaint was lodged in 2019 and hence, there was inordinate delay in lodging the first information report (FIR). She further submitted that though her client was identified by the woman in an identification parade, a vague role was attributed to him. In light of this offence, section 376 (rape) cannot be applied to the applicant. The additional public prosecutor submitted that the woman was forced to indulge into sexual relationship by her husband with other persons and was threatened and a video recording of the sexual assault was also done. The applicant was identified and his role in the act has also been defined and hence the application should be rejected. After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “Prima facie it appears that section 376 may not be attracted against applicant. Since the trial is pending, giving such finding is not warranted. The applicant is in custody for a period of about one and half year.” In light of this the court granted him bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-booked-for-raping-woman-at-her-husband-s-behest/story-f51vnCKNlFjKastbSjDBsJ.html
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Adult couple can live together even if man is not yet of marriageable age: HC||The right of an adult couple to live together can’t be denied just because the man has not yet attained the marriageable age, the Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled. The bench of Justice Alka Sarin observed that the couple being adult has every right to live their lives as they desire within the boundaries of the law. “The society cannot determine how an individual should live her or his life. The Constitution guarantees every individual the right to life. The freedom to choose one’s partner is an important facet of the right to life. In the present case, the girl’s parents cannot dictate how and with whom she should spend her life since she is adult. Parents cannot compel a child to live life on their terms,” the bench said. The court directed the Fatehgarh Sahib senior superintendent of police (SSP) to decide on the protection petition submitted by the couple and take necessary action as per law. The two had approached the court after seeking protection of life and liberty, claiming that the SSP did not act on their plea as they were threatened with dire consequences by the girl’s parents. The court was told that the girl is 19 and the boy 20 and they wanted to marry. But when the girl’s parents became aware of their relationship, fights took place between the families and she was even given severe beatings, it was informed. The girl who was allegedly confined in a room left her home on December 20 and the two started living together. The court observed the girl is well within her right to decide for herself what is good for her and what is not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/adult-couple-can-live-together-even-if-man-is-not-yet-of-marriageable-age-hc/story-eZBtC8NnzH7n1QOLCOOZ0O.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old arrested for firing at man in Mumbai||Versova police on Monday arrested a 25-year-old Mahim resident for firing a round at a man at Seven Bungalows in Andheri.According to the police, the accused Altaf Shaikh, liked the complainant’s girlfriend. He wanted to propose her and to get him out of picture, the accused attempted to kill him. Shaikh arrived on a scooter at Seven Bungalows and waited for the complainant to come out of his building. The moment the complainant left his building, Shaikh followed him and pointed his country-made revolver at the victim and fired at him. However, the man managed to escape.Locals gathered at the spot and informed the police about the firing. A patrolling team reached the spot and caught Shaikh before he could flee.On searching Shaikh, the police personnel found a revolver. “We also found four live cartridges in Shaikh’s pocket,” said RM Thakur, senior inspector of Versova police station. On questioning, Shaikh said that he wanted the man out of the picture before he could propose the woman.“We have arrested Shaikh under charges of criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code,” said the officer. The police are now trying to find out from where did Shaikh procure the gun and the bullets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-arrested-for-firing-at-man-in-mumbai/story-T1p16VLos8y3lNMiQfWxJL.html
30-12-2020||City||Woman dies in Mumbai hospital 15 days after being set on fire by husband||Ayesha Nadak, 25, a resident of Nallasopara, who was set on fire by her husband Musibal Rehman Nadak, 30, on December 13, died at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central on Monday. The mother of two had been in critical condition for 15 days after she suffered 55% burns when her husband poured petrol on her and set her on fire. Musibal and two others have been arrested for murder by the Tulinj police while one more accused is yet to be arrested.Musibal worked as a helper at a catering company while Ayesha worked at a Vasai factory, said Shashikant Awaghade, assistant inspector, Tulinj police station. They resided at Ekta Nagar,Behari Mohalla,Tulinj, Nallasopara. “Musibal would often demand money from Ayesha, and there would be regular arguments on this issue. On Friday, a similar argument ensued, and Ayesha refused to give him money as she had to buy groceries for the family,” said the officer.“Musibal got angry and left the house. He returned after a few hours with his brothers Shakeel, Akhil and Sohail, and again an argument ensued. Musibal had carried along a bottle of petrol, and he poured the fuel on Ayesha and set her on fire. Hearing her screams, the neighbours admitted her to a local hospital, and she was later shifted to Nair Hospital where she died on Monday,” said Awaghade.“We had arrested Musibal earlier under section 307 (attempt to murder), and now he is booked under sections 302 (murder) and 498(a) (harassing a married woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Vasai court has remanded him, and the two other accused Shakeel and Akhil, to police custody. We are yet to arrest Sohail,” said Awaghade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-dies-15-days-in-mumbai-hospital-after-being-set-on-fire-by-husband/story-jPM4prlwfPO8Zeq3FA9IoK.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Irregularities in admissions: Bombay HC orders state board to cancel affiliation of Nagpur junior college||Taking a stern view of irregularities in college admissions, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently directed the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) to initiate the process for cancellation of affiliation and recognition of a junior college in Nagpur for admitting two ineligible students to its science stream.The division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote was hearing a petition filed by students Aditya Bhoyar and Abhishek Gayki of Saraswat Junior College of Science and Commerce at Saoner in Nagpur district.The petitioners had moved HC after the results of their higher secondary certificate (HSC) examination were withheld by the board as they were not eligible for admission to the science stream.The petitioners had sought a direction to the board to declare their HSC results, claiming that they were being punished for no fault of their own. They pointed out that they were earlier denied admissions to the science stream, for having secured only 33℅ marks in science in the SSC exam, and had to take admission in the commerce stream instead. Later, they applied for a change to the science stream, and the college granted their request. They went on to appear for the HSC examination this year.The board responded to the petition, pointing out that their admission to the science stream had already been cancelled on July 24, 2020, and therefore, there was no question of declaration of their HSC results.HC accepted the board’s contention that from the very beginning, admission of the petitioners to the science stream was in clear violation of the eligibility criteria, and on this ground, refused to interfere with the cancellation of their admission.The bench opined that the petitioners were also expected to read the instructions carefully before seeking admission and since they have not done this exercise, “at least part of the fault would also be lying at their doorsteps”.HC, however, held the junior college responsible for the loss of two precious academic years of the petitioners. The judges said the junior college is presumed to be aware of the eligibility criteria and therefore, ought not to have entertained the application for change of stream when the petitioners did not qualify for it.“In such a case, the larger share of fault would have to be owned by respondent No 4 (college) and respondent No 4 would also be required to be made accountable for the same,” said HC. “If this is not done, such activities, undesirable and unethical as they are, would continue,” the court added and directed the board to initiate action for cancellation of affiliation and recognition of the junior college. HC has also granted liberty to the petitioner students to sue the college for compensation on account of the loss of their two academic years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/irregularities-in-admissions-bombay-hc-orders-state-board-to-cancel-affiliation-of-nagpur-junior-college/story-X7BA2T9qB8tdtR8yXt0JsL.html
30-12-2020||City||Navi Mumbai auto driver held for raping 18-year-old from Chhattisgarh||An 18-year-old girl from Chhattisgarh, who came to Mumbai to celebrate Christmas and New Year, was allegedly raped by an auto rickshaw driver in Panvel.The Panvel crime unit police have arrested the accused within 12 hours of receiving the complaint.Deputy police commissioner, Zone II, Shivaji Patil said, “On December 27, the girl asked an auto driver to drop her at Gandhi garden. The driver took her to a remote place at Vadghar river, and threatened to kill her. He then raped her. As she shouted for help, the accused fled and nearby locals came to her rescue.”The Panvel police immediately launched a search operation and arrested Sachin Sharma, 26, the auto driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-auto-driver-held-for-raping-18-year-old-from-chhattisgarh/story-fNBaYc4w36PFLkZJfxMGgL.html
30-12-2020||City||Bhima Koregaon case: Hany Babu, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha claim they are being denied books, newspapers||Three of the accused booked in the Bhima-Koregaon case have approached the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court seeking access to books and newspapers in prison. Acting on the applications of the accused – Hany Babu, Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha – the special court has asked the prison authorities to reply to the plea.While Babu and Navlakha are lodged in Taloja prison, Bharadwaj is in Byculla jail. In their separate applications filed by their lawyers Yug Mohit Chaudhry and Chandni Chawla, the trio on Tuesday submitted that when the advocates had tried to deliver books for the accused, the prison authorities refused to accept them, and asked the lawyer to get an order from the court to deliver the books to the accused in prison.Noting that in view of Rule 13 of the Maharashtra Prison Manual, it is within the province of the superintendent of prison to allow such activities, the special court asked the defence to submit an affidavit over the refusal. The court has also asked the prison authorities to submit a reply to the application.Babu and Navlakha in their separate applications had claimed that their family members and friends have sent books to them by post in the past four months which were returned by the prison authorities. They also alleged that they were not even given access to newspapers since last six months and that there are not enough books in the prison library for them to read. Meanwhile, Bhardawaj in her petition said the books sent to her in the past few months by post as well as those brought personally by her lawyers have been returned repeatedly.The three accused have pleaded that they be allowed five books per month from outside the prison sent to them by their friends and family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhima-koregaon-case-hany-babu-sudha-bharadwaj-gautam-navlakha-claim-they-are-being-denied-books-newspapers/story-tUrjkxLEx9oafRgaay68YJ.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s medical tourism drops by 80% amid Covid-19 pandemic||With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the city has seen a sharp dip in the number of international patients. Until the lockdown curtailed international travel, Mumbai was one of the major hubs for medical tourism in India. According to the ministry of tourism, around 7 lakh foreigners applied for medical visas in 2019. However, medical tourism was halted this year when Covid-19 spread globally. International commute systems have since been severely restricted. For South African national Wazir Khan, 32, the process of bringing his son Nayum to Mumbai for a liver transplant was beset with challenges. “My son was born in October 2019. Within a few days, he was diagnosed with rare biliary atresia,” said Khan. Biliary atresia is a rare disease of the liver and bile ducts that occurs in infants. “My baby also underwent surgery in South Africa but it didn’t provide him with any relief. The only way to save him was a liver transplant,” he said. Khan decided to bring Nayum to Mumbai for the medical transplant, but he had to struggle for three months to get the passport and medical visa. “I kept knocking at the doors of the immigration offices but I wasn’t getting the help. Then finally, a senior politician came to our rescue and helped me get the passport and visa,” he said.Unfortunately for Khan, before he could bring Nayum to Mumbai, the lockdown was announced and international flights were cancelled. This led to delays and he was finally able to bring Nayum to the city in November. The one-year-old was then admitted to Global Hospital and underwent a liver transplant on November 25. Fortunately, Khan was a perfect match for his son and so donated a part of his liver for the transplant. Nayum is still in hospital and the Khans hope to return to South Africa on January 22, 2021.India is one of Asia’s fastest-growing medical tourism destinations and Mumbai is a major hub for relatively affordable healthcare. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, city hospitals say they saw a regular stream of foreign patients who came for investigations, diagnoses and treatments like chemotherapy. Nigerian Onyeka Pascal, 36, has been suffering from a heart valve disease since 2007 but was not able to afford the necessary surgery. By 2015, his condition had worsened significantly. Ultimately, Pascal decided to come to India to get a high-risk complex heart valve replacement procedure. Around the same time, Covid-19 was declared a pandemic and Pascal had to wait for months to get his medical visa. When he was finally able to travel, he needed special permission from Nigeria to avoid the 14 days of compulsory quarantine after landing in Mumbai on November 6. On November 7, Pascal underwent the heart valve replacement procedure at Fortis Hospital, in Mulund under Dr Manish Hinduja, Consultant,Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgery. He was admitted on November 7. After stabilizing him, the surgery was performed only on November 20. He was discharged on December 8 and returned to Nigeria on December 14.The pandemic and lockdown have meant few patients like Pascal and Nayum. Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer of Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital, in Powai, said the super speciality hospital hadn’t seen any international patients since March. “We are yet to receive any patient from aboard. But we are hopeful that soon, the situation will improve,” said Dr Chatterjee.Some city doctors say the number of international patients has gone down by around 80%. Dr Aparna Govil Bhasker, bariatric and laparoscopic surgeon, at Saifee Hospital, said, “International medical tourism has taken a big hit during the pandemic and subsequent lockdown. In the last month or so, the number of patients travelling to Mumbai has increased, but even now it is just about 20% of what it used to be prior to the lockdown.”Dr Ramakant Deshpande, chairman of ACI Cumballa Hill Hospital, said, “The travelling percentage has come down to 20-25%. Earlier, five to 10 international patients would come every month to the hospital. Now we see only one patient per month and patients from the United Kingdom aren’t allowed to come.”Last week, in a virtual seminar, minister of state for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel had predicted growth for medical tourism to India. “The post-pandemic situation is one where our system of medicine, local cure and wellness methods are what could be best suited to deal with it. After Corona [Covid-19], medical tourism is expected to rise and we must be prepared for this opportunity,” Patel had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-medical-tourism-drops-by-80-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-XJo4SZ6SPnQsZo66bpRLXL.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Car designer’s firm took loans to buy their own vehicles by posing as customers: Mumbai crime branch||The Mumbai crime branch, which is probing the cheating case against famous car designer Dilip Chhabria, has found that his firm had availed loans from some non-banking financial companies (NBFC) by posing as customers wanting to buy sports cars manufactured by the group itself.Preliminary probe has revealed that loans averaging ₹42 lakh per car had been availed by the firm, Dilip Chhabria (DC) Designs Pvt Ltd, on about 90 of the total 120 cars sold by it. In some cases, loans had even been availed after selling the vehicles to their buyers.Chhabria was arrested on Monday and has been remanded to police custody till January 2. Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze of the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) had received a tip-off about a two-seater sports car – DC Avanti – plying towards south Mumbai on a bogus registration number. A trap was laid and the car was spotted in Colaba on December 18. The vehicle was taken into custody. The police learnt that the car was registered in Chennai and the owner had submitted the original documents, which were later found to be genuine, said a crime branch officer. Further probe, however, revealed that another car with the same engine and chassis number had been registered in Haryana.According to police, Chhabria had manufactured 127 DC-Avanti cars in the past four years, of which the firm had sold 120 in India. The crime branch suspects that 90 such cars were found to be registered with the same engine, chassis number in different states, under different registration numbers, said joint commissioner of police (crime branch) Milind Bharambe. “We will probe why NBFCs didn’t complain when the loans were not repaid. We’ll also have to see how the regional transport departments didn’t notice that the same engine and chassis numbers were used to register different vehicles across cities with different registration numbers,” said the crime branch officer. “We are also verifying if there is any quantum of loss caused by the accused by not paying the applicable taxes such as custom duties and GST (goods and services tax) etc,” said Bharambe. DC Designs Pvt Ltd was incorporated on June 14, 1993, and the sports car, DC -Avanti, was launched in 2016 after a formal certification by Automotive Research Association of India in March 2015. The sports car was manufactured at a plant in Pune district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/car-designer-s-firm-took-loans-to-buy-their-own-vehicles-by-posing-as-customers-mumbai-crime-branch/story-xU2ho1NVUMDvPm3v6CCgzI.html
30-12-2020||City||Land acquisition for road: PWD files recovery suit against Punjab minister Rana Sodhi, kin||The public works department (PWD) on Tuesday filed a recovery suit against Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi alias Guru Gurmeet Singh and his family members --- brother Guru Hardeep Singh and nephews, Prabhjot Singh and Jasdeep Singh --- in the Guruharsahai court for allegedly pocketing double compensation against a piece of land acquired by the state government for a road project. One Joginder Singh has also been named in the petition. The department has also made Gurharsahai SDM, a respondent in the matter. The court has fixed the next hearing on January 4. The said land at Mohanki Attar village had been acquired for the Ferozepur-Fazilka-Gurharsahai road. The family received ₹1.83 crore compensation in 2013 for the land after re-acquisition in 2012, which, as per records, was also acquired in 1962 and a sum of ₹7,384 paid. The land — 55 kanal and 6 marla of Rana Sodhi and 38 kanal of his nephew Jasdeep Sodhi (son of Hardeep Singh) — was re-acquired by the Punjab government and compensation was paid after the owners approached the court. In the petition, a copy in possession of Hindustan Times, the PWD has pleaded that land awards should be set aside by the court as Sodhi family had obtained these by “playing fraud on the court and state by concealing facts”. The petition also urged criminal action against Rana Sodhi and others. In the suit, the department also urged the court to set aside the 2005 decree passed by the civil judge, Ferozepur, in this matter. The petition further said that the factum of the acquisition of the land and the compensation already paid, was not brought to the notice of the court of the civil judge in 2005. “The state has also sought restitution of compensation worth Rs 1.83 crore paid to Rana Sodhi and his family members in the year 2014 against the illegal re-acquisition of the land in 2012,” reads the petition. The state also urged the court for permanent injunction restraining them from claiming the enhancement of the compensation under new land acquisition law, which was ordered 2015. In March 2020, a government sub-committee found that Rana Sodhi’s family has got double compensation for the land. Rana Sodhi said the matter was sub-judice. A contempt petition was pending before the Punjab and Haryana high court, he added. “Whatever the Punjab government officials are saying is totally immaterial and false as they have their own motives. They are just resorting to witch-hunting. I don’t want to comment on them”, Sodhi told HT/ As per December 17 order of high court in this matter, the government has been directed to deposit re-determined amount of land compensation of 2015, in the court concerned within one week. The re-determination of compensation has been upheld even by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-acquisition-for-road-pwd-files-recovery-suit-against-punjab-minister-rana-sodhi-kin/story-L5BfmxARlonxzB2peCIiSN.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nandgaonkar seeks withdrawal of 55 cases against him under Maharashtra government’s new policy||Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nandgaonkar, who is known for his violent agitations on various issues, now wants the 55 criminal cases lodged against him to be withdrawn under the government’s new policy which allows withdrawal of cases lodged for social and political agitations. Nandgaonkar said he has asked his lawyer to initiate the process for the withdrawal of these cases. Nandgaonkar, the firebrand Sena leader, was recently in the news for threatening the owner of Karachi Sweets in Bandra, demanding that he change the name of his shop. The incident drew extensive criticism, and even the Sena had to distance itself from the action. In the past, Nandgaonkar had beaten up a few auto drivers for rigging their meters and had attacked a molester from Matunga. He is facing cases in various police stations in the city. “I have no regrets for having criminal cases registered against me. Most of the sections under which cases are lodged against me are non-bailable, but every time, I have been given bail by honourable courts as they believed my intention. In none of the cases was I imprisoned. All my agitations are for social causes and against injustices to the common man. In most of the cases – be it overcharging by autos or inflated bills by hospitals during the pandemic – the results were seen,” said Nandgaonkar. He added that cases against him were fit for withdrawal under the state government’s policy. “I have asked my lawyer to begin the process to seek the withdrawal of the cases,” he said. The state cabinet on December 2 had cleared the proposal to allow withdrawing of cases registered for social/political agitations in the past five years till December 31, 2019. Most of the cases registered against Nandgaonkar at are under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). Nandgaonkar holds Janata Darbar and addresses public grievances at the party headquarters Sena Bhavan in Dadar every Wednesday and Thursday. He recently courted controversy after he demanded the Karachi Sweets shop change its name. His party, however, distanced itself from the action, saying it was not the Sena’s official stand. “It was my spontaneous reaction, and I have no regrets. I was never rebutted or pulled up by the leadership for it, nor was any action taken against me,” he said. Opining on Nandgaonkar’s demand for withdrawal of cases against him, noted government prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam said, “I would not talk about the individual cases, but the cases for social/political protests are withdrawn under section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code only after the approval of public prosecutors and the trial courts.” According to an official from the state home department, the cases are individual in nature, and the decision on them will be taken by the home minister, who is the authority for the recommendation. He also added that the cases can be withdrawn only after trial courts approve the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-leader-nitin-nandgaonkar-seeks-withdrawal-of-55-cases-against-him-under-maharashtra-government-s-new-policy/story-xMhrYD5aVWsibddOccSsuO.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s infra dream takes a drastic hit in 2020||2020 started with a bang for the financial capital’s infrastructure: The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) announced to open two Metro lines between Dahisar and Andheri; work on the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road (SCLR) extension, the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC)-Vakola Junction elevated road and the Kalanagar junction revamp was scheduled to be completed this year. But, like every other sector that got hit starting March 24, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown owing to increasing cases of Covid-19 in the country and days before the Maharashtra government began its phase-wise clampdown, infrastructure was also hit badly. In the following months, manufacturing and supply of parts were hit, migrant labourers working on sites started moving to their villages owing to the uncertainty in cities and work came to a standstill.These reasons have resulted in a delay in infrastructure projects in the city with a population of 12.5 million.At the beginning of 2020, Mumbai was promised an infrastructure overhaul with two new metros and three new road projects that would ease daily commute. Six years after Mumbai got its first Metro connecting Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar, the MMRDA was going to open Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), expected to reduce congestion on SV Road, western express highway (WEH) and the crowded suburban railway. Also, the SCLR extension, the BKC-Vakola Junction elevated road and the Kalanagar junction improvement work were expected to be completed this year.RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “It was indeed a very difficult year for infrastructure as a variety of factors was affected owing to the lockdown. However, we have great satisfaction that we constructed the Covid-19 facility in BKC when it was needed the most and could contribute to the fight against the pandemic.” The authority had built a 1,008-bed facility in BKC in less than a fortnight and handed it over to the municipal body. Here’s how the labour force was hit. The MMRDA had deployed more than 5,000 labourers at the Mumbai Trans- Harbour Link (MTHL) site before the lockdown. However, only close to 2,000 workers were at the site by the end of July. The 22-km sea link will connect Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. Similarly, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), executing the 33.5-km underground corridor from Colaba to Seepz, had 15,000 labourers before the lockdown, which went down to 8,000 in July. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had to ask state agencies to recruit and train “sons of the soil” for these jobs. Now, a status checkIn September, when things started picking up pace with the Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again programme, which majorly looked at reviving economic activities in a controlled manner, MMRDA announced that trial runs for the two corridors will start from Jan 14, 2021 and operations from May 2021. However, the trial runs have now been postponed to March 2021 and the operations are also expected to be hit by two-three months. A senior official from MMRDA said, “The uncertainty surrounding Covid-19 still remains. There is a delay in the design and manufacture of crucial parts, which is affecting civil works.”Last month, MMRDA also approved the delay in executing the SCLR extension, which is now going to be completed only by 2022 with a cost escalation of ₹109 crore. MMRC has also revised its timeline for completing phase one of the project (from Aarey to BKC) from December 2021 to September 2022. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is implementing the 701-km Mumbai-Nagpur expressway, was also hoping to complete 60% of the works by December 2020, however, it’s now looking at completing phase one — between Nagpur and Shirdi — by May 1,2021.Like several infrastructure projects in Mumbai, the ₹55,000-crore project was also affected owing to the pandemic-enforced lockdown. “We had almost 18,000 workers before the lockdown, which went down to 10,000 in the months during the lockdown. Most of the workers started coming in by July-August,” said Radheyshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director of MSRDC, in a press conference in October. The complete corridor, which will connect Mumbai and Nagpur in eight hours, will be operational by 2022.In Mumbai, Rajeev said that MMRDA is hoping to start works on Metro-10 (Gaimukh-Shivaji Chowk), Metro-11 (Wadala-General Post Office) and Metro-12 (Kalyan-Taloja) in 2021. “The Kalanagar Junction will be ready in January 2021. We will also start work on the WEH decongestion plan the coming year,” he said.Biggest setbackIn October 2020, Thackeray, in his address to the state announced the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) decision to shift the Metro-3 car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg. The state expressed its intention of constructing a common car shed for Metro-3, 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) and 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) on the 102-acre plot in Kanjurmarg, which would also serve as an intersection for the proposed line-14 (Kanjurmarg-Badlapur). However, the plans went kaput after the Bombay high court (HC) ordered an interim stay on the transfer of the land to MMRDA after the Central government claimed ownership of it. A senior official from MMRDA said that even if it gets land today, a car shed will be built by June 2023, post which operations for line 3 will begin from December 2023.“It is a project that is going to change the face of travel in Mumbai and now it’s stuck,” said Paresh Rawal, a transport expert based in Mumbai. “The project is in an advanced stage. It is not the time to change its alignment or demarcate another car shed for it.” However, the state government is set to appoint a third committee to look for alternative sites. It is also eyeing a plot in BKC, meant for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, for the car shed. AV Shenoy, from the Mumbai Mobility Forum, said, “All three Metros — 2A, 3 and 7 — have suffered a major setback. We only hope that 2A and 7 are at least operational by mid-2021.” New modes of transportIn 2020, Mumbai’s lifeline stopped, metros got delayed and buses were overcrowded. The only ray of hope was the city’s acceptance of new commutes.Like several cities around the globe that started making way for walking and cycling as it proved to be the safest mode of transport during a pandemic, Mumbai also started slowly adopting it.On August 31, MMRDA launched the public electric bike-sharing facility in BKC. Currently, there are around 18 zones of docks in and around BKC from where commuters can get the bikes. While the chief minister had inaugurated the bikes in January 2020, the launch got postponed owing to the lockdown. Public bike-sharing facility is also available at the Jagruti Nagar Metro station. The service was inaugurated on February 23 this year. Till March 15, 1,821 rides were completed with a majority of rides recorded on weekends and holidays. However, it was then shut owing to the lockdown.The Smart Commute Foundation, founded by the city’s first bicycle mayor, Firoza Suresh, also appointed 24 new bicycle councillors this year with a vision to make Mumbai the bicycle capital of the world by 2030. The foundation’s campaign “Cycle Chala, City Bacha” is now routing for setting up 600 bicycle stands in Mumbai. Suresh said, “Covid has been a blessing in disguise for cyclists this year. People have willingly adapted to the new mode of transport this year. The biggest challenge of 2021 will now be to sustain this momentum.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-infra-dream-takes-a-drastic-hit-in-2020/story-LLGtASue7dteDQnWjfxsHK.html
30-12-2020||City||Thane traffic cops to act against those accompanying drunk drivers||Thane traffic police who have started taking action against drunk and drive cases will also act against pillion riders and others in the car for allowing a drunk person to drive. So far, Thane traffic police have registered 415 drunk and drive cases. In the past 28 days, police have recovered ₹2.93 lakh from e-challan defaulters. Thane deputy commissioner of police, Balasaheb Patil said, “ So far, we have acted against 415 drunk drivers. Now we will also take action against the commuter, who are accompanying them. Also, we will call parents in case the driver is found to be a teenager. According to section 185 of Motor Vehicles Act, a drunk driver is fined ₹2,000 if he is found guilty, or is imprisoned for six months. If he found guilty the second time, then fine increased up to ₹3,000 and two years of imprisonment. Also, under section 188 of the Act, we will act against his/her companion for allowing him/her to drive and break the rule.”“Simultaneously we will continue to recover e-challan fine during the same action or else will seize the documents. Due Covid-19 situation in the city, we have been very careful for the citizens as well as for our police team members, because of which we have asked people to adhere to rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-traffic-cops-to-act-against-those-accompanying-drunk-drivers/story-zh1OHDi1cTrvyU6XZ8bHKK.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records lowest temperature of the season at 15 degree Celsius||The city woke up to a chilly Tuesday morning as temperatures dipped to their lowest this season.The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 15 degree Celsius, 2.4 degrees below normal, and Colaba recorded 17 degree Celsius, 2.8 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature at Powai dropped to 12.82 degree Celsius while in Goregaon it was 13.8 degree Celsius.Maximum temperatures also remained low on Tuesday. Santacruz recorded a maximum temperature of 29.9 degree Celsius, 1.4 degrees below normal. Colaba recorded 28.5 degree Celsius, 2.2 degrees below normal.“The fall in temperature is mostly due to the cold northerly to north-westerly winds from the northern plains in association with the passage of western disturbance. Cold conditions are likely to continue through Wednesday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of western region, IMD.IMD had predicted a fall in temperatures for two to three days from Sunday.Earlier, the lowest temperature recorded this season was 15.8 degree Celsius on December 23. Last year, the lowest recorded temperature was 16.4 degree Celsius, and in 2018 it was 14.4 degrees.Meanwhile, the air quality in Mumbai and around deteriorated on Tuesday to poor from moderate on Monday. The city’s overall air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator – was 239 (poor) according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) experienced very poor quality of air with an AQI of 341. Air quality was also very poor in Navi Mumbai, which recorded an AQI of 322. A spokesperson from SAFAR said that the air quality dipped on expected lines as lower temperatures lead to higher levels of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-lowest-temperature-of-the-season-at-15-degree-celsius/story-znoISAG8VhIV62eMmRu11I.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra law aspirants aiming for SEBC quota cry foul over lack of time to produce EWS quota eligibility certificates||A week after the Bombay high court (HC) clarified that Maratha quota students could avail admissions under the economically weaker sections (EWS) category, admissions to most professional courses have been delayed to accommodate changes that students need to make to their application forms.However, law aspirants have objected to the lack of time given to them to acquire such documents. Many have shared their concerns on social media platforms, and are also seeking clarity from the state common entrance test (CET) cell on the issue.Last week, HC clarified that students from the Maratha community who were aiming for seats under the socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota may avail reservation under the EWS quota if they provide an undertaking, stating that they will not claim reservations under any other category for their education.It further stated that such candidates would have to prove before the tehsildar that they belong to economically weaker section and only then would they be entitled to the EWS certificate.“This process of securing certificates for any quota is not simple, and in order to get a hold of the EWS certificate, a student will have to submit lots of documents to prove the family income. This move might not help many students,” said Sachin Pawar, president of the Student Law Council, a state-based student support group.Last month, the state government, through a government resolution (GR), clarified that admissions to all courses that were stalled due to lack of clarity on the status of SEBC quota will continue without the said quota. The idea was to avoid any further delay as the Supreme Court is yet to clarify its stand on the same. “This decision of the state government has caused problems for many students who were eligible for seats under the Maratha quota. Giving them the concession of applying under the EWS category is not solving the issue,” added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-law-aspirants-aiming-for-sebc-quota-cry-foul-over-lack-of-time-to-produce-ews-quota-eligibility-certificates/story-7dtWCSwtywsUnjnfn29b7M.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Special dinners, early events at hotels across Mumbai on December 31||With stricter restrictions amid the second strain of the virus causing Covid-19, the New Year celebrations are expected to remain low-key, causing a loss of approximately ₹150 crore in revenue, according to estimates. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has imposed a night curfew till January 5, which bars gathering of more than five people between 11pm and 6am. Consequently, hotels and restaurants will have to close at 11pm, unlike the extension for the New Year’s Eve every year. “People have cancelled their hotel bookings and have headed outside the state. In addition, restaurants will not be able to organise celebrations as they have to wind up by 11pm. We have lost at least ₹150 crore,” said Dilip Datwani, spokesperson, Hotels and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRWAI). Sun-N-Sand Hotel in Juhu plans to just set up tables along the poolside with soothing music in the background. “As our hotel is facing the beach, we will not have loud music. We will serve food, but the entire place will close down at 11pm,” said Kunal Krori, deputy general manager, Sun-N-Sand Hotel. JW Marriott at Sahar will not hold huge celebrations, while St Regis Hotel at Lower Parel will hold a special dinner. Radisson Blu Mumbai International Airport hotel is focussing on staycations. “The guests will be able to enjoy specially curated food menu in our coffee shop and can spend time in adjacent courtyard,” said Pankaj Saxena, general manager, Radisson Blu Mumbai International Airport hotel. Fountain Hospitality Private Limited (FHPL), which runs four restaurants, including Flamboyante and Fountain Sizzlers, has started taking bookings from their patrons. “We will ring in the new year at 10:30pm,” said Amrish Arora, managing director, FHPL. “Usually, New Year’s eve means three times the regular business, but this year it has been reduced to one-fourth.” Mirah Hospitality, which runs 10 hotels under the brand name Rajdhani, Hitchki and Bayroute in Mumbai, said they will take their last order at 10pm. “We acknowledge the loss of business, but then there is no choice,” said Aji Nair, COO, food and beverages division, Mirah Hospitality. Savio D’sa, a consultant in the hospitality sector, said such response was expected in view of the curfew. “Many have already gone to Goa, the rest will head to places like Lonavla and Alibag or opt for a house party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-special-dinners-early-events-at-hotels-across-mumbai-on-december-31/story-o4UcIIYd6xa3N1xgXRrsWN.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A sense of poignancy||Encountering a collection of decorations after the event they were meant to celebrate is over presents a poignant sight. Like, the morning after the wedding. Or the day after Christmas, here at the Free Church in south Delhi’s Green Park.The Christmas decorations in the prayer hall are looking fresh, untouched. The gaze first goes to the church’s many ceiling fans. These humble, everyday instruments have been turned into works of art. One fan has paper bells hanging from it. Another has red circular orbs. And then there’s a fan that seems to have a shiny tarantula clinging to it, as if they were two friends frozen into a tight embrace. The walls are studded with Christmas wreaths, too.Actually, the only spot in the church devoid of decoration might be the wall at the back of the altar. With nothing but a simple metal cross fixed on it, it draws attention because of its bareness. The communion table, though, has three flower bouquets arranged upon it.Christmas ended days ago, but the souvenir of it remains, for now. This afternoon the church is empty. The red velvety seats of the pews look creaseless, as if nobody had sat on them for a long time. The silence is absolute but this silence appears extremely fragile, as if at any moment the great congregation was expected to storm through the doors and fill up the place.The only visitor at this time is the sunlight, streaming through glass windows. Bands of light are falling on a smattering of benches. Parts of the wall are streaked with light too, and where it falls the wall seems to lose its solidity, seemingly melting into a porous substance.While the side doors in the church are open to visitors (the fliers warn not to enter without the mask), its giant glass entrance is locked. Beyond it is the church’s main gate, which is locked too. But through the gaps you can glimpse the traffic on Aurobindo Road. The busy blur of the cars heightens the stillness inside the church.In this quietude enters a young man. He walks to the aisle, stands in front of the cross for a moment, and then settles down on one of the benches, motionless.Tracing its origin to 1955, the church remains open throughout the day from 7 am to 7 pm. Services are not being held in the premises due to the coronavirus pandemic “but sometimes people come alone or in a group of two, stay briefly and go away,” says the guard outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-sense-of-poignancy/story-5yCd7S1zapxb8pbpXgAO6I.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||₹1-crore drugs brought for New Year parties in Mumbai seized, 1 arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested the owner of an event management company and seized 4kg of charas and 11kg of marijuana worth around ₹1 crore. NCB officers said the drugs were brought from Jammu and Kashmir to supply at parties on December 31 (New Year’s Eve).Mumbai zonal unit of NCB got a tip-off that a person was going near the Mulund check naka with narcotics substances, so they laid a trap on Monday and intercepted Ashraf Mustafa Shah, a resident of Wagle Estate in Thane (West).“Shah was headed to Mumbai from his residence when he was nabbed near the check naka. He tried to escape, but we chased and nabbed him,” said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB.During the search, 4kg of charas was recovered from Shah’s possession. He was taken to his residence where NCB officers found 11kg of marijuana. During the inquiry, Shah revealed that the charas was brought from Jammu and Kashmir a few days ago and was to be used at events and parties on December 31, said the NCB officer.According to NCB, Shah has been in the drug business for several years and is connected with suppliers and peddlers in Mumbai. “We are questioning him to find out the venue of the parties and whom he was supposed to deliver the drugs in Mumbai,” added another NCB officer. NCB is also checking his call data records and messages to get further links to his main suppliers from Jammu and Kashmir. Shah has been remanded in the bureau’s custody for further inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-crore-drugs-brought-for-new-year-parties-in-mumbai-seized-1-arrested/story-HHR1xu8WEtMqSErsMLuegK.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Schools in Mumbai to remain shut until Jan 15, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education department issued a circular announcing that schools across boards and mediums in Mumbai shall remain closed until January 15, 2021. “Even as the number of Covid-19 in the city are under control, considering the second wave of the virus in other countries and the high number of cases in other states, it has been decided to keep schools in the city closed, until January 15, 2021. Schools and colleges of all mediums and managements in the city shall remain shut until then,” states the circular. The schools that fall under the different consulates are allowed to start from January 18, 2021. “These schools would have to follow all the norms with respect to sanitation and safety of children and staff, as stated by the government from time to time,” it further reads. Teachers said that it was a good move to not allow reopening of schools in the coming week. “Due to festivals and holidays, there is a lot of rush outside and there is a huge risk of contracting the virus. In such a situation it is better not to rush the reopening, as students can continue online learning for the next few days,” said the teacher of a south Mumbai-based school. In November, the BMC announced that schools under its jurisdiction shall remain shut until December 31, 2020. Even as several schools in the state reopened from November 23 for Classes 9 to 12, those in the city still remain shut owing to the civic body’s decision. As per the data shared by the state education department, as on December 14, nearly eight lakh students were attending schools on a daily basis in the state, while over 15,000 schools were reopened over the last three weeks.Thane zilla parishad schools prepare to reopenThe Thane zilla parishad on Tuesday released a circular asking schools to make preparations to reopen. “We have asked all schools and junior colleges within Thane zilla parishad to ensure that basic preparations are made by the institutes for students and teachers. As per earlier circular, schools for Classes 9 to 12 were asked to remain shut till 31 December,” said Sheshrao Bade, education officer, Thane zilla parishad. With inputs from Ankita G Menon||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-in-mumbai-to-remain-shut-until-jan-15-says-bmc/story-xcFz9hG85U46U0c80JsxjP.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Soon, travellers in Maharashtra can visit shooting locations, meet actors, scan QR code to learnt about tourist places||Tourists visiting Mumbai always look forward to find opportunities to meet Bollywood actors and visiting shooting locations. Now, the Maharashtra tourism department has chalked out a plan to make this a reality. The department has decided to allow tourists visit film-shooting locations and also interact with actors, if possible. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday launched a service that will also provide a detour of residences of popular Bollywood actors in the city. In a bid to boost tourism in the state, the department on Tuesday launched a slew of initiatives with private firms. “In all, we have signed four MoUs in which private firms will be launching the initiatives and the state government will play the role of the facilitator. This is like creating a network of partners by lending them non-financial support,” said Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, tourism department. The department has also planned to bring QR (quick response) code-enabled display boards at all major tourist destinations. “Maharashtra and Mumbai are the epicentre of film making. To attract cinema and film-making tourism, we are launching the Mumbai film city tour bus and curating tours to witness live shooting. Tourism has got to be tech-enabled and through our MoU (memorandum of understanding) with Guide Code [the firm] we plan to bring QR code-enabled display boards at all major tourist destinations across Maharashtra,” said the tourism minister in a series of tweets. The firm will put up display boards at the tourist destinations with QR codes. A tourist will be able to get all the information of the site by scanning the code even if there is no internet connectivity. The information will also be made available in audio in English and Marathi, said an official from the tourism department. The department has also announced to hold a digital shopping festival in Mumbai between January 25 and February 15 in collaboration with a private firm. It has also decided to encourage home chefs who will provide local cuisines near famous tourist destinations across the state. The private firm will tie up with residents near a popular tourist destination, who will offer local cuisines to a tourist at their homes. For this, locals will be trained to match the standard of international travellers. All these facilities will be promoted on the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) website and its tourism-related events, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/soon-travellers-in-maharashtra-can-visit-shooting-locations-meet-actors-scan-qr-code-to-learnt-about-tourist-places/story-52xpRdjRO6wAlWLxCrtuiO.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Opposition in BMC objects to Rs 9-crore waiver to Mumbai’s Hotel Taj Mahal Palace||The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) – all opposition parties in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) – on Tuesday objected to the proposal by the civic administration to waive money owed from Hotel Taj Mahal Palace. The opposition also objected to BMC’s demand to make available additional Rs 400 crore to continue its fight against Covid-19.BMC’s standing committee, in its meeting scheduled on Wednesday, is set to discuss the issue of waiving off over Rs 9 crore payable by Hotel Taj Mahal Palace to the civic body for use of the public road outside the hotel and barricading parts of the footpath, citing security requirements. Along with this, the BMC’s administration has also proposed to make available additional Rs 400 crore for the fight against Covid-19 after spending over Rs 1,600 crore in the last nine months.Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of the opposition in BMC, said, “We are going to oppose both the proposals. Lokayukta has clearly stated that a policy on waivers is to be made. So why give any waiver to Taj Hotel?” Rais Shaikh, SP corporator, said, “We are going to oppose both the proposals. The common man is not being given any relief for property tax; why should private corporates be given relief?”Meanwhile, the spokesperson for Hotel Taj Mahal Palace, said, “Since the unfortunate events of 26/11 [2008 terror attack], the security team at the Taj Mahal Palace regularly receives directives, and is audited for security drills. The hotel has always followed the advice of the agencies and, should we be directed to do so, will be willing to remove the barricades and comply with such instructions. Since there are multiple authorities and regulatory bodies involved, we continue to stay in constant dialogue with all of them, and will ensure compliance, and implementation of appropriate measures suggested by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/opposition-in-bmc-objects-to-9-crore-waiver-to-mumbai-s-hotel-taj-mahal-palace/story-rNvxyYWR4zhumq8LkhGG0J.html
30-12-2020||City||Mumbai: 7-year-old UK returnee who tested positive for Covid-19 sent to hotel||The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) on Tuesday sent a seven-year-old United Kingdom (UK) citizen to a private hotel, after her family refused to send her to a government institutional quarantine. The girl had returned to Ulhasnagar from the UK with her parents on December 8. The UMC had conducted Covid tests for the family. The girl tested positive this week, while the parents tested negative. “We tried to convince the parents to send the girl to institutional quarantine. We also agreed to take her mother along. However, the family was reluctant to send her,” said Raja Rijhwani, medical officer, UMC.He added, “We visited their house and managed to convince them. The family then agreed to isolate the girl at a private quarantine facility. Considering their demand, we sent the girl to a private hotel for isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-7-year-old-uk-returnee-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-sent-to-hotel/story-hquKPSlQ1ryRov1LI7lkSN.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,018 new cases; 43 UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 till Tuesday||Though the number of cases in Maharashtra is steadily dipping, state authorities are on alert owing to the fear of the new strain of coronavirus found in the United Kingdom (UK) and other countriesOn Tuesday, the state recorded 3,018 new cases taking the total number of cases to 19,25,066. It also recorded 68 deaths taking the tally to 49,373. According to a special surveillance report of the state health department, 43 people travelling from the United Kingdom (UK) from across the state were tested positive till December 29. This included 15 from Mumbai, seven from Thane, six each from Nagpur and Pune, two each from Nashik, Buldhana and Aurangabad, and one each from Nanded, Raigad and Washim. The local authorities have sent 32 samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing or to detect the presence of the mutant virus in these samples. The state has also tested 135 contacts of the travellers, of which seven have been found positive, the report states. Of the 12 UK returnees that had tested positive for Covid, six have tested negative in the second round of testing. While all are quarantined, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said that none of them are being discharged since a final report from National Institute of Virology in Pune, is yet to be received. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The rest of the six patients who are still positive are asymptomatic. We will wait for the NIV report to rule out any possibilities of the new strain of the virus.” Out of the 1,765 returnees from the UK, who have arrived in Mumbai between November 25 and December 22, more than 1,200 have been tested.The big question now surrounding state authorities and health experts is if the new variant, that has led to a surge in infections in some countries, would also increase the number of cases in the state, which has been reporting less than 5,000 cases for more than 20 days now. State health minister Rajesh Tope said in the wake of the third lockdown imposed in the UK, United States of America and the European countries, people here need to follow self-discipline. “There are limitations to the state health machinery. In the wake of the spike in the cases and the new strain of virus being found, people should follow Covid appropriate behaviour. The self-discipline is the only mantra to avert any such spike in Maharashtra,” he said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state said that there is no reason to panic as though the strain has been discovered now, it might have been circulating earlier too. “We have to be cautious and thoroughly prepared, however, the situation in Maharashtra is very stable now. The mutant virus does transmit faster, however, its virulence is not worrisome,” Dr Salunkhe said. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant said that while the state might not see a surge in cases, it is still better prepared today to handle any eventuality. “While we don’t expect a surge in cases, people need to be very cautious. Even those who were infected by Covid-19 should not let their guards down as they can be re-infected.” He further said, “As New Year celebrations could be a cause of concern. It is good that the state has restricted movement.” Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Mumbai recorded 537 cases and six fatalities, taking the total case-load to 2,92,008 cases and 11,094 total fatalities respectively. Pune, Nagpur and Nashik cities, which are among the highest contributors in the state, recorded 251, 225 and 241 respectively. The union ministry of health and family welfare, on Tuesday, stated that six persons who returned from the United Kingdom (UK) to India were found positive for the new coronavirus strain, which is reported to be 70% more contagious than the current one. Amidst the fear of the new strain, the state government on Monday issued an advisory urging citizens to stay at home on December 31 and January 1. Prohibiting cultural and religious programmes, the government has asked people to refrain from bursting firecrackers and avoid crowding at public places like the Gateway of India and Chowpatty. The government has already imposed a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 till January 5 in the jurisdiction of 27 municipal corporations and empowered the district collectors to impose similar restrictions if they deem fit to contain the Covid-19 spread. This has effectively imposed restrictions on New Year parties and celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-018-new-cases-43-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-till-tuesday/story-n5koMbY2QSi0UvFxegTKvK.html
30-12-2020||City||Record 5,100 truce violations by Pak in J&K this year||There were 5,100 instances of ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in 2020 in Jammu and Kashmir, the highest in nearly 18 years, that claimed several lives and left many injured, according to security officials.In these ceasefire violations, 24 security personnel were killed, as per the compiled data. Fifteen of the soldiers died along the LoC in the Jammu region.“Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire 5,100 times in 2020 with an average of 14 cases daily,” said a senior army official, adding that last year, a total of 3,233 ceasefire violations were made by the Pakistan Army along the Indo-Pak border.Security forces eliminated 203 terrorists this year with six of them neutralised in December. This figure was 152 in 2019.“While the security forces apprehended 41 terrorists this year, 49 were captured alive. In 2019, only three terrorists had surrendered, but this year nine did so,” said the officer adding that continued pressure on the terror outfits paid rich dividends to the forces.It may be stated here that since 2017, Indian Army has launched “operation all out” in Jammu and Kashmir to cleanse the region of Pakistan-sponsored terrorism.The officer also informed that in 2019 a total of 120 local terrorists were neutralised compared to 166 so far this year.In 2019, there were 351 terrorists north of Pir Panjal range that included 254 active and 97 dormant. In the south of Pir Panjal, presence of 70 terrorists was recorded — 17 active and 53 dormant. “However, this year their number has come down to 205 in north of Pir Panjal and 69 in the south, which includes 16 active and 53 dormant terrorists,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/record-5-100-truce-violations-by-pak-in-j-k-this-year/story-KXxTu2heNaYRX4UtO2xXvL.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Loni lynching: Victim’s family alleges police laxity||On Tuesday, Sanjay Kumar set out on a 1,220-km journey to Supaul district in Bihar, with the body of his brother Ajay who was brutally beaten to death on a road in Loni on Monday by two people over alleged business rivalry. The body of Ajay was handed over to his family after a postmortem examination on Tuesday. Sanjay said neither his mother nor Ajay’s wife, who live in Supaul, had yet been informed about the incident. Ajay, 36, was allegedly pulled out of an auto in the Ankur Vihar area of Loni and beaten mercilessly with iron rods as passersby recorded videos on their mobile phones which were later shared on social media.The police said prime suspect Govind Sharma allegedly nursed a grudge against Ajay ever since the latter opened a flower shop opposite his near a temple in Loni. “I don’t know what I am going to tell the family. My brother is survived by three daughters, the eldest one being six-years-old. The incident took place due to laxity by police,” Sanjay said. He was referring to a police complaint filed on April 9, after Govind allegedly stabbed and injured him. “I also gave a reminder letter. In July, my bike got stolen and I suspected foul play by Govind. He would often threaten us and try to pick up a fight. But the police, instead of taking action, forced us to compromise in July. Now, the suspects has killed my brother. Neither the police nor passersby came for help. Had someone intervened, he would have been alive,” he said.The family stays in a small house adjacent to the Mahakal Mandir in Loni while Govind and his accomplice, Amit Kumar, live in Sonia Vihar, Delhi. The two were arrested on Monday and allegedly claimed they had come armed with an old countrymade weapon but opted to lynch the victim with iron rods instead, which were later recovered, officers said. “In April, we decided to open a flower shop inside the temple where Govind also had a shop. Within days, he assaulted me and damaged the signboard of our shop,” he alleged. At 11am on Monday, Ajay, after closing the shop, was proceeding to Chandni Chowk in Delhi where he worked at a cloth merchant’s shop. “They are poor. Sanjay and his wife ran the shop. Ajay also used to look after the shop and later, he would go to Delhi. After closing the shop on Monday, he was headed to Delhi when he was attacked. Govind had attacked Sanjay in April. Ajay was innocent and had no involvement in previous fights. Ajay was assaulted barely 200-300 metres away from the temple and no one came for his help. Instead, passersby started making videos,” alleged Arun Pathak, a priest known to the family.Iraj Raja, the SP (rural), said they have also arrested Govind’s brother, Karan Sharma. “Karan was arrested for criminal conspiracy as he was at his brother’s shop and informed them that the victim had closed down his shop and was headed to Delhi. The video of the incident will be made part of the case file and we have strong evidence against the suspects. We will fast track the case after getting legal opinion,” the SP said.SP also said, “We have also suspended two sub-inspectors and one head-constable, the beat in-charge, of the area. They were posted in the area between April to July when the initial fights took place. I am undertaking an inquiry which will also highlight under what circumstances did the three personnel make the two parties reach a compromise and why no action was initiated on previous complaints. The serving sub-inspector of the police-post has been sent to police lines after Monday’s incident,” the SP said. Sanjay on Tuesday evening said that the family received no help from officials and had to hire a private ambulance to travel to their hometown with Ajay’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/loni-lynching-victim-s-family-alleges-police-laxity/story-eXi2KEamIUZETB4Tq2giLK.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Consumer commission directs builders to refund money to complainants||The Gautam Budh Nagar district consumer disputes redressal commission has directed a builder to refund ₹8.94 lakh to a complainant for failing to deliver on a project. In 2013, complainant Kamal Kant Dwivedi had booked a 3 BHK apartment of 1,550 square feet area with a Gurugram-based builder in one of its project for ₹40 lakh. He paid the required 10% of the total amount at the time of booking. The balance amount was to be paid as per construction. However, on the builder’s demand, he paid another ₹4.94 lakh. When he sought update on the project update, the builder told him that it will take time to start construction. Unhappy with the delay, Dwivedi requested a refund. When the builder refused, he approached the court in 2017.When the builder did not respond to the commission’s notices, it decided the case ex-parte (in the absence of a party).“District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission comprising president Anil Kumar Pundir and member Daya Shankar Pandey delivered ex-parte order and directed the builder to refund deposited amount of Rs 8.94 lakh alongwith interest of 9 percent within 60 days. Order was delivered around ten days ago,” Jagdeep Singh representative Consumer Forum Advocates Association said on Monday.“The builder has been directed to pay ₹1,000 towards legal expenses and ₹1000 towards compensation to complainant for his suffering.” “In another complaint the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed another Noida-based builder to refund ₹9.54 lakh to complainant Navin Kumar Gupta. In 2011, he had booked a shop in builder’s project located in Greater Noida but the builder failed to give possession,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/consumer-commission-directs-builders-to-refund-money-to-complainants/story-C7pLj1cGQDadUVwZZnXa4H.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Two shop owners fined ₹25,000 each over food safety violations||GREATER NOIDA: In two separate cases, owners of two shops were fined ₹25,000 each by the Gautam Budh Nagar additional district magistrate (ADM) over food safety violations. The first case dates back to 2018 when the food safety department had taken samples of buckwheat (kuttu) flour for inspection from a store in Gejha village, Sector 93A.Food safety officer Shweta Chakravatim on October 12, 2018, had collected the sample. It was sent to a lab in Lucknow where it was found substandard and violation of section 26(2)(ii) of the Food Safety and Standards Act was reported. This section states that no food business operator shall themselves or by any person on their behalf manufacture, store or sell or distribute any article of food which is misbranded or substandard or contains extraneous matter. Initially, the owner had claimed that the sample was not substandard. He claimed no sample was taken from his shop. Further he stated there was no public witness shown in whose presence sample was collected. He also stated that proper legal formalities were not completed.Later, however, he confessed that it was his first mistake and was not done to cause harm. The product was manufactured by a company in Ghaziabad and he was only selling it without knowledge of any violations of the act, he had said, requesting minimum punishment.“In view of the accused shopkeeper’s request, a minimum fine of ₹25,000 is levied,” Diwakar Singh, ADM said on Tuesday. The second case pertains to 2019, in which a sweetshop owner was fined for substandard cheese curd (chhaina).The ADM fined another shop owner as he too confessed and claimed it was his first mistake, and requested a minimum fine. “Milk product chhaina was found substandard. On August 13, 2019, the sample was collected from a sweet shop at the Haldoni crossing in Greater Noida. Lab test report dated September 3, 2019, had found it substandard,” said the ADM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-shop-owners-fined-25-000-each-over-food-safety-violations/story-SrvUdYRDzO7DGxyB6WNBqL.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Competition to encourage waste treatment in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Authority has opened a competition for housing societies that treat their waste on their premises.The move is aimed at encouraging “bulk waste generators” to follow rules and make the city a better place, said officials.Each society has to provide their waste segregation and treatment methodology details to the authority on its website by January 10, 2021. “Then the authority team will inspect to verify their claims. Once verified, the health department will identify the best practices and finalise the winners middle of January,” said Deep Chandar additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The first prize carries a reward of ₹2 lakh, second ₹1.5 lakh and third will get ₹1 lakh.As per the waste management rules-2016 the housing complexes or other buildings, which are built on 5000 square metres of land or above area or produces 100 kg waste daily then they need to treat it at their premises as they are the bulk waste generators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/competition-to-encourage-waste-treatment-in-greater-noida/story-5ch4mMk2q83KzAvt7yiCmL.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Eight of gang involved in stealing luxury cars nabbed in Noida||Noida: Eight members of an interstate gang involved in stealing high-end vehicles in the national capital region (NCR) and selling them in different states were arrested on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday from Sector 61. Ten stolen vehicles were recovered from them, the police said.Police officials said that the group was nabbed from near Shopprix mall. “One of the suspects was an expert at breaking into luxury cars using a key scanning technology. They all had different expertise and were responsible for different sets of cars. They mostly targeted high-end cars and SUVs in various parts of Delhi-NCR,” said Luv Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order), Gautam Budh Nagar.According to the police, five more members of the gang in different states like Gujarat, J&K, and Uttarakhand have been identified and a search is on for them. The officials said that the gang had been active for the past at least six months and involved in dozens of thefts.The officials said that the interstate gang would often sell stolen vehicles to connections in Uttarakhand and Gujarat.“Some of their contacts would purchase old cars or vehicles involved in accidents, and then the gang would use those engine, chassis or registration numbers for the stolen vehicles and sell them further after obtaining new registration certificates,” said Kumar.The police said that Toyota Fortuners were being sold for ₹4 lakh, Innova for ₹2 lakh, Renault Duster for ₹1.5 lakh and Maruti Swift for ₹1 lakh, among others. Of the 10 cars recovered from them, three have been traced to stolen vehicle cases from Noida while the rest are being identified. Police also recovered ₹2 lakh cash, scanners, 74 key fobs, fake RCs, media stickers, fake ID cards, car accessories and tools from the suspects.All the suspects have a criminal history of theft, said the police. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/eight-of-gang-involved-in-stealing-luxury-cars-nabbed-in-noida/story-eJngCRFEOV3YlEcEGrRnDJ.html
30-12-2020||City||Crimes against women: Conviction rate is still a cause of concern||NOIDA: In 2011, a 20-year-old woman was found dead and her mother had claimed she had been murdered and police suspected her neighbour. But as the trial went on, cracks were beginning to appear in the story. The police could not establish rape as the dead body was brought for autopsy a week after the alleged incident. Later, the mother retracted her statement and had become hostile. Eight years and 54 hearings later, the Gautam Buddh Nagar sessions court acquitted the suspect. Fast forward to this year. On December 17, the court sent a man to seven years in jail for raping his 19-year-old daughter in 2015. This despite the woman’s mother, the complainant in the case, turning hostile. What changed this time was that police managed to prove rape, gave more evidence in the form of statement before the magistrate and, with support from the police, the victim stuck to her statement, that the judge was willing to disregard the mother’s change in statement. It is a rare victory for the district’s prosecution -- it won a conviction only six rape cases in 2020, which is significant when compared to last year’s solitary victory. In matters of dowry deaths and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, the numbers are worse -- just three and six cases, respectively, with the latter registering 3.5 times more cases. In comparison, cases under the Gangsters’ Act see almost a 90% conviction rate.Police effort Since the introduction of the police commissionerate system in GB Nagar this year, the force has deployed a new mechanism to investigate cases relating to violence against women. Deputy commissioner of police (women safety), Vrinda Shukla, said that earlier, one officer of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) rank had to monitor around 2,300 cases a year. “Now, at least five IPS officers are looking together into those many cases a year. Not only that, each of the 20 police stations in the district now has two sub-inspector (SI)-rank officers dedicated to crimes against women,” she said. With responsibilities fixed, it has become easier for us to track the progress in investigations. “As a result, in every rape case or crime against children under the Pocso Act, police have arrested suspects,” she said. The force is also trying to arrange for enough forensic evidence before putting the accused on trial. “It helps in increasing the chance of conviction significantly. Another aspect that we are focussing on is the protection of witnesses. If a witness in important cases are threatened, it’s obvious that the cases will fall flat in courtrooms,” she said. “In some cases, where the witnesses do not cooperate, the police have been doing their best to prove cases through medical, chemical and DNA examinations, padded with sufficient physical and digital evidence. Earlier, we had no option other than to bank on the over-burdened forensic sciences laboratory (FSL) in Lucknow. But now, an FSL in neighbouring Ghaziabad has made investigations easier,” Shukla said. The conviction rate, however, is still below the mark. In a significant chunk of cases of crimes against women, the perpetrators are often known to the victims, and are sometimes even related. “Several victims change their statements in court to help the person amid the lengthy trial process. Victims generally do not have much say in such decisions. When such matters are settled out of court in exchange for money, the will and pain of a victim are rarely taken into consideration,” said additional commissioner of police Love Kumar. Jitendra Kumar Jha, a Delhi-based advocate and counsel for the parents of the December 16, 2012 gangrape and murder victim, said that undue delays deter victims. “The time has come when we have to give proper representation to victims in the criminal justice system. In most rape cases, the victims are from low-income backgrounds and do not get proper support and representation during prosecution. We need more magistrates to provide timely justice to the victims,” he said. Prosecution pangs According to the annual National Crime Record Bureau’s “Crime in India” 2019 report released in November, crimes against women had increased 7.3%. In absolute numbers, Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number of crimes against women, accounting for 14.7% of such cases. It also had the highest number of crimes against girls with 7,444 cases. In part, the low conviction rate could also be due to delay in cases being heard. In the district, of the 1,983 cases heard in 2019, 65% were convicted in the district and sessions court. Although this may seem like a large number, district special public prosecutor, JP Bhati, said backlog cases made up most of it. “Cases drag on for years on end. The district’s judge-population ratio has gone up only marginally in the past three years, as against the sanctioned strength. At present, GB Nagar district court has 28 judges, out of which four are civil judges. Only eight are judges for fast-track courts,” he said. Senior prosecution officer Chhavi Ranjan Dwivedi, said, “I’ve no hesitation in admitting that prosecution needs to overhauled and strengthened. Otherwise, providing justice to the victims of rape and Pocso Act will remain a mirage.” “Also, out-of-court settlements in several cases have led to a significant reduction in the conviction rate. As time passes, victims reconcile with the situation. Perpetrators of the crimes get enough time to win victims over, by hook or by crook. If we leave the accused with less scope for any illegal manoeuvring, it will increase the conviction rate,” Dwivedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crimes-against-women-conviction-rate-is-still-a-cause-of-concern/story-y9sAq18x8Fetdn3YbpegDJ.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Farmers’ protest continues, board to discuss their demands||The farmers’ protest outside the Greater Noida Authority over a probe recommendation to strip many of them of leased land in Bisrakh village continued for the second day on Tuesday. The authority’s board will meet on Wednesday to discuss their demands.“If the authority does not approve a proposal accepting our demand scrapping the recommendation in the board meeting, then we will continue our protest until it is met,” said Manveer Bhati a member of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti that is leading the protest.Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan said, “The SIT report is not yet final. We will consider the demands of farmers and will be dealt with as per rules.”In 2007-’08, the Greater Noida Authority had begun to acquire land, including from Bisrakh village, for development purposes, but the farmers protested as they did not want to give up their land. The Authority later offered 10% of developed residential plots to them and lease out their village houses acquired in the process, which was accepted. Later it was alleged that among the beneficiaries of the “lease back” scheme were people from other states who owned land in Bisrakh village. The scheme was meant for local farmers, many said and complained to the government. A six-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) CEO Arun Vir Singh probed the matter regarding Bisrakh village in 2017 and gave its report and recommendations to the government on December 14.“The SIT has said that farmers who got abadi land (houses) leased back, should not get the (developed) residential plots as they cannot get two benefits, as per the rules. This is against farmers who gave their land for development. Instead, no action has been taken against the outsiders,” said Ajay Kumar, another farmer at the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-farmers-protest-continues-board-to-discuss-their-demands/story-3R8S5x2q3RfVBRA8oBOR8O.html
30-12-2020||Noida||At Chilla border, farmers plan to launch protest march on Jan 26||Noida: Farmers camped at the Chilla border (Noida-Delhi link road) protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws on Tuesday said they are planning a protest march on January 26 to Rajpath in Delhi.A group of farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) has been on a sit-in at the border for the past 29 days.“Farmers have been on roads for days, but the government has refused to listen to our grievances. Our national representatives are planning a march on January 26, and today we carried out a dress rehearsal for the same,” said Ramveer Singh Tomar, state general secretary, BKU (Bhanu).Every day the farmers are conducting various activities like yoga, yagnas, rallies, etc. to keep themselves motivated and to make their presence felt.In the afternoon, the group also burnt some copies of the new farm laws in a symbolic gesture showing their unhappiness with the legislations.A meeting is scheduled for Wednesday between the central government and farmer representatives, but the protestors are not too hopeful about the results.“Nothing has come off yet from the previous meetings as well. We want the government to understand our issues with the new laws. And we refuse to move from here until they acknowledge our concerns,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU (Bhanu).With the BKU (Bhanu) group sitting on the border, traffic from Noida to Delhi has been affected since then. “The law and order situation is stable. Traffic is moving smoothly across alternate routes and we are prepared to handle any issues that might arise. But for now status quo is being maintained,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.Meanwhile, another group from BKU’s Lok Shakti faction that has been camped at the Dalit Prerna Sthal continued its protest on Tuesday. The group is also carrying out rallies to protest against the new laws. “The new laws are like a noose around our neck,” said Dr SK Giri, national spokesperson, BKU (Lok Shakti).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-chilla-border-farmers-plan-to-launch-protest-march-on-jan-26/story-ytWZKnzSnRZ3LlCo0j8VfL.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Teen arrested under UP’s anti-conversion law in Dadri for talking to minor girl||Greater Noida: A 19-year-old man was arrested by the Dadri police on Tuesday under the new anti-conversion law of Uttar Pradesh for allegedly hiding his identity while talking to a minor girl.The incident came to light on Monday when the girl’s family approached the Dadri police, alleging that the man had been talking to their daughter under a false name on social media.“The two were interacting on social media and he was using a different account with a false name to talk to her. The girl realised the deception when the time came for them to meet,” said a senior police officer, requesting not to be named.Police said that the two were allegedly known to each other and had studied together in school till class 5. However, the suspect allegedly did not reveal his identity while talking to her and kept pretending to be someone else from a different religion.“A case was registered at the Dadri police station under the new anti-conversion law after the girl’s family approached us and the suspect was apprehended immediately,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3, Vishal Pandey.Police said that the girl’s family was worried that he might elope with their daughter, however, officers did not reveal too many details of the case to protect the girl’s privacy. The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.This is the second case in the district of the new state law, the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, aimed at checking unlawful religious conversions. The first in the Gautam Buddha Nagar district was reported from the jurisdiction of the Surajpur police on December 19, in which three women, including a South Korean national, were arrested for allegedly enticing locals to convert.The law came into force in the state from November 28 this year and makes conversion a non-bailable offence with up to 10 years of jail time if undertaken unlawfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/teen-arrested-under-up-s-anti-conversion-law-in-dadri-for-talking-to-minor-girl/story-gAeGyXst1bcXMvlOosDcXP.html
30-12-2020||Noida||Overcoming gender issues, this transgender woman now struggles to keep her eatery running||Noida: A 27-year-old transgender woman, who opened an eatery in Sector 119 in November last year after overcoming gender identity issues, is now struggling to keep her restaurant open during the Covid-19 pandemic.For Urooz Hussain, a native of Bihar, the idea of owning her own restaurant came from not being dependent on anyone either financially or professionally.“I did my graduation in hotel management and came to Noida in 2013 for an internship. But I was constantly being judged. I started looking for jobs but couldn’t find anything in the hotel industry. My feminism was not acceptable to employers,” said Hussain.She eventually started working at a BPO where she also faced discrimination from her peers. “My seniors and colleagues always felt like I didn’t fit in to their standards. So in 2014, I decided to undergo hormone replacements and surgical interventions. In 2018, my mother passed away due to a heart condition. I was in a bad place, but that is when I realised that I would have to take charge of my own life,” said Hussain.She started Street Temptation, a restaurant serving Indian, Chinese and continental food, in Noida. The restaurant is open from 2pm to 4am and offers home delivery.“Things were going quite well for a new business. We would have had our break even in February, but then the Covd-19 crisis started. We were closed till July, and staying afloat after paying staff salaries and other bills became a challenge. I had put up a deposit for a surgery which I withdrew to keep the restaurant running. In August, I eventually got into a partnership to keep things running, but we are still struggling. I don’t want to shut down at any cost,” she said.Hussain now hopes that her business will pick up soon. “We offer good quality food and the ambience is adorable. Things will be much easier once business becomes stable. I want to expand and start franchising, specially with the transgender community. I want to start drag shows as well,” she said.Hussain wants to help others struggling with the same identity issues. “I want to offer them jobs. Transgender people should start working mainstream jobs while believing in themselves,” she said.Hussain knew from a young age that she didn’t conform to stereotypical gender norms. “My family soon realized that I wasn’t simply a boy. It took them a while but they accepted me. However, the society is still reluctant. I get absolutely no support from people and everyday is a struggle,” said Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/overcoming-gender-issues-this-transgender-woman-now-struggles-to-keep-her-eatery-running/story-6FEzwyoJx6m7U8usmTLCvO.html
30-12-2020||City||Dry run for Covid vaccine completed at 7 places in Ludhiana district||In the run-up to allocation of the Covid vaccine, the Ludhiana administration on Tuesday successfully completed a dry run at seven places (one in each subdivision) including Civil Hospital, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Raikot, Jagraon, Machhiwara, Khanna and Payal. On trial basis, 25 healthcare workers, who had registered themselves on the government portal, were called to these locations, said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. He said in the first phase, Ludhiana was among the two districts (the other being Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar) in the state chosen by the government for administering the Covid-19 vaccine. The activity aimed to test mechanisms laid-out for roll out of the Covid-19 vaccination, he said and to assess the operational feasibility of using the Co-WIN application and testing linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms to identify challenges and guide the way forward, prior to actual implementation.Sharma said end-to-end testing of the vaccination process was successfully conducted. In the first phase, more than 30,000 healthcare workers (both government and private) of the district, who had registered themselves on the government portal, would be administered the Covid 19 vaccine, followed by Anganwadi workers, people aged above 50 years, people below 50 years with comorbidities, and others. He clarified that this vaccine would not be available off the shelf for the time being and only people who had got themselves registered on the government portal would be covered under it. He said that upon registration, beneficiaries will receive a message on their mobile phone informing the date and place where the Covid-19 vaccine would be administered to them. Later, he also chaired a review meeting regarding the same at Bachat Bhawan, here, where he thanked all the concerned officials for successfully carrying out the dry run .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-completed-at-7-places-in-ludhiana-district/story-guHNpFn3R8vEv1LbXkU0BO.html
30-12-2020||Mumbai||At Mumbai airport: Not 8 hours, just 13 minutes for RT-PCR test results for international fliers||Now, international passengers arriving at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will have to wait for just 13 minutes, instead of eight hours, to get their RT-PCR test (the gold standard of Covid-19 testing) reports. This is because the airport, from December 15, introduced a unique technology, in compliance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards, that is available for all international passengers at the airport. With the 24X7 testing facility that is located at Level 2 (arrivals) near exit Gate B, CSMIA has become the first airport to adopt the express test method by Abbott ‘ID Now™’. CSMIA officials said the express test is available at ₹4,500 and aims to provide passengers with quick and accurate diagnosis in 13 minutes. However, passengers can continue to opt for regular RT-PCR tests, which take around six to eight hours for the result.Creating a safer environment for travellers and airport staff, the rapid molecular testing technology by Abbott is a tool to help fight the pandemic by allowing fast, highly sensitive and accurate diagnosis, reducing the wait time for reports for passengers to take necessary measures to prevent disease transmission.“Since the commencement of this test, CSMIA has witnessed an average of 30-35 tests per day and a total of 400 passengers as of December 28; these include those who had connecting flights to destinations outside Maharashtra,” an airport spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-8-hours-just-13-minutes-for-rt-pcr-test-results-for-international-fliers-at-csmia/story-3F7M8SCBsxj86SqJV0e3TJ.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Police bust fake job racket near Mehrauli, arrest 11||Police on Tuesday said they had arrested 11 people — seven men, four women — for allegedly operating a fake job racket through a call centre in south Delhi’s Saidulajab near Mehrauli. One of the arrested persons, police said, holds a B.Tech degree from a private university and had worked in a private bank before the lockdown. Five laptops and as many mobile phones, along with eight SIM cards were seized from the arrested suspects. The arrested persons lured job aspirants by offering jobs in reputed multinational companies, including private airlines. They used to charge Rs 2,200 as registration fee and between Rs 10,000 and Rs 40,000 from each candidate at the time of issuing the fake appointment letters in their name.“They have duped nearly 100 job aspirants from different states to the tune of around Rs 10 lakh since September,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said.Police identified the arrested suspects as Ashish alias Aman, 32, a B.Tech graduate, Arjun Singh, 28, Vikas Yadav, 25, Krishna, 28, Najakat Ali, 30, Roop Basant,22, Avinash, 24. Police have not shared the names of the four women arrested by them in the case. Police said that except Ashish and Arjun, who were the key players in the racket, the nine other arrested suspects worked as telecallers in the fake call centre. The nine were arrested because they were aware of the illegal activities that was being done through the call centre, said DCP Thakur.On December 25, the police said, the Mehrauli police received information that a fake call centre offering jobs in multinational companies was being run from a rented space in Saidulajab. The information was probed and a raid was conducted. Nine people, including four women, were caught using laptops and cellphones and offering jobs to job aspirants. A case of cheating, forgery, and criminal conspiracy was registered and the nine were arrested.During interrogation, the arrested suspects revealed that they lured unemployed people by offering them jobs with lucrative salaries, in a cement manufacturing company and two private airlines.“They first tricked aspirants into paying Rs 2,200 as registration fee through e-payment gateways. After receiving the registration amount, they dispatched fake interview and appointment letters and collected additional amounts, ranging between R10,000 and R40,000, depending on the job profile and salary,” added DCP Thakur.Interrogation of the arrested persons revealed that the racket was being operated by Aashish, Arjun and Rahul, whose location was traced in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. The investigating teams raided their hideouts in Gwalior and Agra but the trio could not be located.On December 28, Ashish and Arjun were caught from Delhi, while Rahul is still absconding, the police said. Police have identified the three men only by their first names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-bust-fake-job-racket-near-mehrauli-arrest-11/story-NgkDs3cHNWAk9y5qqkQEFN.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||After several hurdles in 2020, Delhi govt hopes to launch key infra projects by March next year||The government hopes to launch several key infrastructure projects expected to decongest some of the most traffic heavy stretches such as Ashram Chowk in 2021 after the Covid-19 pandemic and several other reasons forced the agencies to push deadlines and face escalation in costs. As work has picked up again, officials in the Public Works Department (PWD) said the agency hopes to launch three long-awaited projects --- Ashram underpass, the tunnel road at Pragati Maidan and the Benito-Juarez Road underpass --- by March 2021.PWD officials said the pace of construction remained very poor throughout the year due to various reasons ranging from the nationwide lockdown and exodus of migrants leading to a lack of labour, the ban on construction imposed because of the air pollution levels to riots in north-east Delhi. The agency had to push deadlines of at least five important ongoing infrastructure projects in the city, of which three were to be made operational this year.Some of the important projects where deadlines were pushed include the tunnel road near Pragati Maidan, Ashram Underpass, Shastri Park and Seelampur flyovers, Benito-Juarez Road underpass and Barapullah phase-3 elevated road. Two flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur were opened in September this year, five months after their scheduled opening date.Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain said, “From the very first day of the Covid pandemic, the Delhi government is fighting the situation very carefully. On one side, due to the pandemic, there has been a shortage of labourers which has affected some of the works, on the other hand the Delhi government is completely prepared to deal with the situation and trying its best to meet all the timelines.”PWD officials said that the year started with assembly elections in Delhi which also affected construction and planning of projects due to model code of conduct being in place for the polls. It was followed by riots in north-east Delhi which affected the progress of infrastructure projects in that part of the city. And, then the pandemic hit the city when in march, Delhi reported its first case. By the end of the month, entire country was placed under a 21-days lockdown to contain the virus which was further extended. The construction activities remained completely suspended for almost two months in Delhi. Though work resumed in May end but the progress remained tardy because of shortage of labourers as tens of thousands of workers returned to their hometowns. The officials said that after lockdown norms were eased and before construction could pick up, monsoon arrived. Officials say that the pace of construction activities slows down in rainy season. The slow pace of construction work continued due to restrictions due to air pollution after Diwali in the city.S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said, “This year has not been good for infrastructure projects in the national capital as projects got delayed and missed deadlines due to coronavirus pandemic, nationwide lockdown, labour shortage. The authorities should have made additional arrangements such as additional man power at least towards the end of the year to make up for the time loss.”He also said that such delays are would not only translate in escalation of construction cost but also lead to traffic snarls for longer periods and ultimately giving rise to pollution.He added that important projects such as construction of 1.2km long tunnel near Pragati Maidan and Ashram underpass should have been treated more seriously as they aim to decongest traffic bottlenecks at Ashram, Ring Road, ITO and Matura Road. The traffic mess at Ashram, ITO and parts of Mathura road is a perennial problem for the traffic police. Some important infrastructure projects that the city couldn’t see this year are: Ashram underpass project:This most awaited project envisages construction of a 750-metre-long underpass along Mathura Road at busy Ashram crossing, an important link between central and south Delhi with the satellite towns of Noida and Faridabad. The intersection connects Mathura Road and the Ring Road (linking Lajpat Nagar-Sarai Kale Khan and DND Flyover). During peak hours, massive jams are common on Mathura Road and Ashram flyover. It is one of the busiest intersection in Delhi. The estimated cost of underpass is Rs 78 crore. The foundation stone of the project was laid by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on December 24, 2019 and it was to be completed in a year’s time.According to PWD officials, initially the deadline to complete work was December 2020 but that it is likely to be extended by around three to four months as work couldn’t be carried out at desired pace. “The construction moved at snail’s pace initially due to protests at Shaheen Bagh and later it was stopped due to lockdown. Even after the work was resumed in May end, the progress was slow because of labour shortage and then due to monsoon and pollution restrictions. We hope to complete the construction work by March 2021,” the PWD official said.Tunnel road at Pragati MaidanUnder this project, the PWD is constructing a 1.2-km-long tunnel and six underpasses to ease travel to India Gate and parts of central Delhi from different corners of the city especially from east Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad. The project cost is around Rs 777 crore. The work on the project was started in March 2018 and it was to be completed by September 2019. This deadline was extended to June 2020 due to the complexities involved in the construction work. The June deadline was also pushed to December 2020 due to Covid-19 lockdown. Officials said that this deadline has again been extended by three months.“This year hardly any construction activity could be carried out at the desired pace due to lockdown and pollution restrictions. We are in the last leg of the construction work. We had to reschedule our deadlines due to coronavirus pandemic. We are hoping to complete the remaining work by March 2021,” another PWD official said.The tunnel will start near National Sports Complex of India (NSCI) on Purana Qila Road and culminate on the Ring Road near Pragati Power station passing underneath the Pragati Maidan.Once the tunnel is functional, motorists travelling from Noida, Ghaziabad and south and east Delhi will have a signal-free access to India Gate, Mathura Road and vice-versa.Benito-Juarez Road underpassThe project includes construction of a three-lane underpass, near Venkateswara College, in south Delhi connecting Benito Juarez Road with San Martin Road. The dual access one-way underpass will start near Springdales School on Benito Juarez Road and will pass under the South Campus Metro station on the Ring Road. One arm of the underpass will go to San Martin Road while the other will open on Ring Road towards Moti Bagh. The work on the project had started in April 2015 and was to be completed in October 2017. It missed several deadlines and its latest deadline was October 2020 which was missed again due to slow pace of work this year. “The project was initially delayed due to shifting of utilities, and the complex nature of construction work. Later it was delayed by the construction bans imposed due to Covid-19 lockdown, labour shortage and pollution restrictions,” an official said associated with the project said. The official said that the latest deadline is March 2021.The facility aims to reduce travel time from the airport to central Delhi and AIIMS by 20 minutes and 15 minutes, respectively.Barapullah Phase-3 elevated corridorThe 3km elevated corridor aims to provide seamless connectivity between Mayur Vihar-I and Sarai Kale Khan, where it will meet the existing Barapullah-I elevated corridor, making the nearly 9.5km journey to AIIMS signal free. According to PWD officials, construction of the corridor had begun in 2015, and was scheduled to be completed in October 2017, but the project progressed tardily because of the 8.5 acre (750 m) land and issues related to its acquisition. Officials said that the progress of land acquisition was affected due to model code of conduct in the beginning of the year and later due to coronavirus pandemic as the district administration was busy on managing different jobs related to Covid-19 pandemic.“Shortage of labour immediately after lockdown also impacted progress of the work. It was later slowed down due to monsoon and high water level in Yamuna during rainy season. It would take at least a year-and-a-half to finish work after the land is acquired and handed over to them for construction. We are hoping to complete it by March 2022,” the official said.The corridor will also decongest key stretches of nearby areas such as Ring Road, Delhi-Noida-Direct flyway, NH-24, Noida Link Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-several-hurdles-in-2020-delhi-govt-hopes-to-launch-key-infra-projects-by-march-next-year/story-vLVLNMszyoUY05YuJ7ko7H.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||BJP misleading people on MCD funds crunch: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of misleading people on the issue of financial crunch.The BJP denied the allegation as “baseless”.“The BJP is misleading people on the fund crunch issue. The top brass of the BJP has lost all hope on the MCDs. Despite a request by the north MCD mayor, the Centre has not provided any help to the MCDs. It had asked for Rs 2,000 crore from the Centre but they have not provided any money. The BJP has no moral right to stay in power in the MCDs because not only the people of Delhi but also their own party leaders do not believe them,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor rejected Pathak’s claims as baseless. “These are baseless allegations. It seems like Durgesh Pathak derives pleasure in raising every day the issue of non-payment of salaries to municipal employees in Delhi because had they been even a little serious towards employees’ hardship, they would have urged their chief minister to at least release current financial year’s funds to the MCDs.”On Monday, the AAP and BJP councillors had scuffled during a meeting of the EDMC House when the former raised the issue of an alleged Rs 2500 crore scam in north MCD. The BJP had been claiming that the Delhi government owes Rs13,000 crore to the MCDs but the government has maintained that it has no pending payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-misleading-people-on-mcd-funds-crunch-aap/story-vJ0FKepzaqgaHzydZAVUVN.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt starts distribution of dry ration as part of mid-day meals in schools||Delhi government on Tuesday started distributing dry-ration as part of the Centre’s mid-day meal programme among students of classes Nursery to class 8 enrolled in all government and government-aided schools in the Capital. The mid-day meal scheme, under which students are served cooked meals during school hours, had been disrupted due to the closure of educational institutions since March because of the Covid-19 pandemic. There are around 800,000 students who will receive such ration kits. On Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal kicked off the initiative and distributed dry ration kits at a school in Mandawali. Each kit handed out by the chief minister contained a six-month provision — that included wheat, rice, pulses and oil.“The last nine months have been extremely difficult, and our troubles might not end soon. But till the time the a vaccine comes, we have to find solutions... During the lockdown, we tried to provide an allowance in place of the mid-day meals in the bank accounts of students. But now we are starting redistribution of dry-ration among students. Each student will be provided adequate ration for a period of 6 months, July 2020 to December 2020, in order to provide proper nutrition,” Kejriwal said, adding that the scheme will continue till the schools reopen.The dry ration will be provided every month from January 2021.Central government’s mid-day meal scheme, which aims to provide food security to children from economically weaker families and increase enrolment in public schools, is channelised through state governments.According to a senior official at the Directorate of Education (DoE), the amount of dry ration being provided per day for primary students (up to class 5th) will be 145 gram. It will be 217 gms for upper primary students (classes 6 to 8). “Thus, the total weight of dry ration kit being provided for 6 months period is 20.175 kg for primary students and 30.383 kg for upper primary students. The calculation of dry ration has been done as per days of the school calendar. Students will be provided ration on a monthly basis from January onwards,” the official said.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who was also present during the launch of the initiative, said, “The non-availability of mid-day meals due to the closure of schools has been a challenge. There were many families who were finding it hard to put enough food on their plates. Massive unemployment due to Covid-19 has aggravated the issue. On the directions of CM Kejriwal, we experimented by transferring money directly to the students’ accounts. It was the CM’s idea that it’s better to distribute ration rather than transferring money. Hence, we are now providing dry ration to more than 8 lakh students in government and government-aided schools in Delhi.”Parents of several students enrolled in government schools, lauded the initiative. Kulsum Khatun, who works as a labourer and is a resident of Jagdamba camp in Sheikh Sarai, , said, “We are happy that the government decided to give ration in place of allowance. I have received a call from the school of my two daughters. I will go on Wednesday and collect their kits. We had struggled to provide nutritious food to them in the last nine months. We can still get wheat and rice, but pulses are expensive to include in our daily diet.”Head of school at Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya, Rohini, Awadesh Kar Jha said, “We had received kits for primary students two days back following which we informed their parents. At least 450 parents collected dry-ration kits for their children on Tuesday from our school.”Amrita Johri of social organisation Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, said, “We welcome the government’s decision of distributing dry ration in place of the mid-day meal allowance. Many people are struggling to afford daily meals and something as essential as milk for their families amid the pandemic. The government must give grains in adequate amounts to the students. They should also include eggs in these kits to provide proper nutrition to the students. We have been demanding the addition of eggs, milk, and fruits in the mid-day meals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-distribution-of-dry-ration-as-part-of-mid-day-meals-in-schools/story-RMLQKrNVCIOtc8vjtmm0EN.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||AAP promises free Wi-Fi at Singhu protest site||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said free Wi-Fi hotspots will be set up at Singhu border for the farmers who have been camping there for over a month protesting the three farm laws enacted by Parliament in September. “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has decided to install as many Wi-Fi hotspots as required by our farmer brothers. They’ve been sitting at Delhi’s borders for more than a month now. In order for them to make video calls with their loved ones, access information, proper internet connectivity is necessary,” said Chadha, AAP’s national spokesperson. Each such hotspot will be capable of covering a 100-metre radius and it will be a free service, the AAP leader said.The AAP has supported the farmers who are demanding the repeal of the new laws and had voted against the Bills in both Houses.On Saturday, Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the AAP, visited the Singhu border where he also challenged the central government and its ministers for an open debate on the contentious laws. The party has also been helping the protesting farmers with tents, blankets, toilets, food and access to water.“To lead a respectable life, an individual needs ‘roti, kapda, makaan’. But today, we can add another necessity, and that is the internet. To fulfil this necessity, the Arvind Kejriwal government has decided to install Wi-Fi hotspots across Singhu so that farmers can make video calls to stay in touch with their families,” said Chadha.He further said, “We request farmer unions to tell us about the spots at Singhu border where they’re facing network issues. Our farmer brothers have been unable to speak with their families due to poor mobile reception. We hope that with the installation of Wi-Fi hotspots, they will be able to hear the voices of their loved ones, and will make video calls every day.”“Farmers also need better internet to keep themselves updated about news, about fact checks, debates on the agriculture laws. We will give them all facilities,” said Chadha.The Delhi BJP lashed out at AAP move. Party spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The AAP is misleading farmers on the issue related to new laws and now they have taken it to new heights. What happened to Arvind Kejriwal’s flagship project of providing free Wi-Fi across Delhi? The project has made no progress and now the party is talking about free Wi-Fi in the Singhu border.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-promises-free-wi-fi-at-singhu-protest-site/story-BS6ivKdJbtD9JglbY0aNpI.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||DCW ‘rescue’ former Delhi minister’s daughter, place her in shelter home||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday said that they rescued the daughter of a former Delhi minister from her father’s house in Paschim Vihar on Monday night where she was allegedly held “captive and beaten”. The commission said the woman, daughter of former Delhi minister Raj Kumar Chauhan, has been shifted to a shelter home for women. Chauhan, a four-term MLA from Mangolpuri assembly constituency, however, denied the allegations and said his daughter was undergoing treatment for “depression”. In a statement on Tuesday, the commission said that the woman was held “captive” at her parental home was being “beaten” by her father. The DCW has also asked the Delhi Police to register an FIR against the politician. Police said they are looking into the case. The DCW said the woman had written to the commission, seeking help. A commission team reached Chauhan’s house and was told by the victim that she got married in 1999, but for the last 10 years she has been living separately at her parent’s house in Delhi due to some differences with her husband. She also has two daughters from the marriage. A divorce case is pending before a court in Chandigarh since many years, the DCW said. “The woman alleged that her father (Chauhan) doesn’t want the case to be settled and that her husband had married another woman. The woman also wants to start a new life but is unable to do so because his family has made it a matter of prestige. She has alleged that her father illegally confined her in his house, does not allow her to go out, and often beat her up,” the DCW said in a statement. It added that a joint team of DCW and Delhi Police rescued the woman and took her to Paschim Vihar West police station. Statements of the woman and her daughter were recorded and they were then taken for a medical examination before being placed in a shelter home. When contacted, the former minister denied the allegations and called the charges “baseless”. “Allegations of keeping my daughter in captivity and beating her are baseless and false. My two granddaughters are still living with us. If there was any truth in those allegations then why would they stay with us. My daughter is undergoing treatment for depression,” Chauhan said, adding that he would not divulge more details as it was a “personal family matter”. Delhi police confirmed that cops accompanied DCW officials to rescue the woman. Deputy commissioner of police (Outer) A Koan said on Monday, the DCW had called the police control room informing that there was a case of domestic violence. “Our enquiry revealed that she was living with her two daughters aged 20 years and 13 years on a separate floor in the house of her father. Allegations levelled by the complainant were denied by her daughters. We are looking into the case,” the DCP said. Chauhan, held important portfolios in the Sheila Dikshit cabinet. Ahead of Lok Sabha elections in 2019, Chauhan had joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after he was denied a ticket from Northwest Delhi parliamentary (reserved) constituency. However, Chauhan re-joined the Congress ahead of Delhi assembly polls in January 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dcw-rescue-former-delhi-minister-s-daughter-place-her-in-shelter-home/story-TNrEKm2FCc5Z4ljV0tGXvI.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Vehicles without RFID tags will not be allowed entry in Delhi from January 1||The Commission for Air Quality Management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas has directed strict implementation of the Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) system and warned that commercial vehicles without RFID tags or inadequate balance in the tags, will not be allowed entry from January 1.RFID was set-up at 13 toll plazas in Delhi to control vehicular pollution from commercial vehicles entering Delhi. These 13 toll plazas are used by around 70 % commercial vehicles that enter Delhi.“It was brought into the notice of the Commission for Air Quality Management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas that RFID is not being fully implemented at 13 toll plazas in Delhi with effect from August 14, 2020 and waiver is being given to commercial vehicles without such RFID tags or inadequate balance in the tags,” a statement by the Commission said.The commission has instructed South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to ensure RFID compliance at all 13 toll plazas with effect from January 1, 2021 and disallow entry of vehicles without such tags or inadequate balance in the tags. The south corporation also has been directed to give adequate publicity and advance intimation to minimize inconvenience to the drivers of commercial vehicles entering Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/vehicles-without-rfid-tags-will-not-be-allowed-entry-in-delhi-from-january-1/story-VoihEF3WJ4QkyJC4lsEB8I.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Missing UK travellers give health dept officials a headache||As many as 90 travellers from the United Kingdom, who flew into the city after November 25, have remained untraceable by authorities in one district of Delhi, officials said. These missing travellers have either provided either incomplete or old addresses on passports and non-working international cell phone numbers that has hindered their search by district officials. “At least five to 10 persons remain completely untraceable in every district in Delhi. The highest number of people remain untraceable in the New Delhi and Central districts. The names of these people have been shared with different authorities; everyone is looking for them. The rest were tracked in other districts,” said an official from health department. In New Delhi district at least 90 people have not been traced.Also Read | Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune: Where India found samples of UK returnees positive for new coronavirus strainThe Indian government had suspended flights from the United Kingdom from December 23, with all passengers who flew into the country on December 21 and December 22 being made to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests . This was done after London and other regions of UK went into lockdown due to a new variant of coronavirus disease that was found to be spreading there. The new variant has 23 mutations, one of which is on the receptor binding domain of the spike protein of the Sars-Cov-2 virus and is thought to be 70% more transmissible than the other strains. So far, six of the UK passengers who tested positive for the viral infection were found to be carrying the new variant. A senior official in the revenue department said around 14,000 passengers arrived at the Delhi airport since November 25 – of which at least 1,500 are Delhi residents. So far, 20 such individuals have tested positive for Covid-19 in general in Delhi. Eleven of them were identified after being tested on arrival over December 22 and 23. And nine – who had arrived in Delhi between November 25 and December 21 – were identified through the government’s on-going outreach drive that started last Wednesday. At least 13 of their contacts, who have also tested positive for the viral infection, have been admitted to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital in the special isolation ward. While all arrivals on or after December 7 are mandatorily being tested, those who arrived between November 25 and December 6 are being put under surveillance as of now, said a senior official in the government’s revenue department. The government, however, did not share data on how many individuals out of the total 1,500 could be traced by them so far. HT contacted officials from all eleven districts but was able to get responses of officials from only five districts. “Several individuals who arrived in Delhi from UK have filed wrong numbers in the forms submitted to the government on arrival. The problem came to light only after the tracing process began last Wednesday. Some had filled nine digits, instead of 10. In such cases, surveillance officers are calling up all 10 possible combinations for the last number,” said a senior official in south-east district, which is learnt to have 308 UK-arrivals – of which 17 are yet to be traced. “In several cases, fliers have submitted their UK numbers. The district officials have tried making both normal calls and WhatsApp calls in such numbers. Most they have elicited no response. It is quite likely that the same person is using a different number when in India,” said a senior official in west district, which has had 270 UK-arrivals – of which around 60 are yet to be traced. “In most cases, people have filled up incomplete addresses. As in, they have mentioned localities but not blocks, lanes, apartment numbers, or house numbers. Several had mentioned hotel details. In most such cases, it emerged that the individuals had already left for the UK in a return flight by the time officials could reach them. There are many cases of incorrect addresses too,” said an official in New Delhi district – which has recorded 190 UK arrivals of which around 90 are yet to be traced. An official from Shahadara district said, “Of the 60 people that were to be traced by us, only 22 were in the district. None have gone to other cities. And, three have returned back to UK.” An official from Central district said, “Most of the addresses on the passports of the travellers are from years ago when the passport must have been issued. They no longer live on these addresses and hence could not be traced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-missing-uk-travellers-give-health-dept-officials-a-headache/story-n94b3GSXU7cBkDNVbxnGTI.html
30-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Waste management firm issues public notice for leaving work||A week after serving self-termination notice to the civic body, the A2Z company on Tuesday issued a public notice apprising the residents that the company will not be providing services including lifting and processing waste after February 4. While it will be a herculean task for the civic body to manage the solid waste in the city due to lack of infrastructure, it is yet to take a final call regarding its further action plan. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting on Tuesday seeking legal advice over the matter and it is said that a report will be sent to the local bodies department in the coming days for further action. After the notice period, it will be the responsibility of the MC to lift over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage generated in the city on a daily basis from around 45 secondary dumping points (where household waste is dumped by waste collectors) and shift it to the main dumpsite at Tajpur road, run the static compactors and the RDF plant installed at the main dumpsite of MC. The MC will also have to make alternate arrangements for the door-to-door lifting of garbage from 30 of the city’s 95 wards, from where the garbage is being collected by the company.The company officials said that among the main reasons behind serving the self-termination notice, is a delay on the part of MC in making a monthly payment of around Rs 1 crore to the company as a tipping fee for transportation of garbage to the main dumpsite. Despite attempts, Pardeep Sabharwal could not be reached for comment. Manager of A2Z company, Vishant Chaudhary said that the public notice has been issued and the company will not be providing services after February 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-based-waste-management-firm-issues-public-notice-for-leaving-work/story-ImfYpvQzt5Fgijdho3r9bK.html
30-12-2020||Gurugram||One UK returnee tests positive, genome sequencing results awaited||A 22-year-old man, who returned from the United Kingdom on December 19, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. To further confirm whether the positive case has been infected with the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus, the Gurugram health department has sent his sample to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi for genome sequencing.Complying with the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s guidelines, the district health department has been testing all UK returnees who arrived in Gurugram between December 9 and December 23. The central government, on December 21, had banned all flights to and from the UK in light of the mutant strain of Covid-19. Till now, 367 UK returnees have been tested, of which at least 349 have tested negative and the test results of 17 are awaited.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Continuing with the surveillance and testing, a 22-year-old man was found positive for Covid-19. Samples of his three immediate contacts have also been taken for testing. And while the positive patient is currently admitted to the designated isolation centre for UK returnees, his close contacts ar under quarantine at home. The state health department has been informed about the positive case as results of the genome sequencing will be shared with the state.”As per the guidelines, those testing positive have to be isolated at the institutional facility until their genome sequence results are declared. In case the genome sequence remains consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 genome circulating, then the patient can isolate at home. However, if a mutated strain of the coronavirus is found, the patient will continue to remain in the designated isolation room, until two consecutive samples are negative on the 14th day of isolation.Till now, at least 713 UK returnees arrived in Gurugram since December 9. Of these, 517 have been traced by the health department. At least 164 moved to other countries and states, while 32 continue to remain untraceable due to incorrect contact details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-uk-returnee-tests-positive-genome-sequencing-results-awaited/story-J6Mge25QLoz31wEQQhGDMP.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Two-wheeler scam busted, seven arrested||The Sahakarnagar police arrested seven persons and busted a major two-wheeler loan scam in the city on Tuesday. The accused prepared bogus documents and availed loans in the name of unsuspecting persons and forced the victims to pay the Equated Monthly Instalments (EMIs). The police have recovered 28 two-wheelers from their possession including other seizures totally estimated to be worth Rs 29.93 lakh from their possession. The scam came to light when one of the victims identified as Pritesh Subhash Shinde received a message from IDFC bank saying that his loan application for a two-wheeler loan has been approved. Since he had not opted for any loan, he went to the spot from where he received the message and found that it was a two-wheeler showroom. He checked with the showroom management and found bogus documents like Aadhaar card, Pan card, voter’s card and other personal documents in his name required for obtaining loan filed at the showroom. He immediately rushed to the Sahakarnagar police station and the police officials along with the victim came to the showroom for further inquiries. The person who had put the file for loan purpose had arrived by the time the police and the victim were inquiring with the showroom staff. Initially the bank agent said that his name was Pritesh Shinde when grilled by the police but later revealed that his name was Kiran Shashikant Pednekar (34), a resident of Naigaon Vasai. He was immediately taken into custody and during interrogation he revealed the names of the other accused who were involved in the scam. The other six arrested have been identified as Anil Namdeorao Navthale (31), a resident of Balapur Akola, Pravin Vijay Khadakban (39), a resident of Naigaon, Devendra Kumar Keshav Manjhi (50), a resident of Palghar and Suresh Harishchandra More ( 41 ), a resident Ghodbunder in Thane and Pankaj Rajendra Prasad Singh ( 30), a resident of Vapi in Gujarat. Sahakarnagar senior police inspector Arun Waikar said, “It is a major scam and investigations have led to the arrest of seven persons and more will follow. They prepared forged documents in names of different persons, obtained loans and used the two-wheelers and money for their own benefit which is a major crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-wheeler-scam-busted-seven-arrested/story-ZOsbP1itrrT3ke2P5OcDZO.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Eight MNS workers held for vandalising Amazon godown||The Kondhwa police, on Tuesday, arrested eight Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers including its regional president Amit Jagtap for vandalising Amazon godown at Burhani industrial estate in Kondhwa on December 26.They are demanding the inclusion of Marathi as a preferred language on Amazon’s apps and website.The workers resorted to ransacking after the Dindoshi Court directed MNS chief Raj Thackeray to be present in court on January 5, 2021.The accused arrested have been identified as Amit Ashok Jagtap ( 40), a resident of Kondhwa Budruk; Saurabh Deepak Tilekar (22), a resident of Kondhwa Budruk; Rohit Shahu Sonawane ( 30), a resident of Kakadevasti; Mayur Prakash Jagtap (27), a resident of Kondhwa Budruk; Akash Sadhu Awate ( 24 ), a resident of Kondhwa Budruk; Akshay Suresh Jagtap ( 25), a resident of Kondhwa Budruk; Mayur Shantaram Chavan ( 28) and Nikhil Shantaram Jagtap (27), a resident of Kondhwa Budruk.The accused were produced before the court which remanded them police custody for a day.Assistant sub-inspector SA Patil in his remand application said that MNS workers resorted to unlawful assembly despite Covid restrictions in place and orders issued by Pune police commissioner regarding assembly in public. “MNS workers violated the order and also the provisions of the Disaster Management Act,” he said.A criminal case is registered under Sections 143,147,149,427,452 of the India Penal Court (IPC) along with other relevant sections of the Maharashtra Police Act and the Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-mns-workers-held-for-vandalising-amazon-godown-in-kondhwa/story-RyLgGU3t1uHqCcfXuTBh9N.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Jail inmate among 3 booked for conspiring to murder corporator||A convict lodged at the Yerwada prison and two others have been booked by the Chatushrungi police on Monday for conspiring to murder of NCP corporator Baburao Chandere, sometime between December 22 and December 23. After Chandere came to know about the plan, he lodged a complaint with the police station. According to the police, Chandere’s son had received a call from a person who told him that his father would be attacked by contract killers, hired by a convict lodged in Yerawada prison. On one of the days that followed, a car with two masked was parked in front of Chandere’s house. As Chandere approached the car, it hurriedly sped away, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jail-inmate-among-3-booked-for-conspiring-to-murder-ncp-corporator/story-3pJym3z9VhjmTTAGMZAdZM.html
30-12-2020||Pune||Two cops suspended after fleeing from robbers||Two beat marshals on night patrol duty attached to the Chaturshringi police station were suspended by zonal deputy commissioner Namrata Patil on charges of dereliction of duty on Tuesday evening after they were caught on CCTV cameras fleeing from robbers in Aundhgaon. One of them was charged for leaving his colleague at the spot where robbers had committed a robbery and were rushing out of the targeted building while the second cop was charged for not using his SLR rifle during the situation despite being brandished with weapons by robbers.The CCTV footage which went viral on social media shows four armed robbers getting out of the society main gate. At the time of their exit from the society, two cops on night patrol arrive at the gate. DCP ( Zone 5 ) Namrata Patil said that the two beat marshals on the duty were suspended because the contable who was riding left the colleague at the spot, took a U-turn and went away and the second constable despite having SLR did not take action against the robbers. “The robbers brandished weapons at the police constable and they are yet to be arrested. The incident took place at 3.05 am and police reached at 3.15 am. The call was regarding an attack on a watchman ,” Patil said. The policeman on the two-wheeler sped away while the other tried to follow the robbers from behind after being ticked off by one of them wearing a helmet. The robbers had broken into three flats, stolen an LED worth Rs 15,000 belonging to resident Gaurav Tannu, cash of Rs 2,000 belonging to resident Paresh Shah and cash and valuables estimated to be worth Rs 4,000 belonging to resident Pritesh Chandiwal. Govind Hirman Yadav ( 44), the watchman guarding the building has lodged an official complaint in this regard. PSI and investigating officer Mahesh Bhosale said that the incident took place on Monday morning and they had received a call that a fight was going on in the area. “Initially the police thought that it was a fight going on in the area and did not open fire. Later, one of the police constables tried to corner one of the robbers but they escaped. That incident of policemen cornering the robber has not been captured on the CCTV. A number of CCTV cameras along the escape route of the robber are inactive due to the Metro work under progress. We have got good leads and will achieve a breakthrough soon,” Bhosale said. A case under IPC 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention ) has been registered against the four robbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-cops-suspended-after-fleeing-from-robbers/story-P71NovRelbnKwtj2KYzlEJ.html
30-12-2020||Lifestyle||New Year’s Eve 2020: Restaurants plan for safe celebrations||All set to shake a leg and let your hair down at a New Year’s Eve party? To not forfeit the tradition of New Year’s Eve parties amid the pandemic, restaurants and party hot spots in the Capital have come up with ample safety protocols, such as strict precautions for social distancing and sanitisation. “As the time of celebrations is coming near and people are looking forward to stepping out and enjoying Christmas and New Years, we have already started our preparations in full swing for events including placing furniture at a distance of six feet, kitchen and tables being sanitised every half an hour, irrespective of being used or not, among other stringent measures,” says Priyank Sukhija, CEO, First Fiddle Restaurant.Apart from using of masks, gloves and face shields, and placing sanitisers on tables, here’s how restaurateurs are planning to safeguard revellers against the spread of Covid-19: Limited reservations, partitioned tables to ensure safetyAllowing restricted number of guests is the plan for many, including Bhavuk Verma, partner, Bohca. He says, “Patrons will be greeted with a temperature check and a hand sanitisation booth. We’re accepting limited reservations only, while ensuring guests are allotted tables with partition screens to facilitate proper social distancing.”Pre-bookings only, no on-the-spot dinersOther restaurateurs plan to refrain from entertaining on-the-spot bookings. Avantika Sinha Bahl, owner at Kampai, says, “We maintain ample distance between tables and ensure all possible hygiene and safety protocols. Moreover, we will only be taking limited bookings.” Echoing the same thought, Akshay Anand, co-founder, Ophelia says, “We are promoting pre-bookings and discouraging on-counter sales to reduce over crowding on the NYE who feels that it will be a different scenario for clubs and restaurants this year and keeping the headcount to 50% of the allowed seats will be a colossal task. Party, six feet apartSharad Madan and Naresh Madan, co-directors of Imperfecto share that they have modified the restaurant layout to reinforce social distancing and trained team members for the new norms. Joy Singh, co-partner, Raasta, tells us, “Though there will be music and a DJ for the NYE, but there’ll be no designated area for dancing.”Confined zones for groups, bite-sized snacksUdit Bhasin, co-founder, OTB Courtyard, says, “For social distancing, seating arrangements will be such that each family will have their own confined zone to sit and enjoy. As far as the food is concerned, we will be serving bite-sized food to avoid physical interaction between guests and staff as much as possible.”Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/new-year-s-eve-2020-restaurants-plan-for-safe-celebrations/story-HgCZwy5T3HeUYbi6RmSBcO.html
