31-12-2020||Pune||First special round of FYJC admissions complete, 41533 seats still vacant||The first special round of the First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions completed today and a total of 17,722 students were allotted the seats of which 15,095 students have completed their admission process in this round. A large number of students have not yet confirmed their admission and as of today, 41,533 seats are vacant across streams in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad region. Earlier in the first, second and third regular round of the admissions, 40,013, 23,120 and 12,461 seats were allotted respectively by the education department. Now after three normal rounds, the first special has completed and on January 1, 2021, the vacancy list for after completion of the special round will be displayed online. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) since September 9 and it resumed back from November 26. For this year’s Class 11 admission process, a total of 68,072 students were eligible for the first round, 46,794 for the second round and 33,661 for the third round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Now, in the first special round, 20,347 students were eligible for admissions. The total intake of seats this year was 1, 07,030 in Pune region, till now 60,182 students have completed the admission process in all the three regular rounds and now 41,533 seats are still vacant. Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune said, “The first special round of admissions is now over and still a large number of students have not yet confirmed their admissions. Students and their parents wait to get admission in a few prominent colleges which are not possible from now as the entire process is centralised. Students need to understand this as they need to take admission as per their marks and in the college which cut off is close to their marks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-special-round-of-fyjc-admissions-complete-41533-seats-still-vacant/story-cq4sFM17wZj1kgpRrLUoPL.html
31-12-2020||Pune||Police issue notices to 530 social media groups ahead of Bhima Koregaon anniversary||The Pune rural police have served notices to as many as 530 social media group administrators, warning them not to allow posts pertaining to inflammatory messages in the wake of January 1 anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon. The police have warned that an FIR will be lodged against the miscreants and group admins will be held responsible for objectionable social media material circulation related to the event. As many as 120 Whatsapp groups in Shikrapur have been issued the notice while 410 groups under Lonikand police station area have been issued similar notices. Shikrapur police station in-charge Umesh Tawaskar said, “We have issued notices to the group admins and have asked them to remain vigilant about the postings on social media and ensure that inflammatory message don’t go viral.” Lonikand police station in-charge Pratap Mankar said that notices have been issued to the group admins and action can be taken against those violating the rules. The rural police made it clear that arrests can be made under the relevant sections of the IT act and IPC which invites three years of imprisonment. Rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh and Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, both have appealed for peaceful observance of the anniversary celebrations at Perne village where the victory monument is located. Clashes broke out at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018, which left one person dead and 40 injured a day after Elgar Parishad was organised at the historic Shaniwarwada in Pune a day earlier on December 31. A conclave organised ahead of the bicentenary of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon in which the British army, manned primarily by Dalit soldiers defeated the Peshwas who were the then rulers. Box Elgar Parishad on January 30? Former Bombay high court judge justice B G Kolse Patil on Thursday announced that yet another edition of Elgar Parishad will be held in Pune on January 30 at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch. Patil said that if the police refuse permission to the event than the event will be held on the street.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-issue-notices-to-530-social-media-groups-ahead-of-bhima-koregaon-anniversary/story-GDcZnmJIPgluK5c1oht6sL.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s two advanced centres to be operational by end of 2021||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has said that its advanced neurosciences and mother-child care centres would be operational by the end of next year.While sharing the PGIMER’s roadmap for the new year on Thursday, director Prof Jagat Ram said, “The construction work on Advanced Neurosciences Centre and Mother and Child Care Centre is progressing well and we hope to make both these super-speciality centres operational by the end of 2021.”“Due to lockdown restrictions and non-availability of labourers, the construction was affected for almost two months, but we tried to cover the loss when things got back on track and we are satisfied with the pace of construction,” the director added.Being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 495.31 crore, the neurosciences centre is a 300-bed facility that will help offer timely, affordable and advanced treatment for neurological and neuroscience disorders. The mother-child centre is also a 300-bed unit for improving obstetric and neonatal tertiary care and is being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 485 crore.PGIMER’s satellite centre in Sangrur is now functional with its OPDs being operational. This has given a boost to healthcare facilities and eased patient load from that area. “We are striving hard to make it fully functional in the coming year,” the director said.Shedding light on the vaccine rollout plan, Prof Ram said, “The plan for vaccination of over 12,000 healthcare workers has been chalked out with all the requisites in place to start the immunisation in January 2021. A task-force has been constituted to monitor storage, infrastructure and manpower requirements and multiple centres have been created in Nehru Hospital, NHE and APC to undertake the vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-s-two-advanced-centres-to-be-operational-by-end-of-2021/story-YsXvG9FyqdOa9ewsdsAV3K.html
31-12-2020||City||Environment centre to come up at Mohali’s Knowledge City||In a bid to ensure sustainable protection and management of environment, Punjab Biotechnology Incubator (PBTI) and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) would jointly establish Environment Resource Centre (ERC) at Knowledge City here from January 1.An agreement to set up ERC at the cost of Rs 7.5 crore was signed by PBTI CEO Dr Ajit Dua and PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg. Science, technology and environment secretary Rahul Tewari and PPCB chairman Prof SS Marwaha were also present on the occasion.The centre will cater to environment-related research, advisory and skill upgradation needs of industry, government departments and other stakeholders of Punjab as well as adjoining states.Tewari said this centre would enhance environmental compliance through strengthening of monitoring mechanism and policy implementation in the state, besides which it would also boost the capabilities of addressing emerging environment issues through science and technology intervention. Marwaha informed that the expertise of PPCB and PBTI staff along with external experts shall be available to stakeholders under this centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/environment-centre-to-come-up-at-mohali-s-knowledge-city/story-ODtryVWLeLZH6keGuGauLO.html
31-12-2020||City||Two of gang held with fake RCs, Aadhaar cards in Kharar||The district police have arrested two members of a gang involved in creating fake Aadhaar cards and driving licences (DLs). The police also recovered 11 fake stamps, seven DLs, 10 vehicle registration certificates (RCs) and 42 blank Aadhaar cards from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Samrat Bajaj of Kharar and Bhupinder Singh of Maloya colony in Chandigarh.SSP Satinder Singh said the accused were arrested by a police team led by SHO Pawan Kumar during a routine checking drive at Bhuru junction in Kharar on Wednesday. He said the police had received information that Samrat, Bhupinder, and two others — Balwinder Singh and Purshotam — were in possession of fake stamps of various government departments which they used to prepare fake RCs of vehicles and other forged documents.A case under sections 420, 465, 467, 471 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Kharar city police station, he added.During preliminary investigation, the accused revealed that they used to bring chipped RCs and DLs from Ludhiana and with the help of a computer made their forged versions. The accused further revealed that they took Rs 5,000 per RC and were doing the illegal business in Kharar for the past two years. The SSP said the accused used to prepare fake documents of persons living in Mohali and other districts, adding that further investigation in the case was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-of-gang-held-with-fake-rcs-aadhaar-cards-in-kharar/story-I2eWgUNkJdbS5MPEvhm7zJ.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Three booked for duping Ludhiana woman of ₹17 lakh on allure of job in Singapore||Three residents of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, were booked on Thursday for cheating a woman of Rs 17 lakh on the pretext of getting her a job in Singapore.The accused have been identified as MD Kartar, Anil Chatterjee, Gurdev Sharma and Geeta DeviThe victim Pooja Sharma, a resident of Dandi Swami area, said that she found out from an acquaintance that the accused were offering jobs abroad. When contacted, the accused offered Sharma a well-paid job in Singapore, and took Rs 17.5 lakh from her in various instalments. But, the accused did not get her the job, and neither did they return the money. On August 10, Sharma complained to police.After investigating the case, police registered a case against the accused under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code. Investigating officer Hardeep Singh said that further probe is on in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-booked-for-duping-ludhiana-woman-of-17-lakh-on-allure-of-job-in-singapore/story-Ofh0DEUhbqCa59Q9qi2JTJ.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Smart Connect Scheme: 4,944 students from Ludhiana dist to get smart phones in final phase||Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu handed over smart phones to Class-12 students of government schools in the third and final phase of the “Punjab Smart Connect Scheme” at Bachat Bhawan on Thursday . Five students each from four schools- Government Senior Secondary School, Jagraon Bridge, Government Senior Secondary School, Kasabad, Government Senior Secondary School, Engine Shed, and Government Senior Secondary School, Ambedkar Nagar, received the phones. Punjab Youth Development Board chairperson Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and ADC (development) Sandeep Kumar were present on the occasion. He said that with the distribution of 4,944 smartphones in the last phase, a total of 16,553 Class-12 students of government schools in Ludhiana district will have benefited under the scheme. He said that the smartphones will provide global connectivity and empower the financially-challenged students who could not afford them. He said that in the current situation, they have assumed greater importance, as they have become a necessity to continue education. Ashu said that he wanted Punjab’s students to be abreast with the latest technology, which they can use effectively for their education. Gone are the days of chalks and boards, he said, adding that the government schools, which have seen a major transformation over the past couple of years, need to be supported through technological initiatives by the state government. In the first phase, 2498 smart phones were given to students, 11,676 in the second and 4,977 in the last phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-smart-connect-scheme-4-944-students-from-ludhiana-dist-to-get-smart-phones-in-final-phase/story-SrSSXMoZrtCo1s48HOhOwL.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal opposes proposed hike in power tariff||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal has opposed the 8% power tariff hike proposed by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The members said that the hike in this time of crisis will bring industry and trade on the brink of closure. The members slammed the state government for not paying heed to the problems being faced by traders and demanded that this should not be allowed to happen. PSPCL has sought an 8% hike in tariff for the next fiscal in its annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition filed with the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC).State general secretary of the beopar mandal, Sunil Mehra, said, “PSPCL had sought a hike of 53 paisa per unit. From Rs 6.51 per unit, the cost will rise to Rs 7.04. The power tariff in Punjab is already high compared to its neighbouring states, and if the tariff is increased, it will not only affect trade but will also adversely affect the common man.” State secretary Mohinder Aggarwal and district president Arvinder Makkar said the state government had promised to provide power at a rate of Rs 5 per unit to the industry. But, rather than fulfilling the promise, the tariff is being increased almost every year, they said. The government has already increased the rates for six times in the past and over 30,000 industrial units have shifted to other states due to the wrong policies of the state government, they added. The members said that free power worth Rs 9,000 crore is being supplied to farmers and those with more than 10 acres of land should not benefit from this. They added that the matter will be discussed during the meeting of beopar mandal scheduled which will be held in Ludhiana on January 10. Earlier, industrial associations including Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) and Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association had also opposed the proposed hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-pradesh-beopar-mandal-opposes-proposed-hike-in-power-tariff/story-UOz6bEAO9m7UIDMfN84mxN.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fun facelift for pre-primary classrooms in Ludhiana dist||After schools reopen, over 35,600 children enrolled in pre-primary classes of 992 government schools across the district will be welcomed by colourful classrooms equipped with walls with learning visuals, storybooks, first aid corners, dollhouses, building blocks, and puzzles.New facilitiesIn the last three months, primary schools have received recurring grants to maintain health and hygiene practices on campus and to facilitate the pre-primary classes with the latest equipment and infrastructure.The classrooms now have first aid corners, and the walls have been decorated keeping in mind the age of the students. They are also equipped with sanitizers, liquid soap dispensers, water campers, doormats, and kits comprising towels, nail cutters, and combs.Government Primary School, Dakha, has 130 pre-primary students. For students’ creative development, it has come up with puzzles and dollhouses. To make the classrooms more fun and interesting, they have been equipped with bowling and billiards games for children.Paramjit Singh, the cluster headteacher, said, “We have followed all the instructions given to us and have utilised the grant in the best way. Students of pre-primary classes will be overjoyed once they enter their revamped classrooms.”Government Primary School, Majri in Block Khanna-2, comprises 23 pre-primary students. The school has equipped its pre-primary classroom with colourful chairs and tables, soft toys, and attractive walls with different quotations. The classroom also has facilities such as no-touch foot-operated sanitizers, water campers, blankets, mattresses, waterproof wall mats, and stainless-steel dustbins.Vikas Kapila, an ETT teacher, said, “These facilities will attract more students. We have tried to upgrade the facilities to bring the classrooms at par with those of private schools.”Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, elementary, said, “We have enhanced the enrolment in pre-primary classes and facilities have also been improved. The pre-primary classes have got a new look which will encourage more parents to get their children enrolled in government schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fun-facelift-for-pre-primary-classrooms-in-ludhiana-dist/story-Svfvp7Y3qMYlng8OD3TolL.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Outgoing Ludhiana civil surgeon gears up for new innings||Dr Rajesh Bagga, whose term as civil surgeon ended on Thursday, is all geared up to begin the new chapter of his life. Instead of settling down in the big city after retirement, he has decided to work for the welfare of society in the small town of Dasuya.He said that the town has limited health care services, and being a paediatrician, he can contribute towards providing affordable medical services there.He was given a warm sendoff by police chief Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma during a function held at the civil surgeon’s office here on Thursday.Dr Bagga’s tenure was scheduled to end in July, but was extended amid the Covid outbreak. Reflecting on 2020, he says the year will remain etched in his memory forever. “I am satisfied that I am leaving at a time when the vaccination process has begun,” he said.“No one had ever witnessed an emergency of this magnitude. Initially, nobody was equipped to handle such a situation. Every section of society was looking up at us. In fact, the situation in the district became so dire that Ludhiana was termed the Covid capital of the state.The most shocking situation we faced was when some private hospitals were closed down due to shortage of ventilators. I am indebted to doctors and the staff who came forward in the trying times for the safety people,” Dr Bagga added.It was during his tenure that the Ludhiana health department received a commendation letter from the state government for exceptional service in the time of the pandemic. He lauded the doctors, paramedical staff and Class- four employees for bravely fighting against the virus.“Naming anyone in particular will be unfair. For me, everyone is a hero. Right from the sweeper who mopped floors to maintain hygiene, to the nurses, epidemiologist and doctors who remain deployed in Covid wards and even got infected themselves. Even the mass media wing and the people attached to the sampling team have done a commendable job,” says Dr Bagga.While sharing his experience, Bagga said, “My biggest take away from the 32 years service is that we should stay disciplined, positive and keep working and not let negativity bother us.” “During my tenure, I have seen how the poor end up losing all their savings to get health care. Actually, quality health care does not reach these towns which results in rising child mortality. I believe that people like us can bring the change. I can use my experience and expertise to serve the poor and needy. I have already got through to a few NGOs and I hope we can contribute towards the welfare of society,” says Dr Bagga, after finishing his day in office, and bidding adieu to the industrial city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/outgoing-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-gears-up-for-new-innings/story-gYdKJkUJLFK9DhIdBrKDpM.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||Union ministry extends deadline for complete digital switch of toll payments till February 15||In a major relief for commuters, the National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) has extended the deadline for complete digital transformation of toll payments till February 15. Earlier, the NHAI had mandated that all commuters will have to pay toll fees only through Fastags from January 1. Millennium City Expressway Private Limited(MCEPL), the concessionaire of Kherki Daula toll plaza, had started making preparations for the digital switch earlier this week. But it was soon observed that there are some technical issues that need to be resolved. Further, nearly 15 to 20 percent of commuters are still paying through cash at the toll plaza. As per the directions issued by union ministry of road transport and highways on Thursday, fee payments can be made via both Fastags and cash on the hybrid lanes of NHAI toll plazas till February 15.However, in Fastag lanes, no cash payments will be allowed, stated the order. Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI, confirmed that the deadline for digital payments has been extended but said that they are prepared for the switch as 80 to 85 percent of commuters on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway already pay via digital mode.“We were ready to go digital buy it is likely that some of the plazas in other parts of the country have still need to work in this regard,” he said. Bhushan also said that the “myFastag” mobile application can be used by commuters to.get real-time information about their cash balance. Meanwhile, the commuters heaved a sigh of relief on the extension of this deadline. They said that there are frequent traffic jams on the toll plaza when cash lanes are closed. “The earlier deadline would have led to chaos as almost 30 to 40 percent users still pay via cash. A lot of work still needs to be done before payments get fully digital,” said Imran Khan, a commuter, who regularly visits the Manesar industrial area crossing the Kherki Daula toll plaza. The toll plaza witnesses around 65,000 to 70,000 vehicles daily, said an official. It has 24 Fastag lanes and two cash lanes for the payment of toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/union-ministry-extends-deadline-for-complete-digital-switch-of-toll-payments-till-february-15/story-u04GlHFrvMqRAPF47X8RSL.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers to usher in New Year by holding a torch vigil||A group of young farmers camping at the Haryana-Rajasthan border at Jaisinghpur Khera in protest of the new farm laws said that they would usher in the New Year by holding a torch vigil on the night of December 31. Earlier in the day, some of the protesting farmers broke through the police barricades and entered Haryana even though the police attempted to stop them by force. Farmer leaders said that the agitation was continuing peacefully at the site and that protestors would ring in the New Year by holding a torch vigil at night. They have also requested the common people to join the farmers’ protests at various sites on January 1. “We will be conducting a torch vigil at night to welcome the New Year. Our resistance will continue in next year as well,” said Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan. “Around 20-22 trolleys led by youngsters crossed the barricades today. There are five organisations at the Haryana-Rajasthan border, including us. We had requested them to join us in proceeding ahead but other organisations said that they would sit here for now. We will be holding a meeting with other members of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to decide our next course of action,” said Ranjit Singh Raju, coordinator of Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti — one of the farmers’ body under the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. He added that while their ultimate goal was to reach Delhi. However, a formal decision on any movement would be taken by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. “We understand that our youngsters are driven by passion, and we recognise their efforts. We will discuss and take a decision on our next course of action tomorrow morning,” said Raju. He added that the police had placed the barricades back in place and one trolley was subjected to lathi (cane) charge. “There was no cane charge initially. However, later, one trolley got stuck and two or three people sitting on it were injured due to the use of force by the police. We condemn the use of force by the police,” said Raju. Amra Ram, the national vice president of All India Kisan Sabha and former CPI(M) MLA, said that the movement would continue under in the new year with new vigour. He said that with support pouring in from different quarters, the farmer’s movement had become countrywide. “We will celebrate the New Year here. We invite residents to join our protests. We will feed them whatever we eat. This is a historic and unprecedented movement,” said Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-to-usher-in-new-year-by-holding-a-torch-vigil/story-IXrqpZZ4MTBp6wZcvt45PO.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||Cop, family booked for daughter-in-law’s death||A head constable of Gurugram Police, his wife and their son have been booked for allegedly murdering their daughter-in-law. The woman was poisoned to death in Palam Vihar, the police said.The family member of the woman who died alleged that the policeman had been sexually exploiting her and was threatened to withdraw a complaint she had filed. The woman was harassed and subjected to physical torture for several months, alleged her family members.The deceased was a native of Sirsa and had been staying with her husband and in-laws in Palam Vihar since 2013. On Wednesday, the family members of the woman received a call from her husband saying she was unwell and asking them to reach Gurugram.“Later, we received a call from a neighbour who told us about the torture she had faced. They heard her cries on Tuesday night, it seems she was beaten and suddenly, there was silence,” said the maternal uncle of the woman, who lodged a police complainant.He said when they reached the hospital, his niece’s in-laws told them that she had consumed poison and died.Indu Rajput, an activist of Raksha Saviour, said she received a call from the woman’s brother and when she reached the mortuary, the woman’s family had been forced leave the city with the body. “The police forced the family to leave the city with a body and till now, the police has not arrested anyone in this case,” said Rajput.Rajput said that according to the woman’s family, she was sexually assaulted by her father-in-law and forced to remain silent. Six months ago, the policeman had tried to rape her, when she raised the alarm and was rescued by her neighbours. “At that time, a case was filed at a women’s police station. The father-in-law (cop) had then apologised to everyone and pleaded to take back the case,” said Rajput, adding that family has given an application to the police seeking the addition of sections 325, 339, 354, 376, 304B, 506, 509, 34, 120B of the Indian Penal Code to the FIR. The family is demanding registration of an FIR under sections of rape and dowry death as well.On the basis of the complaint of the woman’s maternal uncle, the police have registered a case at Palam Vihar police station under sections 302 (murder), 328 (poisoning) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the woman’s husband and in-laws. “The family has levelled some allegations but till now, we have not received any evidence to support those allegations,” said Vikas Bhola, station house office (SHO) of Palam Vihar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cop-family-booked-for-daughter-in-law-s-death/story-4lMvmFsoyW77q99x3yVUaI.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||Employee of finance agency booked for using offensive language over delayed repayment||The Gurugram Police have registered a case against an employee of a private finance company for allegedly using offensive language while speaking to a credit card defaulter.The police are yet to identify the suspect and are tracing his call detail records to establish if he had made similar calls to others.According to the police, Dr Vinita Singh, a resident of Sector 46, alleged that she received a call on December 10 from a man who introduced himself as an executive of a private loan company. Singh alleged that the caller threatened her for not paying her loan instalment, abused her and threatened her with dire consequences, said police.The police said that the employee of the company used offensive language while speaking on the phone to a customer, who, according to him, had defaulted on loan dues, a police officer said.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that surprisingly, the woman had not taken any loan from the company and even if she had, the company executives are not supposed to use foul language. “We have registered a case against the suspect and are verifying his credentials. We are conducting an inquiry in this case and appropriate action will be taken against him,” he said.A case under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the caller at Sector 50 police station on Wednesday, said police.Rao said many loan app companies have come under the scanner over allegations of harassment. In one instance, a man had committed suicide in Hyderabad a few days ago. These companies issue micro loans and ask for limited documentation, due to which people find it easier to access.“Now, people have started complaining against them as they start reaching out to contact numbers and inform them that the person has not repaid the loan and instalments,” he said.The Hyderabad Police had received similar complaints too and their investigation revealed there were around 30 such apps owned by four companies operating from Gurugram and Hyderabad, but registered in Jakarta, Indonesia. The police investigation revealed that often, users would unwittingly provide these companies access to contacts, pictures, location and the device memory, established as pre-conditions to use the app.Unfortunately, while installing the app, borrowers are not asked for their consent to access their contacts, which, some aggressive lenders, are now tapping to publicly humiliate borrowers, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/employee-of-finance-agency-booked-for-using-offensive-language-over-delayed-repayment/story-SWIunVjKche3zzH9fJaH7L.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||Little progress by Haryana in reducing Yamuna pollution: NGT committee||The Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC), appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), in its recently submitted fifth report to the NGT, has described Haryana’s progress in reducing pollutants entering the Yamuna river as “negligible”. The Haryana government had, in September last year, set December 2020 as the deadline for upgrading sewage treatment infrastructure, in fulfilment of long-pending instructions from the NGT.However, random inspections of 24 sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Panipat, Sonepat, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Gurugram, Faridabad, Yamunanagar and Palwal over the past three months have revealed operational deficiencies in at least 16 of them. These 16 plants have an operational capacity of 452 million litres a day (MLD), against Haryana’s total sewage generation of 1,164MLD. “The SOP prepared for operation and maintenance of STPs are not being followed... the compliance status given by the line departments were incorrect and the officers of HSPCB being the regulatory authority are not performing their duty assigned under the Provision of Water Act, 1974/EPA 1986,” the YMC committee report notes.The YMC also randomly inspected 12 common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) in these same districts and found none of them to be complying with pollution control norms. “Contrary to the claims of complying status by the Line Department, all these 12 Nos. of CETPs is found non-complying. The HSIIDC is constructing the CETPs without considering the effluent characteristics of the industries operating in the Industrial Estate,” the YMC has noted.“Our last review of the matter was in January 2020. Since then, only an additional 1.2 percent of Haryana’s total sewage per day is being diverted to treatment plants. So any benefit, if at all, is negligible,” said a member of the YMC, requesting anonymity.The official also pointed out that though STPs are being constructed in key areas, laying of sewer lines (particularly in Palwal, Rohtak, Karnal, Panipat and Faridabad) is progressing slowly. “This means that even if an STP is built, the sewage cannot reach the plant and is instead discharged into one of 11 major drains in Haryana that lead to the Yamuna. The BOD levels in all these drains were found to be in excess of permitted limits, and the latest available results were submitted to the NGT in June 2020,” the official added.Faridabad remains the biggest polluter of all monitored locations, as per the YMC’s findings, with not a single functional STP in place. In all, Faridabad was found to be discharging 210MLD of untreated sewage in the Guanchi and Budhia drains, which lead to the Yamuna. Of the 1,164MLD of sewage produced in Haryana, at least 500MLD is untreated, while a significant chunk of the remains is only partly treated due to operational deficiencies with STPs.While S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, could not be reached for comment on Thursday, a senior district-level official said that a detailed reply to the YMC’s report would be filed soon before the NGT.“As far as monitoring is concerned, we have already received orders from the head office to ensure stricter monitoring. It is up to various urban local bodies to ensure that their infrastructure — including STPs — are working. In all, Haryana remains a much smaller polluter than Delhi, which discharges nearly 3,000 MLD of untreated or partially treated sewage to the Yamuna directly,” the district official cited above said.Officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/little-progress-by-haryana-in-reducing-yamuna-pollution-ngt-committee/story-icTygwubhcZ0U9967pG7zM.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||At least 32 returnees remain untraceable, police rope in cybercrime cell to trace locations||At least 32 returnees from the United Kingdom continue to remain untraceable as the health department increased its surveillance to identify cases infected with the new mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus that appeared in the UK. The Gurugram police have deployed its cybercrime team to look into the matter. The police said that a three-member team from 40 police stations are conducting investigations based on technical surveillance to trace them. The missing travellers had shared phone numbers and addresses in the form during their arrival and in most of the cases, the mobile numbers are switched off, said police. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, Gurugram, said that untraceable contacts are being identified through their mobile phone records. “The cyber crime cell looks into the call records. Based on the maximum calls made to a particular number, we contact the person concerned and gathered details about the untraceable contacts,” said Rao. The police said that they have managed to trace 16 such returnees, who had gone missing after reaching India last week.The district has stepped up its efforts to trace returnees since December 7 and has made coronavirus test mandatory due to the new variant. Rao said the health department has provided all information to them, including phone numbers and addresses of people who are untraceable. “We are locating them and have assigned tasks to the team to do it within two days,” he said. The police are tracing all UK returnees who had landed at the Delhi international airport in the last three weeks and those who have travelled to Delhi from Bengaluru, Mumbai and Kolkata.Till now, the district health department has received a list of 722 travellers who arrived in Gurugram since December 8. Of these, 690 UK returnees have been traced, while 164 have moved to other countries or states, said officials. At least 370 who were subjected to a mandatory Covid-19 test have tested negative, except one 22-year-old man, who tested positive and the test results of genomic sequencing are awaited. The man returned to India on December 19 and tested positive on December 29. He has been isolating at a designated government facility. On Wednesday, two more Gurugram residents who tested Covid-19 positive at New Delhi airport on December 23 were confirmed positive for the new mutant strain. They are being treated at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-least-32-returnees-remain-untraceable-police-rope-in-cybercrime-cell-to-trace-locations/story-oLdQkb63abKSFdq2kjUAON.html
31-12-2020||Gurugram||Govt advises people to stay indoors, wear warm clothes as cold wave persists||Due to the prevailing cold wave conditions, the state government on Thursday issued an advisory, recommending people to stay indoors as much as possible and wear adequate clothing to prevent heat loss.The revenue and disaster management department issued the advisory, as Gurugram’s minimum temperature dipped to 4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, and the maximum temperature being recorded at 14.6 degrees Celsius. Both the readings were taken from the Palam observatory as the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station did not record the temperatures.Residents have been advised to eat healthy foods and drink non-alcoholic beverages to avoid dehydration. They have also been asked to ensure that they have access to emergency supplies in the likelihood of a power outage, track weather-related information via media and social media channels, and check on elderly neighbours who might be living alone.The Palam observatory, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather.Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets of the city and parts of Haryana over the next 24 hours, after which the cold wave conditions are likely to abate from the region, the IMD said on Thursday.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, light rain and thundershowers are likely on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 18 degrees Celsius and four degrees Celsius respectively, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast.Air quality in the city entered the very poor category of the air quality index (AQI) on Thursday, with an AQI value of 317 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. This was up from 227 (indicating poor air) the previous day. Deterioration in pollution levels was witnessed across Delhi-NCR due to a continuing dip in temperature, with wind speeds falling and subsequently, allowing pollutants, especially particulate matter, to accumulate close to the surface.Manesar remained the least polluted among major NCR cities, and the only one to record poor air on Thursday, with an AQI of 252. Meanwhile, Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Greater Noida all recorded AQIs in the upper-end of the very poor category.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to deteriorate but remain in the very poor category on 31.12.2020 and reach in the upper-end of very poor category on 01.01.2021 owing to extremely unfavourable ventilation conditions for dispersion of pollutants. The air quality is likely to improve significantly on 02.01.2021 and reach the lower end of very poor category.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-advises-people-to-stay-indoors-wear-warm-clothes-as-cold-wave-persists/story-GqNubAk07F2ROnMKiM3rFI.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown till January 31; 57 UK returnees test positive||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday extended the ongoing lockdown imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic till January 31. The state recorded 3,537 new cases, pushing the count to 1,928,603, while the toll reached 49,463 with 70 new casualties.As of Wednesday, 57 United Kingdom (UK) returnees tested positive for Covid-19, however, it is yet to be confirmed if any of them carry the new, more transmissible strain of Covid-19. Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar issued the notification extending the lockdown by a month. Although almost all restrictions imposed in the state under lockdown, which began from the third week of March this year, have been lifted, curbs on the reopening of private and government offices, swimming pools, and interstate activities are still in place. Local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are yet to begin operations for all commuters.The state government is yet to allow schools and colleges to reopen, while the ban on social, religious and political congregations continues with the extension.Maharashtra has been witnessing fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for the past 26 consecutive days. During December 1-30, the state reported 117,155 cases, as against 139,425 and 286,566 reported in November and October in the corresponding period.“4,474 UK returnees who had landed between November 15 and December 23 have been traced till date. RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 2,917 of them to find 57 positive sample. Of them, 23 are from Mumbai, Pune (11), Thane (7), Nagpur (6) , 2 each from Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigad, Buldhana and one each from Nanded and Washim,” said state surveillance office Dr Pradip Awate.He said that 52 samples have been referred to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to ascertain if they are infected with the new variant. The state has also traced 356 people who have come in contact with the UK returnees and 13 of them have tested positive for Covid-19, he added.State health minister Rajesh Tope said tracing international passengers coming from the specified countries was a challenge before the machinery. “Our department is writing to the police to trace such passengers who have given wrong addresses or not traceable. The exercise has been undertaken in public interest and all returnees will be traced for their swabs at any cost,” he said.Tope said of the positive reports of the international passenger, no one has found with the new variant. Health experts have cautioned people to be cautious against the backdrop of the emergence of new variant. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert said, “Though the new variant is yet to make its entry in the state, mutants of coronavirus will keep coming and eventually it will turn into another influenza-like disease. Whatever reports about the new variant are coming are observational and not based on proper studies. Here, it will take a month to prove its virulence.”He said that the situation in the state is looking similar to what has happened before Diwali. “People are venturing out in big numbers to celebrate the New Year. The government has sensitised everyone and now it is the responsibility of each and every individual to save themselves and save others as well by bringing back self-discipline and following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. If we don’t follow the rules, the situation may change once again,” Dr Pattiwar said.Mumbai has clocked 714 cases on Wednesday, taking the count to 292,722. Of them, active cases are 9,049. There were 13 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 11,107.The government had imposed a seven-hour night curfew from December 22 till January 5 and urged citizens to stay at home while welcoming the new year on December 31. It has also advised people to avoid crowding in public places, especially on seashores, in gardens and on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-january-31-57-uk-returnees-test-positive/story-OjWHu1DxORwCbirJXIWn8K.html
31-12-2020||City||ED being weaponised by BJP to hound political opponents: Mehbooba Mufti||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday accused the Union government of misusing the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for hounding “political opponents”.Mufti shared her letter to the ED director after she said that several people from Kashmir who are related to her have been summoned by the investigating agency.“The only common thread connecting these persons appears to be that they are all acquainted with me, my family, or my politics in one way or another. The questioning of these persons is also focused on myself, my personal, political and financial affairs, my late father’s grave and memorial, my sister’s finances, home constructions, my brother’s finances and personal affairs, etc,” the letter said.She stated that PDP leader Waheed Para was arrested by the NIA in what she said was a “non-existent case” around the dates of elections.She said that she was ready to face any questioning but demanded fairness of the process.“The use of the ED against political opponents is not an unknown device for a party in power at the Centre. I wish to notify you that as a responsible citizen and politician…I am ready and willing to face any questioning by any agency. But I will insist upon the legitimacy of the process,” she said.She demanded that any questioning of her or her family members or their devices should be done under an impartial judicial authority.“If there is any breach of what I consider to be norms of law, good conduct, and constitutionalism, I shall not hesitate to take the matter up legally and politically,” she added in the letter to the ED director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-being-weaponised-by-bjp-to-hound-political-opponents-mehbooba-mufti/story-EM3IVcYq7AwN5KcxISW95I.html
31-12-2020||City||Pulwama shuts down in protest against Srinagar encounter||Normal life was crippled in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district as shops were closed in protest against the killings of three youth in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar on Wednesday.The authorities suspended mobile internet in the two districts to prevent any law and order situation.Three youths identified as Zubair Ahmad of Turkawangam in Shopian, Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq, of Putrigam in Pulwama were killed in Srinagar in the early hours of Wednesday in an “encounter”, with the Army and police claiming that they were terrorists planning a big strike along the Srinagar-Baramulla highway.However, their families have rebutted the claim of security forces and said that they were civilians.A letter by Aijaz’s family seeking his body and an inquiry into his death written to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha was shared by People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Twitter.“The deceased was not remotely connected with any anti-national activities and the question of joining militancy does not arise. The killing is very brutal and calculated one which is against the law of land and also hits the democracy and Indian Constitution,” the letter said.The police have said that the trio was not mentioned in their list of terrorists, yet two of them are “hardcore associates of terrorists (OGWs)”.“Pertinently, one of the two killed youths is a relative of top HM commander Rayees Kachroo who was killed in 2017. Reportedly, the third might have joined militancy very recently. Generally, parents don’t have an idea about the activities of their wards. Several overground workers after committing terror crimes don’t disclose it to their family,” police said in a statement.Residents of Pulwama said that the shops were closed in the main town against the killings while the internet was suspended in both Pulwama and Shopian districts.PDP president meets families of youth killed in encounterMainstream political parties and leaders of Kashmir have also raised questions over the encounter.“Met families of the young men killed in the Lawaypora encounter. Forget justice, even their bodies are not being returned to them for the last rites. They have lost their beloved sons forever and in the midst of grief have to plead even for closure,” she said on Twitter.Her party said that the allegations of fake encounters are returning in the Valley and wanted a time-bound inquiry. “Once again the allegations of a dark era of staged encounters like the ‘90s are back in vogue. An unprecedented level of insecurity has gripped the people of Kashmir. The administration should take serious cognizance of allegations and swiftly order a time-bound inquiry,” the party said in a statement.CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami wanted a probe by a sitting judge. “There are unverified reports that they were killed in a fake encounter. If true, this is shocking and must be probed by a sitting high court judge. The circumstances in which the killings happened need to be thoroughly probed,” he said.Apni Party president Syed Altaf Bukhari also expressed concern stating that the claims by families have created misgivings about the veracity of the Srinagar encounter.“The version of families of the slain trio is contradictory to what the army and the police claim about the Hokersar encounter. So, the government must clear the air and remove the misgivings about the same,” he told a local news agency.Separatist Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said that such killings are heart-wrenching ad demanded a probe into the killings. “Such incidents warrant a fair and impartial probe be held, as the families of the killed youth are demanding, to get to the truth but in Kashmir, this basic right to justice and redressal is a distant dream,” the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pulwama-shuts-down-in-protest-against-srinagar-encounter/story-mjcbsRmUVsC5ATSqQBkyxM.html
31-12-2020||City||Private schools in Shimla told to charge only tuition fee||The state government on Thursday ordered 23 private schools in Shimla to charge only tuition fees this year in view of the losses suffered by parents owing to the Coronavirus pandemic.The decision has been taken in a meeting held recently with the management of private schools.The meeting was chaired by director higher education Amarjeet Sharma in which all the management of these schools has agreed to collect only tuition fees. He has also instructed the schools not to send a warning message to parents who have not paid fees during the lockdown period.Sharma said that strict action will be taken against private schools that violate these orders. Parents have been demanding the state government to ask private schools to charge only tuition fees which have invited various protests in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-schools-in-shimla-told-to-charge-only-tuition-fee/story-oapSpmQMB582HMtGINAYBP.html
31-12-2020||City||HP minister Sarveen Chaudhary hospitalised after difficulty in breathing||Minister for social justice and empowerment Sarveen Chaudhary has been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, after difficulty in breathing.“Dear people of the state, I got my health checkup conducted at IGMC today after difficulty in breathing. Doctors have conducted some tests and I have been admitted to the hospital for a few days,” Chaudhary wrote on her Facebook page. IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said that the minister’s condition was stable and she will remain under observation for a few days.Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj visited Chaudhary at the hospital to enquire about her health.Chaudhary, a four-term legislator from the Shahpur assembly segment of Kangra district, is the only woman minister in the Jai Ram Thakur-led cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-minister-sarveen-chaudhary-hospitalised-after-difficulty-in-breathing/story-WH4ycEskHZ48lrG2Pem0SM.html
31-12-2020||Pune||Minor among four held for theft of bikes in Pune||PUNE: A minor is among four held by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the theft of at least 11 two-wheelers, collectively worth Rs 7.5 lakh. The four were found on December 27 by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police crime branch Unit 3 in Medankarwadi area of Shikrapur. Besides the minor boy, three have been identified as Pratik Machindra Taware (19) a resident of Kharabwadi area of Chakan; Haribhau Datta Jadhav (39) a resident of Vadebolhai in Haveli; and Nasir Mohammad Shaikh (50), a resident of Nimgaon in Shirur, according to police. The four were detained under Section 41(1)(d) of Code of Criminal Procedure and their whereabouts were investigated, according to a statement by the crime branch. The recovered motorcycles were reported stolen in various parts of Pimpri-Chinchwad, and one in Solapur. Of the 11 bikes, one each was reported stolen in Mhalunge, Dighi, Bhosari, Dattawadi, Shikhrapur, Khed, and Tembhurni police stations; while two each were reported stolen at Ranjangaon and Bhosari MIDC police stations. Taware has been booked in two previous cases of vehicle theft, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/minor-among-four-held-for-theft-of-bikes-in-pune/story-2Mgn67gWBHWHSXZSQHLlMM.html
31-12-2020||Pune||As Covid cases drop, more beds lie vacant in Pune hospitals||Pune: Hospitals are seeing more vacant beds with the city reporting less number of Covid-19 critical patients. Many city doctors have observed that the second wave is highly unlikely with vaccination around the corner and the positivity rate less than 10 per cent for coronavirus.According to Pune Municipal Corporation’s updated data, total beds available in are 5,314 of which occupied are 1,529 and vacant 3,785, as on December 15.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “Covid critical patients have significantly reduced. Hence, jumbo hospitals and Covid care centres (CCC) are not taking any more patients. If the need arises, the administration will reconsider jumbo hospitals.” On Wednesday, PMC decided not to admit new patients in the jumbo facility at College of Engineering, Pune. The civic body decided to divert fresh patients to Sassoon General Hospital and another facility in Baner while a decision on temporarily closing down the jumbo hospital will be taken once the existing patients here are recovered, according to PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal. HT had reported that PMC was asked by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to assess the utility of jumbo facility, which originally had capacity of 800 beds. The facility came up in August by spending over Rs 100 crores though it was embroiled in controversies. Dr Prachee Sathe, director, intensive care unit (ICU), Ruby Hall Clinic said that there are less critical patients for Covid these days.“One of the primary reasons is that many patients seek early medical treatment and recover. Early treatment helps patients to not go into critical mode. We have observed that patients from outside Pune are on the rise. Earlier, we had patients from Pune,” said Sathe.Speaking about the decrease in patients, Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said that there are only 120 patients in their hospital as compared to 440 Covid patients in September.“Of 120, only 11 are in ICU whereas in September, during the peak of Covid, there were 43 patients in ICU. There has been a 25 per cent reduction in critical patients in the hospital,” said Dr Kelkar.He said that there may be an increase in Covid patients in July again. “We are hopeful that by that time vaccines will be out and those who are at high risk will be safe,” said Dr Kelkar.Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra state, said that as the cases have reduced, the government should part with the acquired beds at certain hospitals for Covid patients.“The chances of the second wave are low and vaccinations are just around the corner. In this case, a lot of non-Covid patients cannot be referred to good hospitals as the number of beds for non-Covid patients is limited. Hence, the government should let go of these acquired beds which will give a relief to patients and small hospitals not just in Pune but across Maharashtra,” Bhondwe said. A case of recovery *Date--Critical patients in PMC*December 31--246*December 30--242*December 29--238*December 28--333*December 27--387*December 19--328*December 9--411*December 1--408*Source: Health Department, PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-covid-cases-drop-more-beds-lie-vacant-in-pune-hospitals/story-IhQUGFd8JLPgi0nj0erS6H.html
31-12-2020||Pune||One killed, another injured after three on a bike ram into divider||Pune: One of three inebriated men riding on one motorbike, late on Tuesday, was killed after the rider lost control and rammed the vehicle into a divider along the Nashik-Pune road. The deceased has been identified as Devashish Panda (27), while the injured, who is also a complainant in the case, has been identified as Anil Devendra Mishra (27). The accused, who is also injured, has been identified as Pankaj Bihari, in his late 20s, who suffered grievous injuries and is undergoing treatment at the Aditya Birla hospital. “The accused is unconscious and the injured has already left. So we are not able to verify many of their personal details yet. These are all educated people. We are unaware of their qualifications, but they worked at a private company in Chakan,” said assistant inspector Suresh Yemgar, of Mhalunge police outpost, who is investigating the case. The incident happened after 11pm on Tuesday when the three were riding on a bike along the Nashik-Pune highway. The deceased man, Panda and the injured complainant, Mishra, are from Odisha and the injured man has left along with the mortal remains of the deceased man. The three worked in an automobile parts-related company in Chakan and lived near their workplace in Khed. “They started on the bike and were planning to catch a bus off the highway. The bike belonged to the one who is currently unconscious,” said API Yemgar. A case under Sections 279, 338, 304(b) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-killed-another-injured-after-three-on-a-bike-ram-into-divider/story-U7cT7m85RT8XgAgtFE4cyO.html
31-12-2020||Pune||Nine PMC staff suspended for issuing salaries to retired teachers||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has suspended nine of its employees for releasing salaries to municipal school teachers even after their retirement, an official said on Thursday. The staff from education department had released salaries to 18 retired primary teachers of municipal-run schools in June 2020, a senior PMC officer said. The issue was raised at the PMC standing committee meeting following which an inquiry was ordered and merit was found in the complaint. PMC served notices to the nine officials working in primary schools run by the civic body. The show cause notice sought responses from them within 15 days. Meenakshi Raut, PMC educational department head, said, “The incident took place in June. We have recovered salaries of all the 18 primary teachers who received monthly payment after their retirement. We served show cause notices to the nine staff members and after their responses were found unsatisfactory, we suspended them.” According to Rubal Agrawal, additional commissioner of PMC, said, “The civic administration ordered an inquiry and action was taken.” Mahendra Pathare, a corporator from Ahmednagar road area, had raised a complaint in this regard. He said, “It is shocking. They would have been receiving salary if the matter was not raised.” As per PMC officials, the education department manages more than 200 schools. It has nearly 1 lakh students, who are getting education in English, Marathi and Urdu medium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-pmc-staff-suspended-for-issuing-salaries-to-retired-teachers/story-u6Xkxj4d9ZqZHVfFY53yRL.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police impose curbs for New Year eve celebrations||As people gear up to welcome 2021, the Mumbai police on Wednesday announced a slew of restrictions on gatherings and celebrations on the New Year’s eve in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.In a press release issued late in the night, the police pointed out that the Maharashtra government has already issued guidelines related to New Year’s eve and called for low-key celebrations.A night curfew is in place, prohibiting gathering of five or more persons between 11 pm and 6 am, it said.Gatherings in restaurants, bars and pubs will not be allowed post-11 pm, the police said, adding loudspeaker/DJ music beyond permissible decibel limit and fireworks are also prohibited.Violators of the prohibitory order issued under section 144 of the CrPC would face action under section 188 (disobeying the order of public servant) of the IPC and section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act, a police official said.Citizens can travel, subject to a maximum of four persons per four wheeler. There will be no restriction on visiting friends, relatives and public places, but not in a group of more than 4 persons, the police said.Large gatherings will not be allowed anywhere in Mumbai in view of Covid-19 and use of face masks and social distancing norm will remain mandatory, they said.Essential services will continue to operate and activities exempted by the state government will be permitted, the police said.The police force is fully geared up to ensure a safe environment for citizens for New Year celebrations, the release said.Heavy deployment of force has been planned for monitoring celebrations and crowd control, it said.Nakabandis (road blockades) will be set up to regulate traffic and action will be taken for drunken driving, the police warned.Drones will be used for surveillance and anti-sabotage measures will also be undertaken, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-impose-curbs-for-new-year-eve-celebrations/story-82clCRJDyFHBLUrkutnkGP.html
31-12-2020||Pune||No containment zone in Pune city from New Year||Pune: With the city seeing few number of Covid-19 cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have zero containment zones, the first time after April 2020. According to the civic administration, the daily fresh positive cases reported in PMC since the last couple of days are between 200 and 300. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the unlock and containment zone order on December 31. “There would be zero micro containment zones in the city. If a rise in positive cases is reported from specific areas or housing societies, it would be declared as a micro containment zone,” he said. Post lockdown, PMC adopted the Mumbai pattern and decided to have micro containment zones. These areas are reviewed after every two weeks. Initially, PMC announced area wise containment zones open only for essential services. Even citizens were not allowed to move outside the containment zones. Following the unlock process and opposition from traders, the civic body decided to adopt the micro containment zone policy by limiting restrictions to small areas. The number of containment zones crossed 100 in July. The containment zones were earlier restricted to slums. Later, it expanded and covered housing societies also. The restricted areasContainment zones over the months June 2: 63June 16: 73June: 24: 74July 1: 109July 23: 87August 1: 75September 3: 74November 5: 13December 31: 00||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-containment-zone-in-pune-city-from-new-year/story-wx4143bweUStiWjIUFWTMJ.html
31-12-2020||Pune||Helmetless woman pillion rider killed as speeding fuel tanker runs over her; husband, 2 children injured in Pune||PUNE: A woman was killed while her husband and their two children escaped with injuries after the two-wheeler they were riding met with an accident with a speeding fuel tanker atop the Phursungi bridge in Hadapsar. The place where the accident took place has been identified as an accident-prone spot, known in police record as black spot, and has witnessed eight fatal accidents since 2017. The spot is closer to a point on the bridge where a footpath abruptly begins turning the road narrow without any road sign for vehicle users. According to the police officials, the family, all without helmet, was headed to Bhor on a black Hero Honda Pleasure when the accident happened around 7am. The passers-by called the police and took them to nearby Bhavna hospital. However, the woman had already succumbed to injuries as her head had come under the front left tyre of the fuel carrier tanker. The deceased was identified as Lakshmi Pramod Malusare (32) while the injured husband was identified as Pramod Malusare (37) residing in Hadapsar with their two children, according to the police. “The spot is close to where the footpath begins. We reached the spot to examine the cause of mishap. The only traffic-related problem was that of fading white road markers which I have instructed to be repainted immediately. There was no other sign of congestion,” said NP Wakude, assistant commissioner of police, Traffic-2, Pune. “Though the road narrows at this stretch, but the accident took place before that spot. The lighter vehicle was going on ascend. While the husband’s statement is awaited, it is possible that the overloaded two-wheeler lost balance,” said senior inspector Duryodhan Pawar of Hadapsar traffic division. A case under Section 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant Sections of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Hadapsar police station. The mishap-prone spot Spot where accident happened is one of the black spots in the city A stretch of 500 metre is considered as a black spot Since 2017, the spot has witnessed eight fatal and five serious injury causing accidents Of the eight fatal accidents, one was in 2020, four in 2018 and three in 2017 (As told by Hadapsar traffic division of Pune police) In numbers Total fatal accidents since 2017 – 926 Total injured: 1,900 persons In 2017 Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet - 175 In 2016 Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet - 140 In 2018 Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet– 314 In 2019 Fatal accidents where two-wheeler rider or pillion was not wearing helmet– 188 Number of road accidents in 2020 (January to December 26), as per area-wise police station Hadapsar (62) Sinhagad (39) Bharati Vidyapeeth (34) Chaturshrungi (39) Wanowrie (26) Warje (25) Yerawada (25) Vimantal (22) Dattawadi (14) Koregaon Park (24) Deccan (10) Khadki (10) Mundhwa (07) Bund Garden (07) Other police stations (43) Source for statistics: Traffic police branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/helmetless-woman-pillion-rider-killed-as-speeding-water-tanker-runs-over-her-husband-2-children-injured-in-pune/story-KewnHHRinP9IHztp1H2YoL.html
31-12-2020||Pune||5 steps to adopt a child in Pune||Step 1:On the www.cara.nic.in, the Indian prospective adoptive parents if interested to adopt an orphan or abandoned or surrendered child shall apply for the same to Specialised Adoption Agencies through Child Adoption Resource Information and Guidance System.Step 2:The Specialised Adoption Agency or the impaneled social worker of the State Adoption Resource Agency or District Child Protection Unit shall counsel the prospective adoptive parents during the home study. The Home Study Report shall remain valid for three years.Step 3:Adoption of a child by prospective adoptive parents, after completion of registration and Home Study Report, shall depend upon availability of a suitable child. Seniority of prospective parents shall be from the date of uploading of documents and completion of the process.Step 4:The child shall be taken in pre-adoption foster care by the prospective adoptive parents within ten days from the date of matching, after signing the pre-adoption foster care undertaking in the format provided in Schedule VIII.Step 5:The court shall hold the adoption proceeding in-camera and dispose of the case within a period of two months from the date of filing of the adoption application. The Specialised Adoption Agency shall prepare the post- adoption follow-up report on six monthly basis for two years.To register visit www.cara.nic.in or Call Specialised Adoption Agency: 020-26124660/26120762“Adopt a child through online system of CARA and enjoy parenting. Always approach the specialised Adoption Agency and take the guidance before registering on CARA’s portal and understand the entire process of adopting before going for adoption,” says Sharmila Sayed, Administration Head, SOFOSH (Society of Friends of the Sassoon Hospitals)Documents required:Photograph of the couple or personPAN card of the prospective parentsBirth certificate, proof of residenceProof of income of last yearCertificate from a medical practitionerMarriage certificateCourt Divorce Decree/DeclarationDeath certificate of spouse in case of single prospective adoptive parentConsent of the older child/children in the adoptive family Source: Sofosh, FirstCry, CARA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-steps-to-adopt-a-child-in-pune/story-mkyc0RfgKjNamOXblQXJfO.html
31-12-2020||Pune||Taste of life: Cookbooks, the recipes for cultural revolution||A nine-year-old girl was married off to a 20-year-old man in Madurai. A day after the girl set foot in her new home, her father-in-law asked her to take care of the lunch. The poor girl did not know how to cook. Do you know, why? She was busy attending school. The father-in-law beat the girl. So, if you don’t want your daughter to get beaten, make sure she reads and learns how to cook with the help of this book”. Kasiviswanath Mudliar wrote this in the preface of his Tamil cookbook ‘Pakasastram’ in 1867. Most Indian cookery writers in the late 19th and early 20th century expressed similar sentiments while introducing their cookbooks. Women started stepping out to go to school and college. They were working as teachers or clerks. And that made them forget how to cook, according to the authors. The men were unhappy and hungry, and to salvage their marriages and help their country prosper, they had to cook with the help of cookbooks, they wrote. Cookbooks are more than a combination of recipes; they are cultural and socio-political documents in which authors imprint their identity and ideology. They reflect how their authors understood society and culture as well as individual identity. They transmit knowledge, and a recipe functions as part of a permanent record rather than as oral tradition passed from chef to apprentice. A cookbook can be viewed as autobiographical, that is, the recipes can be examined for insights into food preference. It can be seen as prescriptive of their ideals and aspirations. The historical value of a cookbook lies also in the prefaces, acknowledgements, other notices and notes that accompany recipes. These supplementary notations offer more than glimpses of meal planning and recipes. They inform us of processes in which dishes were hybridised and emerged as part and parcel of the cuisine. Indian, British and Anglo-Indian authors used their cookbooks to depict India in a way they might understand it, often encoding nationalist and revivalist agenda in the process. They mostly based their cookbooks around Domesticity, a Victorian construct, where the wife was supposed to cook and look after the house, while the husband earned a living. The gruhini (ideal housewife) was responsible for creating a pure and pristine (and nationalist) household, both for display and to help the men serve the nation. Cookbooks and household manuals provided instructions on how to manage the household, how to maintain cleanliness in the home, and above all, how to feed a family, and visiting guests. Mrs. Parvatibai, the author of the first Marathi non-vegetarian cookbook ‘Mamsapakanishpatti athava maams matsyadik prakar tayar karane’ (How to cook non vegetarian dishes) published in September 1883, too recommended her book to educated women, because she felt they did not know how to cook. But, her approach was more progressive than other cookbook writers. She was enthusiastic about women going to schools and learning how to read, write and knit. Parvatibai was the first Maharashtrian woman to write a cookbook. That she penned non-vegetarian recipes is fascinating, given the taboo around eating meat in nineteenth century Pune. She lived in Pune. The book does not mention her surname or address. Shripatrao Kondajirao Yelwande published the book. He was a commission agent with his office near Belbaug chowk. In his short introduction, he stressed the need for more cookbooks written by women and blamed their laziness for not investing time in intellectual endeavors. He assured readers that Parvatibai belonged to a “noble, Hindu family”. The cookbook was printed on a lithographic press and was priced at six annas. It had 42 recipes and was divided into three parts. The first part described recipes using mutton, poultry and eggs; the second part had fish, while the last part had recipes with mutton and fish in Musalmani paddhati. The recipes were simple and rustic. At the beginning of each recipe, Parvatibai listed spices and condiments used. She did not use coconut, peanuts and sesame, but instead, used gram flour to thicken the gravy. The dishes mentioned in the book were served in upper-class, non-Brahmin households of 19th century Pune. They included mutton curry, meat rice, fried liver, prawns curry, fried crabs, egg saguti, seeg kebab, bakarkhani, shami kebab, kheema and egg curry. Some dishes like bombay duck curry and meat gravy (Parvatibai terms it as ras) had two alternate recipes. There were three recipes of Pulao – one without using mutton stock. Eating chicken was frowned upon in many Hindu households till the middle of 20th century. So, it’s not surprising that there were only two recipes which used chicken. The book ended with a list of almost 200 donors from all over Maharashtra (and Indore and Baroda) who pre-booked their copies and thus funded the publication. Some of them were students studying in a missionary school and some, sex-workers. Parvatibai’s instructions were precise. She did not tell her readers to rely on their own judgement while adding salt and coriander, and gave exact measurements (1 tola salt in most of the recipes). Her use of words like chakolya, guldhava (pink), nazar indicate she might have had some connection with the erstwhile Marathwadas. Parvatibai was humble. “The recipes I have included in my book are simple and not uncommon. I have not written this book to flaunt my writing ability. Nor do I want to earn money. I simply want to help women who do not know how to cook”, she wrote. Publishing a non-vegetarian cookbook in 19th century orthodox Pune was no mean feat. But, Parvatibai’s greater contribution is her short introduction where she applauded women who were learning something new. She did not look down upon women who could read and write. And this is a far greater achievement!Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/taste-of-life-cookbooks-the-recipes-for-cultural-revolution/story-aARtN9odUXBGtYaO1p8D8M.html
31-12-2020||Lucknow||Pak national becomes gram panchayat head in UP’s Etah, probe ordered||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Etah have said they have removed a 65-year-old Pakistani national, who has been living in India on a long-term visa after marrying an Indian national, as the interim village panchayat head in Jalesar and ordered a probe into her election.District panchayati raj officer Alok Priyadarshi said magistrate Sukhlal Bharti has ordered the probe to know how Bano Begum managed to get an Aadhaar card and other documents to get elected as a gram panchayat member and later the interim village head. He added Begum, who is from Karachi in Pakistan, came to Etah about 40 years back after marrying Etah resident Akhtar Ali. She has repeatedly applied for Indian citizenship.Also Read: Uttarakhand Police book interfaith couple, cleric for conversion“In the 2015 local body elections, Bano Begum was elected as a gram panchayat member. Gram pradhan [chief] Shehnaz Begum died on January 9 this year and Begum was asked to work as interim gram pradhan.”A local resident lodged a complaint about Begum saying she was working as gram pradhan without authority as she is a Pakistani national.Bharti has also ordered the police to file a case against Begum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pak-national-becomes-gram-panchayat-head-in-up-s-etah-probe-ordered/story-mNNHD1eWjnRLNMerFFehJP.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Shaheen Bagh’s Bilkis Bano is in Gal Gadot’s list of ‘Personal Wonder Women’||Bilkis Dadi, the octogenarian who was the face of the months-long anti-citizenship law protest in the Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh neighbourhood, has now found herself on Hollywood star Gal Gadot’s list of ‘My Personal Wonder Women’.A post shared by Gal Gadot (@gal_gadot)The actor, who was recently seen reprising the titular role in “Wonder Woman 1984”, shared a series of pictures on her Instagram page, acknowledging young girls and women from all walks of life across the globe.“Saying farewell to 2020, with all my love to #MyPersonalWonderWomen Some are those closest to me - my family, my friends - some are inspiring women I’ve loved discovering, and some are exceptional women I hope to meet in the future,” Gadot wrote in the caption of the post.The 35-year-old actor also shared the same image of Bilkis on her Instagram Story and wrongly captioned it as, “The 82-year-old activist fighting for women’s equality in India showed me it’s never too late to fight for what you believe in.” She later deleted the Story, but the senior activist is still part of her post in the feed.Earlier this year, Bilkis, popularly known as the Shaheen Bagh Dadi, also featured in the Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020.Gadot’s ‘My Personal Wonder Women’ line-up also includes her “Wonder Woman 1984” director Patty Jenkins, US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Arden, Kathrin Jansen, head of vaccine research at Pfizer, and Sofia Scarlet, an activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shaheen-bagh-s-bilkis-bano-is-in-gal-gadot-s-list-of-personal-wonder-women/story-YcPLEPKuqiQB4rMPKmhy1M.html
31-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Rajaji reserve officials look for missing tigress||A 20-year-old tigress has not been camera trapped for over four months at Uttarakhand’s Rajaji Tiger Reserve even as a tiger translocation process is underway there to repopulate the reserve’s western part. The state forest department in November deployed four teams on elephants to search the missing tigress.Puneet Tomar, the reserve’s deputy director, said the western part had two adult tigresses before a four-year-old radio-collared tigress was shifted there last week from the Corbett National Park. The radio-collared tigress’s locations can be traced. Tomar said the forest department is yet to confirm the location of one of the older tigresses.Also Read: Sariska Tiger Reserve revival: As villagers relocate, conditions improveTomar said they are working with nearby forest divisions of Dehradun and Haridwar as well as combing the Rajaji Tiger Reserve to trace the tigress. “We have fresh pug marks and scats samples. So, one tigress is definitely there. We are just waiting for reports to confirm the presence of the other tigress. We have already placed camera traps, and are conducting search operations to find the missing tigress.”The Rajaji reserve has 34 resident tigers, including 32 in its eastern part, as per the recent estimation. The reserve’s eastern and western parts are divided by a busy traffic corridor that makes it difficult for the tigers to move between the two parts. The western part had only two tigresses till last week, which has not reported bred in over a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-rajaji-reserve-officials-look-for-missing-tigress/story-yr5RER7p3pq0M5uKZebqvN.html
31-12-2020||Pune||2020: Number of cybercrimes double in Pune, surpass criminal offences||The number of cybercrimes committed this year in Pune has doubled to 13,793 crimes from 7,795 in 2019, even surpassing criminal offences. And, with only a single police station to handle the cases, it’s a heavy strain on the city police. Also, the delay in response from social media companies affects investigations giving some leeway to the accused. The rising number of cases have been reported during the Covid-19 lockdown and post lockdown period during the last 11 months. Among the rising number of cybercrimes, online cybercrimes reported the largest number of incidents while crimes happening through social media platforms also formed a major chunk of crimes after online fraud. The statistics reveal that the serious crimes like murder, fights, armed thefts and house break-in incident were more in number, the previous year but cybercrimes have taken over in 2020. The serious crime incidents were at 5,265 incidents during 2020 when compared with 8,677 which show over a 20 per cent decline in the number of serious crimes in the city. The lone cybercrime police station at Shivajinagar has 60 staffers and finding it difficult to cater to the rising number of cybercrimes. The cyber police station investigates difficult nature of cybercrimes while other crimes are lodged at the police station and then forwarded to the police stations for further action. Currently, the cyber police station officials seem to be overburdened with the rising number of applications. Meanwhile, the Pune police have decided to add five additional cybercrime cells to probe different types of cybercrimes. One unit of the cell will deal with hacking cum data theft, including source code theft, credential theft, identify theft, “man in middle” scams, hacking of websites, hacking WhatApp and threatening and extortion. The second unit will handle online business frauds and cryptocurrency frauds. The third one will focus on cheating cases involving online job frauds, lottery frauds and mobile tower installation frauds while the fourth unit will probe cybercrime cases related to social media while the fifth unit will probe ATM card frauds like money transfer frauds using cloned cards, OTP share frauds, illegal online money transfer by hacking ATM card information and other monetary frauds. Additional commissioner Ashok Morale said, “The necessary steps are being taken to lodge and investigate all types of cybercrimes. We have been successful in refunding money to a large number of victims and citizens have reposed their confidence in the functioning of the cyber cell.” The cybercrime returned Rs 8 crore to as many as 551 victims of cyber-crime during the past six months. The victims who lost their money in different types of online cybercrimes had approached the cybercrime cell after which action was initiated and the money was returned. A senior official said, “Social media is highly abused as a platform where crimes are committed and delay in receiving a response from the internet and social media companies was a cause of concern as extended delay results in more time for the accused to misuse the social media platforms. The companies sometimes take two months to respond.” After sending repeated reminders to the service providers, the cyber sleuths either write to the nodal officers of the respective service providers or to the Computer Emergency Response Team, India (CERTI) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. However, their responses are not always met with. Noted criminal lawyer advocate Milind Pawar said, “There are different technical challenges before the cybercrime officials while dealing with service providers as their server locations are outside the country. The details sent by police must clearly define the sections and be precise about the data sought as data sharing laws are quite strict abroad and subject to a number of verifications.” Requests to service providerThe cybercrime cell had made 1,175 requests to 11 service providers in 2019 and of them 301 were rejected and 419 were provided while the rest remained unanswered till date. In 2020, 1,694 requests had been made. Of these 1,694 requests, 465 have been declined while 905 have been accepted and the rest remained unanswered till date. The most commonly targeted websites or apps for creating ‘fake profiles’ are Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and LinkedIn. Preventive measures to secure from cyberattacks Block profiles from public searches and restrict who can find via online search; Limit what people can learn about you through searching on the internet, Log out after each session, Don’t share social media credentials, Don’t accept friend requests from unknown persons, Don’t click suspicious links, Keep privacy settings of your profile at the most restricted levels, Common crimes committed on social media, Online threats, Stalking, cyber bullying, hacking, fraud, buying Illegal Things and Vacation Robberies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2020-number-of-cybercrimes-double-in-pune-surpass-criminal-offences/story-dalRzCTJ05eV90jNEPD9uL.html
31-12-2020||Environment||Delhi recorded second-lowest average minimum temperature in 15 years in December : IMD||The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degrees Celsius. It was 7.6 degrees Celsius last year.The MMT for December in Delhi dipped below 7 degrees Celsius only once in the last 15 years, in 2018 when it was 6.7 degrees Celsius, it stated.The average MMT for December was 6 degrees Celsius in 2005 and 5.9 degrees Celsius in 1996, according to the IMD data.Delhi also recorded eight cold wave days this December. It had recorded an equal number of cold wave days in December 2018.The city had recorded nine cold wave days in 1965, the maximum so far, the IMD said.In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius.A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or lower and at least 4.5 notches below normal.According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, clear skies over Delhi-NCR, multiple western disturbances affecting the Himalayan region and the global impact of La Nina were the major reasons behind such low minimum temperatures.Delhi recorded “near-normal” minimum temperatures till December 12 as a result of clouds and rainfall in the plains under the influence of western disturbances affecting the region, he said.Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground.“After December 12, western disturbances mostly affected the western Himalayan region, leading to significant snowfall and rain over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh,” Srivastava said.After the wind system withdraws, cold north-westerly winds blow from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh to Delhi-NCR, bringing the minimum temperature down, he said.“Uplifted fog” over Punjab and Haryana made the winds even colder, he added.“Besides, the sky over Delhi-NCR remained clear on most days. The global factor of La Nina further contributed to the fall in temperatures,” Srivastava said.La Niña is characterised by below-normal sea surface temperatures in the Pacific Ocean near the equator, a result of shifting wind patterns in the atmosphere.It means colder-than-normal winter across the Northern Hemisphere and warmer-than-average temperatures in the Southern Hemisphere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/delhi-recorded-second-lowest-average-minimum-temperature-in-15-years-in-december-imd/story-i11xCmIS2giZr3n5R3ZqiJ.html
31-12-2020||Bangalore||Yediyurappa rubbishes leadership change rumors, says will complete his term as CM||Ruling out leadership change, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday asserted he will remain in the post for the remaining over two year period and complete the term, and there was no confusion regarding this within the ruling BJP.Suggesting that the last one year had been like a “trial by fire” for his administration with natural disasters and COVID pandemic, he said his government’s desire was to take Karnataka to the first place on the development map of the country, as he also referred to financial constraints faced by the state.“In the last one-and-half years of my administration even for a day I did not bother about it, I was focused on my work and development. These things have in no way impacted,” Yediyurappa said in response to a question on talks about leadership change and its impact on administration.Speaking to reporters here, he said, after BJP General Secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh made it clear that there are no issues for the next two-and-half years and Yediyurappa will continue as Chief Minister, such questions do not arise at all.“There is no confusion among our ministers or legislators, also people. If there is confusion, it is among media friends. If you cooperate everything will be fine,” he said.There has been intense speculation in some quarters that the BJP high command is mulling leadership change in Karnataka in the days to come considering Yediyurappa’s age (77 years).Though the state BJP has rejected outright such speculation, it refuses to die down, with some within the party like senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with their statements.Asked about BJP legislators making open statements and writing letters expressing disgruntlement, Yediyurappa said out of so many legislators one or two of them might have given certain statements.“..to address their concerns, I will be holding a division wise meeting with all our legislators,” he said.Referring to the impact of Covid on the state and its economy, the Chief Minister, who also handles the finance portfolio said, “we may face a fiscal setback of Rs 25,000 to 30,000 crore and we may have to face this problem in the next budget as well.” Despite this, efforts will be on placing emphasis on development of the state including the welfare of farmers, farm labourers, SC/ST community and backward communities, among others, he said.Noticing that his desire and dream was to take Karnataka to the first place in the development map of the country, Yediyurappa said all his cabinet collogues were collectively working towards achieving the goal.“It was a kind of trial by fire with drought, floods, Covid and all of this led to fiscal setback, but despite all this all efforts are on to fulfill promises made in the budget and I’m confident we will be successful in this,” he said.Stating that BJP is strengthening its base across the country including Karnataka, the Chief Minister claimed in the recent Gram Panchayat polls, for which counting took place on Wednesday, more than 60 per cent of BJP candidates won and created history.According to information, of 5,728 Gram Panchayats, BJP backed candidates have won in majority in around 3,800 panchayats, he said, as he gave credit to collective leadership for the achievement, while acknowledging efforts of district in-charge ministers, MLAs and party workers.Though the Gram Panchayat polls don’t take place on party symbols, all political parties had put in efforts to ensure that the candidate supported by them wins, so as to have their hold on grassroot level politics, which may prove advantageous for them in taluk or zilla panchayat and even assembly polls whenever it happens.Also citing BJP winning 12 out of 15 assembly seats that went for bypolls in December 2019 and the win in the Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira segments earlier this year, Yediyurappa said these results show that the party has made inroads to the stronghold of opposition parties.Highlighting his government’s management of Covid crisis while also supporting distressed communities, he said, it also ensured that development works continued despite the pandemic.“Our government has topped in attracting FDI even during Covid pandemic.As many as 95 proposals worth Rs 1.54 lakh crore have been received,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-rubbishes-leadership-change-rumors-says-will-complete-his-term-as-cm/story-IcDTIJo2aiau2h86F1dD2I.html
31-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 14-year-old student shoots classmate dead||A 14-year-old class 10 student allegedly shot dead his classmate inside their classroom at a school in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday morning following a quarrel over sharing of a seat. Senior police superintendent SK Singh said the boy allegedly used the pistol of his uncle, who is in the Army and is home on leave, for the alleged murder. He added they have registered a murder case and recovered the pistol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-14-year-old-student-shoots-classmate-dead/story-mrayVb0SfmuRxwmmQXoqOK.html
31-12-2020||Patna||Patna administration identifies all 96 UK returnees, conducts tests||Patna district administration on Thursday identified all the 96 people who had returned to the state capital from United Kingdom (UK) from November 21 to December 21. “On Thursday, we could finally trace the 96 people who had arrived Patna from UK recently. Many have moved to other states and even returned to UK. The district administration officials of the states where they have migrated to have been informed and the district magistrates asked to administer them tests. Besides, testing of those who are in Patna is being done,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh. Also Read: ‘Dawai bhi, kadai bhi’: PM Modi for caution even after vaccinationShe, however, did not disclose the states to which the people had migrated on the grounds that the list was long. on Wednesday, samples from 25 people were collected and sent to Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) for tests. The samples were collected from areas including Kankarbagh, Ashiana Nagar, Phulwarisharif, Patel Nagar, Karbighayia, Patna city, Alamganj, Bihar and Maner. She said the positive samples would be sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genome sequencing. “It will They will be tested for the new strain of coronavirus,” she added. Meanwhile, as a precautionary measure, the district administration has isolated nine people who had returned from UK at Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, Patna. The remaining 16 people are in home isolation. A district administration official said a strict watch was being kept on them and their health was being regularly tracked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-administration-identifies-all-96-uk-returnees/story-8SIQukJ1E6bIm6hjQ2BjMJ.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||New Year revellers warm up to snow-bound destinations in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh witnessed intense cold wave conditions on Thursday but that did not stop New Year revellers from making a beeline for popular destinations in the hill state. Hotels in Shimla were packed to capacity on Thursday as the revellers landed up to ring in 2021. Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood said, “Tourists are coming from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh besides other states. They are visiting Narkanda and Kufri to enjoy the snow. Hotels, rest houses and guest houses in town and its periphery such as in Narkanda and Fagu are packed to capacity.” Atal Tunnel at Rohtang opened Atal Tunnel, which was closed due to heavy snowfall at Rohtang Pass earlier this week, has been reopened for traffic. Manali sub-divisional magistrate Raman Gharsangi said that the tunnel was opened on Wednesday and tourists can head towards Lahaul-Spiti. He, however, cautioned them to drive carefully as road conditions may be slippery due to the extreme cold. Meanwhile, the minimum temperatures across the state continued to fall as the sky remained clear. Keylong, the administrative centre of Lahaul and Spiti, continued to be the coldest place in the state at -12.2° Celsius, while Kalpa in Kinnaur recorded a low of -3.7° Celsius. The maximum temperature at Keylong and Kalpa was -3.7°C and 8.3°C, respectively. Meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the minimum temperatures were 4° below normal, while the maximum temperatures were 7° below normal in the state. Fresh spell of snow from Jan 3 He said another spell of snow and rain is expected in the state from January 3 as a fresh western disturbance gets active. The spell will continue till January 5. Dalhousie recorded a low of 2.0°C and maximum of 11.8°C. The minimum temperature at Manali was -1.6°C, while Shimla and the hill stations of Kufri, Dharamshala and Palampur recorded lows of 3.0°C, 0.4°C, 2.4°C and 1.0°C, respectively. Una was the warmest place in the state and recorded a high of 21.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-year-revellers-warm-up-to-snow-bound-destinations-in-himachal/story-E6q4GqNExnfqBlbWEPFXgM.html
31-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police book interfaith couple, cleric for conversion||Police in Dehradun have booked a Muslim man, his Hindu wife, a relative, and a cleric under the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act on the high court’s directions. The man’s uncle and a cleric are accused of helping the woman convert to Islam to marry the man without permission of the district authorities under the law that was passed in 2018. The law mandates a one-month notice in advance for interfaith marriages.The police booked the four on Tuesday following a probe into the matter as per the court orders. No arrest has been made so far in the case.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh okays ordinance on conversion, adulterationAnuj Kumar, the investigating officer, said he was ordered to investigate the matter about two weeks back. He said they found the couple first met during tuition classes in Rudraprayag district and later decided to get married in Dehradun. “...[the man] took her [the woman] to a cleric Mufti Salim Qazi for it in September. The Qazi, before carrying the Nikah [marriage] converted...[the woman] without any documents and gave her a Muslim name... [The couple] got married later with the help of his uncle, the another accused...,” said Kumar.Kumar said they found neither the couple nor the cleric informed the district magistrate one month prior to the inter-religious marriage with conversion as per the law.“Not only it was a violation of the Act, but the matter also seemed to be suspicious. Hence the four were booked under sections 3,8 and 12 of the Act which prohibits conversion from one religion to another religion by misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement, or marriage...”The couple moved the high court seeking police protection after getting married in September. The court heard the matter on October 1 and said the state counsel has pointed out the marriage was in violation of the law. “...prior to such conversion, an application has to be moved before the concerned District Magistrate, which has presently not been done.” The court directed police to provide necessary protection to the couple and ordered an inquiry into the matter. “...in the State of Uttarakhand, there is an Act known as Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, under which it is the duty of the concerned Priest under sub-section (2) of Section 8 of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 to give prior intimation to the concerned District Magistrate, before this conversion or the marriage. Evidently this has not been done.”The court on December 17 cited the inquiry and added it has been apprised that there has “been a violation of the provisions of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act”. It will hear the matter next on January 11.Inter-religious marriages have been in the news as other Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have enacted similar legislation to regulate them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-book-interfaith-couple-cleric-for-conversion/story-yPfzAP01pkxy2oNmLPHRdJ.html
31-12-2020||Bangalore||All you need to know about New Year restrictions imposed in Bengaluru due to Covid-19||As people gear up to celebrate New Year, many states across India have imposed restrictions to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), especially in the wake of the new UK strain which has so far infected 25 people in India.States like Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan have placed night curbs to prevent large gatherings.Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday announced that strict measures will be enforced in Bengaluru and all other cities. The minister urged all the people of the state to follow Covid-19 protocols. The state has registered nearly 9,19,000 infections of which 12,081 have died.Here are details about the restrictions imposed in Bengaluru ahead of New Year celebrations: 1. The Karnataka government has prohibited parties, DJ dance programmes and special events organised at clubs and pubs that tend to attract the public in huge numbers. Bommai added that Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCP) have been alloted the responsibility of controlling clubs and pubs that come under their respective jurisdictions.2. People are not allowed to assemble in large numbers in areas like Koramangala, Indira Nagar, MG Road and Brigade road. Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant said that ‘No-Man zones’ will be created in these areas and only people with advance reservation coupons for bars and restaurants will be allowed.Also Read: Night curbs imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1 from 11pm to 6am3. Pant added that prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC will be imposed in the city from 6 pm on December 31 till 6 am on January 1. Gathering of people at public places and roads for celebrations has been completely banned. However, routine activities are allowed to be carried out.4. Restaurants and hotels in Bengaluru can operate in line with the previous coronavirus-related directions issued. However, they are not allowed to organise any parties.5. Celebrations in residential complexes for residents and private clubs for the members may be held without organising any special events.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/all-you-need-to-know-about-new-year-restrictions-imposed-in-bengaluru-due-to-covid-19/story-yg9kWQOMMAkoaoLKZ7hHEO.html
31-12-2020||City||Kashmir: Another spell of snow expected in first week of January||With temperature going down by several notches in Kashmir, the Met department has predicted another spell of snowfall in the first week of January.Director, Met Department, Sonam Lotus said that Kashmir could witness another spell of snowfall.“As of today [Thursday], the weather most likely to remain mainly dry and cold in both UTs till January 3. Thereafter a spell of light to moderate snowfall is likely during 4-5th at many places of Kashmir, few hilly areas of Jammu and Zojila, Drass and hilly area of Zanskar and Leh district (on 5th).”He said except the spell, there’s no forecast of any major snowfall for the next 10 days.Srinagar recorded a temperature of -5.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday, while the tourist resort of Gulmarg recorded -6.2 degrees Celsius.Fresh snowfall was witnessed in parts of Jammu and Kashmir, including summer capital Srinagar, on Tuesday leading to the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway for a few hours.Meteorologist M Hussain Mir at the Srinagar-based Met Department said that the weather will now remain dry upto January 3-4.The 40-day intense winter period “chillai kalan” started in Kashmir valley on December 21 with sub-zero night temperatures across the region.This year, winter has already started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record -6.6 degrees Celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and the second-coldest December night in the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-another-spell-of-snow-expected-in-first-week-of-january/story-Iw4cpzGm4I02qtyEuEKVVJ.html
31-12-2020||Noida||Pollution checks dearer in UP from Jan 1, rates nearly doubled||Vehicle pollution check rates in Uttar Pradesh are set to increase from January 1. Owners of all types of vehicles, including two-wheelers, will have to pay nearly double the current rate for vehicle pollution certificates, the UP State Road Transport Corporation has said.The new rates will apply on around 3 crore vehicles across the state. While the total number of pollution check centres in Lucknow is 448, in Uttar Pradesh it is 1,600.        To curb the increasing air pollution, vehicle owners are required to get their vehicles tested every six months to one year. In order to facilitate this, the transport department aims to establish one pollution test centre under each police station limits by March 2021.Here are the revised rates:Two-wheeler vehicles had to pay Rs30 earlier. They will now have to pay Rs50.Three-wheeler vehicles had to pay Rs40 earlier. They will now have to pay Rs70.Four-wheeler vehicles had to pay Rs50 earlier. They will now have to pay Rs100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pollution-checks-dearer-in-up-from-jan-1-rates-doubled/story-scNUx6sAU9mqiy7kad34nO.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Alarm raised over systematic destruction of mangroves in Maharashtra for land grab||Environmentalists have raised concerns over the massive destruction of mangroves at Ulwe and Kharghar in Raigad district and Vashi in Thane district of Maharashtra. They have appealed to the Bombay high court appointed mangrove protection and conservation committee to intervene before the sea forests vanish. The development comes before the mangroves’ land gets transferred to the forest department.Navi Mumbai based environment protection organisation NatConnect Foundation alleged that the attempt to destroy the mangroves’ land appears to be systemic.“This appears to be a methodical, systematic conspiracy by the land grabbers to destroy the mangroves, dry up the area before the forest department steps in,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.“The act of destruction of mangroves appears to be picking up momentum as the Mangrove committee has given a final deadline to Mumbai, Thane and Raigad district collectors and CIDCO to transfer unreserved mangroves under their respective jurisdiction to the forest department, following NatConnect’s complaints,” Kumar said.While the Maharashtra government has notified 15,312 hectare (ha) as reserved forest under the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1,500 ha is yet to be transferred by the revenue department to the forest department for better protection as per the directives of the Bombay high court in September 2018.Also Read: Green panel asks Maharashtra government to expedite transfer of mangrove landAdditionally, state agencies need to hand over approximately 2,000 ha of green land in their possession. With an idea to get undeclared mangroves under protection, agencies such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) have to demarcate, identify and transfer mangrove areas under their jurisdiction, first to the revenue department, which will then verify their submissions and transfer the areas to the forest department.Indicating illegal activities like dumping debris on mangroves’ land at a few other places of Navi Mumbai, like Ulwe sector 8, environment lover Rajini V said, “It is shocking as it is happening in (the) public view and no authority appears to bother.”Complaints of a large scale destruction of mangroves in a one kilometre stretch at Gavan and another in Kharkopar village have also been made by environment enthusiasts.Also Read: Mumbai’s Aarey flooded for the 1st time, walls blamed for choking floodplains“This demonstrates that there is no respect for either the law or the high court order as mangroves are being destroyed in village after village across Raigad district, environmentalist Nandakumar Pawar said.Activist Nareshchandra Singh urged Kharghar residents not to remain silent spectators to the destruction of mangroves in the area. CIDCO and Panvel Municipal Corporation have turned a blind eye to the land grab, alleged Singh.“We have made several complaints to all the concerned authorities who are sadly appearing to be unconcerned,” said another Kharghar activist Tarang Sarin.Belapur-based activists also alleged that intermittently, mangroves are being killed with the help of dry grass in the periphery of the under construction Navi Mumbai International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/alarm-raised-over-systematic-destruction-of-mangroves-in-maharashtra-for-land-grab/story-ADtbBsqEY8aHcUjyruEpML.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||New Year’s Eve: All you need to know about night curbs in Delhi today, tomorrow||The Delhi government announced restrictions on the gathering of more than five persons in public spaces in the city from Thursday 11pm (December 31) to Friday 6am (January 1), and from Friday 11pm (January 1) to Saturday 6am (January 2). But the government has clarified that public spaces do not include licensed places such as hotels, bars, restaurants; they will be open. The government also said that there are no restrictions on private places. Here’s all you need to know about the curbs:Also Read: Delhi govt imposes night curbs for today, tomorrow to restrict New Year celebrations1. At licensed places, it will be mandatory to follow social distancing rules and wearing of masks. Owners and managers of those places will have to scan the body temperature of the visitors at the entry points. Police and government teams will conduct surprise inspections.2. There will be no traffic restriction within Delhi or at the borders. Police will, however, stop vehicles at random checkpoints to check drunk driving.3. In places like Connaught Place (CP), vehicle movement will be stopped and only those who have reservations at the eateries will be allowed to proceed. Police will place barricades at the entry points to CP. This practice has been followed earlier as well.4. There are no restrictions on any private place, but the government has advised people not to have large gatherings.5. The movement of goods vehicles within and into the city from other states will not be restricted.6. There could be a restriction on the gatherings on India Gate lawns during the day on January 1. But the government is yet to make an announcement.In recent years, the India Gate lawns have reported gatherings of tens of thousands on the first day of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-year-celebrations-all-you-need-to-know-about-night-curbs-in-delhi-today-tomorrow/story-4yTvnOcJ0XAgclqw3Xt1wK.html
31-12-2020||Jaipur||Churu shivers at -1.3 degrees Celsius, coldest December in over four decades||The mercury in Rajasthan’s Churu plunged to -1.3 degree Celsius as severe cold wave conditions continued in the state, where December has been the coldest in over four decades. The India Meteorological Department said the wave will continue in Bhilwara, Jhunjhunu, Churu, and Hanumangarh on Thursday. It added the temperatures were expected to rise in the state from Saturday when light rain and thunderstorm were also likely in Kota, Bundi, Baran, Dholpur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Alwar, Bhilwara, and Chittorgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/churu-shivers-at-1-3-degrees-celsius-coldest-december-in-over-four-decades/story-Shw9DWajI71X9ZfjITuBYN.html
31-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt plans Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao campaign from January 5||In support of the farmers’ movement against the three Central farm laws, Rajasthan government, led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, has decided to run a week-long ‘Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao’ campaign in all villages of the state starting January 5.The cabinet meeting chaired by Gehlot decided that ministers, MLAs, other public representatives and Congress workers will participate in the campaign to demand for the withdrawal of the farm laws. It was also decided that the state unit of the Congress party will hold a sit-in protest across the state on January 3 to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, said an official in the CM’s office. Also Read: ‘Colder than Shimla’: Rajasthan’s Churu breaks record of coldest Dec night in 46 years He said the three bills, passed in the state assembly in November to counter the farm laws enacted by the Centre, have not been forwarded by the governor for presidential assent and therefore, a decision to hold a dharna was taken. Issues related to electricity supply to farmers, budget preparations and upcoming by polls in three assemblies were other important issues discussed in the cabinet meeting. The ministers were also asked to review the progress made by their respective departments and identify work priorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-plans-kisan-bachao-desh-bachao-campaign-from-january-5/story-M7cYErBnSUk5QwRtBXlDwN.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fog disrupts early morning flights, officials say impact not much||Fog disrupted flight operations at the Delhi airport early Thursday morning as a number of departures were delayed and one incoming flight from Kolkata had to be diverted to Jaipur. However, officials said there wasn’t much impact as all the three runways continued operations throughout. CAT III low visibility procedures were implemented around 1.45am and the visibility dropped to 175 metres at the airport, affecting some flights and leaving several passengers stranded. Even though arrivals continued smoothly, one SpiceJet flight from Kolkata could not land at Delhi airport due to dense fog as the flight captain was not equipped to land in CAT III. The flight was diverted to Jaipur.Also Read: Delhi records season’s lowest min temp of 3.3°C today as air quality worsensOfficials, however, said since the frequency of flights is low during the night and the airport is not performing flight operations to its full capacity, as it used to before the Covid-19 lockdown, the impact of fog was not much.“The delay in departures is expected to normalise by the afternoon as visibility improved in the morning. Adequate arrangements for passengers, be it sufficient seating or availability of food and beverages, and deployment of marshals to manage traffic outside the terminals, have already been put in place,” said an official from the Delhi airport who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fog-disrupts-early-morning-flights-officials-say-impact-not-much/story-YyHlplbVb99cKozI5NWYxH.html
31-12-2020||Lucknow||Cow commission wants research on cows in varsities, AU takes the lead||The Uttar Pradesh Gau Seva Aayog or the Cow Commission has appealed to the vice chancellors of universities in the State to establish a Kamdhenu Chair on their campuses to promote research and higher studies on indigenous cows. This appeal was issued after Allahabad university vice chancellor, professor Sangita Srivastava, recently proposed to establish the said Chair on the AU campus. “This will help increase awareness about the indigenous cow breeds among the students in rural areas. The move is also aimed at increasing income of farmers with help of products made of milk sourced from cows,” said Amit Kumar Gupta, additional statistical officer, UP Gau Seva Aayog. Shiv Om Gangwar, officer on special duty (OSD) with the commission, confirmed the development. The Aayog is headed by UP BJP veteran Shyam Nandan Singh. “This Chair would serve as a bridge between urban technological enhancements and proper care of our national treasure by disseminating the know-how to our rural folks, who really need the information and skills,” said Gangwar.Apart from the students, the initiative will help farmers develop new skills and technology-aided methods for rearing cows, resulting in greater production, said the Aayog official. “There is a need to educate the youth about the agricultural, health, social and environmental importance of indigenous breeds of cows”, he added. Allahabad university (AU) has sent a proposal for establishing the Kamdhenu Chair on its campus to the Union ministry of education for approval. The idea was mooted by AU vice-chancellor, professor Sangita Srivastava, after she attended a national webinar addressed by national Kamdhenu Commission Chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria. It discussed setting up a Kamdhenu Peeth in universities in collaboration with the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and American Intercontinental University (AIU). Also Read: Cabinet nod to transport hub at Greater Noida“The research and knowledge transfer would be a boon for the cow population in rural areas of not only Prayagraj, but also of the neighbouring district,” said AU VC. An official with the Aayog said that a platform was needed for research and training on the science related to indigenous cows and the Indian education system.UGC was expected to give a grant of Rs 1.5 crore for establishing the Chair. Through this, efforts will be made to save old cows in rural areas. The volunteers/students will also provide fodder and medicines to the cows on a subsidized rate. Apart from this, the rate of milk will be determined in the interest of farmers. The conception of cows will be ensured free of cost. Earlier, the Aayog had written to the chief minister, his ministers as well as to the BJP lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh to help popularise cow-dung based products that include idols of Laxmi and Ganesha, which are worshipped on Diwali. The big promotion of diyas made up of cow dung took place just ahead of Diwali, with the Gau Seva Ayog’s plan to light one lakh such diyas at Lucknow’s Jhoole Lal Vatika on the banks of the Gomti river. A department at AU would be entrusted with the responsibility of running the activities under this Chair and the name of the department would be decided by AU administration in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cow-service-commission-wants-research-on-cows-in-varsities-au-takes-the-lead/story-MTmRpDr6uInQpP9VxfGI9N.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt imposes night curbs for today, tomorrow to restrict New Year celebrations||The Delhi government has announced restrictions for Thursday and Friday, prohibiting the gathering of more than five persons in public places to ensure that New Year celebrations do not lead to a violation of Covid-19 regulations, especially at a time when a new variant of Covid-19 has raised concerns globally.The prohibition would apply from Thursday 11pm to Friday 6am and from Friday 11pm to Saturday 6am, said an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) which HT has seen. It, however, clarified that public spaces shall not include licensed premises such as restaurants, bars, hotels and would not affect the movement of goods or people within the state and interstate. Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev confirmed the development. Also Read: WHO, marking year since Covid-19 began, urges fair vaccine distribution to all“The ministry of home affairs through its order dated December 28 has advised states and union territories (that) based on their assessment of the situation they may impose local restrictions, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, such as night curfew,” said the DDMA order.It said, “A detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made and considering the threat posed by the mutant UK strain of Covid-19 virus and after observing local incidents of Covid-19 pandemics in Delhi, it is apprehended that gatherings, congregations and public celebrations in New Year pose a considerable threat of spread of the virus.”The order, however, wouldn’t apply inside premises of hotels, restaurants, pubs, etc. “In such premises, Covid-19 guidelines like a limit on number of persons, mandatory wearing of masks and ensuring other Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will apply,” said Dev.It will not apply to private places either, he said, adding that people are advised not to host large gatherings.In recent years, public spaces such as India Gate or Delhi zoo have reported gathering of tens of thousands on New Years’ Day. Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), under whose jurisdiction Connaught Place, India Gate and Delhi Zoo are, said that a police meeting on implementing the ‘night curfew’ order is scheduled for later in the day. “Since the order was passed only on Wednesday night, we’ll have to decide how to implement it. We will be able to share details of the implementation plan only after the meeting,” said Singhal, who is also the Delhi Police spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-night-curfew-today-tomorrow-to-restrict-new-year-celebrations/story-WRH5fL1wAXbOOexZc4zySO.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed as farmers’ protest enters Day 36||As farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s borders demanding a repeal of the three farm laws, the capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Thursday.The borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remained closed on Thursday for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad.Commuters coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh were advised to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected.Also Read: Farm laws stir: Breakthrough as govt accepts two demands of farmersThe traffic at these borders is also slow as police continues to check these border points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to enter the capital.For borders shared between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh have continued to remain closed.The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between the two states to travel on.The ongoing farmers’ protest entered Day 36 on Thursday. On Wednesday, a small breakthrough was achieved during talks with the government as Centre agreed to accept two demands of farmers while continuing to disagree on the complete repeal of farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed-as-farmers-protest-enters-day-36/story-4Ma2EwB82x3POcBa1i1a1L.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi records season’s lowest min temp of 3.3°C today as air quality worsens||The capital woke up to another cold morning on Thursday as India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 3.3 degrees Celsius at 8.30am, 4 degrees below normal.. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, fell to 3.5°C. The maximum temperature was 16.4°C, four notches below the season’s normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “On Thursday, the minimum temperature is expected to go down to around 3°C. From Friday, however, the temperature will start increasing,” Srivastava said, adding that minimum temperature is likely to reach around 4 degrees Celsius bringing some relief. The IMD also forecasted rain and higher minimum temperatures throughout the rest of the week. Also Read: Expect cold wave, fog in Delhi in the next four days: IMD“A fresh western disturbance is likely to hit the western Himalayan region around January 4, which may bring light rains and thundershowers to the plains, including Delhi,” he said. Meanwhile, the air quality on Thursday morning dropped into the “very poor” category with the Air Quality Index touching 331, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings. Air quality had remained in the “poor” category on Wednesday (290) and Tuesday (265) .VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said the air quality will deteriorate from Wednesday night and reach the “very poor” zone. “For the next two days, the AQI is expected to remain in the very poor zone. But from Saturday, with the impact of an active western disturbance passing over Delhi, the air quality will show a significant improvement,” Soni said. The Union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said “calm surface winds with low boundary layer height will lead to extremely low ventilation conditions on December 31 and January 1”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-minimum-temperature-could-drop-to-3-c-today-as-air-quality-worsens/story-sEFQ0nlwNpPk5iRckCZNTK.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Night curbs imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1 from 11pm to 6am||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday imposed a night curbs in the national capital in order to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The restrictions have been imposed just ahead of New Year celebrations.The curbs will be in place on December 31 and January 1 between 11 pm to 6 am, the DDMA said in its order, adding that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at a public place and no new year celebrations, events or gatherings will be permitted post 11 pm.“A detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made and considering the threat posed by the mutant UK strain of Covid-19 virus and after observing the local incidents of the pandemic in GNCT, Delhi, it is apprehended that gatherings, congregations and public celebrations of New Year pose a considerable threat of spread of the virus and may cause setback to the appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain on transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi,” the order issued by the DDMA read. The authority, however, said that there will be no restrictions on interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods during the curbs period. Delhi Disaster Management Authority imposes night curbs in Delhi; Not more than five persons to assemble at public place, no new year celebration events, no gatherings at public places permitted from 11pm of 31st Dec to 6am of 1st Jan and 11pm of 1 Jan to 6am of 2nd Jan pic.twitter.com/EstAg05WpxEarlier, officials told news agency PTI that police and fire unit deployment has been beefed up, and traffic regulation planned. The restaurants and bars have been ordered to not host more than 50 per cent of their capacity during New Year celebrations. “Police presence will be strengthened in markets, around malls, five-star hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars,” they added. Officials have also taken several measures to ensure women’s safety.ALSO WATCH | Covid update: Delhi new year’s eve curbs; more UK virus strain cases in India Meanwhile, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava on Wednesday said that all public gatherings will be subjected to Covid-19 protocols adding that wearing of masks will be mandatory. “We will be making adequate arrangements at places where people normally like to collect. But one thing would be that all such collections would be subject to Covid-19 protocols,” he said.Also Read: 677 fresh coronavirus cases in Delhi, positivity rate 0.8%Delhi on Wednesday registered 677 fresh coronavirus cases and 21 more deaths which pushed the overall tally to over 624,000. As many as 84,680 tests were carried out on Tuesday including 44,221 RT-PCR tests and 40,459 rapid antigen tests, according to the bulletin issued by the health department. Amid the concerns of the UK Covid-19 variant, the Delhi government has ordered setting up of isolation facilities at four private hospitals for passengers who travelled from or transitioned through the UK from November 25 till December 24 and have tested positive for the variant.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-delhi-on-december-31-and-january-1-from-11pm-to-6am/story-4FMXmpAbu4Voy5Qhw4T5cO.html
31-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand submits plan to court for monitoring Gangotri glacier region||Uttarakhand government on Wednesday submitted an action taken report to the state high court, listing the steps it is planning to take for monitoring Gangotri glacier region at the mouth of the Gaumukh glacier, the origin of the river Ganga. The report also apprised the HC of the action taken against officials for non-compliance of July 2018 order, which directed the state government to report the status of Gangotri glacier once every three months. The matter was heard by division bench of acting chief justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath and justice Sharad Kumar Sharma. HT has a copy of the action taken report. In July 2018, the HC had directed the state government to rope in Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology to study the status of the artificial lake forming in the Gangotri glacier region at the mouth of the Gaumukh glacier, after every three months and present the reports to the court. Court gave the directions while responding to a PIL filed by Delhi-based Ajay Gautam in 2017. The action taken report said, “It would be appropriate for the Department of Disaster Management to nominate Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology as the nodal organisation to monitor inaccessible areas which are prone to similar disasters, using technical resources. Apart from monitoring the inaccessible regions of Uttarakhand, the institute shall also propose for responses in case disasters take place”. The report further recommends constitution of a high power committee comprising the secretaries of disaster management and information technology departments, inspector general of police of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), directors of Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology and of Indian Institute of Remote Sensing for an effective response to any natural disasters that may occur in the region.The state government informed the court that Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Uttarakhand Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre has been suspended and three section officers have been granted 15 days time to submit their replies on the matter of the non-compliance with the court order.Also Read: Uttarakhand: Interfaith couple booked for religious conversion in violation of lawGautam’s PIL had pointed out that an artificial lake of 1500X250 metre had formed at the mouth of the Gaumukh glacier due to piling up of the nearly 30-metre-high debris at the mouth of the stream. “If it is not cleared in time, another Kedarnath-like disaster is waiting to happen,” the petition had said. Gautam said he had apprised court earlier this year that the compliance report, required to be filed after every three months, had not been filed. The formation of the artificial lake had come to light after a team of scientists from the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, led by PS Negi, senior scientist, had visited the Gaumukh in July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-submits-plan-to-court-for-monitoring-gangotri-glacier-region/story-2WRF0Q5V1jeIfYHTkHmflL.html
31-12-2020||City||Infighting, factionalism led to defeat for Congress in Panchkula MC elections||Factionalism and infighting have once again led the Congress party to admit defeat in a closely-contested election of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC).Losing the mayoral race to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by a narrow margin, the Congress will sit in opposition with just seven seats in the House of 20.A stream of Congress leaders, unhappy with the distribution of tickets, had made a beeline to leave the party and join hands with the BJP. Ranjeeta Mehta, former Haryana Congress spokesperson and national coordinator for the All-India Mahila Congress, who was denied a mayoral ticket by the party, had switched over to the BJP on December 24.‘Old rivalries hard to forget’The directions from the state Congress leadership including state party president Kumari Selja were clear: stand united behind the candidates or face consequences. “As a result of the warning, different factions of the party presented a united front, albeit in public. But the old internecine rivalries are hard to forget especially when there is an opportunity to settle scores. That’s what happened behind the scenes during this election,” said a local party leader, requesting anonymity.There were instances when the fissures even came out into the open. “At least on two occasions, when state leadership came for campaigning, the mayoral candidate was ignored and not even invited to the public events,” said the leader.Party insiders also blame the legacy of Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia’s last term as mayor. “The residents were wary of history repeating again. Last time around, the city’s development had suffered immensely because of the tense relationship between her and the incumbent MLA Gian Chand Gupta,” said the party leader.With the winning margins as low as 49 in some wards, the presence of strong independent candidates also weakened the party’s prospects, some of whom were former Congress party members. “Omwati Punia who won as an independent candidate from ward 11 was formerly a Congress councillor,” said a former Congress councillor, who also didn’t get the party ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infighting-factionalism-led-to-defeat-for-congress-in-panchkula-mc-elections/story-nDuYOmSE3hF6l7yO6izu6H.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC wards increased from 26 to 35||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday notified new wards of the municipal corporation, increased them from 26 to 35.The final notification came after the delimitation committee made changes in the draft notification in line with the objections raised by city residents. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had approved the final report of the ward delimitation committee on December 29.Mandip Singh Brar, deputy commissioner and chairman of the delimitation committee, said, “The committee examined and addressed all the 171 objections, and changes in the draft notification have been made accordingly.”On the request of the residents, Modern Housing Complex, Uppal Marble Arch and Rajiv Vihar have been moved from ward 4 to ward 6; Sector 38 (West), excluding the rehabilitation colony, has been moved out of ward 26 to ward 27. Similar changes have been made in other wards, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-wards-increased-from-26-to-35/story-1Ej88hYGz0knfDKDkwlCnM.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sports gradation row: Vigilance probe ordered into issuance of grade-A certificate to IAS officer’s shooter son||A vigilance probe has been ordered by the Haryana government into the award of a grade-A sports gradation certificate to Vishwajeet Singh, son of Haryana IAS officer Jagdeep Singh that led to the former being selected in the Haryana Civil Services (HCS). Vishwajeet’s appointment to HCS has also been put on hold till the completion of vigilance inquiry. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given his nod for an inquiry by a senior IPS officer of the state vigilance bureau, top officials said. ‘Father should have recused from grading son’ The grade-A sports gradation certificate which enabled Vishawajeet Singh, an international shooter, to qualify for the state civil services under the eligible sportspersons (ESP) category was awarded by his father himself as director, sports, the same day he got transferred. It was improper for Jagdeep not to recuse himself from grading his own son, said former principal secretary, sports and youth affairs, Ashok Khemka, in a letter written to the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC). ‘Tournament did not qualify for certificate’ The communication said Vishwajeet Singh’s declaration in his application that International Shooting Sports Federation (ISSF) was the organising authority of the ISSF Junior Cup 2014 tournament where he won a silver medal to qualify for ESP, was wrong. The organising authority instead is the German national shooting federation - Deutsche Schutzenbund eV (DSB), it said. Singh thus has wrongly shown ISSF as the organising authority in his application form so as to be considered against a tournament placed in a higher category. Also, the tournament did not qualify for sports gradation certificate issued to ESP for jobs under sports quota notified on May 25, 2018, the communication said. ‘His correct eligibility is a grade-B certificate’ Khemka’s communication also said that the silver medal won by Vishwajeet Singh at the Junior Cup did not qualify him for enhanced gradation available to medal winners. “Vishwajeet Singh scored 16th rank in 25 metre sport pistol men junior event. The medal was not given on a team game. It was based on team score obtained by aggregating the individual scores of three shooters (ranked 3rd, 15th and 16th) representing the country in the individual event,” the letter said. It further said the correct eligibility of Vishwajeet is a grade-B sports certificate in view of his participation in junior events in world championships at Granada in 2014. Top officials said that vigilance inquiry has been ordered on the basis of Khemka’s letter and the fact that the sports department could not ascertain the authenticity of the organising authority of the 2014 ISSF Junior Cup 2014 and the certificates issued to Vishwajeet Singh. Shooter petitions HC seeking appointment Meanwhile, Vishwajeet in a petition filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has argued that despite having been recommended by the HPSC for appointment to the post of HCS (executive) in the sports category, having been found medically fit and his character antecedents and supporting documents regarding sports achievements being verified, he has not been issued appointment letter. “The sports activities participated by Vishwajeet at different levels have duly been verified from the quarters concerned and found in order. Even the person who is lower in merit (though in sports category) has been given appointment, but the petitioner has not been issued appointment letter without any justified reason,” his counsel had told the bench of Justice Hari Pal Verma on September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sports-gradation-row-vigilance-probe-ordered-into-issuance-of-grade-a-certificate-to-ias-officer-s-shooter-son/story-mfORnrrEMRxhYrldbl3QqK.html
31-12-2020||City||Haryana CM’s good governance associate ends life||Haryana chief minister’s good governance associate, who worked in the office of Rohtak deputy commissioner, committed suicide by hanging himself in a room at circuit house, police said on Wednesday. The ‘CM’s Good Governance Associates’, are appointed for ensuring good governance and transparency in the working of the district administration and implementation of central as well as state schemes.The 25-year-old associate left a note on a white board placed in his room, where he had been staying for past few days.He wrote, “The fault is in me and no one is responsible for this. Sorry for letting all of you down.”As per the information, he was a postgraduate. His father was an army officer and his mother ran an NGO for slum dwellers. Police department’s forensic expert Dr Saroj Dahiya said prima facie, it seemed that the man took the extreme step last afternoon or evening.“His parents said they had talked to him last time at 10.40pm on Tuesday. They directly went to his room at the circuit house and found his body,” she added.The police have sent the body for postmortem examination at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-s-good-governance-associate-ends-life/story-ajn5gkrbQpAr4Y6gCoVlDM.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Wife Shakti’s win may pump up Venod’s political fortune||A near decade long high till early 2014 followed by a period of wilderness. Venod Sharma, former Haryana minister and business tycoon was regarded as a spent force in state politics. However, Wednesday’s mayoral poll victory of his wife, Shakti Rani Sharma from Ambala could just be the spark that may breathe new life into Venod’s flagging political career. Shakti Rani Sharma who had got just 7,661 votes and finished a poor fifth when she contested her first election in 2014 from Kalka assembly constituency probably surprised everyone, including herself. Her comprehensive win by over 8,000 votes on Wednesday against the ruling BJP candidate is by no means a small achievement and has come as a shot in the arm for her husband’s plunging political stock. In fact, Venod himself lost in 2014 from the Ambala City assembly seat by over 23,000 votes. The duo had contested as candidates of their fledgling outfit Haryana Jan Chetna Party after Venod said goodbye to the Congress well before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The party virtually folded up in 2019 assembly poll and Sharmas did not contest the assembly polls. A big beneficiary of nine years of Congress rule (2005-14) in Haryana, Venod Sharma, the clever political brain that he is, could see the decline of the grand old party coming. But his game plan of getting cosy with the BJP did not work out primarily due to stiff opposition by senior BJP leader, Sushma Swaraj. Venod, who was desperate to make a switch to the BJP or its erstwhile ally, Kuldeep Bishnoi’s now folded Haryana Janhit Congress, to guard his business interests was left high and dry after both BJP and Bishnoi cold shouldered him. His attempts to sing praises and back the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi too did not impress the saffron leadership. His friendship with the then chief minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, had earned him a cabinet berth in 2005 and top of the line portfolios such as excise and taxation, public works, power. Between 2005 and 2009, he registered a nine-time increase in his assets - from ₹9.3 crore in 2005 to about ₹86 crore in 2009, as per a comparison of his poll affidavits done by Association for Democratic Reforms. He was though forced to quit the Hooda cabinet in wake of allegations that he used his sway to influence witnesses in the Jessica Lal murder case in which his son Manu Sharma was the prime accused and was later sentenced to life imprisonment. Venod, as the president of Chandigarh unit of the Congress, had suffered a big political setback after his son was arrested for killing Jessica. His revival came due to his friendship with Hooda who ensured that he got a ticket from Ambala City seat in 2005. Shakti Rani’s mayoral poll win could probably be just the stimulus that the former Congressman needs to start afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wife-shakti-s-win-may-pump-up-venod-s-political-fortune/story-yP50P7kvzqMRRf3G3xENxO.html
31-12-2020||City||Setback for BJP-JJP combine in Haryana mayoral polls||In a setback on Wednesday, the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana could win only one of three mayoral seats for which elections were held recently. The mayoral elections in the cities of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat were held on Sunday. While the BJP struggled to win in Panchkula, the Congress and the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) bagged mayoral posts in Sonepat and Ambala, respectively. Haryana Jan Chetna Party’s mayoral candidate and wife of former union minister Venod Sharma, Shakti Rani Sharma, became Ambala’s first woman mayor by defeating BJP-JJP’s Vandana Sharma by 8,084 votes.BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal won mayor’s seat in Panchkula by defeating Congress candidate and former mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by 2,057 votes. In Sonepat, Congress’ candidate Nikhil Madaan defeated his nearest rival Lalit Batra of the BJP. While BJP candidates secured victory in 10 wards of Sonepat municipal corporation, nine wards were won by Congress nominees and one ward went to an Independent. The ruling BJP has won the president post in the Rewari municipal council. BJP’s Poonam Yadav won by a margin of 2,087 votes from independent candidate Upma Yadav. The BJP has won from seven wards and Independents grabbed 24 wards in Rewari. Posts of president in three municipal committees — Uklana (Hisar) , Dharuhera (Rewari) and Sampla (Rohtak) — went to independent candidates.In Uklana, Sushil Sahu defeated JJP’s Mahender Soni. Pooja, who was backed by former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, defeated BJP nominee Sonu in Sampla. In Dharuhera, Kanwar Singh became the president by defeating BJP’s Sandeep Bohra.Anant Ram, a retired political science professor, said the farmers’ agitation also played a vital role in the defeat of BJP-JJP alliance.“The results of the Uklana municipal committee reveals that voters are unhappy with the performance of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and minister Anoop Dhanak as they lost the battle in their stronghold. The results of civic body polls are encouraging for Hooda because his loyal Nikhil Madaan became Sonepat’s mayor and Pooja won the president post in Sampla municipal committee,” he added.Urban voters taught lesson to BJP-JJP: HoodaLeader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the Congress has performed pretty well in Sonepat municipal corporation elections and the candidates backed by him won in Sampla and Uklana. “The urban voters have taught a lesson to the ruling BJP-JJP government and gave a referendum to their one-year rule,” he added.On being asked about Congress’ performance in Panchkula and Ambala MCs, the former chief minister said the party had not called him to campaign for its candidates in both these cities.“We will introspect about the reasons behind our defeat in these two corporations. The BJP has won the mayoral post in Panchkula by a thin margin, but we have secured a massive victory of over 13,000 for the post of mayor in Sonepat municipal corporation,” he added. ‘BJP’s arrogance hasn’t broken’Ambala mayor’s husband Venod Sharma said, “Despite being in power at the Centre as well as the state, I don’t think BJP’s arrogance has broken, but at least here the Haryana Jan Chetna Party won.”Meanwhile, Shakti Rani said, “I’ll work with full loyalty to meet the expectations of people. I’ll try to take everyone along.”According to legal expert Hemant Kumar, except Vandana Sharma, all the losing mayoral candidates are liable to lose their security deposits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/setback-for-bjp-jjp-combine-in-haryana-mayoral-polls/story-K1k9UX7ZJWV8lZD8Wla6PO.html
31-12-2020||City||Couple on way to court for marriage killed by woman’s uncle, aides in Rohtak||A couple, who were on their way to get married in a court, were shot dead in broad daylight by girl’s uncle and his aides near Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here on Wednesday, said police. The deceased have been identified as Pooja Pawaria, 27, and Rohit Dhankar, 25, of Rohtak. Rohit’s brother Mohit was also injured in the firing. He is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) and is stable. DSP Sajan Singh said girl’s uncle Kuldeep Singh, his son Kapil Kumar and two other persons have been arrested on complaint of boy’s father. They have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and section 25 of the arms Act. “We are interrogating the accused. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of hate crime. We are looking into all angles,” the DSP added. A police official said Pooja was a divorcee. “She was an orphan and raised by her uncle Kuldeep, a property dealer. She was staying in Rohtak for the past many months and had developed a relationship with Rohit,” he added. As per boy’s father, Kuldeep had called Rohit’s relatives to the court today for their marriage, said the DSP. “Later, he asked the groom’s relatives to come near MDU as they wanted to hold some discussion before the marriage. When Rohit and his family reached near MDU, Kuldeep opened fire at Mohit’s car,” he said. “Kuldeep’s son and his aides pumped bullets into Pooja, who was in a different car, killing her on the spot,” added the DSP The police have retrieved a CCTV footage of the incident. The DSP said the woman’s body was recovered from the back seat of the car while Rohit and his brother Mohit were rushed to the PGIMS where Rohit was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-on-way-to-court-for-marriage-killed-by-woman-s-uncle-aides-in-rohtak/story-YAmDHJVwAoaBEJOaZtYReK.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Graveyard is his home||He has one of the most unique addresses in the city. He lives in a graveyard. Alone.“This has been my home for 28 years,” mutters Asmuddin Ansari. In his mid-50s, he stays in a little cemetery tucked in one corner of the Sufi shrine of Hazrat Khwaja Qutubuddin Bakhtiyar Kaki, in south Delhi’s Mehrauli. This winter afternoon, Mr Ansari is sitting in a sunlit corner of the graveyard, silently staring upon the graves—some of which are more than one hundred years old and some are more recent. “The latest burial took place four months ago,” he says, explaining that it isn’t a public graveyard, and is reserved for members of select families.Dressed in a kurta pajama, Mr Ansari now gets up and heads to his sleeping chamber, which seems to be a small medieval-era arched ruin—Mehrauli is crammed with edifices dating to almost all eras. This chamber lies at one end of the graveyard. Inside, it’s a world of stone walls, of fluted columns and arches. A few household things are littered here and there—firewood, pans, detergent, a wall clock, a small mirror, and a plastic surahi (mug). A half-burnt candle is lying on the floor. A set of green chillies lies on a low wooden stool. A blanket and a mattress are rolled out on the floor. The arched openings of the chamber, that look to the graves outside, are currently covered with a bamboo screen through which the daylight appears like a mass of golden substance.Mr Ansari doesn’t live completely unconnected from the rest of the world—he has a mobile, though it is of the old-fashioned kind, with which you can only send or receive sms. He rarely uses the phone, and doesn’t know his own number.Comfortably reclined on the mattress on the floor, he talks of how time passes for him, staying busy in the day, clearing the graveyard, tending the plants beside the graves, and gazing at the earth and sky. “At night, there is ghup sannata (total silence).”His wife and nine children live elsewhere in the city. “My earnings help them run the house,” he remarks, saying that he receives basic salary for being the cemetery’s khidmatgar (caretaker).But, doesn’t he feel scared to live amid graves?He shakes his head.Has he ever come across a ghost or a djinn?Mr Ansari looks amused. “I haven’t… there used to be many snakes, but they have left.”He now gets up to show the site of the most recent burial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-graveyard-is-his-home/story-jXgKqbWMnMt9jZVl6qlHcM.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Thane Police set up bandobast for New Year’s Eve||Thane police are set to keep special vigil and heavy bandobast on New Year’s Eve. Drones, State Reserve Police Force and home guards have been roped in to avoid any law and order situation. Moreover, many flyovers in the city will remain shut to avoid rash driving or drinking and driving incidents on December 31.Thane Police and Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) senior officials have requested people to celebrate this December 31 at their homes and not gather at public places. Thane Police has sent notices to societies, prohibiting from organising parties on terraces, and avoid social gathering. V Pansare, deputy commissioner of police, zone III, said, “We will be using drones to keep an eye on such societies whether they have social gatherings in the night or day. Our teams will be on the ground with all safety measures. Also, drinking and driving cases will be handled strictly. We have an arrangement to get blood samples of drunk commuters from every nakabandi, along with the use of breathalysers.”Deputy commissioner of TMC, Sandip Malvi said, “We are requesting that people should not gather together or visit crowded places. The pandemic is still not over, and we have to strictly follow rules for the safety of our people.”Thane Police has also decided to shut most-used flyovers at Ghodbunder and Bhiwandi, in a bid to reduce accidents. At all points of the flyovers, police teams will be there for checks. Surveillance cars of police will roam in the jurisdiction of every police station to keep a check and stop any untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-police-bandobast-for-new-year-s-eve/story-MiqXL2G5aAIoys2Tefw0oO.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||UK flight ban: DGCA to frame rescheduling, refunding norms||With India extending the suspension of flights to and from the United Kingdom (UK) by another week, in the wake of a new variant of Covid-19 virus, the aviation regulator- Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), is now considering new norms for rescheduling and cancellation of flights, as many fliers have been forced to either cancel or postpone their flights.Arun Kumar, director-general of DGCA said that the regulator will look into the flight cancellations and rescheduling caused due to extension of temporary flight suspension on UK routes.The circular issued by the DGCA on Wednesday read, “...the complement authority has further extended the temporary suspension of flights to/from the United Kingdom till January 7, 2021. However, this restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA.”Read more: India extends UK flight ban till Jan 7, will impose restrictions thereafterIn the wake of the new strain of coronavirus emerging in the UK, Indian civil aviation ministry on December 21, announced flight suspension on routes from December 22 till December 31.However, such suspension of flights has caused trouble to the passengers throughout this year. Many of the passengers who were booked to fly to various domestic and international destinations are yet to receive their refund from the airlines. These include mainly the ones who were to fly by Air India. To add to the situation, the latest flight suspension has also troubled travellers; be it the ones stranded in the UK or the ones who were to depart from India to the affected countries in the UK.“The airlines had rescheduled flight to the first week of January, when the government announced flight suspension till December 31. However, with the further suspension to UK routes, the airlines again seem to be unclear on their refund/ rescheduling policy,” said a Pune-based businessman whose son is stranded in Birmingham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uk-flight-ban-dgca-to-frame-rescheduling-refunding-norms/story-hi6WjnrgXFswhaPG2svuDI.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Driver of truck involved in a hit-and-run accident on Mumbai’s western express highway held||The Vanrai Police have arrested a driver of the dump truck who rammed a two-wheeler on Western Express Highway in Goregaon east on Tuesday, resulting in a traffic police officer’s death and a traffic warden’s serious injuries.The victim, identified as Pandurang Maruti Sapkal, 40, was travelling on his scooter when the dump truck hit his two-wheeler from behind while overtaking it from the left side.Dinesh Pitale, a traffic warden, who was riding pillion, and Sapkal fell due to the impact of the collision, as the dump truck’s driver fled after the accident.A police officer said that the two were travelling towards Goregaon when the accident took place. The passersby rushed them to a hospital where Sapkal was declared dead on arrival while Pitale was admitted with grievous injuries.The Vanrai Police scanned CCTV camera footage from the area, tracked down the owner of the dump truck and apprehended the driver Mannakumar Chauhan (31). Chauhan has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/driver-of-truck-involved-in-a-hit-and-run-accident-on-mumbai-s-western-express-highway-held/story-qbJWS9KqWaOzY1ZBfcI86I.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Dug up stretch around Narwana Road triggers traffic chaos, irks locals||Residents of east Delhi’s Patparganj area have cried foul over a dug up stretch and encroachments around Narwana Road. Locals of the area have complained that a portion of the Narwana Road near Mother Dairy plant in east Delhi has been dug up again by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), which is triggering traffic snarls and has become a hazard for pedestrians. Adding to the woes are wrongly parked autorickshaws near Pandav Nagar underpass which aggravate the traffic mess, residents said. Navneet Nayyar, president of RWA Ekta Garden, said that the same road had been dug over a year ago and now it is being dug up again, which is not only creating traffic congestion but also giving rise to dust pollution. He said that a portion — about 800m of Narwana road — was first dug up over a year ago by the DJB for laying a deep sewer line, but even after completion of the work it was not repaired properly and only patchwork was done. “We braved traffic snarls and dust pollution due to the dug up road, when a sewer line was being laid a year ago. And now again the DJB has started digging work to lay a new water pipeline and we are forced to go through similar problems all over again. Why can’t they carry out these projects in one go ?,” Nayyar said.Read more| Expect cold wave, fog in Delhi in the next four days: IMDOn Wednesday, when HT visited the area, huge pipes lay occupying the footpath, even as other heavy machinery and vehicles stood parked on the road side , leaving precious little space for commuters. Nayyar also highlighted the issue of traffic congestion in the area due to “illegal parking of three wheelers” choking the Pandav Nagar underpass.“Illegal auto rickshaws, mostly from UP, haphazardly occupy a good portion of the road leading to traffic congestions. Other than this, there are car showrooms near Mother Dairy crossing that flout traffic norms by parking vehicles on Narwana Road. I have pointed this out many times to concerned authorities but nothing has been done so far,” he said.Another resident of the area, Mukta Sibbal said that the area has been in a “perpetual mess” for the last two years. “I don’t understand why they did not lay water pipelines when the road was dug up for sewer work. Residents of societies on both sides of Narwana road have to face inconvenience due to these issues. Footpaths have also been encroached as the authorities have put huge pipes and other machinery on pedestrian walkways,” she said.Ankush Chaudhary, a resident of Sadbhawana Apartments in IP extension, pointed out that the uneven road had also led to a few fatal accidents. “This is a case of sheer negligence by the authorities,” Chaudhary said.Responding to queries of encroachment by vendors on the road, a senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation said that anti-encroachment drives are conducted regularly. “We will again look into the matter if there is any fresh encroachment in the area,” the official said.DJB spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.Ajit Kumar Singla, additional commissioner of police of eastern range traffic, said that while the digging work is beyond the traffic police’s jurisdiction, the local traffic police have been working around the problem to cause as little inconvenience to the commuters. “We have been carrying out special drives around that stretch. We have been challaning those parking haphazardly, towing away vehicles and clicking pictures of violators to prosecute them later. We have also deployed additional traffic staff in that area to regulate the traffic,” said Singla||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dug-up-stretch-around-narwana-road-triggers-traffic-chaos-irks-locals/story-Ys6qJiEdZ5YjDqRRhYL8mM.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||ED is being used to settle scores with BJP critics, says Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has lashed out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying the ruling party at is implementing vendetta politics by misusing the central agency Enforcement Directorate (ED). He said that since the state government withdrew the permission for the probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in state-related cases without state government permission, the BJP is now utilising ED to harass leaders from opposition parties. “This has been happening in the country for the first time. The ED is being utilised to settle the political score against the leaders and the parties who speak against the BJP and their leaders. The ED notices are sent to the leaders who speak against the BJP. The CBI would do this in the past. But ever since Maharashtra government tweaked its notification and made state government’s permission mandatory for any probe by CBI in state-related case, the ED has been doing the favour to the central ruling party,” he said. Read more: PMC Bank scam: After ED summons Varsha Raut, Shiv Sena shows supportDeshmukh was speaking in the backdrop of the recent summons to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse who recently crossed over from BJP, and Varsha, wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. The home minister has, however, clarified that there was no restriction on venturing out to celebrate the New Year if the state guidelines are followed properly. “There is no restriction on going out to meet friends, but an assembly of more than five people is prohibited. Hotels, bars, restaurants, pubs are allowed to operate till 11pm on December 31. We appeal to people who are celebrating the New Year at hill stations to follow the guidelines issued by the government and stick to the Covid-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-is-being-used-to-settle-scores-with-bjp-critics-says-maharashtra-home-minister/story-rRHUG2LJffM8qW84Y3pF6L.html
31-12-2020||City||25-year-old woman killed, husband injured in accident at Taloja||A 25-year-old woman was killed and her husband suffered injuries in a road accident at Taloja (phase 1) on Tuesday. According to the police, Farid Muhammad Shaikh and her husband Muhammad Shaikh, 29, were travelling on their two-wheeler when the incident occurred. As they were crossing the railway underpass around 8pm, their two-wheeler skidded, and they fell on the road. A trailer, which was also moving in the same direction, hit Farid.Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector of Taloja police station, said, “Farid suffered severe injuries on her head. She was rushed to a nearby hospital by residents but was declared dead on arrival. Her husband also suffered injuries, but he is now stable.”The trailer driver fled from the spot, leaving behind his vehicle. We have registered a case against him and hope to arrest him soon,” said Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-woman-killed-husband-injured-in-accident-at-taloja/story-GRrXDfj4diovPk0WODKNUN.html
31-12-2020||City||Schools in Thane too will remain shut till January 15||Thane district collector on Wednesday announced that schools will not reopen till January 15, across the district. This comes a day after the district education officer sent out a notice asking schools to be prepared for reopening.All schools and junior colleges, which include civic and private schools will continue to conduct online classes and remain shut till January 15. “The pandemic is under control in Thane, however, there are other countries that have seen a mutated virus and some have faced the second wave as well. Keeping in mind such trends, we have requested educational institutes to remain shut till January 15,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Thane district collector.“Although schools will remain shut for at least another fortnight, online classes will continue for the students,” said Sheshrao Bade, education officer, Thane zilla parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-in-thane-too-will-remain-shut-till-january-15/story-9KryugI2FJ9kA7DO6ixSaL.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Bike-sharing services to be extended to 3 more Mumbai Metro stations||Mumbaikars may soon get to peddle their way through more Metro stations along the Mumbai Metro-1 corridor (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar). A public bike-sharing service that was started at the Jagruti Nagar Metro station will now be extended to three other stations. According to a letter issued by the K/West ward (includes Andheri) on December 16, 2020, MyByk (which initiated the services in Jagruti Nagar) can also start services in Azad Nagar, DN Nagar and Versova Metro stations complying to various conditions, which include approvals from the traffic police also. Read more: Mumbai’s infra dream takes a drastic hit in 2020Arjit Soni, founder of MyByk said, “We are awaiting approvals from the police, post which we are looking at starting operations from January 15, 2021.” Soni said that each station will have 20 cycles at first. “The numbers will be increased as per demand, in future,” Soni added. Rental bicycles were introduced at Jagruti Nagar Metro station in February 2020 to improve last-mile connectivity. Commuters can rent a bike for ₹2/hour or get weekly and monthly passes for ₹280 and ₹900 respectively. The bikes can be taken home and parked at the Metro stations. The services were discontinued owing to the pandemic and re-started in November recently. Read more: Mumbai: Bike-sharing facility suspended during lockdown resumes service againMyByk won a mobility challenge launched by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and other agencies including Mumbai Metro One Private Limited (MMOPL) in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bike-sharing-services-to-be-extended-to-3-more-mumbai-metro-stations/story-ztDm9JAkOfnHa7l2B0DLYJ.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: Mumbai crime branch seizes ornaments worth ₹48 lakh from Partho Dasgupta’s bank locker||The Mumbai crime branch, which is probing the television rating points (TRP) manipulation fraud, has conducted searches and recovered gold ornaments worth ₹48 lakh from the bank locker of Partho Dasgupta, a former chief executive officer (CEO) of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), and his wife.A police officer from the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the crime branch said the search at Dasgupta’s bank locker yielded 1313.97 grams of gold and silver jewellery, worth ₹48 lakh.Dasgupta will be kept in isolation at a school, before being sent to jail as per the norms during the pandemic.Dasgupta is the 15th person to be arrested in the TRP scam case. He was arrested on December 24 from Pune. He has moved bail application, which is posted for hearing on January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-scam-mumbai-crime-branch-seizes-ornaments-worth-48-lakh-from-partho-dasgupta-s-bank-locker/story-1M0TlU0XwosHcL7OFERYtI.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to quarantine international fliers for free at its Covid-19 facility||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday decided to quarantine returnees from Europe, Middle East and South Africa for free at its jumbo Byculla Covid-19 centre, so as to prevent fliers from taking a detour to avoid quarantine.Earlier, it had been found that a few passengers were taking detours by landing in other states and then entering Mumbai, citing that it was unaffordable for them to complete the mandatory seven-day quarantine at hotels. HT had reported on December 29 how fliers, in order to evade getting quarantined at hotels, would take a flight to nearby states such as Goa and Kerala and come back to Mumbai by road or train or a domestic flight. These states have not made institutional quarantine mandatory like Maharashtra did to detect if passengers coming back were infected by the new, more transmissible Covid-19 strain, which originated in the United Kingdom (UK). These passengers could be potential super spreaders in case they are infected by the new Covid-19 strain, BMC has stated. Read more: Mumbai civic body turns to ward officers, hospitals for info on returnees from UK, Middle EastSuresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We have opened our Byculla jumbo centre for institutional quarantining of incoming passengers from Middle East and Europe. This facility will be kept for those who claim they cannot afford to quarantine themselves at hotels.”Kakani added, “There are several professionalsm service-class citizens who are returning back and they have requested institutional quarantine facilities, instead of hotels. Hence, this facility will be available for free, considering our aim is to ensure that passengers do not exploit loopholes to escape quarantine. We, at BMC, are requesting citizens to act responsibly.” With Covid-19 cases going down in the city, the BMC’s bed vacancy also has gone up. As per BMC’s dashboard data, of the 16,437 Covid-19 beds in the city, 12,440 are vacant.According to protocols issued by the BMC, passengers arriving from Europe, Middle East and South Africa undergo screening and are later quarantined in the city hotels for seven days. They are allowed to complete remaining seven days of quarantine at home if they test negative between the fifth and seventh day. The hotel fare is between Rs1,500 to Rs4,500, depending on the budget of each. In case of passengers testing positive, they are shifted to hospital and their samples are sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune to ascertain if they are infected with a new strain of Covid-19.Meanwhile, until December 28, over 5,261 passengers have arrived from Europe and the Middle East. Also, the BMC has sent 12 samples to NIV, Pune, as they have tested positive for Covid-19. These 12 samples are of those passengers who arrived from the UK between November 24 and December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-quarantine-international-fliers-for-free-at-its-covid-19-facility/story-ufYrDYDx5ZGCOikmp2wbQP.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s standing panel clears ₹400 crore more for Covid relief||After spending over ₹1,200 crore on works related to the coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Wednesday cleared a proposal to allot an additional fund of ₹400 crore for Covid-19-related relief till March 2021, amid push back from all opposition parties in the BMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The proposal was tabled by the civic administration, alongside post facto approval for ₹450 crore already spent on Covid-19 in the past nine months since March. The BMC has spent an additional ₹800 crore from its contingency fund so far. The BJP moved an amendment to refer back the proposal to the administration and not approve it, which was seconded by leader of the opposition Ravi Raja. All opposition parties, including Samajwadi Party and Nationalist Congress Party, supported the push back. Last month, the standing committee had referred back the 125 proposals related to Covid-19 expenditure worth ₹450 crore that were tabled for post facto approval, and had demanded a white paper on details of how the money was spent. On Wednesday, the civic administration re-tabled a single proposal seeking post facto approval for ₹450 crore, and sought an approval for the additional ₹400 crore. While 12 corporators from all Opposition parties and BJP, who are members of the standing committee, voted to refer back the proposal, 11 corporators from the Shiv Sena voted to pass the proposal. Following this, chairman of the committee, Yashwant Jadhav, who is a corporator from the Shiv Sena, voted to pass the proposal. Raja said, “We had referred back the earlier proposals seeking details of how the money was spent. We did not receive any details, and the same expenditure was approved, alongside granting another ₹400 crore. I seconded the BJP’s amendment because I had earlier proposed referring back the 125 proposals. This is also setting a wrong precedent, where the chairman votes to get a proposal passed.” Rais Shaikh, leader of the SP in the BMC, said, “The standing committee suspects corruption in Covid-related expenditure of ₹450 crore that came to us for post-facto approval. We had therefore demanded details of how the money was spent. Those details have still not been provided by the administration, so we were demanding referring back of this proposal too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-standing-panel-clears-400-crore-more-for-covid-relief/story-CVc6fwIPUKEfJU7vYPFWXI.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Emirates cargo flight carrying satellite lands in Chennai||Emirates airline transported first Brazilian satellite (Amazonia-1) from Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil to Chennai. Developed by the National Institute for Space Research (INPE), Brazil’s apex body dedicated for space research and exploration, Amazonia-1 is the satellite that took eight years to be developed. The satellite is due to be sent to space in February 2021 from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre on the East coast of India. The flight landed in Chennai on December 23Once launched into space, the satellite is said to help monitor the ecosystem of the Amazon rainforest.Emirates SkyCargo, the freight division of Emirates airline said that it had to undertake extensive preparations for this charter flight to ensure the safe and secure transport of the satellite. The total cargo transported weighed around 22 tonnes.The air cargo carrier said, “We had to apply for special permission to operate a Boeing 777 freighter from Sao Jose dos Campos airport to uplift the satellite. Emirates SkyCargo together with the INPE, the airport and local partners conducted two comprehensive simulation sessions ahead of the transport date to be able to transport the sensitive cargo safely from the airport.”During the transportation process, the Amazonia-1 was dismantled into multiple components to facilitate easy loading and unloading from the aircraft. The carrier said that the satellite components were packed inside large containers to avoid any damage during the transport. To ensure the safe transportation of the satellite, four members of the team from INPE also travelled with the satellite to continuously monitor the status of the cargo during the flight from Sao Jose dos Campos to Dubai and then to Chennai.This is, however, not the cargo carrier’s first such transportation. Emirates SkyCargo has expertise in transporting satellites and other cargo developed for space technology. In 2018, the carrier had transported Khalifasat, the first satellite developed completely by Emirati engineers at the Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre from Dubai to Seoul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/emirates-cargo-flight-carrying-satellite-lands-in-chennai/story-Pxa4RabX23KVC4st79YGlJ.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body turns to ward officers, hospitals for info on returnees from UK, Middle East||Amidst the fear of the spread of the new strain of Sars-CoV-2, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked ward officers, private hospitals and societies to be vigilant and inform the civic body if they find any passenger from United Kingdom (UK) and the Middle East.So far, between November 25 and December 28 as many as 2,600 passengers who have returned from the UK and the Middle East have been contacted. Around 1,200 of them have undergone the RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test. Civic officials are closely monitoring each passenger and their close contacts. Special arrangements have been made for Covid-19 positive patients at Seven Hills Hospital, Marol.“Many passengers aren’t coming forward to reveal their travel history or of their close contacts. So, we are trying to trace them with the help of local bodies. Thus, ward officers, hospitals and societies are being instructed to inform us if they know anyone who has returned from the UK and the Middle East, post-November 25,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Read more: Maharashtra sees 3,018 new cases; 43 UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 till TuesdaySix of the 12 passengers who were found Covid-19 positive have tested negative, informed Kakani. He further said that the civic body will again conduct the RT-PCR test on all passengers later to check if they are still carrying the pathogen of the virus. In the meantime, the civic body has sent their reports to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing.Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, informed that the state government has provided them with the details of the passengers who have returned to Mumbai. Health officials are following up on their health through telephonic updates.“All the infected passengers will be admitted at Seven Hills Hospital, where they will undergo the required treatment,” added Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-turns-to-ward-officers-hospitals-for-info-on-returnees-from-uk-middle-east/story-FcaaYGIJbp8EwgpxCMoENK.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: New watchman scoots with ₹8 crore gold, ₹60 lakh cash from Boisar jewellery shop||Boisar MIDC police suspect at least four people, including a newly-appointed Nepali watchman of a reputed jewellery shop – Mangalam Jewellers – in Chitralaya, Boisar, of stealing 14 kg worth of gold worth nearly ₹8 crore and ₹60 lakh in cash on Wednesday, by breaking the locks of an adjoining computer shop and tearing down the shared wall of the first-floor shop.The watchman was a new recruit and joined the shop on December 5, and the owner had allowed the accused to use a room located on the second floor of the shop. Neither did the owner verify the credentials of the watchman, nor did he inform the Boisar MIDC police station as per the rules. The 25-year-old Boisar jewellery shop owned by Shriram Patil was robbed of its gold and silver ornaments and cash. The heist was committed around 2.30am on Wednesday, and the prime suspect is the watchman. The CCTV footage showed at least four people involved in the theft. The shop is located in Chitralaya area – a shopping destination located opposite the BARC Colony, and is in a densely populated area,” said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe of Boisar MIDC police station.“We have registered cases under section 457 (house trespass), and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the watchman and others, and we are investigating further,” said Kasbe. “Despite our orders to verify the credentials of employees, the owner did not inform us while appointing the watchman, but we have strong clues, and we will arrest him within 24 hours,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-new-watchman-scoots-with-8-crore-gold-60-lakh-cash-from-boisar-jewellery-shop/story-AwgzQllYnecqHGbzfRGcIO.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Shut until January 15, schools in Mumbai worry about Class 10 tests||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked schools in Mumbai to remain shut at least until January 15, schools are now worried about conducting their prelim/preboard exams for Class 10 and 12 students within time.Schools across boards said that they are concerned about not being able to conduct prelim or preboard exams in the offline format due to the extension in the school closures. “Usually, the first preboards are conducted in the first week of December and by now we should have conducted the second preboard exam for students of Class 10 and 12. We were hoping that the schools will be allowed to reopen from January first week only to be able to conduct physical exams,” said the principal of a CBSE school in the western suburbs.While schools have been conducting online classes and exams since March this year, principals said that for prelims, the offline exam is the best option. “In the offline mode, one can get the actual practice of writing a board-like exam and with it becomes easy to curb unfair means. Our parents are also eager to send students for the exam and we are hoping that we can do so after schools reopen,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal of the Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle. Schools across boards conduct their prelim/preboard exams in the month of December and January every year, as board exams are scheduled between February and March.Several IGCSE schools in the city are concerned about the Cambridge A level exams that are scheduled in the month of February. “We are worried that students will not have enough time to appear for the mock exams before the finals. Also, physical school is necessary to clear doubts before examinations,” said the principal of an IGCSE school.On Wednesday, the BMC education department issued a circular announcing that schools across boards and mediums in Mumbai shall remain closed until January 15, 2021. The schools that fall under the different consulates are allowed to start from January 18, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shut-until-january-15-schools-in-mumbai-worry-about-class-10-tests/story-tWVk9rAPpxZJz1QNvmXxAL.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra DGP appointed as CISF chief||Maharashtra director-general of Police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, has been appointed as the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) chief by the central government, on Wednesday. The state government too has given its consent.Jaiswal, an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of 1985 batch, was appointed DGP in February 2019, after the proposal of an extension of two years to the then DGP Dattatrey Padsalgikar was denied by the ministry of home affairs. Jaiswal was elevated to the post of DGP from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner. However, Jaiswal was reportedly unhappy with the state government on various issues, including its transfer policy. He had opposed the transfer of the IPS officers before completion of two years of the tenure, as per the provisions in the Act. He will retire from the service on September 30, 2022.“The appointment committee of the cabinet has approved the proposal of the ministry of home affairs for appointment of Shri SK Jaiswal to the post of Director General of CISF....” the order issued by the department of personnel and training has stated. Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, home, said, “He had applied for the central deputation and the state government had given consent about a month-and-a-half ago. The decision about relieving him from the incumbent responsibility will be taken soon, but I do not think Jaiswal will have to wait till the appointment of the new officer in his place. The appointment of the new DGP will be done as per the Supreme Court (SC) rulings in the Prakash Singh case and we will set the procedure accordingly.”“As per the Supreme Court order in Prakash Singh case, the home department sends a list of officers who have completed 30 years of their service to the UPSC in a sequence of their seniority. The UPSC sends us back three names to choose, one from each panel. It is the discretion of the chief minister and home minister of handpicking one of them,” said an official from Mantralaya requesting anonymity.According to the officials from the home department, Sanjay Pandey (1986 batch IPS officers), Hemant Nagrale (1987 batch), Param Bir Singh, Rashmi Shukla, Rajnish Seth (all 1988 batch) are the top contenders for the post. Bipin Bihari and Surendra Pandey (both 1987 batch) have been out of the race as they will be retiring in January and February respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-dgp-appointed-as-cisf-chief/story-fNgUqRggU1tU8mrLkIWkDP.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||Contempt petition moved in Bombay HC against BMC for not laying sewage lines||A contempt petition has been moved by an NGO in the Bombay high court (HC) against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for failing to comply with a July 2019 order, directing the civic authority to submit quarterly reports to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regarding extension work of existing sewerage lines.The order was passed in the hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Citizen Circle for Social Welfare and Education, highlighting the fact that the sewage treatment plants were not functioning to their full capacity due to paucity of sewage lines, as a result of which untreated effluents were being released into the sea. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course. The contempt petition filed by the NGO through advocate Shehzad Naqvi states that in July 2019, it had filed a PIL which alleged that the BMC was not treating the sewage generated in the city, and the plants were not being utilised to their optimum capacity. The PIL had also pointed out that untreated sewage was being released into the sea as well as the Mithi river, thus causing damage to the marine ecology. After hearing the PIL, the HC had concluded that effluents were not being brought into the treatment plants, and hence directed BMC to ensure that proper sewage lines were laid to ensure that the sewage was directed to the plants. HC had also directed the BMC to furnish quarterly reports to the MPCB on the status of laying sewage lines that would take sewage to the treatment plants.According to the contempt petition, the NGO filed a right to information (RTI) application with MPCB seeking copies of the quarterly reports maintained by it from July 2019. The petition states that to their utter shock, surprise and dismay, the MPCB through its December 3, 2020 reply informed that no information was available on the same.In light of this, the contempt petition states that the BMC has deliberately and intentionally disobeyed the HC order and the same amounts to contempt of the court. While seeking compliance of the previous order, the petition also seeks directions to form policy to stop releasing sewage into the Mithi river, by laying a drainage system in the vicinity and imposing a penalty on the dwellers and industrial units in case they are found discharging the same in the river. The NGO sought from HC to appoint a panel of experts to assist the court while deciding the issues raised in the petition. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/contempt-petition-moved-in-bombay-hc-against-bmc-for-not-laying-sewage-lines/story-AEIeWP4LSoF6EJvNRzzp8L.html
31-12-2020||Mumbai||After drop during Covid-19 lockdown, noise pollution in Mumbai on the rise in December||Noise pollution levels had dropped significantly during the lockdown but have picked up since restrictions were lifted in September, according to measurements by the Awaaz Foundation.The foundation measured noise levels in residential and commercial areas of Mumbai, including Bandra, SV Road, Dadar and Mohammed Ali Road during the year.Before a statewide lockdown was announced in March to curb the spread of Covid-19, decibel (dB) levels, consisting mainly of traffic noise, ranged from about 65dB to 105dB. According to a 2018 NEERI (National Environmental Engineering Research Institute) report, noise pollution in Mumbai can be attributed mainly to traffic.However, with the government announcing a statewide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, vehicular traffic came to standstill and noise pollution levels dropped. Between March and May, the decibel levels remained in the range of 41 to 64dB.“Immediately after the lockdown began in March when vehicular traffic was almost at a complete standstill, noise levels were lowest. In the subsequent months, when the lockdown rules were eased, vehicular traffic resumed, and noise pollution levels started going up again,” said Sumaira Abdulali, founder of Awaaz.In May and June, Awaaz measured noise levels in the range of 52.9 to 89.8dB.In September, when Unlock 4 was announced, noise levels were measured at 64dB to 90.5dB. In December, noise levels were between 64.6dB and 95.6dB.“While currently, the levels are still below the pre-lockdown phase, the noise levels are significantly higher than what was recorded during the first phase of the lockdown,” Abdulali said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-drop-during-covid-19-lockdown-noise-pollution-in-mumbai-on-the-rise-in-december/story-qpMsMuBcYdmCbQANxcD0gM.html
31-12-2020||Kolkata||Covaxin trial: West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim takes second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim, who volunteered for the phase-3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, was administered the second dose on Wednesday. Hakim was administered the first dose on December 2 when the trial kick-started in Kolkata. He was the first volunteer in Kolkata. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who launched the trial, had also expressed his interest to volunteer. Doctors, however, said that he had some co-morbidities. Also read: Bars, restaurants to restrict entry, limited parking at Connaught PlaceKolkata’s National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) was one of the institutes selected to conduct the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation-approved regulatory trials.“The volunteer’s health parameters would be monitored over the next two weeks and he has to undergo some tests,” said a NICED official. The results of the phase-3 trial of Covaxin will be available in November 2021, ICMR-NICED officials said. An interim report may be available by May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covaxin-trial-west-bengal-minister-firhad-hakim-takes-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-xkYyyzgwoIx85llKXZN6tN.html
31-12-2020||City||3-year-old girl raped and murdered at Pen in Palghar, 1 arrested||A three-year-old girl from Pen in Raigad district was allegedly raped and murdered by a 34-year-old man on Tuesday night. Police arrested the accused within a few hours. He was earlier in jail for another rape case and had come out on bail just 10 days ahead of the attack.According to police, the girl stayed with her family at Adivashi Pada near Vadgaon. Her parents work as labourers. On Tuesday night, she was sleeping with her parents.“Their hut had no proper doors. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused, Adesh Patil, entered their house and took the girl to an isolated place behind a school. There he raped the girl and later killed her,” said Bibha Chavan, deputy superintendent of police of Raigad.The girl’s body was found behind the school in the early hours of Wednesday.“Some people from that area had spotted Patil in the neighbourhood on Tuesday night. We also called our dog squad and based on the circumstantial evidence, we arrested him. He has been booked for kidnapping, rape and murder under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,” another police officer said.It is not clear how the accused killed the girl. Police suspect that the girl died when she was being assaulted by the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-year-old-girl-raped-and-murdered-at-pen-in-palghar-1-arrested/story-ihCGzehPKv8rzAoCW71qaP.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for firing at lab technician in Chandigarh’s Sector 22||Two months after a lab technician was shot at in Sector 22, two persons involved in the firing were arrested in Patiala. The accused, identified as Inderpal Singh of Sector 22 and Harpreet Singh, alias Honey, of Ropar, were arrested by the crime investigation agency of Patiala police and will be brought to Chandigarh on production warrants. A .32 bore pistol used in the crime was also recovered from their possession.Amrik Singh, 48, was shot in his right thigh outside his house in Sector 22 on October 25 morning. Police said that accused Inderpal had wanted to marry the victim’s daughter, but the proposal was refused by the father.Inderpal had then hatched the plan to avenge the refusal and Harpreet had fired the gunshots. A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-for-firing-at-lab-technician-in-chandigarh-s-sector-22/story-vFVUcrM28l8I3oZF0XbJVP.html
31-12-2020||Noida||Businessman alleges robbery of ₹13 lakh||Noida: A businessman from Dadri has alleged that he was robbed of ₹13 lakh by four unidentified men at gunpoint on Wednesday evening. Three teams have been formed to investigate the case, the police said.The victim was identified as Rakesh Kumar Agrawal who was on his way to Ghaziabad when the incident took place. He owns a grain shop in Dadri. In his complaint, Agrawal has alleged that he was travelling in his Swift car and had ₹13.2 lakh with him when his car was intercepted by four men on two motorcycles in the Bisada road area. Two of the men got down from their bikes and took the bag containing the money from me, said the complainant.The men decamped with his money after holding him at gunpoint, the police said.“He said that the bag containing money was snatched from him. However, there was no firing involved in the incident and Agrawal did not sustain any injuries. As soon as information was shared with police, teams were rushed to the spot,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.Police officials said that based on the victim’s complaint, a case of robbery (section 392 of the Indian Penal Code) has been registered at the Dadri police station against the unidentified suspects.A senior police official said that three teams have been formed to investigate the case. Police officials are trying to get CCTV footage from near the crime spot in order to identify the suspects who had kept their faces covered. The victim has not cast suspicions on anyone, said police.However, a police officer who did not wish to be named said that there are inconsistencies in the statement of the victim and all possible angles, including this being an insider job, are being looked at.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/businessman-alleges-robbery-of-13-lakh/story-jPo6xeFhhUicxrWMiLiGYP.html
31-12-2020||Noida||Fire reported at e-commerce site’s warehouse in Noida||Noida: A fire in the warehouse of an e-commerce firm in Noida’s sector 81 on Wednesday morning damaged goods worth crores. No injuries were reported. Fire department officials said they were informed of the fire at around 1.15 am.“The guard at the building reported it. The building has three storeys and a basement and the fire was on the second floor, which was the warehouse. We were able to contain it to that floor,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer (CFO).It took 12 fire tenders from the department and a private one over 10 hours to douse the fire, although it was contained by 6 am, said an official.Officials suspected a short-circuit to be the reason for the fire.“There were no casualties, but one of our constables suffered an injury to his hand and was provided treatment. The warehouse was packed and goods worth crores were damaged. The others floors are occupied by different companies and the fire did not spread there,” said Singh.Later that night, another fire was reported from a scrap warehouse in sector 7.“It was a small fire which was probably caused by a short-circuit too. However, there were no people around and there wasn’t too much damage. We were able to contain it within an hour of receiving information,” said the CFO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-reported-at-e-commerce-site-s-warehouse-in-noida/story-1Wrye7KI7xXcUnP39uHThP.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Despite dip in challans during lockdown, speeding cases in Chandigarh see 250% rise in 2020||Even though the number of challans this year came down as vehicular movement remained on the lower side during the lockdown, the cases of speeding saw a rise of around 250%. Till December 27, 30,710 challans had been issued for speeding; this is the highest since 2014 for which data was available with the traffic police. In 2019, 8,814 challans had been issued for speeding for the same time duration.The reason for the spike can be attributed to the use of the three automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems since May 2020. Rather than have a whole naka to check speeding, the machines are set up with only a couple of people to operate it. Traffic violation information slip (TVIS) challans are automatically issued against the defaulters.Speaking about this PRO of the traffic police deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Traffic East) Charanjit Singh Virk said, “The high number of challans has come from the ANPR systems. These also keep our cops safe from Covid as no interaction is required with the drivers. We will continue their use in 2021 till the driving habits of the people in the city improve.”Speeding has remained the cause of over 90% of fatal accidents in the city over the years. Violators are fined ₹1,000 for the first offence and ₹2,000 for subsequent offences. The driving licence is also cancelled for a period of three months.In total, 1,71,145 challans have been issued by the traffic police till December 27 and ₹8,62,19,910 collected in fines. In comparison, 2,69,854 challans were issued in 2019 and ₹5,81,51,850 was collected.Speeding aside, there has been a fall in the number of challans issued for other offences. Drunken driving saw the lowest dip, coming down to 322 challans from 596 issued in 2019. This happened after the use of alcometers was discontinued around March after PGIMER had advised the traffic police to use disposable mouthpieces in the alcometers.Member of National Road Safety Council Kamaljeet Singh Soi said, “In 2021, the traffic police should continue the same momentum. Speeding needs to be checked at night as this is the time when people are most likely to indulge in fast driving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-dip-in-challans-during-lockdown-speeding-cases-in-chandigarh-see-250-rise-in-2020/story-73ZvOLkjBHJgb14RKyKjbP.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||AAP installs 5 Wi-Fi hotspots at Singhu for protesting farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday installed five Wi-Fi hotspots at Singhu border to help protesting farmers to access better internet connectivity. “It gives us immense joy to make a small contribution towards the farmers’ movement. Now, protesting farmers at the Singhu border will be able to make video calls to their loved ones without any network glitches. Not only are we ready to install as many Wi-Fi hotspots as required by our farmer brothers, but if similar demands arise from Tikri and other borders, we will install free Wi-Fi hotspots there as well,” said the AAP’s national spokesperson and co-in charge of Punjab unit Raghav Chadha. He further said, “CM Arvind Kejriwal has always maintained that we must fight for the farmers till our last breath. We must support them in their historic movement. We had asked our farmer brothers for feedback on areas at Singhu with poor mobile reception. Based on their inputs, CM Arvind Kejriwal has installed Wi-Fi hotspots. Each hotspot will cover an area of over 31,000 square metres.” Also Read | ‘Support historic movement’: AAP leader Raghav Chadha sets up free WiFi at Singhu border for farmersLarge groups of farmers protesting against three contentious farm laws have gathered at Singhu border for more than a month now. The AAP has supported their demands and helped them with tents, water, toilets and other basic facilities. The party had also voted against the three bills (now laws) in both Houses of the Parliament in September. Last month, the AAP government in Delhi had also rejected Delhi police’s proposal to turn some stadiums into temporary jails to lodge the protesting farmers. The Delhi BJP had on Tuesday criticised the party for misleading farmers and called the act of installing Wi-Fi for farmers as a gimmick. Davinder Singh, a protester at Singhu border, said, “Free Wi-Fi service is already available at the protest site. Many locals are also sharing their Wi-Fi connections for free for the protesting farmers. A new Wi-Fi facility will further improve the connectivity and help the farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-installs-5-wi-fi-hotspots-at-singhu-for-protesting-farmers/story-QinaZI8XNGoAqql2NvTFvM.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Tiger cub dies at Delhi zoo weeks after mother’s death||A 19-day-old male tiger cub died in Delhi zoo on Tuesday due to acute illness, weeks after the death of its mother due to birth complications, officials said on Wednesday. Ramesh Pandey, director of the National Zoological Park said a six-year-old white tigress named Nirbhaya had given birth to two cubs on December 10. “While she managed to deliver a cub, the mother developed complications due to her inability to release the other one and died on December 14. One of her cubs died during a C-section that was being performed on the tigress. The other cub was being hand-reared in the veterinary hospital by an expert team, but the efforts did not yield positive results,” Pandey said.Pandey said the cub died of “acute complications” on Tuesday. “The post-mortem examination has been performed, and its viscera is being sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly, for further examinations,” he said.Meanwhile, Pandey said zoo authorities have made all winter arrangements for the animals including use of paddy straws, teachers, and agronet covers. Delhi has been experiencing cold-wave like conditions with temperatures dropping below 4-5 degree Celsius. At 3.6 degree Celsius, Wednesday morning was also the coldest day of the season. “We have also started providing special food including soups, jaggery, and groundnuts to the animals in order to beat the cold,” Pandey said.The Delhi zoo, which is closed until January 31 because of Covid-19 restrictions, currently has a pair of normal coated tigers and five white tigers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tiger-cub-dies-at-delhi-zoo-weeks-after-mother-s-death/story-XPr8KsyBRHzVAWzQ2LJaDP.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||After a 9-month hiatus, traffic police to check drunk drivers on New Year eve||After a gap of nearly nine months when the Delhi Traffic Police did not issue a single challan for driving drunk due to Covid-19 infection fears, the force will be back to the streets on New Year’s eve to check drink driving and restrict vehicles from proceeding towards Connaught Place from 8pm on Thursday and possibly towards the India Gate on Friday.However, instead of the alcometers, the traffic cops would be relying on their “instinct and experience” to identify drunk drivers and then send them for tests. “Since using alcometers puts the police as well as the motorists at the risk of catching infection, we will be relying solely on our observation and experience to halt drunk drivers. They will then be subjected to a blood test and action will be taken against them if they are found to be drunk,” said Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of police (traffic).For this, officials and doctors will be deployed across the city. “A sub-divisional magistrate and two doctors will be posted at the Parliament Street police station for violators in New Delhi district,” Agrawal said citing an example.Agarwal, however, said that the focus will be keeping the drunk drivers off the streets to make the roads safer rather than garnering high prosecution figures. “Our primary aim will be to regulate traffic,” said Agrawal.The restrictions against vehicles headed towards Connaught Place, meanwhile, will kick in from 8pm on Thursday and will continue till the New Year celebrations end.Also Read | Restobars at 50% capacity, strict vigil by officials as city rings in a New YearAt the inner, middle and outer circles of Connaught Place, only those vehicles will be allowed to ply which have valid passes. These include customers who have made prior booking with restaurants and thus have the passes, and those providing services to the restaurants and bars in CP.The customers holding these passes too will have to enter CP before 8pm.All other vehicles will be halted at separate points leading to CP and will have to walk to the restaurants and bars after parking their cars along certain lanes identified by the traffic police.Points after which vehicles won’t be allowed to proceed towards CP include the roundabouts of Mandi House, Bengali Market, Ashram Marg-Chitragupt Marg Crossing, Gole Market and other points such as North foot of Ranjit Singh Flyover, Minto Road-DDU Marg Crossing, Patel Chowk, Panchkuian Road-Bangla Sahib Lane, etc.Agrawal said that while the traffic police will be deploying its full strength on the city’s roads on Thursday evening and on Friday, they are anticipating lesser rush due to Covid-19 precautions and because restaurants are being allowed to operate up to only 50% of their capacity and unlike previous occasions, no special programmes are scheduled.That is a reason why no restrictions have been imposed on motorists heading towards India Gate. But restrictions could kick in on Friday morning if the situation is different, said Agrawal.In recent years, India gate has witnessed a large gathering of citizens, possibly tens of thousands, who visit the place on January 1. “On New Year’s eve, people are generally visiting restaurants. But if we see heavy pedestrian movement around India Gate, we will not allow vehicles to go through the C-Hexagon after 10 am on Friday,” the officer said.In that case, vehicles will be diverted from a host of points identified by the traffic police and the information about which will be relayed over the traffic police’s social media accounts as well as their personnel deployed at those restriction points.The police have further advised motorists to avoid Bhairon Marg/Mathura Road between Nizamuddin and Pragati Maidan in anticipation that there could be rush at the Delhi zoo.Diversions in an around Connaught Place and Ashoka Road too are possible if there is heavy pedestrian movement, Agrawal said, advising visitors to opt for public transport over private vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-a-9-month-hiatus-traffic-police-to-check-drunk-drivers-on-new-year-eve/story-FUsJi66sc1yYoEdLAmx48O.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Restobars at 50% capacity, strict vigil by officials as city rings in a New Year||This New Year’s Eve, all the restobars in the city will operate at 50% of their capacity, dance parties and live concerts will be missing, and a host of safety arrangements will be in place as authorities keep a strict watch to ensure all Covid-19 precautions are being followed. Guests will be required to sit on alternate chairs and will be allowed access only if they wear a mask and submit themselves to thermal screening, the management of different city restobars have made clear in their rules for toned-down New Year’s celebrations this year . Delhi government officials said an increased number of government and police teams will be out across the busy markets of the city to enforce Covid-19 regulations and to prosecute violators. A host of meetings between police and government agencies with representatives of hotels, restaurants and bars over the last week ended with business owners assuring that they’ll operate at half their capacity. While enforcement agencies will be out ensure social distancing on the streets, the onus of ensuring that only permissible number of guests are allowed in restaurants and bars will be on the owners. Also Read | Covid-19: Strict measures in place in Bengaluru ahead of New Year celebrations“If the owners do not understand their responsibility, they’ll be booked under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant) and under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). In meetings with the police, restaurants and bars agreed on putting a cap on the number of guests in each business place. “There are hardly any place that will have a gathering of more than 100 guests,” said another senior police officer. The officer said that police personnel in civil dresses will be randomly visiting restaurants and bars to count the number of guests on their premises. The celebrations are expected to be relatively simple this year. Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of police (traffic), said that restaurant and bar owners have agreed not to hold special programmes which could lead to crowding, in view of the pandemic. So, there will no usual dance parties, rain dance or even live music concerts, said Manpreet Singh, treasurer of National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI). “We are unlikely to organise even live music concerts, not only because of Covid-19 restrictions but also due to lack of audience. We have already suspended live music events at restaurants because of lesser number of patrons due to the pandemic. However, light music is allowed,” he said. Also Read | After a 9-month hiatus, traffic police to check drunk drivers on New Year eveAkshay Anand, owner Toy Room Club at Ophelia Ashoka Hotel said, “We are not doing any events nor are we calling any special artist for the night (New Year’s eve), because big artists attract huge crowds, and we don’t want people to stand and dance and take any chances with social distancing. We will only do an à la carte menu dinner as per the government’s standard operating procedures.”The NRAI has also prepared its own standard operating procedures, under which thermal screening and entry of guests with masks on will be mandatory. Business owners said many restaurants and bars already are equipped with special ultraviolet light filters (used in hospitals to kill germs and viruses), air filters and air purifiers. NRAI treasurer Singh said that all staff members at restaurants will don face shields and hand gloves. Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association, said that while the restaurant owners and staff will ensure there is no lapse at their end, it is the government administration and the police that must take charge of ensuring that laid down norms are not violated. “We will ensure that no crowding takes place inside restaurants and shops, but onus lies with the government to discourage revellers at public places from violating norms,” Bhargava said. The police said they formed separate teams to check tviolations. “We have constituted separate teams for ensuring there are no incidents of cracker bursting, harassment and public drinking,” said DCP Thakur. Several stretches of roads have been identified as being notorious for motorcycle stunts and drunk driving and police barricades have been set up at those points. The police in some districts will also be equipped with sound level metres to ensure the music is below the permissible limits. Delhi lieutenant Governor, Anil Baijal, on Wednesday chaired a meeting with the police to strengthen their presence in key areas and to ensure “strict enforcement of Covid compliant behaviour” and women safety. The Delhi government, meanwhile, is scaling up its awareness campaigns, especially targeting the younger population, even as it gears up to prosecute violators on the eve of New Year, said Delhi’s chief secretary, Vijay Dev. Over the last one week, a senior official in the revenue department said, several meetings had been held with market associations, resident welfare associations, trader groups, and management bodies of prominent shopping arcades, pubs, restaurants and hotels. Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “We have to be extra alert this year in the light of the potential spread of the new UK variant of Covid-19. We cannot let our guards down.” During the festive season , when there were reports of crowding in markets across the city, an average of around 6,122 cases were reported every day in November and 3,451 cases were reported in October . Till Wednesday, four cases of the new Covid-19 strain that has emerged in UK — which experts fear could be more contagious — had been recorded in Delhi, putting the government on high alert. The overall Covid-19 situation in Delhi seems to be in control with the number of cases and overall positivity rate steadily declining in Delhi over the last one month. As on Wednesday, Delhi recorded 677 new Covid-19 cases -- with a positivity rate of 0.80% -- and 21 new deaths, the government’s health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restobars-at-50-capacity-strict-vigil-by-officials-as-city-rings-in-a-new-year/story-EQ9uK32BJIGZ3VKIVywWtL.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi shivers at 3.5°C, may be colder today||Delhi on Wednesday recorded the lowest minimum temperature of the season at 3.5 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, adding that it could further drop on Thursday. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, fell to 3.5 degrees Celsius. This was three degrees below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 16.4 degree Celsius, four notches below the season’s normal. The minimum temperature at the Palam observatory was 5.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature there settled at 15.2 degree Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “On Thursday, the minimum temperature is expected to go down to around 3 degrees Celsius. From Friday, however, the temperature will start increasing,” Srivastava said. He said that New Year’s Day is likely to bring relief, when the minimum temperature is forecast to rise to around 5 degrees Celsius and to around 7 degrees Celsius on January 2 and 3. “A fresh western disturbance is likely to hit the western Himalayan region around January 4, which may bring light rains and thundershowers to the plains, including Delhi. This will be an active western disturbance and along with light rain the temperature will rise,” he said. Also Read | Cold wave conditions prevail in North IndiaMeanwhile, the air quality on Wednesday deteriorated marginally as AQI fell to 290, in the poor category, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings. On Tuesday, the average daily AQI was 265, also in the poor zone. IMD scientists, however, warned that the pollution levels are expected to rise in the coming days. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said the air quality will deteriorate from Wednesday night and reach the very poor zone.  “For the next two days, the AQI is expected to remain in the very poor zone. But from Saturday, with the impact of an active western disturbance passing over Delhi, the air quality will show a significant improvement,” Soni said. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said that “calm surface winds with low boundary layer height will lead to extremely low ventilation conditions on December 31 and January 1”.” “AQI may even touch severe category for a short period on New Year’s eve. A western disturbance is likely to affect the region by January 3, and improved surface winds speed, ventilation and rainfall are likely to bring relief,” the Safar analysis read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-records-season-s-lowest-minimum-temp-on-wednesday/story-UeapLintT1r0bX9gkFF2HK.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||8 UK returnees have new strain of Covid, 7 of them isolated in Lok Nayak Hospital||Eight of the 11 passengers who had tested positive for Covid-19 at Delhi’s India Gandhi International airport have the new UK variant of Sars-CoV2, which potentially spreads 70% faster according to experts. Of the eight, seven are admitted to a special isolation ward of Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital. The eighth person infected with the new variant of the virus was a woman, who escaped while being transported from Delhi airport to Lok Nayak Hospital, and travelled to Andhra Pradesh. “The eight people who were found to have the new variant of the infection were among those who tested positive at the airport when the passengers from UK were being tested for two days. The genome sequencing of the other samples is yet to be done,” said a senior official from the Delhi government’s health department. All eight are either Indians or Persons of Indian origin, the official said. “Some of the people who tested positive had also gone to other places and then returned to the hospital,” the official said. On the second day of mandatory testing, another man — along with the woman from Andhra Pradesh — had given the authorities a slip and travelled to Ludhiana. He has been brought back to Lok Nayak Hospital by the authorities.Read more| Possible that Covid-19 UK strain entered India before, says AIIMS directorThe Indian government had suspended air travel from the United Kingdom from December 23 onwards after a new variant of Sar-CoV-2 was found to be circulating in London and other parts of that country. The new variant – which has 23 mutations, including one on the receptor binding protein on the spike used by the virus to enter the human cells – is thought to be 70% more transmissible, raising concerns of super-spreading events. None of the people found to have the new variant had severe symptoms of the disease. “All the patients have mild symptoms; none of them are in need of oxygen support. They are all isolated in separate rooms and will be monitored till the infectious stage is over,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. The 2,000-bed Lok Nayak Hospital was designated as the nodal centre for isolation of people who are suspected to have the new variant of the viral infection — those who have either returned from the UK between November 25 and December 21 or those who have tested positive after coming in contact with UK returnees. The hospital has set up a special ward for UK returnees and their contacts, who are each allotted separate rooms within the ward. So far, the hospital has at least 35 people admitted in this special ward. The genome sequencing of many others are awaited. Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “The government will leave no stones unturned in ensuring testing, tracing and isolation to prevent possible spread of the new variant of the virus.” Read more| New Covid-19 strain detected in Kolkata man after return from the UK“Rigorous contact tracing is being done in compliance with the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of health,” said Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev. The SOP of the Union health ministry says that once a UK-returned person tests Covid-19 positive, all of his or her contacts are to be isolated in institutional quarantine. “The contacts of all UK returned Covid-19 patients who have been identified so far are already lodged in a government-run isolation facility in Chhatarpur or a paid facility at a hotel in Aerocity,” said an official, on condition of anonymity. Around 14,000 passengers arrived at the Delhi airport between November 25 and December 23, of which around 1,500 are Delhi residents. However, HT reported on Wednesday, hundreds of them have so far evaded the city government’s outreach programme through incorrect and inadequate contact tracing details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eight-uk-returnees-have-new-strain-of-covid-seven-of-them-isolated-in-lok-nayak-hospital/story-s4VFaDgMD7mWfIy0O32A4H.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies tree transplantation policy announced in October||The Delhi government on Wednesday notified the tree transplantation policy (2020) that was announced in October this year, under which at least 80% of trees affected by a construction project will have to be transplanted. Construction agencies will also have to ensure that 80% of transplanted trees survive after being relocated. The policy also mandates that 10 saplings be planted for every tree cut for development projects. “No tree shall be unnecessarily removed in the area identified for development projects by the applicant. Trees should be properly preserved, and no trees should be unnecessarily removed in development projects,” Delhi government said in a statement on Wednesday. “When on-site preservation is not possible, scientific transplantation of all the affected trees shall be the new norm instead of felling of trees. At least 80% of the trees that are affected by developmental activities and cannot be preserved on-site shall be required to be transplanted,” the statement added. Read more| Geared up to tackle new Covid strain, says CM Arvind Kejriwal as city witnesses 703 new casesThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had on October 9, approved the transplantation policy for the preservation of trees in the Capital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the state government was determined to protect the city’s environment and added that the move would put a check on trees being felled for development work. “To ensure maximum chances of survival of saplings or trees planted through the compensatory plantation, it shall be mandatory for all trees planted to be a minimum of six feet in height and area as well as individual seedlings/trees to be geo-tagged,” the government statement said. A government spokesperson said the policy notifies a proper procedure that is required to be followed for tree transplantation at any project site. “A tree survey shall be carried out at the time of project feasibility assessment and site identification to obtain the required information for developing site planning and tree preservation proposals. The applicant shall select one of the technical agencies among the agencies empanelled for carrying out tree transplantation work,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-notifies-tree-transplantation-policy-announced-in-october/story-2fCrSxBXxJJwxZdgGUPs6L.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: More women join protesters at Delhi’s Singhu border||The number of women protesters swelled at Singhu border on Wednesday with several more groups joining in from parts of Punjab and Haryana. Majority of these women are either farmers or from the families of farmers, and have reached the Delhi-Haryana border to extend solidarity.Donning orange dupattas on their heads, a group of around 40 women from Panipat were seen sitting right in front of the main stage set up at the protest site on Wednesday. The group identified itself as “shabd mandali” or “kirtan mandali’. “We sing devotional songs during religious events. All of us are daughters, sisters, and wives of farmers. We know the gravity of the situation. The government has left farmers and their families with no choice but to come out on the roads,” said Amrit Kaur (42).The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered its 35th day on Wednesday.Few steps away, another group of women from Amritsar was spotted with all of them wearing green dupattas on their heads. Among them, Harpreet Kaur, 56, said, “Whenever a group of women travels together to the protest sites, they decide to keep a colour code so that we can easily recognise our group members in the crowd. Around 100 women from different villages in Amritsar and other districts in Punjab arrived here last night to participate in the movement. Most of us are under huge debts already and that’s why we can’t let the government make our situation worse by introducing these new “black laws’’.”Also Read: Farm laws stir: Breakthrough as govt accepts two demands of farmersAnother group of around 40 women from Tarn Taran Sahib, all of them donning yellow dupattas, were also spotted at the protest site on Wednesday. “Our husbands and brothers are already here participating in the protest. We were taking care of our crops back home as of now. We are small farmers with meagre income. The new farm laws will rob us off that as well. We can’t let that happen to us. So, we decided to join the protest here,” said Paramjeet Kaur, 27, who has left behind her two-year-old daughter back home to participate in the protest.Some women, who had left for their hometowns earlier after facing difficulties due to lack of toilets and private spaces, also returned to the protest site now. “We had been informed that some women-only toilets and all-women tents were installed at the border. Things have become more comfortable now. More women are soon coming from other parts of Punjab and Haryana to join the protest,” said Mahinder Kaur, 45, a farmer from Patiala.Meanwhile, the situation remained peaceful at Delhi borders on Wednesday with protesters seen shouting slogans against the government, singing songs of resistance, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-women-join-protesters-at-singhu-border/story-mbmcQUTzCS02g0MYuOpkAK.html
31-12-2020||City||Delhi Govt vacates covid care centre at CWG village, likely to be used as vaccination booth||The Delhi government is vacating the premises of the 500-bed covid care centre in east Delhi’s Commonwealth Games (CWG) village, said a senior government official on Wednesday. It is now one of the possible booths among others where vaccination drive would be undertaken, officials who did not wish to be named, said. The 500-bed centre -- that was meant for people with mild or no symptoms who did not have sufficient space for home isolation – started functioning on July 8, when Delhi was witnessing its first surge in Covid infections. However, the centre saw very few admissions and the government decided to shut it down like many other Covid Care Centres. “There were very few people being admitted to the facility. It did not make any sense to keep such a huge facility running and hence a decision to close it down was taken,” said an official in the know of the matter.The official further said that the space is being considered for one of the booths that will be set up for vaccination drives. “The government is in the process of identifying the booths in the city and it is being considered as one. No final decision on the matter has been taken yet,” the official said. Read more| 677 fresh coronavirus cases in Delhi, positivity rate 0.8%The Delhi government will set up booths across the city to vaccinate 5.1 million people in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination. Each booth will be staffed by five persons, including one trained vaccinator who will give the shot to 100 people in a day, as per the government plan. “The CWG centre has provided patient care to around 1,800 individuals since July 8, of which around 160 had to be moved to the hospital on having developed fever, breathlessness or other severe symptoms. All patients have recovered,” said a senior official in the revenue department.For medical emergencies, it was attached to Lok Nayak – Delhi government’s biggest Covid-19 hospital.On November 5, when Delhi was amid the third and worst phase of severe uptick in Covid-19 cases, covid care centres across the city had 1,028 beds occupied out of 7887 – the highest so far. On Tuesday, only 65 beds were occupied out of 7922. As on Wednesday, only 70 beds in covid care centres were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-vacates-covid-care-centre-at-cwg-village-likely-to-be-used-as-vaccination-booth/story-2p92MoUqkz52fVMBNthjZI.html
31-12-2020||Pune||Security agency staff under Pune police scanner following crimes linked to no background checks||The Pune police have started a drive against security agencies that operate without a licence, and hire persons without local police issuing a character certificate. Two cases have been registered so far in the city, involving crimes committed by persons working for private service agencies. “We are going step-by-step. We are conducting drives to check if guards deployed are from registered agencies or not. Now there are two ways of doing that - either go to each agency office and check, or check with the guards that are deployed at societies and other places. We will consider cases of those who have applied for a permit and are awaiting permit. The same will be applicable to care-taker agencies as well,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police. The drive comes in the light of house-thefts and incidents of thefts and robberies at the houses of senior citizens. Of the total 339 theft cases registered in the city, a total of 140 involve the main-door of the house being tampered with; 63 are involve locks of houses being cut; 78 are shop shutters being pulled apart; while 22 are entry into the premises through a window, according to police. “There is a focus from the commissioner to streamline these agencies. So, we are checking how many of these agencies exist and how many are registered. These agencies avoid registration to evade taxes and some indulge in criminal activities as well,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Crime, Pune. The number of theft cases have reduced from 455 in 2019 to 337 in 2020, owing to the lockdown. Of the 455 cases in 2019, 276 were detected while 176 cases have been detected in 2020 out of 337. “We were conducting a trial as per commissioner sir’s orders. Beat marshals and officers while patrolling were inquiring with security guards they were coming across if their agencies were registered. We were contacting their agencies and cross-checking their permits with our record. So we found one and the owner said he did not have a license or character certificates of any of his employees. So we registered a case,” said senior police inspector Dilip Shinde of Koregaon Park police station. A case under Sections 4 (Persons or Private Security Agency not to engage or provide private security guard without licence) of Private Security Agency (Regulation) Act, 2005 was registered at Koregaon Park police station. A similar case was also registered at Khadak police station on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-agency-staff-under-police-scanner-following-crimes-linked-to-no-background-checks/story-ICTvJC0bPywR9zo1IxwpHM.html
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal is Panchkula mayor||In a closely contested mayoral election in Panchkula, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kulbhushan Goyal trumped the Congress’ Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by 2,057 votes.BJP also secured a majority in the 20-member municipal corporation House by winning 11 seats along with its alliance partner Jannayak Janata Party. Congress won seven seats, and two went to Independent candidates.BJP was faster off the blocks in starting campaigning, roped in party bigwigs, including Haryana and Himachal Pradesh chief ministers, and proved to be better organised at the grassroots.Local MLA and Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta credited the “developmental work done by the party in the last six years” for the victory. “People have voted for the development. Earlier they elected me and now Goyal. We are grateful to the residents,” he said.This is third successive victory for BJP against Congress in Panchkula, once considered a stronghold of the grand old party. Gupta has won the last two assembly elections, and now with this win in the Panchkula MC, the power of balance has securely shifted towards the saffron party. The last victory for Congress was in 2013, when Ahluwalia was selected the mayor and the party won majority in the House with 12 seats. Talking to media after his victory, Goyal, said: “We could have won by a much higher margin, but the voting percentage was lower than expected than in previous years.” On December 27, only 55.9% of the electorate had turned up to vote. In the last MC election, the turnout stood at 64.1%.For Goyal, a real estate developer, this is first success at electoral politics in two attempts. Fighting the assembly elections on INLD ticket, he had lost to Gupta in 2014. He later joined BJP in 2019.Neck and neck till the endThe counting took place amid tight police security. It started at 8am and results were announced at around 3:15pm.It was for the first time there was a direct contest for the post of mayor. There were six candidates in the fray though it was mainly a two-cornered contest.In the first two rounds of counting, held at the Government College for Girls, Sector 14, Ahluwalia was ahead with a small margin. But, with the third round, Goyal reversed the trend and maintained his lead till the end. The gap between the two though decreased after the counting for rural and semi-urban wards started.In the end, out of total 1,03,768 votes polled, Goyal got 49,860 and Ahluwalia could secure only 47,803.The urban-rural divide in voting was also witnessed in ward-wise results. Congress and Independent candidates fared better in these wards, while BJP was stronger in urban sectors.For instance, Congress won in wards covering Rajeev Colony, Kot, Mattawala, Dabkauri, Toka, Khangersra, Alipur, Behar, Naggal, Jalauli, Khatauli, Sakhdarshanpur, Railly, Kundi, Ashiyana and Madanpur, while Independents won in wards covering Moginand and Ramgarh villages.‘We will make Panchkula a smart city’New mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, 60, has been living in the city for the past 36 years. Earlier with INLD, he joined BJP just two years ago. A civil engineer by education, he is into construction business and promoter of Amravati Enclave. Besides being the president of Panchkula Gaushala Trust, he is also the secretary of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, and has been involved in social work. After winning the mayoral seat, Goyal shared his priorities for the city. “It’s the blessings of the people of Panchkula, who have showed trust in the party. We will make Panchkula a smart city. Making the city free from stray cattle and stray dogs is another priority,” he said, adding that with the BJP’s government at the Centre and in the state, “we will ensure overall development of the city”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kulbhushan-goyal-of-bjp-elected-panchkula-s-new-mayor/story-4ASXQBasooJXpxw56uYURL.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Plan to party hard on New Years? Delhiites, be ready for a blood test instead of breath test!||How are you planning to celebrate this New Year’s Eve? If you want to bid the year goodbye by partying hard and getting drunk, then be prepared to give a blood test. Yes! This year, Delhi Police has decided to get blood tests done to check cases of drunk and driving. Informing about the plan, Manish Aggarwal, Joint CP, Traffic, Delhi, says, “We expect a lesser crowd this year due to coronavirus, but our arrangements would be as strict as previous years. Due to coronavirus, this time we will refrain from using alcometer, and have asked Delhi government to provide us doctors who will conduct the blood test. In and around the area of Connaught Place, this test will be conducted at Parliament Street while for other areas, the suspect will be taken to the nearest hospital. They [defaulters] will be subjected to the medical test to check the quantity of alcohol [in their blood]. We have also asked restaurants to allow entry only after a pre-booking, and issue parking labels especially in areas such as Connaught Place and Hauz Khas.” Those denizens who thought they would finally party to bid the corona-year a befitting goodbye, are sceptical now. Aayush Gupta, a resident of Faridabad who had plans to celebrate New Years in Khan Market, says, “This is a little scary to hear. I mean alcometer was fine, but blood test! Mujhe to injection se hi dar lagta hai, ab ya to piyunga nahi ya fir drive nahi karunga.” Another Delhiite, Sanghamitra Mallick, who lives in a PG in the Capital, has a similar reaction to this news, and says, “Ye sunne ke baad I’ve decided that at the time of going for the party, I’ll take the Metro, and while returning, we need to book a cab. I was okay driving down to the party venue till the time the cops checked with an alcometer, but blood test nahi karwa sakti mai to prove I’m not drunk beyond permissible limit. I understand why the Police is doing that, but it sounds so unsafe to go to a hospital to get checked for alcohol consumption in your blood. And I know certain ways to get rid of alcometer test, par blood test se kaise bachenge?” The restauranteurs say they have ensured all arrangements are in place to allow party lovers to enjoy even a safe experience in the pandemic - six feet distance, masks, sanitisers, pre-bookings etc. But, to discourage people from drunk driving, they will serve responsibly. “Our restaurant is hosting a New Year’s party that will follow all the government guidelines. Though the packages we have, allow unlimited food and drinks, it doesn’t mean we won’t take care of how much alcohol we are serving to our customers. It would not been the case that they can get a drink even after getting completely drunk. We will ensure that! Also if one will not be in a state to drive back home after party, we would encourage them to take a cab, and will make the necessary arrangements,” says Shaan Sarin, owner, TEO. And Ricky Sethi, owner, Talli Station, adds, “We’ve a permissible capacity number at our restaurant, and we will be strictly following that. For alcohol check, we will ensure that no mixing takes place.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plan-to-party-hard-on-new-years-delhiites-be-ready-for-a-blood-test-instead-of-breath-test/story-x8ilqM5C7lqn7Ch6XoigNN.html
31-12-2020||City||Covid shadow: GMADA scraps land acquisition, slams brakes on Eco City-3 in Mullanpur||Facing shortage of funds, poor response to its land pooling scheme and lately failing to get extension for acquisition, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has scrapped land acquisition for its Urban Estate Eco City-3 project at New Chandigarh, Mullanpur, bringing the project to a halt.The last date to begin the acquisition process was April 12. However, the Covid-19 lockdown affected its progress, and the state government did not allow extension.Under the project, GMADA had proposed to have residential, commercial and institutional properties after acquiring 322 acres in six villages - Rajgarh, Takipur, Kartarpur, Kansala and Hoshiarpur.In February, only 118 of 450 landowners had opted for land pooling.“The acquisition process has been scrapped as we have not got extension due to the Covid-19 lockdown. We may issue a fresh notification in future, but as of now the process is stalled. We will write a letter to the deputy commissioner informing him about the status,” Sanjeev Kumar, estate officer, GMADA.Another senior GMADA officer, on the condition of anonymity, said the previous date was postponed due to poor response to the land pooling scheme and shortage of funds, but now the lockdown forced the scheme shut.Under the Land Pooling Policy 2013, farmers are offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land. For instance, in case of acquisition of eight kanals, the landowner has two options: To either choose a 1,000 square yards developed residential site and a 200 square yards developed SCO site or a 500 square yards residential site with a 300 square yards SCO site.“Farmers did not find the prospect fruitful as they did not expect their properties to attract buyers due to the real estate market slump. Many of them are also cautious of investing with GMADA, as it has yet to even develop Eco City-2, for which the same scheme was rolled out five years ago,” a landowner said, wishing not to be named.In November last year, GMADA had approved the rates of acquisition for 322 acres in five villages, with compensation for farmers fixed between Rs 1.8 crore and Rs 2.4 crore per acre, depending on the village.The project, announced in 2016, was initially delayed as farmers did not show any interest. Later, a fresh notification was issued in December last year. GMADA has already extended the date for acquisition of 737 acres for another township, Aerotropolis, till November this year. The township is spread over 5,400 acres, an expansion of GMADA’s Aerocity near the Chandigarh International Airport.Other townships under GMADA are Knowledge City and IT City, also close to the airport, and Eco City-1 and 2, Edu City and Medi City, all in New Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-shadow-gmada-scraps-land-acquisition-slams-brakes-on-eco-city-3-in-mullanpur/story-qUYvVLIRIsE1MN0HkFBBzO.html
