09-01-2021||Bathinda||Mohinder Kaur files plaint against Kangana Ranaut||Mohinder Kaur of Bahadurgarh Jandian village here, who hit the headlines after Kangana Ranaut tweeted her picture claiming that she was the same “Dadi” who was part of the Shaheen Bagh protest, has filed a complaint against the actress.The complaint has been filed in a court here and a hearing has been fixed for January 11. In the complaint, filed though advocate Raghubir Singh Behniwal, Mohinder Kaur claimed that due to Kangana’s false tweet, she suffered grave mental tension, agony, botheration, harassment, humiliation, loss of reputation, defamation in eyes of her family members, relatives, co-villagers and public in large.Further, she also claimed that due to the allegation, she had fallen in her own estimation and also in the eyes of protesting farmers. The complaint also said Kangana had not apologised to her or farmers.Kangana had made the false tweet, without any reasonable and probable cause, she alleged. She also claimed that as she belonged to a farming family, she was supporting the farmers from day one against the new agricultural laws. She had gone to take part in the protest in Delhi to support peasants.Sharing a photo of the woman in the farmers’ protest, Kangana had tweeted: “Ha, ha, she is the same Dadi who had featured in Time Magazine for being the most powerful woman. And she is available for Rs 100.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/mohinder-kaur-files-plaint-against-kangana-ranaut-195714
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Sale dips amid bird flu scare||With the bird flu outbreak being reported in different states in the country, the sale and prices of poultry products have come down by around 40 per cent in the state.Wholesalers of poultry products said even as prices had come down, retailers had reduced the orders significantly as customers were apprehensive about eating chicken and eggs now in the view of bird flu scare.Balwinder Singh, a poultry product wholesaler operating in Bathinda for the past more than three decades, said, “Our daily sales of chicken and eggs have declined by up to 40 per cent in the past four days. While the wholesale rates of chicken have decreased from Rs 190 to Rs 158 per kg, the retail prices have come down from Rs 200 to Rs 160 now. Similarly, prices of eggs have also come down from Rs 666 to Rs 580 per 100 eggs. We are suffering losses.”Another wholesaler in Mansa district said, “Last year, it was Covid-19 that kept buyers away from poultry products, and now it is the bird flu. The sales have declined considerably. Since it is just the initial phase of the flu, it is possible that the sales will decline further in the coming days.”The sale of chicken in restaurants, hotels and dhabas has also been hit. The owner of a food outlet that sells cooked poultry products said, “People are scared of eating chicken and there is approximately 60 per cent fall in our daily sales now.”Harmeet Singh, a city resident, said, “I am avoiding eating chicken meat and eggs now due to the bird flu scare. Though the guidelines say that if cooked properly at the right temperature,there is no risk of catching the flu, nobody wants to take the risk. We can have eggs and chicken after the situation improves.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sale-dips-amid-bird-flu-scare-195740
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda farmers oppose land acquisition for project||Residents of six villages are up in arms against land acquisition for the six-lane Ajmer Green Field expressway passing through Jeeda and other villages in the district.This project of the union government has triggered unrest among villagers after the survey was conducted by the NHAI.Punjab farmers have started opposing the land acquisition for the expressway from Amritsar to Jamnagar. The farmers from villages in Bathinda district, where the land is to be acquired, gathered and staged a protest today outside the DC office.They alleged that they did not need the road, and could not give their land. They claimed that the highway would be taken out from the middle of the fields, due to which, their business would be affected, as they depended primarily on farming for their livelihood.They alleged that their fields would be divided into two parts and they would not be able to use the road.Jagjit Singh, head, Zameen Bachao Sangrash Committee, said, “If the government tries to take the land forcibly, we will intensify the struggle.”This highway is expected to cost Rs 30,000 crore. As much as 75 per cent of the highway would be in Rajasthan, farmers said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-farmers-oppose-land-acquisition-for-project-195805
09-01-2021||Bathinda||Illegal bridges erected over water channel in Bathinda||Illegal temporary bridges are coming up over a water channel in Rampura Phul and the Irrigation Department has not taken any action in this regard.As per the Irrigation Department records, there are five bridges on this 2 km stretch from the Kutia bridge to Irrigation Department rest house, but more than 12 bridges have been installed here.Instead of taking any concrete action, the Irrigation Department officials are claiming to have action by simply issuing notices.Moreover, these illegal makeshift passages are causing accidents. Two of these temporary bridges are close to the office of the SDO, Rampura Irrigation Department .An RTI activist, Rajinderpal Sharma, on December 31, 2019, had sought information about the number of bridges built by the Irrigation Department on the water channel at Rampura Phul.In a reply to his RTI on November 17, 2020, the department issued him a letter, in which it claimed that there were five approved bridges, while other nine bridges, which were built more than 20 years ago, had no records. It is also stated that was illegal to install a bridge without approval.Rajinderpal Sharma alleged that land mafia was quite active in the area and it had purchased a land near the water channel at a low price and later installed an illegal temporary bridge on the water channel. Afterwards, it had sold the land at a high price. He said he had filed a complaint in this matter to the DGP, Punjab, and the Vigilance Bureau. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/illegal-bridges-erected-over-water-channel-in-bathinda-195809
