13-01-2021||Bathinda||23-year-old man killed in celebratory firing at Lohri function in Bathinda||Lohri celebrations in Rayia village in Talwandi Sabo turned into mourning when a man fired a fire shot from his licensed revolver which hit a young man present at the function leading to his death on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Harjit Singh (23), a resident of village Pakka Shaheeda Wala in Sirsa district in Haryana.Talwandi Sabo police station has registered a case on the complaint of Harjit’s uncle. In a statement to the police, Gursewak Singh, a resident of Pakka Shaheeda village in Sirsa, said that there was the first Lohri celebration of his maternal uncle Surjit Singh’s grandson in village Raiya in Talwandi Sabo. He was accompanied by his nephew Harjeet Singh. At the function, Surjit Singh fired a celebratory fire shot in the air from his license 22 bore revolver. The bullet hit his nephew Harjeet Singh, which led to his death.The Talwandi Sabo police have registered a case under various sections against Surjit Singh and started searching for his arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/23-year-old-man-killed-in-celebratory-firing-at-lohri-function-in-bathinda-197891
13-01-2021||Bathinda||Dense fog throws life out of gear in Punjab’s Bathinda||The cold wave threw life out of gear in Bathinda as a thick blanket of fog enveloped the city on Wednesday morning.Low visibility on the roads caused a few minor accidents, but no casualty was reported.All main and link roads were covered by thick fog and vehicles were seen plying at minimum speed on the roads. The thick layer of fog restricted the penetration of sun rays in the morning and the cold wind added to the chill and kept the mercury low.Hawkers, vegetable sellers, food delivery workers and milkmen faced difficulty in carrying out their work.Morning walkers also had a tough time in parks. Gurmeet Singh, an elderly person in Model Town Phase 3, said, “I was assuming that the fog would not be so thick, but when I stepped out of the door, I realised its enormity. I had a bad walk today.”Another resident, Ankush Aggarwal, said, “As per my routine, I woke up at 7 am. I could see the dense fog from my balcony. Visibility was less, so I had to cancel my morning walk and preferred to stay indoors.”A traffic police official said, “Emergency blinkers at the front and rear of the vehicles should be used during fog. Low-beam lights should be used, as high-beam lights hamper visibility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/dense-fog-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-punjabs-bathinda-197848
13-01-2021||---||150 SAD men booked for threatening poll staff, cop in Bathinda||Bathinda, January 12The Bathinda police have registered a case against more than 150 SAD workers for allegedly threatening a returning officer and a cop during the Maluka cooperative society polls here.The case has been registered on the complaint of Resham Singh of Maluka village under Sections 353, 186, 506 and 427 of the IPC.Resham Singh has alleged that his son Baldev Singh had to file his nomination papers. “The accused reached the spot and started threatening returning officer Jitesh Kumar and Inspector Amanpreet Singh. They even attacked their vehicle,” he stated in the complaint.SAD leader and former minister Sikander Singh Maluka, on the other hand, accused the Congress government of wrongdoing during nomination filing. “A false case has been filed against SAD workers,” he alleged. Maluka said nominations had to be filed on Monday at 9 am, but papers of Congress candidates were accepted on Sunday.“Fearing defeat, some poll officials took the nomination papers from Congress candidates on Sunday evening. The poll staff reached the society office today at 7 am. The police were deployed in large numbers and Dyalpura police station SHO Amanpreet Singh Virk did not allow SAD candidates to enter the office. To file the nomination papers, I reached the spot,” said Maluka.He said when he reached the office, the police had to allow the entry to SAD candidates for filing papers, but on the instructions of Congress leaders, DSP Phul Jasbir Singh and the SHO took the poll staff away from the spot. He said he met the IGP, Bathinda Range, and the Bathinda SSP today and demanded cancellation of the “false” case registered against SAD workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/150-sad-men-booked-for-threatening-poll-staff-cop-in-bathinda-197616
13-01-2021||---||Chemists seek inclusion in vaccination priority list||Bathinda, January 11The Punjab Chemists Association (PCA) has written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh requesting him to include pharmacists, medicine traders, support staff and families in the preference list of the Covid-19 vaccination programme.Most vulnerableMedicine dealers are in the essential service sector and therefore most vulnerable to the infection as they are the first contact point with public while dispensing medicines. Surinder Duggal, state president, Punjab Chemists AssociationSurinder Duggal, state president of the union, said: “The PCA is an apex organisation of chemists and distributors with over 24,500 members, including medicine professionals and traders (retailers and wholesalers) in the state. Medicine dealers are in the essential service sector and therefore most vulnerable to the infection as they are the first contact point with public while dispensing medicines.”“We feel it’s extremely important to protect all of them on priority to keep them healthy in challenging times amid pandemic. We must be included in the priority list of vaccination,” Duggal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/chemists-seek-inclusion-in-vaccination-priority-list-197153
