14-01-2021||---||Rehearsal for R-Day tractor parade||Bathinda, January 13A large number of farmers today conducted the rehearsal for the proposed tractor parade on January 26 in Bathinda city on Wednesday.On tractors, jeeps, cars and motorcycles, farmers today took out the Kisan Ekta March in which they raised slogans against the Modi government. The protesters also carried flags and placards, stating “No Farmer, No Food”, on their vehicles supporting the farmers’ agitation. The march started from Model Town phase 3 and after passing through various parts of the city, it ended at Fire Brigade.Massive tractor rally in Fazilka Various organiastions, employees, students and shopkeepers participated in the march held today in the city. Even stickers supporting farmers were distributed at the spot by the organisations. Farmers also appealed to the residents to celebrate Lohri by burning the farm laws in protest.Farmers said the tractor march was a trailer and if the central government did not repeal the laws before January 26, a large number of farmers from all over Punjab would join the protesters at Delhi borders for the march.Various farmers unions also took out a tractor march in the district. A large number of tractors entered Bathinda city from various villages in support of the farmers’ stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/rehearsal-for-r-day-tractor-parade-198188
14-01-2021||Bathinda||Celebratory firing: 23-yr-old killed at Lohri event in Talwandi Sabo village||Lohri celebrations in Rayia village of Talwandi Sabo turned into mourning when a man fired a shot from his licensed revolver. The bullet hit a youth present in the function, which led to his death on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Harjit Singh (23), a resident of Pakka Shaheeda Wala village in Sirsa district of Haryana. The police have registered a case on the complaint of Harjit’s uncle. Gursewak Singh, a resident of Pakka Shaheeda village in Sirsa, said Lohri celebration of his maternal uncle Surjit Singh’s grandson was organised in Raiya village. He was accompanied by his nephew Harjit. Surjit fired a celebratory shot that hit his nephew. Hunt is on to arrest Surjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/celebratory-firing-23-yr-old-killed-at-lohri-event-in-talwandi-sabo-village-198201
14-01-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Dense fog envelops Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 13Cold wave and dense fog threw life out of gear in Bathinda city. A thick blanket of fog enveloped the city on Wednesday morning, causing minor accidents on the roads due to poor visibility.As main and link roads were covered under thick fog, vehicles could be seen plying at minimum speed.The fog restricted penetration of sun rays in the morning and cold wind added to the chill. However, by the noon, little sunshine could be seen. Morning walkers were worst-affected. However, this weather will be beneficial for the wheat crop.Hawkers, vegetable sellers, food delivery workers and milkmen faced difficulty in carrying out their routine tasks.As per the Meteorological Department of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) regional centre, Bathinda, the minimum temperature witnessed in the city was 3°C and the maximum was 13.6°C.Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Model Town, Phase 3, said, “I had assumed that the fog will not be thick, but when I stepped out of the door, I realised its enormity. I faced difficulty while walking.”Another resident, Ankush Aggarwal, said “As per my routine, I woke up at 7 am. I could see the dense fog from my balcony. Visibility was less, so I had to cancel my morning walk. I preferred to stay indoors.”A traffic police official said, “Emergency blinkers at the front and the rear of the vehicles should be used during fog. Low-beam lights should be used. High-beam lights hamper visibility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/dense-fog-envelops-bathinda-198204
