24-01-2021||---||Farmers break through barricades, protest at Manoranjan Kalia’s meeting venue||Bathinda, January 23Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today broke through the barricades put up by the police near a venue where former minister and BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia was holding a meeting with party leaders.Upon reaching the hotel where the meeting was underway, protesters, including a large number of women, raised slogans against Kalia and demanded the repeal of the farm laws.BKU leader Mothu Singh Kotra said: “We have already announced that BJP leaders would face protests across the state until the farm laws are repealed. Today morning, we got the information that BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia was holding a meeting with party workers at a hotel in the city, so we came here to protest.”Lashing out at the central government, Kotra said: “The Centre has brought these farm laws for the big corporate houses in the garb of agriculture reforms. These laws will hit the agriculture sector and farmers hard, that’s why these laws should be repealed.”The Bathinda police had made elaborate security arrangements for the BJP meeting at a private hotel in the city. All roads leading to the hotel were cordoned off to keep the protesters at bay.Even SP (City) Jaspal Singh, DSP (City) Aswant Singh and Tehsildar Sukhbir Singh Brar along with a huge police force were present at the spot. BJP state media co-in charge Sunil Singla said: “Manoranjan Kalia, who has been appointed party in charge for the Bathinda MC elections, today held a meeting with the party district core committee. In the meeting, he held discussion on the prospective candidates for all 50 wards in the city.”He added that Kalia also held meetings with mandal presidents and BJP district mahila morcha at different venues. On December 26, when state BJP president Ashwani Sharma visited the city and held a meeting with the party workers, at that time also farmers staged a protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-break-through-barricades-protest-at-manoranjan-kalias-meeting-venue-202840
24-01-2021||---||Ex-servicemen hold roadshow, say will join protesters at Delhi borders on R-Day||Bathinda, January 23Ex-servicemen from Bathinda and Mansa districts today. carried out a roadshow from Bathinda to Mansa in support of the farmers’ agitation against the central agricultural laws.Responding to the farmer unions’ call for Republic Day, they announced that they would be participating in the parade in the national capital in a show of solidarity with the protesters. The cavalcade of vehicles started from the Thermal Lake in Bathinda and after crossing through several parts of the city reached Mansa.Darshan Singh, an ex-serviceman from Mansa, said: “We stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their struggle against the new agricultural laws. We strongly condemn the obdurate stance of the central government and firmly stand with farmers’ demand for the rollback of the new laws.”Captain Jeet Singh (retd) said: “We are also making plans to join farmers on Republic Day at Delhi borders. We also appeal to the union government to make payments of pending DA installments to retired armed forces personnel and other central government employees.”Ex-servicemen stated that the farmers’ agitation needed to be strengthened further. They appreciated farmers for keeping their protest apolitical and, most importantly, peaceful. Ex-servicemen extended their full support to farmers for keeping the agitation peaceful in the future as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ex-servicemen-hold-roadshow-say-will-join-protesters-at-delhi-borders-on-r-day-202843
