30-01-2021||Bathinda||1 family member at protest site: Villages in Bathinda, Mansa pass resolution to revive farmers' agitation||In a bid to revive protests, several meetings by panchayats were organised in villages on Saturday, to mobilise support by sending villagers to the protests at Delhi.During the meeting, the panchayat told the youth to remain vigilant, and peaceful.A panchayat at Kotbhaktu village has made a decision. They decided that even if one member of each household does not visit the protest site, then they would have to face a complete social boycott.Around a dozen villages in Bathinda and Mansa unanimously passed a resolution. One family member of each family in the village would go to the protest on a rotational basis or else they would have to pay a fine. Panchayats in Phul, Phooli, Kotbhaktu, Kararwala and others passed the resolution in support of the farmers’ agitation.Sukhwinder Kaur, sarpanch Kotbhaktu village, said: “Today we have organised a meeting of villagers at grain market. In which, a decision was taken, that one member of each house would go to protest on rotational basis, and if one does not go then he has to give a fine of Rs 300 daily, and then also after one week, he does not go, then the family would face social boycott in the village, but all the people were unanimously ready to go to the protest.”Phooli village sarpanch, Chamkaur Dhaliwal, said: “Village panchayat today held a meeting in the village in which they had motivated the farmers and villagers to go and support the peaceful agitation at Delhi. It has been unanimously decided that everyone from each house would go to the protest and if someone can’t go, he would financially support agitation”.On Friday, the panchayats of Virk Khurd, Nangal Kalan in Bathinda and Mansa had also passed similar resolutions.Apart from this, BKU Ekta Ugrahan leader Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha also held meetings in the Mansa district to mobilise the villagers to move to Delhi borders for protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/1-family-member-at-protest-site-villages-in-bathinda-mansa-pass-resolution-to-revive-farmers-agitation-205520
30-01-2021||Bathinda||7 from Bathinda held for R-Day violence||Seven protesters from Bangi Nihal Singh Wala village in Talwandi Sabo block of Bathinda district have been arrested for the Republic Day violence in the national capital.Sarpanch Rajinder Singh along with families of those arrested visited Delhi on Thursday night to raise the issue with senior farmer leaders. All seven were members of the BKU (Sidhupur) and were protesting at the Tikri border.They were arrested by the Delhi Police at Paschim Vihar (West) while returning from the tractor march to Tikri. All are facing non-bailable charges. The families were informed telephonically on Thursday.Kulwinder Kaur, whose husband Jagsir Singh, 34, was among those arrested, said a group of 40 villagers had left on January 23 to join the tractor march.The families demanding their release, claiming they were not part of any criminal activity. “We will go by the leadership of Sidhupur faction,” they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/7-from-bathinda-held-for-r-day-violence-205173
30-01-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda villages bar leaders’ entry||Residents of several villages in Bathinda have put up boards barring entry of political leaders until the three farm laws are repealed.The boards have been put up on the entry point of villages under the banner of a kisan union. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Jasveer Singh says: “In many villages, residents have unanimously decided to rise above party lines and ban the entry of leaders of all political parties.”They have also decided to bar anyone indulging in election campaign from entering their village, saying political parties have done little at the ground level to safeguard the interest of farmers.Earlier, arhtiyas in the Malwa belt had announced boycott of BJP leaders and members to protest the farm laws. They had even put up banners in several towns in protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-villages-bar-leaders-entry-205178
30-01-2021||Bathinda||In Bathinda , AAP MLAs suspect bogus voting||Suspecting rigging in the local bodies elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today said the Congress was preparing to “assassinate the right to vote”.In a joint statement, AAP MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby alleged that under the ruling government, a large number of bogus voters were registered in a single house. They said earlier, the SAD-BJP had been winning the municipal bodies elections by committing such scams.Cong releases list of Nangal candidatesNangal: The Congress has announced on Friday the names of candidates fielded from all 19 wards for municipal council elections to be held on February 14. Punjab Speaker and local MLA Rana KP Singh released the list.“The Congress government is on the same path. There were clear indications that 85 voters were registered at one house in ward no.10 of Bathinda. Similarly, 84 voters were registered at a house in ward no.42,” they alleged.The leaders said traditional parties were making every effort to seize power.“It is surprising that no inquiry was conducted by the administration in this regard. How could there be so many voters in one house?” they said.The AAP MLAs demanded the Punjab State Election Commissioner to take immediate action in this regard. They said such fraudulent votes would be detrimental to democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-bathinda-aap-mlas-suspect-bogus-voting-205232
