03-05-2021||Ranchi||Ramgarh hospital shifts patients for want of Covid drug||Amid the rapid rise in positive cases across Jharkhand, both hospitals and individuals were facing shortage of basic drugs prescribed for treatment of Covid-19. Facing this problem, a private hospital in Ramgarh was recently forced to shift all its Covid-19 patients to other hospitals, officials said on Monday.Proprietor of Niramaya Das Health Care Centre in Ramgarh, Dr Bhanu Das said, “I shifted all my our Covid-19 patients to other hospitals where beds were available two to three days back, as we were facing acute shortage of Covid-19 related medicines. I have no right to keep patients in the dark if I can’t treat them in absence of the drugs.”However, many patients at the hospital did not want to be shifted initially, Dr Das said. “I told them that I was ready to treat them provided they could arrange certain Covid-19 drugs. I gave them the prescription but they failed to find the medicines. Finally, they agreed to shift. We provided them hospital ambulance service for the same.”There were 24 beds, including three oxygen supported ones and a ventilator, at the hospital. Dr Das said demand of medicines used treating Covid-19 increased manifold with the rise in number of cases in the district. “I have heard that some big hospitals were stocking the medicines to avoid shortage during treatment. Besides, common people are also panic purchasing the drugs and stocking them for emergency purposes,” he said, adding that more than half of the total staff at the institution were also suffering from the disease.Director of state drugs control directorate Ritu Sahay could not be contacted for her comment over the issue despite repeated efforts. However, officials of Ramgarh administration said they received complaints anout medicine shortage a couple of days back. “But now, there is no such shortage. Frequent inspection of medical stores is also being done,” they said.Besides hospitals, Covid-19 patients, who are getting treatment while under home isolation, were also facing the same problem. A resident of Tenughat in Bokaro district, Siddhartha Shankar, who was recently detected with infection, said, “Almost all essential medicines for the disease are out of stock here. Most of the medicines prescribed by doctors such as Doxycycline, Ivermectine, L Montus, Zincobit or Zinc tablet are not available at medicine stores here. In such situation, how do we treat ourselves in home isolation?”Ramgarh registered 197 new cases and five deaths on Sunday, according to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ramgarh-hospital-shifts-patients-for-want-of-covid-drug-101620058148100.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Light rains, winds bring respite, likely to continue till May 9||Light rains coupled with moderate winds on Monday afternoon brought respite from the prevailing warm weather condition in the state, that will most likely be experiencing similar weather conditions till May 9, according to weather officials.Deputy director at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand, said, “Due to interaction of westerly and easterly winds, Jharkhand’s weather took a turn on Monday. The weather pattern is likely to remain the same till May 8-9.”Ranchi on Monday recorded the maximum temperature at 35.2 degrees, around two degrees below the normal temperature. Even though the rainfall was scanty at 1.4mm, it was enough to cool the city’s weather, officials said. Ranchi also recorded significant fall in night temperature at 20.7 degree Celsius on Sunday night, 2.1 degrees below the normal.Anand said, “There is hardly any chance of heavy rains in the state due to lack of moisture. There is a system forming in Rajasthan, but winds coming from there carry limited amount of moisture. So, only light rain and winds are expected. Jharkhand can expect respite from the hot weather for at least a week.”Most parts of the state experienced relief from warm weather. Jamshedpur recorded 5mm rainfall, that brought down the day mercury at 37.5 degree Celsius. Similarly, Daltonganj recorded the day temperature at 38 degree Celsius. However, the district registered a mere 0.2mm of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/light-rains-winds-bring-respite-likely-to-continue-till-may-9-101620057968011.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Wild tusker kills one, damages 3 houses in Pakur||A wild elephant trampled a 45-year-old man to death and damaged three houses at Kopa village in Littipara block of Pakur district late on Saturday night, officials said on Sunday. A week ago, the tusker killed another man in Amrapara block of the district.The deceased was identified as Gabriel Malto. “A wild elephant, separated from its herd, has been roaming between Littipara and Amrapara blocks of the district for past one week. It killed another person a week back in Amrapara,” forest range officer of Hiranpur, Kamlesh Singh said.According to available information, Malto woke up past midnight after hearing an unusual sound coming out of his house. When he went out of his house to check, the wild elephant attacked him and trampled him to death, Malto’s family members said.After killing Gabriel, the elephant also damaged his house. His wife and three children anyhow ran away to protect themselves from the crumbling house, said Robert Malto, a relative of Gabriel.Robert said the animal also damaged two other houses in the village. “We are living in panic. Every family in the village is spending each night in fear. The forest department should take immediate action to chase away the elephant from the area,” he said.“Forest patrolling team returned from their daily duty around 2am. I believe the incident took place after that. The villagers were alerted about the elephant’s movement in the area and cautioned against coming out of their houses after evening,” Singh said.He said the bereaved family will be given compensation of ₹4 lakh as per government rules. “We are giving a part of it so that the family can perform his last rites,” Singh said.Following the incident, the forest department deputed a quick response team (QRT) to drive out the elephant to the forest. “The jumbo has lost its track. Frequent chases by villagers are also irritating the elephant to find,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/wild-tusker-kills-one-damages-3-houses-in-pakur-101620017280872.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Madhupur bypoll: JMM retains seat, Hafizul defeats BJP’s Ganga Narayan||In a shot in the arm for the ruling dispensation, JMM candidate and state tourism minister Hafizul Hassan won the Madhupur by-election on Sunday, defeating BJP candidate Ganga Narayan by over 5,000 votes. By-election for the seat, necessitated due to demise of JMM party veteran and minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari in October last, was held on April 17, wherein over 71% voters exercised their franchise amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19. Late Ansari’s son, Hafizul Hassan, who was inducted in the Hemant Soren cabinet in February, managed to retain the assembly seat that has been a traditional strong hold of the JMM, with Ansari winning from Madhupur on four occasions. Though Hassan continued the winning streak, the margin victory reduced from over 23,000 votes in 2019. Thanking the voters and alliance partners of the UPA for their support, chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren said, “This is the third by-election win for the UPA dispensation. I hope this will come as n answer to many people who are involved in political gossip in the state.”This was the third by-election in the state since the Hemant Soren goverment came to power in December 2019. The other bypolls were also won by the ruling dispensation . The opposition BJP fielded Ganga Narayan, reportedly a money bag with business interests in Goa, in Madhupur days after he joined the saffron party. Singh contested from Madhupur on AJSU Party’s ticket in the 2019 Assembly polls and stood third in the race. BJP’s former minister and two-term legislator Raj Paliwar lost to Haji Hussain Ansari in 2019. The party’s central election committee picked Ganga Narayan over Paliwar to take on JMM’s candidate in Madhupur, that witnessed a direct fight between the two parties, unlike 2019 when Singh made the election triangular. Meanwhile, state BJP president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash described the bypoll result as “victory of power and not of the JMM”. “The fact that the JMM managed to win by a thin margin shows that it is losing people’s support. We gave them a close fight and the ruling combine just scraped through. We thank people of Madhupur, as we have lost by very few votes. We will continue to work hard and continue to raise issues of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/madhupur-bypoll-jmm-retains-seat-hafizul-defeats-bjp-s-ganga-narayan-101620017159617.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand sees record 159 fatalities from Covid-19, death toll climbs to 2,829||Jharkhand saw a record new 159 deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities to 2,829 on Sunday. The state saw 6,323 new cases of infection, taking the total to 23,9734, as per the report issued by the health department. The report said that of the 2,39,734 cases, a total of 1,78,468 patients have recovered. Of the total deaths, 45 casualties occurred in the state capital Ranchi.Meanwhile, the BJP's leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi on Sunday attacked chief minister Hemant Soren, asking him to understand the gravity of the situation in the state and do something when people were dying during the second surge of the Covid-19 pandemic."The state is in a tizzy. People are dying in agony. Open the eyes and understand the seriousness. Do something," Marandi said in a tweet asking Soren to swing into action.Returning the attack, the ruling JMM in a tweet said "it is a low-level politics" during these sad times and questioned why it took the central government 13 days to give permission to import a life-saving drug Remedisivir. The JMM tweet was retweeted by chief minister Hemant Soren.Marandi in a series of tweets also alleged that the death rate in Jharkhand due to Covid-19 was much higher at 2.67% as against the national average of 0.94%."The condition in capital Ranchi is horrible where the death rate has been 3.27% and recovery rate is only 44%," Marandi said in a tweet, asking Soren "to do something."He said even in the neighbouring Odisha 54% of the people recovered and the death rate was barely 0.11%, he said adding that though 85% of the people in Jharkhand have recovered, the death rate was still 2.67%.Marandi even cited the case of Maharashtra, saying although the state was badly affected, 96.91% of people there recovered and the death rate was registered at 1.27%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-sees-record-159-fatalities-from-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-2829-101620005789626.html
