04-05-2021||Ranchi||Sahebgunj: Police station in-charge found hanging||Officer in-charge of the women’s police station in Sahebgunj district was found hanging inside her official quarters at police line on Monday night, police said on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Rupa Tirkey (26). “We have begun investigation into the case from all possible angles, including murder, even though prima facie, it seems to be a case of suicide,” Sahebgunj superintendent of police (SP) Anuranjan Kispotta said.According to available information, sub-inspector Tirkey performed her duty as usual on Monday and returned home around 7pm. As per her roommate’s statement to the police, Tirkey was alone at home till 8.30pm. “When her roommate returned from duty around that time and knocked the door, it was locked from inside and Tirkey was not responding. Then, the door was broken and Tirkey was found hanging inside the room,” police said, quoting Tirkey’s roommate .Police were verifying the roommate’s statement, the SP said, adding that the body was sent for postmortem examination on Tuesday. “We can find out the exact cause of her death through postmortem examination report. Details about the case will be given only after investigation gets completed,” Kispotta said.Tirkey was a resident of Ratu in Ranchi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/sahebgunj-police-station-in-charge-found-hanging-101620142877688.html
04-05-2021||Ranchi||‘Sanjeevani’ vehicles to ensure 24x7 oxygen supply in Ranchi||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday flagged off three ‘Sanjeevni vehicles’ that will facilitate round-the-clock supply of oxygen cylinders to hospitals in capital city Ranchi. The service will soon start in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur also. “The government has introduced Sanjeevani vehicles to ensure availability of oxygen to hospitals in Ranchi district in the first phase. Soon, it will be started in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur too,” said Soren, while inaugurating the vehicle launched by Ranchi district administration. Sanjeevani vehicles will remain in operation mode round-the-clock with oxygen cylinders always available in the vehicles. The service will ensure immediate supply of oxygen to any hospital as per its requirement in Ranchi district. The vehicles also have a GPS tracking system.The CM said amid rising cases during the second wave of Covid-19, the demand for oxygen supported beds in hospitals is increasing and the government was constantly making efforts in that direction. “At present, oxygen and ventilators are the most needed equipment for treatmnet of infected patients.Keeping this in mind, free oxygen supported beds are being provided to patients of Ranchi and Jamshedpur through Covid-19 circuit,” he said. Besides, an oxygen refilling cell, which monitors supply of oxygen as per demand, was also activated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/sanjeevani-vehicles-to-ensure-24x7-oxygen-supply-in-ranchi-101620142817660.html
