06-05-2021||Ranchi||CM inaugurates 528-bed temporary Covid centre at RIMS||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday inaugurated a 528-bed temporary Covid centre at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) through video conference.Of the 528 beds, 327 oxygenated beds have been set-up in the multi-level parking on the premise, 73 ICU beds in the Oncology department and 128 oxygenated beds in the old building, an official said. The inauguration of a new Covid centre is part of the health department’s initiative to increase beds as caseload continues to mount in the state despite lockdown. “The maximum load is on medical colleges in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The government is keeping an eye on the situation and making arrangements as required,” CM Soren said after the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cm-inaugurates-528-bed-temporary-covid-centre-at-rims-101620317632800.html
06-05-2021||Ranchi||Double challenge: Providing livelihood to migrants and protecting villages from Covid-19||With large scale inflow of migrant workers in wake of lockdown or restriction imposed by many states in the country, Jharkhand is in for double challenge --providing livelihood to the returnees and protecting villages from Covid spread, officials said.In a bid to provide livelihood to the migrant workers according to their choice, state rural development department has started a survey through Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) like the skill mapping drive of previous year. In this survey, surveyors are also seeking migrants’ choice of work so that they could be engaged accordingly.State rural development department director Aditya Ranjan said, “We started the survey about a week ago. Our objective is to map skill of the workers and understand their wish for work so that they could be provided jobs accordingly. Hordes of schemes are being run by rural development department and JSLPS. We will try to induct them under these schemes.”He said, “After mapping of their skills, we will also offer them further opportunity to sharpen their skill under skill mission. Many people would also get job under it.”Ranjan said they had also conducted similar kind of skill mapping drive last year and they have a detailed data of it. “We will merge the current and previous year’s data to identify how many fresh migrants moved out from state for jobs,” he said. The department is also working to engage people in MGNREGA works. State urban development department officials said they were expecting large number of people would also get jobs under Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri for Kamgar) Yojana (MSY), a 100-day job guarantee scheme for urban unskilled workers.Skills of 5.30 lakh migrant workers had been mapped last year and a database of them had also been prepared so that they could be provided jobs according to their skill set.Jamesh Herenj, member of Right to Food Campaign (RFC), alleged that skill mapping would hardly help in providing job. “The government also carried out skill mapping drive last year. It now has a figure of how many people are skilled in how many works. However, the government could not create jobs according to their skills in past one year,” he said. Apart from livelihood, the Jharkhand government is also concerned about protecting villages from the spread of Coronavirus in backdrop of migrant workers returning home.Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday directed officials to speed up the Covid vigilance in rural areas, as large number of migrant workers are returning home. Even though state government has made mandatory of one-week institutional quarantine for migrant returnees, it doesn’t have any figure how many migrants have returned to Jharkhand till now.Lakhs of migrant workers have returned to Jharkhand since first week of April this year after cases of Covid-19 started to soar in the country. But, state control room for migrant workers could contact mere 6,720 workers stranded outside Jharkhand.An official of the control room said, “Trains and other means of transportation have not been suspended this time. Therefore, many people have returned without consulting us. So, we cannot provide you the figure how many people returned to Jharkhand till now.”He said they have received 2,554 calls since first week of April, while 6,720 people were contacted, who are stuck outside and want to return.The government, in its order for migrant workers on Wednesday, has observed that there was an exponential increase in Covid-19 cases in the state during the last fortnight. It was anticipated that the large-scale inflow of migrants back to their respective villages might pose a considerable threat in spread of the disease in rural areas, it said. A senior official of state health department, who requested not to be quoted, said, “The recent government order is for the migrant workers, who are returning now. Identifying the workers who have already arrived is not an easy task. However, we are trying to cover them in special test drive. A mega Covid test drive was conducted across Jharkhand on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/double-challenge-providing-livelihood-to-migrants-and-protecting-villages-from-covid19-101620317572813.html
06-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's Covid caseload climbs to 2,63,115; 5,770 fresh cases reported||Jharkhand on Thursday reported 141 fresh Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 3,346, while 5,770 new positive cases pushed the tally to 2,63,115, a health department bulletin said.Inaugurating a 528-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Ranchi, which was built in just 12 days, Chief Minister Hemant Soren expressed his government's commitment to take all steps to deal with the emerging scenario. The state currently has 59,532 active cases.Altogether 5,804 patients recovered from coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of cured people to 2,00,237, the bulletin said.As per the bulletin, the recovery ratio for Jharkhand is 76.10 per cent as against the national average of 82 per cent.Of the fresh fatalities, Ranchi district recorded the highest at 41 followed by East Singhbhum at 27 and Dhanbad at 10. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts.A total of 35,486 samples have been tested for Covid- 19 in Jharkhand in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.Meanwhile, the administration has decided to set up institutional quarantine centres with full facilities in all 10 blocks of Dhanbad district for housing migrant workers returning from other states, an official said.To check further spread of the virus, the Jharkhand government on Wednesday had announced that all migrant workers returning to the state will have to undergo Covid tests on arrival and a mandatory week-long quarantine.So far, migrant workers were being allowed to go home from railway stations and bus stands after Covid tests and only those found positive were detained. But now, all would be quarantined for a week."Even though a migrant labourer tests negative in Rapid Antigen Test, he or she will be kept for seven days at a quarantine centre. Seven days later, the person would be again screened. If the test report comes negative, the labourer will be released," Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Umashankar Singh said.In case the test report comes positive, the person would be sent to a Covid hospital, he said.The DC said that all circle officers have been directed to set up two institutional quarantine centres having facilities for testing, food, beds, water, continuous supply of power and other basic amenities round the clock.Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday digitally inaugurated a 528-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Rajendra Institue of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Ranchi.Of the 528 new oxygen beds, 327 were set up at RIMS multi-storey parking lot, 73 at the Oncology department and 128 at the old building of the institute.Soren said that 108 more beds will be set up with the help of NTPC, the country's largest energy conglomerate.On Wednesday, the chief minister had digitally inaugurated 250 beds at a dedicated Covid health centre at Koderma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-covid-caseload-climbs-to-2-63-115-5-770-fresh-cases-reported-101620315587715.html
