07-05-2021||Ranchi||Hemant takes swipe at PM; Oppn lashes out||Senior leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main opposition party in the state, hit out at chief minister Hemant Soren for his swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the latter called him to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. PM Modi on Thursday night spoke to Soren, besides chief ministers of few other states. After the conversation, Soren took to social media platform Twitter and said PM Modi only did his “Mann ki Baat” during the conversation. “It would have been better had he listened to, and spoken on important matters,” the Jharkhand chief minister tweeted.Hitting back, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi termed Soren as a “failed CM”. “Hemant Soren is a failed CM. Failure in governance. Failure in tackling Covid in the state. Failure to assist people. To hide his failures, he demeans the office he holds. Wake up and work, Mr Soren. The clock is ticking,” Marandi said on Twitter. Several other BJP leaders, including former chief minister Raghubar Das, Union tribal minister Arjun Munda, and state BJP chief and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash hit out at the incumbent CM, many of them reminding Soren about the “failure” of his own government in handling the crisis in the state. Reacting to Soren’s statement, Union health minister Dr Harshvardhan advised him to “fight Corona and not the Prime Minister”, as it’s time to take on the pandemic together. However, leaders of other parties, including those from Congress and Shiv Sena, came out in support of the Jharkhand CM. “This tweet tells us everything about #CovidCrisisinIndia. Our Prime Minister only talks. He does not listen - not even to chief ministers (sic.),” said Congress’ national spokesperson Pawan Khera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hemant-takes-swipe-at-pm-oppn-lashes-out-101620404100438.html
07-05-2021||Ranchi||Oxygen supply disrupted in Ranchi hosp, 5 Covid patients dead||At least five critically ill Covid-19 patients admitted to Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital allegedly died after a snag developed in manifold room, leading to disruption in oxygen supply in the wee hours of Thursday. However, hospital authorities on Friday said the deaths occurred due to critical illness.Following the incident, health minister Banna Gupta on Friday set up a probe into the matter. “This is a grave issue. I discussed it with chief minister Hemant Soren. The health department’s principal secretary has been asked to conduct a detailed probe into the matter. Some technical snag could have developed in the system but it is important to find out if it was due to deliberate lapses on the part of staff on duty or someone else,” Gupta said.According to available information, the technical snag occurred around 4.45 am due to leakage in MOX regulator in the manifold room. This led to a sudden disruption in the smooth supply of oxygen, as its flow dropped to 12 from 50 level.It was alleged that soon after this, two critically ill patients, who were on ventilator support and high flow nasal cannula (HFNC), died. Three other patients also died in quick intervals even after the oxygen supply was restored within an hour through different manifold system.The sudden disruption led to chaos in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU), where around 50 patients were surviving either on ventilators or HFNCs. “The unit, however, had a jumbo oxygen cylinder but that could not be made functional. The oxygen flow level dipped to 12 from 50, causing much unease to patients. Attendants of many patients used small size cylinders attached with the beds for the time being but some patients didn’t have this facility too. Soon after, two-three patients died,” claimed a patient’s attendant.Speaking to media persons on Friday, Ranchi’s in-charge civil surgeon Dr Vinod said, “Not a single death occurred due to disruption in oxygen supply. Those who died were critically ill. These deaths occurred at different points of time. The snag that developed in the manifold system was rectified and oxygen supply was restored within half an hour.”Earlier on Tuesday, as many as 17 Covid-19 patients also died at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital at different points of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/oxygen-supply-disrupted-in-ranchi-hosp-5-covid-patients-dead-101620404040394.html
07-05-2021||Ranchi||It was PM's 'Mann ki Baat', Jharkhand CM on Modi's phone call to discuss Covid-19||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi's phone call to him on the Covid-19 situation in the country as the PM's "Mann Ki Baat", instead of business.Soren's reaction came after Modi spoke to him and the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Telangana about the Covid-19 situation on Thursday."Today the respected Prime Minister called. He only spoke his 'Mann Ki Baat'. It would have been better if he would have talked business and heard the issues," the Jharkhand chief minister said in a tweet.Official sources said Soren was unhappy as he was not allowed to present the issues concerning his state before Modi and instead, it was only the prime minister who talked about the Covid-19 situation.Jharkhand is among the 10 states and Union territories that are collectively accounting for over 75 per cent of daily Covid-19 deaths in the country, according to latest data. The others in the league are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan.Jharkhand reported 133 Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the viral disease in the state to 3,479, while 6,974 cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,70,089.The mortality rate in the state remains higher at 1.28 per cent against the national mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. According to a bulletin issued by the state health department, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 76.26 per cent in Jharkhand as against the national average of 82 per cent.Soren digitally inaugurated a 528-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Thursday.Of the 528 oxygenated beds, 327 were set up at the RIMS multi-storey parking lot, 73 at the oncology department and 128 at the old building of the institute.Soren said 108 more beds will be set up with the help of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the country's largest energy conglomerate.On Wednesday, the chief minister had digitally inaugurated 250 beds at a dedicated Covid health centre at Koderma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/it-was-pm-s-mann-ki-baat-jharkhand-cm-on-modi-s-phone-call-to-discuss-covid19-101620356185383.html
