08-05-2021||Ranchi||Will provide charter plane if BJP leaders are willing to meet PM, seek help: JMM||Accusing the Centre of non-cooperation in batting the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Saturday said they “will provide charter plane” if elected representatives of the state BJP were willing to go to Delhi and “lobby with the Centre” in getting the rightful claim of the state in terms of equipment and essential drugs. Addressing media persons, JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said instead of pointing fingers towards chief minister Hemant Soren for his statement after the phone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP’s elected representatives from the state should help the government in getting what it requires to fight the pandemic. “Be it providing adequate number of vaccines, essential drugs, oxygen cylinders or installing oxygen plants under PM Cares fund, the state’s requirements are not being fulfilled. We require 4.5 crore doses of vaccines, but till date we have received only 29.83 lakh doses. The Centre made budgetary provision of ₹35,000 crore for vaccination, but now states have been burdened to bear the cost for inoculation of 18-44 age group,” he said. He further said the state received only 29,524 vials of Remdesivir against its demand of 4,28,500 vials till now. The state requisitioned for installation of 21 oxygen plants under PM Cares but were allowed only four of them, work for which was yet to start, the JMM leader claimed. “The BJP has 16 MPs from the state (12 Lok Sabha and four from Rajya Sabha). We only have four MPs, two in each house. They also have 25 MLAs. Instead of getting worked up by what the CM wanted to tell the PM, the BJP’s elected representatives should go to the PM and the health minister and lobby to get what the state deserves. If they are willing to go, we will provide them a charter plane to go to Delhi,” Bhattacharya said. Several BJP leaders, including Union ministers and chief ministers of other states, besides local leaders hit out at CM Hemant Soren for his recent statement on social media platform Twitter, saying that the PM only spoke his ‘mann ki baat’ when he called on Thursday “instead of listening” what the former had to share about the Covid situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/will-provide-charter-plane-if-bjp-leaders-are-willing-to-meet-pm-seek-help-jmm-101620486968472.html
08-05-2021||Ranchi||BJP hits out at Jharkhand CM for ‘Mann ki Baat’ remark on PM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday for his swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the latter called him to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state a day ago.On Thursday night, PM Modi spoke to Soren and chief ministers of other states. After the conversation, Soren said PM Modi only did his “Mann ki Baat” during the conversation. “It would have been better had he listened to, and spoken on important matters,” the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief tweeted.On Friday, BJP hit back. “While making a statement on the Prime Minister of the country, he must not forget that the pandemic situation should be addressed by a joint effort of the Centre and the state government. Taking out the rage on PM Modi while trying to conceal your failure is condemnable,” the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan said in a strongly worded tweet.Also read | It was PM's 'Mann ki Baat', Jharkhand CM on Modi's phone call to discuss CovidBJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi termed Soren a “failed CM”. “Failure in governance. Failure in tackling Covid in the state. Failure to assist people. To hide his failures, he demeans the office he holds. Wake up and work, Mr Soren. The clock is ticking,” Marandi tweeted.Several other BJP leaders, including former chief minister Raghubar Das, Union tribal minister Arjun Munda, and state BJP chief and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash hit out at the incumbent CM, many of them reminding Soren about the “failure” of his own governmentJharkhand is among the 10 states and Union territories that collectively account for over 75 per cent of daily Covid-19 deaths, according to latest data.Leaders of other parties, including those from Congress and Shiv Sena, came out in support of the Jharkhand CM. “This tweet tells us everything about #CovidCrisisinIndia. Our Prime Minister only talks. He does not listen - not even to chief ministers (sic.),” said the Congress’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-hits-out-at-jharkhand-cm-for-mann-ki-baat-remark-on-pm-101620429130985.html
