16-05-2021||Ranchi||Huge rush on govt portal leads to ‘slow’ e-pass generation||As the state entered the fourth week of lockdown on Sunday, additional lockdown restrictions were imposed with prohibition of inter and intrastate bus services and making e-pass mandatory for movement of all private vehicles. However, slow generation of e-passes on the state government’s portal resulted in a chaos-like situation in many parts of the state. According to officials, places, where internet speed was slow, witnessed the problem. Joint transport commissioner of state transport department, Ravi Shankar Vidyarthi, said, “The system is being rectified and the issue will be resolved very soon.”Samir Mahto, a resident of Ranchi’s Nagri area, claimed that he tried to open the website, epassjharkhand.nic.in for an hour in the morning but failed. “The government should have upgraded the system first before making e-pass mandatory,” he said.Many other users said they were unable to complete the entire procedure of e-pass generation due to slow system speed. An official in the Ranchi transport office, who requested to remain anonymous, blamed huge traffic on the website to be the reason behind the slow system.“We have received reports of people facing problems in e-pass generation from few places. The system is partially slow where the internet speed is weak, ” said the transport commissioner.He said more than 1.20 lakh e-passes were issued on Saturday. According to the transport department officials, around 70,000 more e-passes were issued till 4pm on Sunday.The state government extended the lockdown till May 27 morning. It also additional restrictions in bid to contain the spread of coronavirus infection. In a bid to ensure their strict implementation, adequate security personnel were deputed at all strategic locations in capital city Ranchi. Ranchi police also enhanced vehicle checking drive, and no vehicle was allowed to ply without the mandatory e-pass. People found violating the government order were booked under Disaster Management Act and Motor Vehicle Act in many parts of the state.During the lockdown, major city roads wore a deserted look. Few people were seen at vegetable markets and grocery shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/huge-rush-on-govt-portal-leads-to-slow-e-pass-generation-101621181587308.html
16-05-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi ward boy performs last rites of 2-yr-old Covid victim deserted by parents||A ward boy of Jharkhand’s premier hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) performed the last rites of a two-year-old Covid infected kid after his parents allegedly deserted him in the hospital, officials said on Sunday.“I was told that parents have deserted this two-year-old kid after he was detected positive for Covid-19 disease. There is no one to perform his last rite. When I was told to do the job, I readily accepted it,” ward boy Rohit Bedia said.Following the Covid-19 guidelines, Bedia took the body from RIMS to Ghaghra Muktidham in Ranchi and performed the rituals, which are generally done by family members.Hospital authorities said the parents of the toddler said they were residents of Jamui in Bihar and had brought their two year old son to RIMS for treatment late at night on May 10. The kid was admitted at the paediatric ward of the hospital with a complaint of breathlessness.Dr Hirendra Birua, head of paediatrics surgery department of the hospital said the parents told the doctors that the boy had suddenly developed breathlessness and both of them were attending to the child when he was admitted at 12.15 am on May 11.“We thought something might have got stuck in the child’s windpipe. When his X-Ray was done, we found the kid was suffering from Pneumonia. By the afternoon, he was confirmed positive for the coronavirus. His parents suddenly went traceless after the Covid positive report came,” said Dr Birua.He added that the kid died at 3pm on May 11. “Hospital authorities tried to contact his parents on the numbers provided by them, but they could not be contacted despite repeated efforts,” he said.After the parents failed to respond for three days, the hospital authorities, with the permission of the Ranchi administration, requested Bedia to perform his last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-ward-boy-performs-last-rites-of-2-yr-old-covid-victim-deserted-by-parents-101621164907175.html
