18-05-2021||Ranchi||Fake FB account of Jharkhand DGP created, case lodged||A fake Facebook account of Jharkhand director general of police (DGP) Neeraj Sinha was detected on Tuesday, police said, adding that a case was lodged at Ranchi’s Dhurwa police station in this regard and investigation has been initiated to track down the cyber frauds behind the move. According to police, the cyber frauds created the account by using the DGP’s photographs and sent friend requests to many people through it. Jharkhand police spokesperson Amol Homkar said, “An FIR has been lodged with Dhurwa police station in this regard. An investigation is on and legal action will be ensured against whoever is found guilty.”Few people also claimed to have received messages through Facebook messenger from the fake account, seeking money. As soon as the DGP got information about the fake account, he urged people to ignore any such friend requests or messages. “I have been told that someone has created a fake Facebook account using my photograph and is sending friend requests, and messages... Please ignore such friend requests/messages,” he wrote on the social media site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/fake-fb-account-of-jharkhand-dgp-created-case-lodged-101621352713695.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Almost half of PM Cares ventilators faulty, RIMS doc tells PM Modi||A senior doctor at the state’s premiere hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Monday apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the condition of 100 ventilators received through the PM Cares Fund, saying that almost half of them were faulty, during a meeting through video conferencing with the PM.Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, head of trauma centre at RIMS, was among the nine doctors participating from across the nation in the meeting. During the meeting, the critical care expert informed the PM about their journey so far in the ongoing battle with Covid-19, that included treatment of about 2,000 patients at the facility, besides limitations in terms of equipment and manpower. “I informed him about our work and also the difficulties we faced during the period. We have received 100 ventilators through the PM Cares Fund, besides oxygen concentrators and high flow equipment. While the other equipment are working fine, 45 of 100 ventilators could not be used due to technical faults,” said Dr Bhattacharya. Following this, the Prime Minister’s Office swung into action with Dr Dr Bhattacharya receiving a phone call from the former soon after the meeting ended. “I was asked for the details of the nature of snag the ventilators developed. I shared all details with them,” Dr Bhattacharya said. The RIMS doctor, however, said the faulty machines did not have an immediate impact on the health care system at the centre, as there were already around 100 functional ventilators at the hospital.Besides, he also apprised the PM about manpower shortage at the state government’s institution and suggested ways to meet the crisis by training science stream graduates. “Paramedical and support staff are key in running the institutions. We need at least three to four times more support staff here than we currently have. I suggested that we can utilise science graduates as support staff after three weeks’ training,” Dr Bhattacharya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/almost-half-of-pm-cares-ventilators-faulty-rims-doc-tells-pm-modi-101621352654195.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 2,507 new cases of Covid-19, 60 more fatalities||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported 60 fresh Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 4,539, while 2,507 new cases pushed the tally to 3,18,009, a health department bulletin said.The mineral-rich state now has 33,524 active cases, while 2,79,946 patients have recovered from the infection, it said.The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state now stands at 88.03 per cent, better than the national average of 84.80 per cent.State capital Ranchi, which has been severely impacted by the virus, recorded 10 deaths during the day, as against 18 on Monday, 19 on Saturday, 28 on Saturday, and 40 fatalities on Friday.For the first time in May, East Singhbhum with 12 Covid-19 deaths recorded higher fatalities than Ranchi. On Monday the district had recorded 7 Covid-19 deaths.Seven deaths were recorded in Bokaro, followed by six in Hazaribag, four in Dhanbad and three in West Singhbhum.Two fatalities each were reported from Chatra, Garhwa, Giridih, Gumla, Ramgarh, and Simdega.Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma, Latehar, Palamu, and Saraikela recorded one death each.No deaths have been reported from six of the 24 districts in the state during the last 24 hours.The six districts are Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Lohardaga, Pakur, and Sahebganj.A look at the health bulletin of the state suggests that prominent cities of Jharkhand like Ranchi, East Singhbhum with headquarter at Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad, and Hazaribag are witnessing high Covid-19 cases, while relatively backward districts including Chatra, Gumla, Latehar, and Pakur are logging a lesser number of infections.Battling a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, the state government has extended the lockdown till May 27.Restrictions with stricter provisions, including seven days mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, are now in place.Altogether, 77,88,630 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand thus far, including 52,887 since Monday, it added.The mortality rate in the state remained higher at 1.42 per cent as against the nation's 1.10 per cent.In a bid to protect its citizens from the deadly virus, the Jharkhand government had on May 14 launched a free vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years.Over 1.57 crore people in the state are in the 18-44 years age bracket.The state government could not roll out the inoculation drive for these people from May 1 as it was facing a shortage of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-2-507-new-cases-of-covid-19-60-more-fatalities-101621342872137.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Govt to bear cost of cremation of Covid-19 victims in state: Jharkhand CM||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced that the state government has decided to bear the cost of cremation of Covid-19 victims in the state. “Direction has been issued that cremation of Covid-19 victims would be done free of cost. Required firewood would be provided free of cost at the crematoriums. At the graveyards, JCBs would put in place for digging (graves) free of cost,” the chief minister said while elaborating on financial help being provided to Covid-19 affected people in the state. Addressing a virtual meeting after inaugurating an 80-bed Covid-19 facility in Ramgarh district, put in place in association with Tata Steel, the chief minister also underlined that the state government is preparing extensively to identify positive cases in the rural areas and provide them with adequate treatment. Over 3,000 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state since the second wave of the pandemic hit the state in the first week of May. Rapid test in rural areasElaborating on the plans of the state government in dealing with the rampaging disease in the rural areas, which are more vulnerable due to inadequate health care facilities, the chief minister said, “testing centres in rural areas are being set up where health workers would conduct rapid antigen test (RAT). They would be sent to isolation centres if required. If they are to remain in home isolation, medical kits will be provided. We have distributed 22 lakh test kits and have further demanded 45 lakh kits from the Centre,” Soren said. Vaccinating local body representatives on priorityHighlighting the importance of vaccination in batting this health crisis, the CM said the turnout for the 18-44 category has been encouraging. “But there is visible reluctance in the rural areas about vaccination due to certain cultural practices related to healthcare as well as some rumour-mongering. We need to vaccinate the local body representatives in order to build confidence among people,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/govt-to-bear-cost-of-cremation-of-covid-19-victims-in-state-jharkhand-cm-101621280411522.html
