20-05-2021||Ranchi||26 J’khand migrants stuck in Nepal develop Covid-like symptoms, seek help||As many as 26 migrant labourers from Jharkhand’s Dumka district, currently stuck in the Sindhupalchowk district of Nepal, have sought help from the Jharkhand government for their immediate rescue, as all of them are suffering from Covid-like symptoms and facing a shortage of food due to lockdown there. In a video message, the workers said that they are stranded in Nepal due to lockdown and most of them have fallen sick but getting no medical attention there. They have requested the Jharkhand government to “save their lives.”Migrant worker Narayan Das, a native of Ramgarh block of Dumka district and currently residing in Nepal, said that all 26 labourers from Dumra district are stuck at Gauri Gaon village in Sindhupalchowk district of Nepal. “We had come here for construction work in a hydro-power plant about two-and-a-half months back. A contractor from Himachal Pradesh brought us here. In past one week, we all fell sick one by one. We have symptoms like fever and cough. Some of us were given saline, but we are not getting proper medical care here,” Das said.He said, “Because of soaring cases of Covid-19, the lockdown has been imposed here. So, we are also struggling to arrange for food. We don’t have money to buy food and treatment or return home.”“We request the Jharkhand government to please help and rescue us from here. Otherwise, we might die without proper treatment,” Das said.The state migrant control room (SMCR) officials said they were in touch with the labourers. “We have communicated the Dumka administration to provide them immediate help,” said Shikha Lakra, SMCR team lead.Deputy development commissioner (DDC), Dumka, Sanjay Singh said, “We have been informed that around 35 labourers are stuck in Nepal. However, we are not focusing on numbers, as we have to bring all those stranded there.”“Since they are stuck in a foreign land, we have to follow certain protocols. The deputy commissioner is writing a letter to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu seeking guidance on how to rescue them. We will begin the rescue operation once permission is granted,” Singh said.He said buses would be sent according to the number of labourers stranded there. “A team of paramedics equipped with Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits would also go to ascertain the health condition of the labourers. If anyone is found infected with Coronavirus, we will ensure a separate arrangement to bring him. In case anyone found to be seriously ill, we will ensure to get a better medical facility in Nepal,” he said.Not only in Nepal, thousands of labourers, who are stranded in different states of the country, have also sought Jharkhand’s governments help for their rescue. According to the data provided by the state control room, as many as 6044 migrant workers are stuck in different states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, and they want to return.Lakhs of migrant labourers working in different parts of the country have already returned home after cases started rising in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/26-j-khand-migrants-stuck-in-nepal-develop-covid-like-symptoms-seek-help-101621527044325.html
20-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid vaccination/ 18-44 age group J’khand moves SC seeking exemption from registration on CoWin app||Jharkhand government has moved the Supreme Court seeking direction to the Centre to disband the mandatory registration on CoWIN app under the “Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination” for the 18-44 age group and allow the state government to use its user-friendly portal for easier registration.In an intervention petition, the state government has cited the demographic profile of the state. With a huge tribal population inhabiting the 13 scheduled districts, low digital literacy and lack of proper internet connectivity are hampering the registration process through apps, the petition said.The state government has also mentioned that the vaccination process could be expedited in the state if it is allowed to use the portal developed by the state government, as it could work both online and offline, and provide the option of walk-in registration to the beneficiaries.“…direct the Government of India to disband the mandatory registration on CoWIN App under the “Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination” in so far as it concerns the Applicant, State of Jharkhand and consequently, direct the Government of India to allow/ permit the Applicant State to use its own robust, pragmatic and user-friendly mechanism devised for registration for Covid-19 vaccination process,” the petition filed by the state said.The petition said that walk-in registration was available for vaccination of the 45+ age group, but is not an option for those aged between 18-45 years (approximately 1.4 crore people) in the state.“Post the commencement of Phase –III, the state is facing major difficulty in registering the potential beneficiaries as there are issues of digital literacy and digital exclusion apart from glitches in the portal, especially in rural areas. The registration process in CoWIN is very cumbersome and complicated with the involvement of OTPs and captcha. Since the server is flooded with requests, it has become very slow to operate. Sometimes OTPs are not received and the dropdown menu does not function in the app,” it added.The petition, which the state government officials said is likely to be taken up in the coming days, said that the state government is ready with a robust portal of its own that will provide hassle-free service for vaccine registration.“Jharkhand, being a state with heavy forest cover and tough terrain, has many villages that come under network shadow area. Unlike CoWIN, Jharkhand State Portal (http://amritvahini.in) will run in the remotest of the areas irrespective of network connectivity so that the rural and tribal population of the state can easily reach out for vaccination,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-vaccination-18-44-age-group-j-khand-moves-sc-seeking-exemption-from-registration-on-cowin-app-101621526984246.html
