22-05-2021||Ranchi||Petition moved in J’khand HC for CBI probe into woman cop’s death||Main opposition BJP’s legislature party leader Babulal Marandi on Saturday demanded that the state government immediately recommend CBI probe in the death case of Sahibganj police officer Rupa Tirkey, claiming that people do not have faith in the probe conducted by local police that was working allegedly under influence of Pankaj Mishra, the assembly representative of chief minister Hemant Soren. The former chief minister said Tirkey’s family members and the tribal society in general have been repeatedly demanding a CBI probe in the matter, as “police officials in Sahibganj were acting as Mishra’s henchmen”. “It’s baffling as to why the state government is not recommending a CBI probe in the death case despite repeated demands by the family and tribal society. The family and people in general do not have trust in police investigation, as the police department is behaving like Mishra’s henchmen. Soon after her death, Tirkey’s mother filed a complaint and named three persons, including Mishra. However, the police instead filed a case against unknown persons and did not even question Mishra,” said Marandi, adding that the CM should immediately recommend a probe by the central agency in the matter. Addressing media persons at the party office, few audio clips associated with Mishra were also played by the BJP leader to establish the power that the CM’s assembly representative wields in Sahibganj district. The CM’s assembly Barhait falls in Sahibganj district. The BJP leader said they will continue to raise their demand, and if required, they will also approach court for the purpose. Tirkey, in her first posting as Mahila police station in-charge, was found hanging in mysterious circumstances at her official residence on May 3. Following this, her family lodged a complaint with police and named three persons--two of Tirkey’s female colleagues, and Mishra. Mishra, however, has maintained that he played no role in the case and was open to probe.Later, police investigation established the case as that of suicide, and arrested a male sub-inspector, who was allegedly in a romantic relationship with Tirkey, in the matter. Besides the BJP, several other leaders, including those from the ruling party, have demanded CBI probe in the case. Congress legislator Bandhu Tirkey has been a vocal proponent of the same. He also met CM Soren earlier this week and reiterated his demand. Reacting to Marandi’s demand, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya described it as “hollow”. “We have always maintained that justice will be ensured by the government in the case, irrespective of whosoever is guilty. An SIT is already probing the case. After that if people are not satisfied, then we will give it to whichever agency for which demand is made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/petition-moved-in-j-khand-hc-for-cbi-probe-into-woman-cop-s-death-101621703458344.html
22-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Nearly 50% drop in Covid cases, deaths last week||Jharkhand, for the first time after a hiatus of one-and-a-half months, felt some relief in the third week (May 15-21) of this month as weekly detection of Covid-19 cases and deaths registered a significant decline by around 50% in comparison to the previous week. While 33,962 cases were reported in the second week of this month between May 8-14, the third week registered a decline by nearly 50% with the discovery of 17,011 cases. The number of deaths too declined by 47%, as 394 fatalities were reported in between May 15-21 in comparison to 751 during May 8-14.Besides, the positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 samples tested) also dropped to 4.70% in the third week against 8.51% in the second week. This indicates slowing down of the spread of the infection.According to health experts, the growth of Covid-19 cases and number deaths will decline further, as the peak of the second wave has already passed in the state . “This is now the end of the second wave of the pandemic. The next month is going to be a low key affair. But, we should not be relaxed, as the next couple of months (June-July) will provide a cushion for robust preparation for the third wave, if it comes. Besides, it is high time to focus and escalate vaccination coverage,” said Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine, RIMS.The state, which was hit hard by the second wave, was still discovering over 2,000 cases on a daily basis, much more that what it reported daily during the peak of the first wave between mid-August and mid-September last year.The impact of the second wave was so intense that all Covid-19 parameters of the state faired poorer than the national average.However, these parameters have now improved in last two weeks. According to the health department’s bulletin on May 21, the seven-day growth of the disease was 0.62% in the state against the national average of 0.76%. The seven-day disease’s doubling period in Jharkhand stood at 112.09 days against the national average of 91.28 and recovery rate was 91.05% against the national average of 87.20%.However, the state’s mortality rate of 1.45% was still higher than the national average of 1.10%.Jharkhand till May 21 reported a total of 327,035 cases, including 297,776 recoveries, 24,499 active cases and 4,760 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhandnearly-50-drop-in-covid-cases-deaths-last-week-101621703398285.html
22-05-2021||Ranchi||26 Jharkhand migrant workers stranded in Nepal depart for Dumka||Twenty-six Jharkhand migrant workers stuck in Nepal due to COVID-induced lockdown there on Saturday reached India-Nepal border and boarded a bus for their home in Dumka, a top official said. These migrant workers from Jharkhand,engaged in a project in Nepal by Larsen & Tourbro,through a contractor,had been stranded due to lockdown in the Himalayan country to rein in coronavirus surge and had been sending SOS messages including video messages to the Jharkhand government for rescue.The workers reached Viratnagar on Bihar-Nepal border and boarded the bus to travel to Dumka, around 245 km away. "Our worker brothers have reached India-Nepal border. Soon they will depart for Dumka. Team of officers and paramedics are at Viratnagar on Bihar-Nepal border to bring them home safely. "RAT kits, dry ration, oxygen cylinder equipped ambulance have all been sent from Dumka," said Deputy Commissioner Dumka, Rajeshwari B, who had flagged off a bus from Indoor stadium to Nepal border alongwith officials for the ferrying workers Friday.A migrant worker coming home thanked Hemant Soren-led government for their rescue. "We are sitting in a bus sent by the Jharkhand government. We have been provided food.Apart from Subh Sandesh Foundation, Indian Youth Association, Nepal too helped us besides Chief Minister Hemant Soren, legislator Basant Soren and DC among others.Nepal people also helped us including media persons ...," Narayan Das, a migrant worker, said in a video message. The migrant workers hailing from Dumka district had appealed to the government for rescue, saying they were unwell and held up in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal.Former legislator Kunal Sarangi, JMM Legislator Basant Soren took up their cause and chief minister Hemant Soren as well as Indian Embassy in Nepal also intervened. "A prompt action was initiated for the return of migrant 26 workers stuck in Nepal at the instance of chief minister Hemant Soren. The state government took up the issue with the Nepal government."As a result of the initiatives, the workers will be returning to Jharkhand on Saturday," a state government official had said. Sarangi said members of Janata Samajwadi Party Nepal helped in locating the workers and also in their return back home.Chief Minister's office said a bus and an ambulance were rushed to the Indo-Nepal border to bring back workers. Approval from Nepal government had already been sought for this, the official added. On their return, the workers will undergo health check and COVID tests, the official said. The Jharkhand government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions that mandate compulsory seven-day quarantine for people coming to the state. The workers will be brought to Dumka's indoor stadium first.Former legislator and BJP leader Kunal Sarangi among others had escalated the matter urging the Ministry of External Affairs besides Indian Embassy in Nepal and others thanked the Indian Embassy in Nepal too for swinging into action. A Larsen & Toubro spokesperson confirmed that the workers were engaged by the company at a project site through a contractor. Chief minister Soren had on Thursday retweeted a message by a non-profit body Shubh Sandesh Foundation: "Doing our best to assist 26 Jharkhand migrants stuck in Nepal. Our friends in Nepal are in touch coordinating food, travel pass, medicine etc for them."Earlier, former legislator Sarangi had tweeted: "I sincerely request @DrSJaishankar Sir & @IndiaInNepal to get it looked into. These poor migrant labourers from Jharkhand are stuck in Nepal and they are very unwell. Pls rescue them." In earlier video messages the migrant workers were seen appealing to the Jharkhand government to rescue them while saying that they are stranded in Nepal due to the lockdown and most of them have fallen sick but are not getting any medical attention and food.In a separate message later, the workers said that they have received a communication from the Shubh Sandesh Foundation that arrangements are being done for their safe return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/26-jharkhand-migrant-workers-stranded-in-nepal-depart-for-dumka-101621688755633.html
