23-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: About 7,000 prisoners may get bail or parole in Jharkhand to decongest overcrowded prisons||About 7,000 prisoners may be granted interim bail or parole to decongest overcrowded prisons in Jharkhand state, that is battling a second surge of Covid-19 pandemic in the wake of a recent Supreme Court order, a top official said. An order has been issued to jail superintendents by the High- Powered Committee to shortlist prisoners on the basis of a directive by the Supreme Court to release on parole or interim bail, prisoners and the under-trials for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, Inspector General Prisons, Jharkhand, Birendra Bhushan told PTI. "If the courts approve, in all there are about 7,000 prisoners who may get interim bail. If this happens our jails will run as per capacity," Bhushan said.There are 21,046 prisoners including 15,900 undertrials lodged in the state's thirty prisons that have a capacity to house 16,700 inmates. A high-powered committee that comprises Justice AK Singh of Jharkhand High Court, Principal Secretary Home Rajiv Arun Ekka and IG Prisons Birendra Bhushan had met on May 17 to review the situation and had asked Jail Superintendent to identify eligible prisoners under the criteria. "Once the jail superintendents will provide the list of shortlisted prisoners, their names will be given to the District Legal Service Authority ... granting bail will be the role of judges and courts ... There may be about 7,000 such prisoners and in case their bails are approved, the jails will be less crowded," Bhushan said. Ninety days parole can be sanctioned to eligible prisoners while the period for those already on parole can be extended. He said the exact number of such prisoners will be known in a day or two. Jharkhand has 30 jails out of which 7 are Central jails, 15 district jails, one open jail and remaining are small sub- jails. Apart from shortlisting the eligible inmates, an exercise is also underway to rationalise the number of prisoners in view of the pandemic by shifting prisoners from overcrowded jails to less crowded jails, he said. Taking note of the "unprecedented surge" in Covid-19 cases, the Supreme Court on May 8 had moved to decongest prisons and ordered the immediate release of prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year. Observing that the decongestion of prisons housing around 4 lakh inmates across the country is a matter concerning "health and right to life of" prisoners and police personnel, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said all those who were allowed to go out on bail in March last year by the high- powered committees of states and Union Territories (UTs) be granted the same relief without any reconsideration to avoid delay. "Further we direct that, those inmates who were granted parole, pursuant to our earlier orders, should be again granted parole for a period of 90 days in order to tide over the pandemic," the bench, also having Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant had said in its order. The top court had taken note of its March 23, 2020, order by which it had directed all states and UTs to constitute high- powered committee (HPC) to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and the under trials for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-about-7-000-prisoners-may-get-bail-or-parole-in-jharkhand-to-decongest-overcrowded-prisons-101621760629001.html
23-05-2021||Ranchi||At least 22 suspected Covid-19 deaths in Jharkhand's Palamu, probe ordered||After at least 22 people died of suspected Covid-19 over the last 20 days in a tribal-dominated Sua Kaudia village in Jharkhand's Palamu district, the district administration has ordered an investigation and constituted teams to screen those infected with the virus.Also Read | PM Narendra Modi’s direct review with DMs against federalism: Hemant SorenAccording to Shashi Ranjan, Deputy Commissioner, Palamu, a team has been constituted to test people suspected to be COVID-19 infected and shift those found positive into isolation wards to be treated."District administration and ground-level medical teams conducted detailed investigation here. The situation being observed. Self-help Group workers are conducting surveys in Palamu to record COVID data. Workers will be given Oximeters for COVID patients. COVID testing committee has been formed to test the suspects, they are isolating the infected and giving them medicines," he said.Also Read | Jharkhand: Nearly 50% drop in Covid cases, deaths last weekHowever, locals point out a lack of proper healthcare infrastructure in the area and said that villagers are forced to depend on "Jhola Chaap" (quacks) for treatment."The reason behind a large number of deaths in the area is lack of proper healthcare facilities. There is a healthcare centre but no one from there goes to the villages to educate people about vaccination and COVID norms. There is also vaccine hesitancy here, but if there were awareness campaigns more people would have taken the vaccinations."When somebody falls ill here, they to the local 'jhola chhap' doctors and when their situation deteriorates they go to district hospitals. That's why people are dying," said Bachchan Thakur, a resident of Sua Kaudia village.Another local of the village, Mukesh told ANI that about 25 people with Covid-19 like symptoms had died in the area recently."The situation was bad in the village about 10 days ago, but people are staying indoors because of fear and that's why the death toll has not increased more," said Mukesh.Jharkhand reported 2037 new coronavirus cases, and 41 deaths, The COVID tally in the state has climbed to 3,27,035, including 22,566 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/at-least-22-suspected-covid-19-deaths-in-jharkhand-s-palamu-probe-ordered-101621745373778.html
23-05-2021||Ranchi||PM Narendra Modi’s direct review with DMs against federalism: Hemant Soren||While Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand have shown a declining trend in the last few days, chief minister Hemant Soren says the state can’t let the guard down as uncertainty about the nature of the pandemic remains. In a telephonic interview with Vishal Kant, the chief minister spoke over a host of issues including rural spread of the pandemic, hiccups in the vaccination drive besides the Centre-state relations. Here are some excerpts.Q) We are in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. The numbers of positive Covid cables in Jharkhand have started falling. What is the government’s assessment? Have we crossed the peak?A) Our experience shows a lot of uncertainty related to this disease. It keeps going up and down. Now, there are more associated issues coming up like the black fungus. I think the numbers going down could also be a result of the restrictions we have put in place. So we cannot lower our guard. Overall social distancing and use of masks are the best practice to save oneself from the disease besides vaccination.Q) Besides the high positivity rate, the second wave is more worrying due to its spread in the rural areas, which have very poor health infrastructure?A) Yes, our challenge has increased. In the first wave the spread was largely in the densely populated urban areas. But this time, it has penetrated the rural part. Initially, the situation was getting chaotic. However, we have things under control now. We have now also started a special door-to-door drive in rural areas to scan people, be it those who are unwell or even those who have died. We don’t want to hide data, even of death. In fact having exact data of death also gives us an idea of the direction in which the spread might be going.Q) This pandemic has also brought back the focus to an inadequate public healthcare system. Jharkhand traditionally has had a very poor public healthcare with shortage of doctors, paramedics and technicians. Has this pandemic forced policy makers and your government to change the approach towards public health and make improvements accordingly?A) I totally agree with it. The role of public healthcare has come to fore like never before. In fact despite all the limitations, it is the public healthcare infrastructure that has led the fight against the crisis. The private sector’s role has been exposed that ultimately they are business entities. There is no denying the fact that lots need to be done. Traditionally we have been a poor and anaemic state, be it on economic, social or educational parameters. We are doing an assessment and working on plans to improve healthcare. However, I would also underline that we handled the pandemic in a much better way despite the limitations than some of our neighbouring states.Q) Vaccination is the key to fight this disease. But it’s very slow in the state, especially in the 18-44 age group. What’s the plan ahead?A) There is no denying the fact that there is shortage of vaccines due to supply constraints. Initially, the Centre was doing the procurement and distribution. Then they suddenly left it to the states to procure it for the 18-44 age group. That has led to a chaotic situation. States are now going for global tenders. And then there is no parity in pricing [of vaccines] for the states and the Centre. But we are still making the best effort because the same people will turn around and blame the states if there is a delay in vaccination.Q) Will Jharkhand also go for a global tender?A) Yes, it’s in the process. We will issue it within the next few days.Q) But do you think that will help?A) I am not very hopeful. ...it is going to be a huge burden on the states, especially poor states like us. There is no price parity. Spending hundreds of crores would be a huge burden. But we have no choice.Q) Some other states have said the Centre should be taking over the entire vaccination programme. What’s your position?A) Absolutely. I made a similar demand from the UPA (united progressive alliance) platform. And I still think so. It’s not too late. They made a budget of ₹35,000 crores. The Centre should be doing all procurement and distribution. They are allocating oxygen, medicines and equipment. Similarly, vaccination needs to be done at the national level in a transparent manner.Q) In Jharkhand, there is another challenge in the vaccination programme--- hesitancy, largely due to rumours surrounding the after effect of vaccines especially in rural areas.A) Yes, we have also got feedback about this problem in the rural areas. This is mostly related to lack of awareness. And the confusion and certain events related to vaccines and other drugs being used in the fight against Covid has also contributed to it. People hear about some side effects of the vaccine and duplicate drugs being administered. These things add to the rumours, making it a bigger challenge in a state like ours due to the illiteracy levels. However, we have chalked out a detailed awareness programme with the help of all elected representatives across the political spectrum. The campaign will run up to the level of gram panchayats in order to dispel rumours and encourage people to get vaccinated.Q) Centre-state relations often become a talking point. We have seen conflict situations even during the pandemic. Your tweet about the PM went viral, with the BJP hitting back. What really did you mean by that tweet? Was it to say that such meetings/discussions are not fruitful?A) The basic thing is that there needs to be transparency. I tweeted about the phone call only after news started flashing on TV that he spoke to CMs. We saw the incident of Delhi CM Kejriwal. He was reminded about the protocol of the meeting. But how come what the PM speaks comes in the media? So, how do we (the states) share our concerns and demands? My view was that the state governments need to be taken into confidence before taking any decision. Or else, there would be a problem in implementation. We have an example of what’s happening with the ventilators supplied to states.Q) West Bengal CM Mamta Banerjee raised the issue of PM-DM conference? You were part of it. Do you share similar views?A) I want to clarify that I have no ego hassles to sit there with DMs. However, such meetings are against the principles of federalism. Have we ever seen any other PM in the past hold a review meeting directly with DMs. I totally agree that such meetings are done to humiliate us where we have nothing to speak or contribute. Will the Centre be comfortable if I start doing review meetings with the Union health secretary? He (PM) also needs to think that he is sitting at a very high-level.Q) In the first wave, it was the Centre that imposed the lockdown. This time it has left the states to decide on that. Such restrictions have huge economic fallout? How will the state fight that? There are already reports of economic stress. Two days back a driver sought food in Ranchi for his starving family?A) In that specific case, as soon as we got to know, we extended help to the family at 1 am in the night. As far as imposing a lockdown is concerned, there are double standards there as well. In the first wave, for the Centre lockdown was the first option but the states have been advised that it should be the last option. As far economic stress is concerned, we have an eye on it. We didn’t let anyone starve in the first wave, it won’t happen this time as well.Q) Will the lockdown be extended?Q) The restrictions have clearly helped in containing the spread. We still have 2-3 days left (restrictions end on May 27 morning). We are assessing the situation. The survey we are doing will give us more clarity about the spread in rural areas by around 25th May. We will take a decision as per the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-direct-review-with-dms-against-federalism-hemant-soren-101621745162237.html
