24-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: Red alert issued for parts of Jharkhand||Strap: Weather department predicts extreme rainfall in southern and central parts of Jharkhand on Wednesday and Thursday with wind-speed up to 130kmph at few places; NDRF teams to be deputed in East Singhbhum and Ranchi  The meteorological department has sounded an alert for parts of Jharkhand with prediction of extreme rainfall and high-velocity winds at speed up to 130kmph on May 26 and 27 in the backdrop of cyclone Yaas. The department on Monday also appealed the state administration to be alert for at least southern and central parts of Jharkhand for the two days, as there is prediction of heavy to very heavy rainfall. Deputy director at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand said, “Cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall around noon on Wednesday and it will take around three to four hours to complete. Jharkhand’s southern and central parts are expected to be most affected.” Even though Jharkhand was yet to constitute its own state disaster response force (SDRF), three teams of national disaster response force (NDRF) have been moved for East Singhbhum and adjoining districts, while two teams have been deputed in Ranchi to deal with any crisis. Cyclone Yaas was likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and make landfall on West Bengal and Odisha coasts on Wednesday, weather officials said. Anand said, “Extreme rainfall is expected in some places of southern parts of Jharkhand, which include East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Simdega districts, on May 26. There is also possibility of thunderstorm and high speed wind at speed between 40 and 60kmph in the morning hours, while the speed may go upto 130kmph by evening.” He said central part of Jharkhand, that comprises Ranchi, Bokaro, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Khunti and Ramgarh, was likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. The districts might also experience wind speed up to 80kmph. On Thursday, almost the entire state will witness light to moderate rainfall, but some places at northwest, centre and south-east parts may experience heavy rainfall. “Extreme rainfall is likely in few places of south-east parts of Jharkhand on Thursday,” Anand said. He said the impact of the cyclone will be visible from Tuesday where some places will experience light to moderate rainfall along with lightning. Ranchi might see moderate rainfall on Tuesday, and heavy rains on Wednesday and Thursday. “The state administration should be alert, as the cyclone may cause heavy damage. People should avoid going out on Wednesday and Thursday,” Anand said. The state disaster management department seemed to be missing from the approaching cyclonic event, as it was yet to issue any directive to districts in this regard. However, East Singhbhum and Ranchi districts have deployed five NDRF teams. Inspector Saroj Kumar, NDRF Ranchi team commander, said, “Three teams have moved to Jamshedpur, while two teams will deployed in Ranchi to deal with any crisis.” East Singhbhum district also arranged shelter homes for people living in low-lying areas. The administration has also directed to make arrangement of emergency lights, generator sets, shelter houses and issue a control room number at the block level. A state disaster management authority was constituted in Jharkhand in June last year. But, the state was yet to constitute an SDRF. More than 100 personnel were selected for SDRF, but they neither have been trained nor they deputed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-red-alert-issued-for-parts-of-jharkhand-101621869667227.html
24-05-2021||Ranchi||Ministers demand extension of lockdown||Stating that the month-long restrictions helped in containing the spread of coronavirus infection, Jharkhand ministers on Monday urged the chief minister to extend the lockdown further atleast by a week even as they suggested to reopen few services.“The lockdown has helped in bringing down the infection numbers substantially. I think we need to extend the lockdown atleast for a week,” said health minister Banna Gupta.Barring few exceptions, the state was currently under lockdown since April 22 with varied degree of restrictions. Stricter measures, including ban on interdistrict and interstate movement since May 16, are in place till 6am on May 27. Like the health minister, similar demands were made by other leaders. However, they also suggested to relax restrictions for some groups and business activities. While Gupta advocated to relax rules in getting mandatory e-passes for professionals such as journalists, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said there was a need to give relief to businesses related to agriculture and officials of the agriculture department. Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon raised the issue of problems being faced while cremation of Covid-19 patients, as shops were closed due to the lockdown.Responding to the suggestions of his Cabinet colleagues, the chief minister said the government will assess all aspects before deciding on lockdown extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ministers-demand-extension-of-lockdown-101621869607213.html
24-05-2021||Ranchi||J'khand facing vaccine shortage, 2-3 days stock left for 18- 44 group: CM Soren||Hitting out at the Centre, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday that the state was facing a severe shortage of Covid vaccines and has barely two-three days of shots left in its stock.Chairing a cabinet meeting, Soren said the Centre failed to alert states and take necessary measures even as it had prior knowledge of the second wave of the pandemic."Government of India knew about the (second wave of the) infection but there was much delay in directions to the states and ultimately the entire country was impacted by it," he said."We were suggested that there should not be any lockdown in the country but given the rate of infections, the state governments started taking their own decisions. Today there are partial or complete lockdowns (in every state)," he added.The chief minister said that Jharkhand got barely 40 lakh doses of vaccines against a requirement of 4 crore doses, leading to the shortage.However, the state government would make serious efforts to procure vaccines, including through imports, he said.Soren said the state government would soon make a decision on extending the lockdown as 23 of its 24 districts share borders with either Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh or Chattisgarh, which are severely affected.Every day about 20,000 people are coming to the state through the railways and to combat the spread, Jharkhand has decided to intensify testing in rural areas on a war footing, Soren said.In urban areas, he said, the chain of the virus has been broken and fresh cases have reduced drastically to around 2,000 from earlier 15,000-20,000 a day."As far as death rates are concerned, we are the top in the country. UP and Bihar are reporting fewer deaths but you can assess if it is true. Many states are manipulating data but it is the priority of our government that we will ensure full transparency and take all possible steps to contain the virus," Soren said."Till the time a single death takes place in the state, we will consider it as peak," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-facing-vaccine-shortage-2-3-days-stock-left-for-18-44-group-cm-soren-101621862612531.html
