26-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas hits J’khand, thousands evacuated from low-lying areas||Strap: Around 5,000 people have been evacuated from bordering districts -East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan; Trees, electricity poles uprooted at many places  Thousands of people living in low-lying areas and makeshift houses in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts were evacuated to safer places in wake of Cyclone Yaas making landfall in neighbouring states of Odisha and West Bengal on Wednesday morning. The three districts were red alert areas of Jharkhand in view of the cyclone. An orange alert has been issued for Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla districts. These districts experienced light to moderate rainfall since Wednesday morning, that was likely to intensify into heavy to very heavy rainfall by night due to the impact of the cyclone. Senior scientist at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand said, “Light to moderate rainfall is expected in most parts of Jharkhand, while southern parts of the state such as East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Simdega are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall, while similar weather condition is likely for Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla during next 24 hours.” Jamshedpur recorded the highest 56mm rainfall from 8.30am till 5.30pm on Wednesday, while Ranchi recorded 33mm rainfall during the period. Due to rains and winds, several trees and electricity poles were uprooted. However, special teams deputed to deal with the climatic event were busy in restoring the normal situation. Rainwater gushed in low-lying areas of these districts. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said they began evacuating people from Tuesday evening. “We have evacuated more than 2,500 people from low lying and vulnerable areas and people living in thatched houses.” The district has set up 241 shelter houses, while two National Disaster Response Force teams have also been deployed. Meanwhile, additional collector of West Singhbhum district Ejaz Anwar said they have evacuated over 1,000 people and set up around 200 evacuation centres, where food and drinking water facilities have been made available. As many as 13 relief centres have been set up at Adityapur municipal area, where people who were living in makeshift houses were shifted, said chief executive officer of Adityapur Municipal Commission, Girija Shankar. Besides, at least 13 trains that depart or pass through Ranchi railway station have already been cancelled in view of the cyclone. However, flight service remained unaffected in Ranchi. Chief minister Hemant Soren has directed alternative arrangements of electricity for hospitals and ensuring oxygen back up-so that patients do not suffer. According to the IMD, cyclone Yaas was likely to enter Jharkhand from southern parts of Jharkhand by Wednesday night and expected to reach Khunti district by 5.30am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-hits-j-khand-thousands-evacuated-from-low-lying-areas-101622043793826.html
26-05-2021||Ranchi||State refutes Centre’s claim of 37% vaccine wastage||The Hemant Soren-led state government has refuted Union health ministry’s claim of the most vaccine wastage proportion in Jharkhand among all states at 37%, saying that wastage proportion in the state was only 4.65%, which is lesser than the national average. The national average of wastage of doses is 6.3%. Reacting to Centre’s data, the state goverment said the difference in the data was due to technical difficulties in data updation. “As per total vaccine doses availability with the state government t till Wednesday, the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65%. Vaccination data could not be fully updated on the central Co-Win Server/ Platform due to technical difficulties/glitches and the updation is in process,” the office of chief minister Hemant Soren said on social media platform Twitter. In a release issued on Tuesday by the Union health ministry after a review meeting through video conferencing with administrators from states and union territories on vaccination progress, the Centre said Jharkhand was the worst when it comes to wasting vaccine shots, followed by Chhattisgarh. “States have been urged repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1%; however, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3%), Chhattisgarh (30.2%), Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%), and Madhya Pradesh (10.7%) are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3%),” the Union health ministry’s statement said. The data came at a time when the Covid-19 vaccination drive has slowed down or halted across the country amid repeated complaints by many states regarding vaccine shortage.“The government of Jharkhand is fully focused on utilising it’s available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible, ensuring minimal wastage. We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in deep forested and other rural areas of the state,” the CM’s office statement said. As per the latest data provided by the state government on Wednesday, as many as 3,336,950 persons above 45 years of age have received their first dose, while second dose has been administered to 688,147 persons. In the 18-45 category, 437,122 persons have been inoculated with the first dose till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-refutes-centre-s-claim-of-37-vaccine-wastage-101622043733666.html
26-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: Thousands evacuated from low-lying places in Jharkhand||Thousands of people living in low-lying areas and makeshift houses in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum districts were evacuated to safer places ahead of Cyclone Yaas’s landfall in neighbouring Odisha and West Bengal. The districts are among the places in Jharkhand where the highest -- red alert -- has been sounded in view of the cyclone. An orange alert has been issued for Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla. The districts are likely to experience very heavy to extreme rainfall due to the impact of the cyclone.East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said they began evacuating people from Tuesday evening. “Till now, we have evacuated more than 2,500 people from low lying and vulnerable areas and people who are living in thatched houses.” He said they have set up 241 shelter houses. Kumar added two National Disaster Response Force teams have also been deputed.Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesAdditional collector (West Singhbhum) Ejaz Anwar said they have evacuated over 1,000 people and set up around 200 evacuation centres where food and drinking water facilities have been made available.At least 13 trains that depart or pass through the Ranchi railway station have been cancelled in view of the cyclone.Officials said chief minister Hemant Soren has directed alternative arrangements of electricity for hospitals and ensuring oxygen back up so that Covid patients do not suffer due to the cyclone.Most parts of Jharkhand received light to moderate rainfall since Wednesday morning. The rainfall was expected to intensify.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-thousands-evacuated-from-low-lying-places-in-jharkhand-101622005993632.html
