27-05-2021||Ranchi||Over 8 lakh students of Classes 9, 11 promoted without exams||Over eight lakh students studying in Classes 9 and 11 across the state have been promoted to higher classes without any examinations in wake of the second wave of Covid-19 and lockdown-like restrictions imposed in Jharkhand since April 22, an official said on Thursday.State secondary education directorate issued an order in this regard on Thursday and asked all school headmasters to promote the students and ensure their admissions in higher classes at the earliest.The academic session for 2020-21 ended on March 31 and the new session began on April 1. The students have already suffered an academic loss of two months this year, an education official said.State secondary education director Harsh Mangla said, “It’s doesn’t seem to be possible to reopen schools till next few months. In such a situation, students would not get enough time for completing the syllabus of Classes 10 and 12, in case they are not promoted. Hence, the state government has decided to promote the students of Classes 9 and 11 to higher grades.”Officials at Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), which conducts the examinations for Class 9 and 11, said that around eight lakh students study in the abovementioned grades in Jharkhand.Jharkhand government has already promoted the students from Class 1 to 8 without any examination because of the Covid pandemic.The JAC officials had said that they would issue a fresh examination schedule after reviewing the Covid situation on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/over-8-lakh-students-of-classes-9-11-promoted-without-exams-101622128199204.html
27-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas/ Over 10 lakh affected across state Ranchi, Jamshedpur set new rainfall records||Ranchi and Jamshedpur received the highest rainfall to ever be recorded in a single day in May, triggered by the Cyclone Yaas that caused major damage and affected more than 10 lakh people in the state, including two deaths reported from Ranchi on Thursday, officials said. Ranchi set the new record by registering 151mm rainfall in 24 hours, from 8.30 am on Wednesday to 8.30 am on Thursday. Ranchi’s earlier record was 72.2mm registered on May 17, 1990, as per the records available with Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD). Ranchi also set a new record in terms of monthly rainfall in May. The city recorded 269.3mm rainfall from May 1 to May 27, breaking all previous records. The previous monthly record was of 151 mm rainfall registered in May, 1959, officials said. Jamshedpur also set a new record of 108.1mm rainfall in 24 hours this month. Jamshedpur’s earlier record was of 104mm rainfall recorded on May 27, 2017. The incessant rain since Wednesday caused heavy damage in many parts of the state as several houses were collapsed, large-scale standing vegetable crops have been destroyed, rainwater gushed into the houses in low lying areas while many trees and electricity poles were uprooted. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal said around 8-10 lakh people in the state are affected by the cyclone. “We had evacuated 15,000 people as a precautionary measure from vulnerable places before the cyclone, while 4,000 more people were evacuated from low-lying areas on Thursday,” he said. He added that the reports of houses being damaged are coming. “An assessment of the damage will be done once the weather improves,” he said. Reports from the capital city, two persons, including an infant, died after a wall of their asbestos-roofed house collapsed and fell on them due to heavy rain in Ranchi’s HEC area on Thursday morning, police said. The deceased were identified as Shankar Ramani, 26, and his 11-month-old son Reshab Kumar. The locals removed the debris and rushed the victims to RIMS where doctors declared them brought dead. Meanwhile, most parts of Ranchi faced frequent power cuts since Wednesday evening due to heavy rainfall. Rainwater gushed in several houses in low lying areas of Ranchi. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) sent its teams to many places to clear the roads and waterlogging. A bridge built on the Kanchi river in Ranchi’s Tamar block collapsed, while several diversions washed away due to the heavy rains. Water levels at Swarnarekha and Kharkai rivers have reached danger level. The East Singhbhum administration evacuated thousands of people living in low-lying and vulnerable areas. Senior scientist at Ranchi IMD centre Abhishek Anand said that Cyclone Yaas entered Jharkhand in form of deep depression on Wednesday midnight. “Most parts of Jharkhand, mainly the central areas, experienced heavy to very heavy rainfall on Thursday,” he said. Anand said the situation might improve on Friday, as the depression would move out from Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-over-10-lakh-affected-across-state-ranchi-jamshedpur-set-new-rainfall-records-101622128139177.html
27-05-2021||Ranchi||9-year-old girl sexually abused in Jharkhand shelter home; panchayat member held||A 50-year-old panchayat member has been arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl while shifting her to a relief camp set up for those evacuated in view of Cyclone Yaas in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district.“A First Information Report has been lodged against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said Ranjit Singh, a local police officer. He added the girl’s mother filed a written complaint in the case.Also Read | ‘No template of apt behaviour after assault’: Experts on Tarun Tejpal verdictPushpa Rani Tirkey, an activist, said the girl has been sent to a childcare institute for counselling. “The [girl] told the police...that Sagar Pal shifted her grandparents and cousins to the shelter home ... Later he took her to the toilet behind the shelter home and sexually abused her late on Wednesday... When she cried, he took her into the car again saying that he would take her to her mother and aunt. But he made her sit in his lap while driving the car and sexually assaulted her again,” Tirkey said. She added the people have vacated the shelter home. “They were angry how such a thing could happen in a government shelter home. If girls and women are not safe in the shelter home, why should they stay there?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/9yearold-girl-sexually-abused-in-jharkhand-shelter-home-panchayat-member-held-101622102357641.html
