29-05-2021||Ranchi||False ceiling caves in at state Assembly building, no one hurt||A portion of false ceiling on first floor of newly constructed Jharkhand assembly building collapsed on Friday evening reportedly due to leakage in the roof, raising questions over quality of construction of the building. No one was hurt in the incident, officials said. Speaker Mahendra Prasad said he has written to the building construction department in this regard. “The issue of quality of construction is for the concerned construction agencies of the state government to look into. I have brought the recent incident into their notice. They need to look into the causes and do repair work. I have also asked them to look into other possibly damaged locations and fix them,” said Prasad. The capital city received record rainfall due to the recently passed cyclone Yaas, and the false ceiling at the assembly building collapsed on Friday. The incident has once again brought the issue of construction quality of the iconic building, with the latest incident being a second such event within a year. In August last year, false ceiling collapsed in the library of the Assembly building. Standing on 39 acres in HEC area, the new Assembly building inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2019 Jharkhand assembly elections was constructed at a cost of ₹465 crore. It was constructed over a span of four years.The building has been courting controversy from the beginning, as the JMM, the opposition party at the time, boycotted the inauguration ceremony and one-day special session called in 2019 by the then Raghubar Das government, alleging that it was getting an incomplete building inaugurated in haste.At the time of inauguration, only the central hall of the Assembly was ready, while the west and east wings of the three-storey building were completed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/false-ceiling-caves-in-at-state-assembly-building-no-one-hurt-101622299771507.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||Covid spread in rural areas restricted to few districts; positivity rate low: Survey||In what would come as a relief for the state, an analysis of initial data collected during ongoing door-to-door rural public health survey shows that spread of coronavirus infection is restricted in few districts, besides low positivity rate being registered in villages across the state. The 10-day intensive public health survey (IPHS), that targets to reach each and every household across panchayats in the state, began on May 25. Till Friday, as many as 1,633,417 households comprising 8,207,751 persons were covered under it. “Out of the total surveyed persons so far, Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was recommended for 53,793 suspect cases. The test has been done for 51,605 cases. Out of it, 762 cases turned out Covid-19 positive, including 21 children in the age group 0-18,” said Sidhartha Tripathi, officer on special duty of IEC wing in health department. With the numbers being on lower side, the positivity rate stood at 1.47%, indicating a restricted spread of the pandemic in rural areas. However, those who showed symptoms but tested negative in RAT, were recommended for RT-PCR or TruNat tests for confirmation, officials said. Besides, as per initial data analysis, the spread of pandemic in rural areas was mostly concentrated in nine of the 24 districts. “As per initial data, it seems about 80% per cent of our villages are safe. Some of the districts where the most cases have been detected are Ranchi, Sahibganj, Bokaro and Giridih,” said Tripathi. However, the health survey showed a disturbing trend of several people showing signs of critical diseases such as diabetes, tuberculosis (TB) and abnormal blood pressure. While 5,990 persons showed TB symptoms in the first four days of the survey, 43,766 persons showed symptoms of diabetes and 46,400 showed signs of abnormal blood pressure, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-spread-in-rural-areas-restricted-to-few-districts-positivity-rate-low-survey-101622299711519.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand sends letter to Centre seeking rectification of vaccine wastage data||At loggerheads with the Centre over vaccine wastage data, the Jharkhand government has shot off a letter to the union government seeking rectification of wastage figures, saying CoWIN portal till May 27 erroneously showed state's wastage data at "38.45 per cent",a top official said on Friday. The state sent the letter on Thursday night to set the record right close on the heels of Chief Minister Hemant Soren trashing the centre's vaccine wastage data for Jharkhand. "If wastage figures are rectified on the basis of data attached with the letter sent by us to the centre, the wastage figure will come below 4.63 per cent," A Dodde, state's nodal office for vaccination told PTI, Union Health Ministry in a statement on May 25 had said despite urging states repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1 per cent, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3 pc) were reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3 pc). In return, Jharkhand had contested, saying it is wrong to project vaccine wastage proportion is as high as 37.3 per cent in the state whereas the fact remained that it is much below the national average and currently stands at 4.63 per cent. Chief minister Soren had lashed out at the centre, saying how can one imagine that Jharkhand will allow its "suraksha kavach" (protective gear) to go waste? CoWIN portal developed by the central government for the vaccination programme displays the vaccine wastage data for Jharkhand at 38.45 per cent till May 27. "Jharkhand's total wastage of doses is projected as 38.45 per cent on CoWIN portal till May 27...A list of session sites with actual data is attached with the letter so that after rectification of CoWIN portal correct status could be projected," Project Director, National Health Mission wrote to the Health and Family Welfare Ministry on May 27 night. A review at state level assessed that human errors and typo by certain vaccinators in the course of data entry on CoWIN portal combined with certain glitches during wastage calculation on CoWIN software resulted in portrayal of higher wastage than actual, the letter mentioned. "Whereas states have been urged repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1 per cent, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3 pc), Chhattisgarh (30.2 pc), Tamil Nadu (15.5 pc), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8 pc), Madhya Pradesh (10.7 pc) are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3 pc)," the union health ministry had said on Tuesday. Meanwhile, retweeting his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha's (JMM) tweet, Soren said only 48 lakh vaccine jabs have been made available to the state against 3.25 crore eligible population while Gujarat could get 1.62 crore jabs so far for 6.2 crore population. Chattissgarh too has rejected the centre's claim about high vaccine wastage claiming wastage of COVID-19 shots below one per cent in the state. The union government created CoWIN portal and said all immunisations will be part of the National Vaccination Programme and it will be captured on CoWIN platform along with stocks and price per vaccination applicable in all inoculation centres. The platform sees immunization management and reporting. Contining with his tirade against the union government on vaccination issue, Soren has slammed the centre for "launching vaccination drive without preparedness". Soren Thursday said the state is facing an acute shortage of vaccines with jabs for 18-44 age group almost over and hardly two to three days vaccines left for the people above the age of 45 years. Accusing the centre of "no transparency in vaccine allocation", he said under the circumstance he was left with no other option than to appeal to the companies operating in the state to come forward for vaccination of communities in their areas. "We are facing acute shortages of vaccines. The vaccine stock for the 18-44 age group is almost over and there is hardly two to three days stock for people above 45 years."We have raised the demand for vaccines but there is no clarity...There is no transparency in vaccine allocation," Soren had said. Earlier,opposition BJP had attacked the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government and sought to know as who is responsible for such a high wastage of vaccine in the state. Asserting how can a state allow about 18 lakh of doses go waste, Soren had said it was explained to the centre that poor connectivity in forest areas and lack of network issues are behind slow updation of data. "However, the centre seems hell-bent to project things in a poor light which is causing problem to poor states like Jharkhand. This is why the state had gone to the Supreme Court for allowing its platform for vaccination," Soren had said. Officials had said total vaccines supplied to all districts was 48.63 lakh while total vaccines utilised was 40.12 lakh and the wastage percentage comes to 4.63 per cent. The state had said it had 6.56 lakh doses of vaccines available with it. Fearing exclusion of a large chunk of the tribal people in the ongoing vaccination drive against Covid-19 due to non- availability of smartphones among many of them and access to internet in remote areas, the Jharkhand government had earlier filed a plea with the Supreme Court for directions to use its own "more user-friendly" JHAR-WIN app for registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-sends-letter-to-centre-seeking-rectification-of-vaccine-wastage-data-101622269064724.html
29-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: State begins damage assessment, CM orders probe in bridge collapse||Districts affected by the recently passed cyclone Yaas have began assessment of damage caused by it, while chief minister Hemant Soren has ordered a high-level probe into collapse of a five-year old bridge due to heavy rains, officials said on Friday.State disaster management minister Banna Gupta said, “All districts have been asked to begin assessment of damage caused by heavy rains at the earliest and send report to the department. We will take decision on the basis of their reports.”Besides, the state agriculture department was also carrying out a separate crop damage assessment in order to provide compensation to farmers who faced loss due to heavy rains, agriculture department director Nisha Oraon Singhmar said .State disaster management minister Banna Gupta said, “All districts have been asked to begin assessment of damage caused by heavy rains at the earliest and send report to the department. We will take decision on the basis of their reports.”Incessant rains triggered by cyclone Yaas for past two days caused heavy damage in the state. Hundreds of people were displaced after their houses were damaged, while and thousands of acres of vegetable crops were also destroyed. However, weather improved in Jharkhand on Friday with the depression moving out of the state.Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday ordered a probe into collapse of a bridge in Ranchi’s Tamar block due to heavy rains on Thursday. He said in a tweet, “Corruption and loot of public money will not be tolerated during my tenure.”A three-member probe team was set up in this regard, rural department officials said.The bridge was constructed at a cost of ₹8 crore on Kanchi river, known as Haradih-Buradih bridge, that connects Ranchi’s Tamar block to Bundu and Sonahatu. The foundation of the bridge was laid in 2011. The 500m-long bridge with 25 pillars was operational for past five years without any official inauguration, officials said.However, village residents said sand mining from the bridge area was the reason behind its collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-state-begins-damage-assessment-cm-orders-probe-in-bridge-collapse-101622217383131.html
