01-02-2021||Ludhiana||Woman held for abetting suicide||Man arrested with liquorLudhiana: Amit Kumar, a resident of Guru Nanak Colony, here, was arrested by the police on a tip-off on Saturday. He was coming on a Honda Activa scooter (bearing registration no. PB-10GD-3017) from the Pakhowal Road side. Search of the accused led to the seizure of 10 bottles of Master Moments Whisky. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered. OCInmate escapes from lock-upLudhiana: Veenu, a resident of Baldev Nagar, Rahon Road, has been booked under Section 224, IPC, for escaping from a lock-up of Daresi police station on the pretext of going to washroom on Saturday. The police said the accused, arrested in a case under Sections 457, 380 and 411, IPC, on January 21 was kept in police lock-up as his Covid test report was awaited. A search for the accused has been launched, the police said. OCLudhiana man held in MohaliMohali: The Kharar police have arrested a Ludhiana resident, Sunil Kumar, on the charge of being involved in thefts in the Kharar and Balongi area here on Sunday. The police also seized a vehicle that was purchased by the suspect by selling off gold and silver jewellery stolen from houses. A case of theft has been registered against the suspect at the Kharar Sadar police station under Sections 454 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The investigation in the matter was on, said the police. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-held-for-abetting-suicide-206296
01-02-2021||---||1 dead; 44 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 31One person lost his life, while 44 tested positive for Covid in the district today.The total positive cases in the district have reached 25,797, while the death toll has gone up to 1,001.With the reopening of schools, positive cases from educational institutes have started springing up. Three more teachers from different schools have tested positive. One teacher each from Government High School Mandiani, Government Girls Senior Secondary School Dakha and a private school at Shastri Nagar have tested positive for coronavirus. More samples from these schools are being collected.Earlier, a total of 27 students and 14 teachers had tested positive from Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Galib Kalan, while one teacher has lost her life also. In addition, five teachers from Government Senior Secondary School Gidderwindi, including the principal, have also tested positive for Covid in recent days.Six inmates of Swami Vivekananda Old Age Home have also tested positive and more samples are being collected.“Tomorrow, the old age home will be declared a mini-containment zone,” said Dr Ramesh, district epidemologist.Presently, there are 321 active cases in the district, while 35 people were home quarantined today.The person who lost his life was a 70-year-old from Basant Vatika and was also suffering from a lung disease.Till date, a total of 6,01,454 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 5,99,414 samples have been received. Of these, 5,69,688 samples were found negative, while the reports of 2,040 samples were pending.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-dead-44-ve-in-ludhiana-district-206268
01-02-2021||---||Man booked  for selling friend’s car||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, January 31The police have booked Jagjit Singh, a resident of Gurdwara Guru Sagar Road in Salem Tabri for borrowing his friend’s vehicle and selling it to another person in a fraudulent manner.In complaint to the police, Puneet Kaur, a resident of New Kidwai Nagar, said the accused, a friend of her husband, had borrowed their Honda WR-V car (bearing number PB-10GL-6333) a few months ago. Even after persistent demand by the owner, the accused failed to return the vehicle. The complainant said on making an enquiry, they learnt that the accused had sold the vehicle to Hrjinder Singh Sandhu by showing its ownership in his name.Case against woman for duping residentRita Rani, a resident of Ashok Nagar in Salem Tabri, has been booked under Sections 420 and 120-B on the complaint of Manoj Kumar, a resident of Durgapuri, Haibowal. The complainant said the accused had made a deal of a house in Gokul Vihar, Haibowal, for Rs 16 lakh and had given Rs 8 lakh as advance at the time of signing the agreement on July 28. 2020. Later, the house was sold to another person, Seema Sahni, and the accused never told them that the house was already mortgaged with a bank against a loan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-selling-friends-car-206269
01-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Defaulting contractors make hay in civic body road projects||Ludhiana, January 31Remaining true to their nature, officials of the building and roads branch of the Municipal Corporation (MC) are continuing with granting favours to the defaulting contractors who, more often than not, get away with poor workmanship or use of sub-standard or poor quality of material for road projects.Even after drawing flak from various quarters, issuing of show-cause notices and charge sheets, the MC officials (of B & R branch), it seems, have not learnt any lesson.In yet another example of their steadfast loyalty to certain contractors rather than the MC for which they work, the civic body officials have allowed to reconstruct only a part of a road leading to the cremation ground from Daresi Road falling in zone A of the city.During the collection of samples for quality check from various roads in the city, this particular stretch was found to be constructed in violation of specifications laid down in the work order. According to test report, the contractor had laid 3 to 4 inches of cement layer against the stipulated 6 inches. However, the officials had approved the work and the final bill was also prepared, say highly placed sources in the MC.However, senior officials intervened in the matter amidst uproar by area residents and a few councillors about the poor quality of material and workmanship in the construction and recarpeting of roads and the payment to contractor was stopped with instructions to the officials concerned to get the road reconstructed strictly as per the specifications laid down in the work order.But in a “devil may care” attitude, the officials of the B and R wing of the MC are understood to have accepted the plea by the contractor who undertook to scrap 2 inches of the top layer of cement and relay it and also partly reconstruct the road.When asked about this levity and undue favour being shown to the erring contractors, an MC official said for the time being, the contractor had been asked to reconstruct the road from where samples of material were taken. “The final payment for the work would be released only after quality check of the entire road with regard to material and workmanship,” the official added.No lessons learntEven after drawing flak from various quarters, issuing of show-cause notices and charge sheets, the civic body officials (of B & R branch), it seems, have not learnt any lesson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/defaulting-contractors-make-hay-in-civic-body-road-projects-206270
01-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Three miscreants nabbed for snatching mobile phones||Ludhiana, January 31The police have arrested three persons on a tip-off for snatching mobile phones when the accused were coming on a motorcycle towards Sua Puli in the Barewal area.The accused were intercepted at a naka and three mobile phones of different makes were recovered from their possession. The arrested persons, Rohit Sahni, a resident of Kapil Park, Haibowal, Tinku Kumar and Kukki, both residents of Panj Peer Road, were booked under Sections 379-B of the IPC. The police have also impounded their TVS motorcycle (bearing registration number PB 10HA 1586).In another incident, Devindeer Pal, a resident of Kwality Chowk in Shimlapuri lost his mobile phone to three snatchers. The complainant said the accused approached him on the night of January 29 on Chimny Road when he was going from his factory to his residence and fled after snatching his mobile phone. A case has been registered.Thieves strike at factory, electronics shopMiscreants broke into a zinc plate factory in Nichi Mangli, Focal Point, Phase VIII, on the night of January 28 and took away nine zinc plates. Owner of the factory Rajneesh Tiwari, a resident of Kabir Nagar, Daba Road, told the police that he went home on Thursday evening after closing the factory. The next morning when he reached the place, the zinc plates were missing.The police have registered a case under Section 380 of the IPC. In another theft incident, a shop selling electronic goods and mobile phones near Satsang Ghar on Main Tibba Road was burgled on the intervening night of January 28 and 29. Miscreants took away 15 mobile phones of different makes. In his complaint to the police, the owner of the shop, Onkar Singh Rana, a resident of New Subhash Nagar, said burglars broke open the shutter of the shop and fled with 15 mobile phones. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.Mobile phone snatched on chimney roadDevindeer Pal, a resident of Kwality Chowk in Shimlapuri, lost his mobile phone to three snatchers. The complainant said the accused approached him on the night of January 29 on Chimny Road when he was going from his factory to his residence and fled after snatching his mobile phone. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-miscreants-nabbed-for-snatching-mobile-phones-206271
01-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Don’t believe in rumours: School to parents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 31A message is being circulated in WhatsApp groups and other social networking platforms, which says that since teachers and students were tested positive for Covid-19 at Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sarabha Nagar, parents are requested not to send their children to the school for appearing for examinations till the vaccination process is done.”Students of the school have allegedly created a group in which another message is being circulated which says: “No school till vaccination”. Besides, parents of the students are also planning to meet the principal tomorrow.Principal of the School Sister Reshmi has expressed shock over such messages and rumours.She said: ”This is really bad for both students and parents. The exams will be conducted in a day or two and there will be no change in the schedule. Health teams can visit the school any time for checking teachers and students. There is no case at school. We are asking parents of children who are having any health issues to not to send the latter to school. But for others, the exams will be held at the school.”The principal also requested parents not to “shield” their wards who have not prepared for the exams and are circulating such messages.From Class V onwards, the exams of all classes will be held at the school as per the date sheet sent earlier. For Classes I to IV, exams will be held online.Jhanvi, a parent of a Class VII student, said her son was asking her not to send him to school due to Covid cases. He showed her the message being circulated on social networking groups.“I also got worried but later, we discussed the matter with other parents and we feel that a meeting should be held with the Principal as we are in a a dilemma,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-believe-in-rumours-school-to-parents-206272
01-02-2021||Ludhiana||Non-teaching staff allege government apathy||The Private College Non-teaching Employees Union (PCNTEU), Punjab, rued the ‘step-motherly’ treatment being meted out to the non-teaching staff of private colleges at its state body meeting held at GGN Khalsa College, here today.Mandeep Singh Bedi, Khalsa College, Amritsar and Vivek Markanda, BLM Girls College, Nawanshahr, state president and secretary, respectively of the PCNTEU, blamed the government for neglecting non-teaching staff of private colleges.They said posts of non-teaching employees were lying vacant in the privately-managed government colleges but the state government had not been filling the posts. The revised house rent and medical allowance from January 2006 had not been sanctioned to non-teaching staff working in aided colleges while it had already been given to the teaching staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/non-teaching-staff-allege-government-apathy-206273
01-02-2021||---||PGI head hails vaccine trial team||Chandigarh, January 31Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, today commended the Covishield vaccine trial team for bringing laurels to the institute.An official statement read: “It is because of the trial conducted successfully by the PGI team and the positive outcomes of the vaccine in terms of efficacy and immunogenicity that the emergency use of Covishield was authorised in India.”The team was led by Prof Madhu Gupta from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health. It included Prof Nusrat Shafiq from the Department of Pharmacology; Prof Mini P Singh and Dr Arnab Ghosh from the Department of Virology; Prof Pankaj Malhotra, Prof Ashish Bhalla, Prof Vikas Suri and Dr Ritin Mohindra from the Department of Internal Medicine; and Dr Tarundeep Singh from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health.In all, 149 volunteers were recruited in the trial. All participants have completed 28 days post-vaccination of the second dose and 134 participants have completed three months post the first dose of the vaccine without any major side effects. The follow-up of the volunteers will be continued till six months after the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pgi-head-hails-vaccine-trial-team-206274
01-02-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Depute park managers, check illegal activities||Parks are essential for a healthy and happy community. The government should take some serious steps towards the maintenance of parks where grass is barren, benches are either broken or stolen and the footpath is occupied by beggars. Ward councillors should be given the authority and responsibility to ensure the healthy conditions of the same. Also, local people should work on their lack of interest towards the social issues as only that could motivate the higher authorities to take the matter seriously and delve deeper into other concerns as well. A gardener must be employed to look after the shrubs and flowers. To ensure the security either a security guard or camera must be installed to avoid any mishappenings. Regular police introspection must happen to ensure the area drug free. Schools must be informed about the various availabilities in the park and must be motivated to conduct picnics and other day outs for the students. Sport organisations must look forward to conduct regular hiking and other sporting activities. Meditation and yoga centres can use this as a profitable opportunity. Other awareness programs and camps can also be conducted in the parks.Vandita JainConstitute park welfare committeesPublic parks are used by the citizens for recreational activities such as walking, exercising, playing, yoga etc. and play a commendable role in nurturing the health of residents of the area. Maintenance of these parks is the responsibility of the MC. But they have their own limitations such as shortage of funds. As a result, most of the parks which are located in areas not inhabited by influential people are neglected and their condition deteriorates due to overgrown grass, broken benches, dilapidated tracks etc. This makes the people reluctant to visit these and they become a haven for anti-social elements and drug addicts. The solution lies in forming 'Park welfare committees' and through them approaching the corporation for their maintenance. The welfare committees can also raise funds by contribution from the beneficiaries of the park. The residents of New Subhash Nagar area have constituted such a committee.Vansh ChaniReport illegal activitiesPublic parks in localities are not meant to work as a breeding ground for the drug dealers and criminal behaviours. Careful considerations should go into and parks should be used for only legal public gatherings. The locals should be aware of the things happening in their nearby parks and tell respective authorities about anything wrong or illegal happening there. A citizen of the locality should be appointed to investigate the working of parks.Amarpreet KaurUse dronesThe forlorn condition of parks during the lockdown has led to many dire straits. The inattention of government towards the public parks given way to drug addicts and other people to encroach them. These days, technology has greatly come into action. Firstly, the administration should use AI-based drones for pinpointing the troubled places. Then using the analysis recorded, the council should employ officers to look at the parks and prevent the parks from getting maimed further. The crux of the matter is that the public also have to play a vital role to eradicate this stumbling rock from the path of development.Komal KakkarTake action against drug addictsThere are 870 parks under the Ludhiana civic body. The parks give you a refreshing break from your hectic schedule. You can go out with your family for a good walk, picnic, play outdoor games and enjoy quality time with you family in these parks and gardens. Many public parks are in a putrefy state due to negligence of government authorities. The government should appoint virtuous contractors for the maintenance of parks to increase green cover in the city and looking for vacant spaces in the city where green belts can be developed. Strict action should be taken against drug addicts for exploiting the public parks and using it for their illegal activities.UrvashiRemove encroachersThe Municipal Corporation is responsible for maintaining the parks in the city. First, it must ensure that nobody encroaches upon the land for private use as some poor have been found to build huts for their living in the parks. Also, some societies of the colony itself have been found to construct pucca buildings for common use of the residents. These must not be allowed. Each park in the city must be kept under the supervision of a gardener who must be paid by the corporation and assigned the duty for proper upkeep of the park. Further, the authorities must hand over the maintenance of the park to the residents living around the park and they in turn must ensure proper maintenance of the park under their charge. Officials of the Horticulture Department must visit these parks often and check for their proper maintenance. If any park is in neglected state, the committee of residents around the park made for maintenance must be changed and a new committee of residents made and handed over the charge for maintenance of the park.Gautam DevDepute attendants for upkeepPublic parks are a hangout spot for the people. It embellishes the beauty of the locality as well and their dilapidated state shows the ignorance of the municipal authorities as well as the negligence of civic bodies. Such parks often attract drug addicts. Also, they are big question mark on the health and hygiene. It is a prime duty of the residents to make the MC aware about the situation. The MC should take action immediately to revamp and clean the park and must deploy well-paid contract attendants. People of the locality should also establish a committee which can keep eye on the maintenance of the park and working of the attendant.Gurpreet KaurInstall more dustbins, plant treesAs we all know that the parks are aesthetic feature of cities and societies, so maintenance of this should be needful. First of all, private agencies should undertake the duty of conservation of parks which would also help them in putting their advertisements. Secondly, society should also have a supervision on the parks. They should install more dustbins and trees to be grown. Cleanliness must be adhered. Regular Cleaning is must. Thirdly, proper funds should be allotted for the workers.Harleen kaurBan entry of drug peddlersPublic parks attract people of all age groups. However, the condition of many parks in the city is bad. Sometimes people are playing cards and other drug addicts are taking intoxicants in parks. So, first of all dilapidated conditions must be mended and fences must be erected around the boundaries of each park. There must be entry and exit of each park and some police personnel must be deputed to have a look at clumsy people and drug peddlers. These parks which are in colonies, there must be a committee of that colony which install CCTVs for proper surveillance on the entry and exit of such persons. Entry of drug addicts and other ill-mannered people must be banned and they must be fined whenever committee members found them in some objectionable situation. There must be an inspecting team of the corporation to have a look of all the facilities which are being provided in these parks.Mohd Saleem FarooquiCharge nominal feeTo provide basic amenities along with parks is the prime reprehensibility of the local government. But a lot of parks are in a dilapidated state and have become safe haven for drug addicts and other anti-social elements. All this cause inconvenience to people. In some of the parks sports equipment is not in working conditions. The local government must appoint some policemen at the entry of the park. The MC must charge a nominal entry fees. They must check the entry of drug addicts and other anti-social elements to enter into the park. There must be a team to inspect each park periodically to check the lack of facilities and should bring into the notice of the corporation for its early solution.Farzana KhanEnsure clean lavatoriesSome of the parks in city are nothing more than garbage dumps. Many others have broken walls, dilapidated paths, no greenery and flowering plants. It is high time their four walls, benches and paths be repaired and new grass, plants as well as trees planted. For the maintenance of each and every park full-time gardeners and caretakers should be employed. All big parks should also have clean public lavatories.Dr Sunil ChopraOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONDespite repeated attempts by district administration, police and social organisations, the menace of begging in the city is not stopped. What should be done to stop this problem? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comOPEN HOUSE COMMENTPublic parks victim of MC apathyShivani BhakooLudhiana Municipal Corporation has failed to pay attention towards poor condition of many green belts and parks in the city, which are crying for attention and have become a perfect den for anti-social elements to carry on with their activities.According to an official of the Horticulture Wing of the MC, there are 870 parks and 52 green belts in the city. Despite repeated demands of residents, the Municipal Corporationhas done nothing to improve the condition of many parks. In several parks, other encroachments have also come up such as scrap is being kept, shanties are made etc.As if this was not enough, people have started dumping garbage in these green belts, which is developed, would be a feast to the eyes and beneficial for the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/depute-park-managers-check-illegal-activities-206275
01-02-2021||Ludhiana||Double delight for Guru Nanak Club||The Guru Nanak Club wrapped up two titles, romping home victorious in the girls U-17 as well as in the U-19 sections in the three-day Ludhiana District Basketball Championship which concluded at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Sunday.In the boys U-17 category, Ludhiana Cagers emerged winners while in the U-19 group, Gymkhana Club came out triumphant.Arshpreet Singh Mundi, a young entrepreneur and prominent sports promoter distributed the prizes among winners. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, senior vice president, Basketball Federation of India, Gurjeet Ramana, SP (retd), JP Singh, president DBA, Ludhiana, Sumesh Chadha, vice president, DBA, Vijay Chopra and Avnish Agarwal were among others present on this occasion.Speaking on the occasion, Teja Singh Dhaliwal said that emerging players from these championships will go on to star for India in international arenas in future. The chief guest promised all possible support to promote basketball in Ludhiana.The promising basketball stars from the city, Navshan Singh, Manjot Singh and Manmeet Kaur besides senior basketball coach, Rajinder Singh and coaches Davinder Singh Dhindsa, Ravinder Gill and Saloni were honoured by the organising association. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/double-delight-for-guru-nanak-club-206276
01-02-2021||Our Correspondent||9 pairs of special trains to have extended run||Ludhiana, January 31The Northern Railway authorities have extended the periodicity of nine pairs of festival/Covid special trains operating in the region. Earlier, most of these trains were to operate till January 31 while now these trains would continue to run till March 31.The trains with extended periodicity were 05251/52 Darbhanga-Jalandhar City-Darbhanga Special, 05531/32 Saharsa-Amritsar-Saharsa Special, 05211/12 Darbhanga-Amritsar-Darbhanga Special, 023556/56 Patna-Jammu Tawi-Patna Special, 03255/56 Patliputra-Chandigarh-Patliputra Special, 02237/38 Varanasi-Jammu Tawi-Varanasi Special, 02231/32 Lucknow-Chandigarh-Lucknow Special, 02421/22 Ajmer-Jammu Tawi-Ajmer Special and 04515/16 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka Special.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-pairs-of-special-trains-to-have-extended-run-206277
