02-02-2021||Ludhiana||MLA Sanjay Talwar bereaved||MLA (East) Sanjay Talwar’s wife Meenu Talwar passed away today. She was not well from some time and was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Delhi. In a tweet CM Capt Amarinder Singh said he was saddened to hear about the unfortunate demise of Meenu Talwar, wife of Talwar, and expressed condolences. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-sanjay-talwar-bereaved-206509
02-02-2021||Ludhiana||Training on goat farming at GADVASU||The Department of Livestock Production Management, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, organised two training programmes for farmers on “Scientific goat farming as a source of income for rural farmers” and “Rural upliftment through scientific poultry farming”. The trainings were conducted and co-ordinated by Dr Daljeet Kaur, Dr Mandeep Singla, Dr Yashpal Singh and Dr Subhash Chandra.These were the offline programmes organised by the department under the SOP of Covid-19. The trainings were conducted under the aegis of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) programme operational in the GADVASU with a duration of four days (two days under each training). A total of 25 farmers from different villages, places actively participated in each of the training programme.Six women also participated in programme on goat farming. The trainees were apprised on various aspects of goat farming under stall-fed conditions. Dr Parkash Singh Brar, Director, Extension Education, appreciated the organising team. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-on-goat-farming-at-gadvasu-206510
02-02-2021||Ludhiana||Father, son duo booked for opening fire||Father, son duo fired at a man over minor issue at Kot Mangal Singh yesterday. Fortunately, no one suffered bullet injury in the firing.The suspects have been identified as Sandeep Rajput and his father Sanjiv Rajput, both residents of Kot Mangal Singh.Complainant Inderjit Singh Laddi told the police that on Sunday he had arguments with Sandeep over constructing sewer gutter in front of his house. On the intervention of the locality people the matter was resolved and both parties reached compromise.Later in the evening, the suspects brought some unknown persons outside complainant’s house to intimidate him. When area people gathered in large numbers unknown persons fled from the spot.Later, when complainant’s father along with the area people went to talk to Sanjiv about unknown persons, he and his son started arguing and hurled bricks at him.Sandeep then brought his pistol and fired bullets at complainant’s father, but fortunately no one suffered bullet injuries.Investigation officer ASI Binder Singh said the suspect had fired from his licenced weapon and raids were on to nab him. “The police will also cancel arms licence of the suspect and seize his weapon,” the ASI added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/father-son-duo-booked-for-opening-fire-206512
02-02-2021||---||14-yr-old raped at Focal Point||Ludhiana, February 1A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped at Gobindgarh village in Focal Point. The suspect was arrested by the Focal Point police a day after he committed the crime.The suspect has been identified as Balvir Singh, a resident of Sardar Da Vehra in Gobindgarh.The complainant, who is victim’s mother, said on January 30 her daughter had gone to answer the call of the nature. When victim’s mother entered washroom she heard some noises.“Suspecting something suspicious, I went to enquire and knocked at bathroom’s door. Suddenly, Balvir came out from bathroom. I identified the suspect, who was our neighbour and informed the police. I tried to catch him, but he pushed me and fled from the spot,” alleged victim’s mother.The complainant stated that when her daughter went to bathroom the suspect also entered bathroom and sexually assaulted her.Investigation officer Assistant Sub-Inspector Kuljit Singh said after registering a case under various sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act, the suspect was arrested a day after he committed the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/14-yr-old-raped-at-focal-point-206513
02-02-2021||---||Peddler held with banned medicines in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 1The Kotwali police have arrested a drug peddler and recovered huge quantity of banned medicines from him.The arrested suspect has been identified as Lakhvir Singh Lakha, a resident of Bachitar Nagar, Gill Road.The Kotwali Station House Officer (SHO), Sub-Inspector Harjit Singh said secret information was received about Lakha into illegal trade of banned medicines. He was coming to deliver consignment of banned medicines near Lakkar Bridge. Accordingly, a police party laid a trap and after intercepting his motorcycle he was cornered and arrested.During his search, 1,850 tablets of tramadol, 112 capsules of tramadol, 112 capsules of spasmo and six liquid syrup were recovered from him.During questioning the suspect revealed that he used to bring banned medicines from Sonepat (Haryana) and sell these in retail to his clients.“A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect and further probe is on to bust the entire supply line of banned medicines,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/peddler-held-with-banned-medicines-in-ludhiana-206516
02-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Night shifts for women: Entrepreneurs flag concerns||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 1Women entrepreneurs in the city have welcomed the announcement by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman that women will be allowed to work in all sectors and in night shifts. However, they contended that in the absence of adequate infrastructure and crime against women this would not be easy task.They feel that not all the workplaces are equipped to provide pick-up and drop facilities to women.Mridula Jain from Shingora Shawls here said it was too good that the Finance Minister provided an opportunity to women to perform and earn and it will generate more employment. “But do we have the infrastructure to provide a safe environment to women? Whole onus will be on employer but he/she will not be in the office 24x7. How will an employer take a guarantee of other fellow-beings that woman will not be harassed? We have still not geared ourselves to curb the rape and molestation of women, how can we provide them a perfect atmosphere to work during night hours? The social mentality of people has to be changed to adopt this,” said Jain.Voicing similar views, Mini Riat, Managing Director, Akal Springs, said that even after being a successful women entrepreneur, she would be reluctant and scared to go for it (women working in night shifts). “There are many other issues involved. Suppose an urgent call comes for the woman worker that her child is not well or there is some other problem in the family, how will she go at midnight? The street lights in Focal Points are not working, would it be possible to send women alone? The MSMEs are already struggling, they will not be able to arrange for the facilities like conveyance, hostels etc for women. We need to create proper facilities for the safety and security of women and then only we can think of the viability,” she said further adding that companies having turn-over above Rs 500-600 crores, having all the facilities can definitely hire the women-force during night shifts but not MSMEs etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/night-shifts-for-women-entrepreneurs-flag-concerns-206518
02-02-2021||---||Class X, XII students appear for golden chance exam||Ludhiana, February 1A number of students appeared for the examination of class X (Science) and XII (General English) in the district today. According to the information, a total of four centers were set up in the city for the examination.Notably, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has given a golden opportunity to candidates who have passed the Class X and XII examinations to enhance their marks. Besides, under the open school system, students have been given another chance to appear for the supplementary examination.Varinder Pathak, a teacherat Government Senior Secondary (Multipurpose) School, Ludhiana, informed that 48 students appeared for the examination at the school centre. Besides, a number of students also appeared at other centers. Students were asked to follow the guidelines for prevention of Covid-19 for exam.However, some students said they came to know about the examination very late. A girl appearing for class 10 examination said, “I learned about the examination recently and then I applied for the same. Last year, the exam could not be held due to the pandemic. I am studying under open school system. If I had got the information about examination timely, I could prepare in better manner.”DEO Rajinder Kaur could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/class-x-xii-students-appear-for-golden-chance-exam-206515
02-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||PSPCL all set to install smart energy meters on consumers’ premises||Ludhiana, February 1The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has set the process in motion for installation of smart energy meters in keeping with the direction of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) and the Union Ministry of Power for conversion of all electricity meters into smart meters by 2022. Touted as state-of-the art equipment, the smart meters would help curtail power theft, meter tempering and inflated bills, claim PSPCL officials.Confirming the development, the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Metering Gurdev Singh Nagi said the conversion of meters would be carried out in a phased manner and as far as Ludhiana was concerned, orders for procurement of 3-phase meters for consumers with a connected load of more than 7 kW, had already been placed with a firm which would also maintain the entire system for a period of five years after supply of meters to be completed within six months.Process of testing single phase smart meters (for load of less than 7 kW and DT (distribution transformer) smart meters was in progress and would take some more time to be finalized, Nagi added.Officials claimed that smart meters would cut down human intervention in metering, billing and collection process to the minimum level and also help in reducing theft by identifying loss-making pockets. Further, the billing data provided by smart meters would be accessible for consumers on a mobile phone app which could be linked to the PSPCL control centre too.Even though no final decision in this regard has been taken but it was indicated that installation of smart meters would commence from government offices which often defaulted in payment of electricity bills. It was also claimed by officials that smart pre-paid or post-paid meters will help to tighten the noose around defaulters, especially government departments as the PSPCL would be able to disconnect the supply without visiting the premises of the consumers.Financial burden on consumers?As of now it is not clear whether the cost of smart meters (around Rs 6,000) would be borne by the PSPCL or the consumer. Several senior PSPCL officials contacted in this regard said no final decision had been taken to this effect but most probably the meters would be the property of power utility and the consumers would pay rental as before. However, Dr SB Pandhi, a functionary of the Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat and a member of consultative committee of the PSERC, claimed that consumers would have to pay Rs 7,000 for installation of smart meters.To be implemented in a phased mannerConfirming the development, the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Metering Gurdev Singh Nagi said the conversion of meters would be carried out in a phased manner and as far as Ludhiana was concerned, orders for procurement of 3-phase meters for consumers with a connected load of more than 7 kW, had already been placed with a firm which would also maintain the entire system for a period of five years after supply of meters to be completed within six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-all-set-to-install-smart-energy-meters-on-consumers-premises-206520
02-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||EWS Colony residents, labour union members stage protest in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 1Residents of EWS Colony, the along with members of Textile Hosiery Kamgar Union carried out a protest march from Tajpur Road to MC’s Zone B office in Ludhiana on Monday to protest against pending civic problems. They alleged that the MC allegedly failed to resolve the problem of contaminated water supply at the colony.They later staged a dharna at the office to express their anger over the MC’s failure to resolve problems in their area despite filing a complaint.The unsanitary conditions have also been haunting the residents in the area for the past many days. The protesters demanded from higher authorities of the civic body to ensure early redressal of their issues.Rajwinder Singh, who was leading the protest, said the residents have been suffering due to contaminated water supply for the past one month. He said the sewers are lying choked due to which sewage is overflowing and mixing in water supply pipes. Even sewage flows into streets and houses, leaving the residents to suffer a lot, he said.They said, “We get contaminated water supply. The water which is supplied by the civic body stinks and sometimes worms can be seen in the water. We are also forced to live under poor sanitary conditions. It is hard to breathe due to accumulated sewage in the streets. There is a high risk of disease outbreak in the area.”The protesting residents told that they are forced to bring water for drinking purpose from other areas at present. They also blamed that their elected representatives including ward councillor concerned failed to get the issues resolved.Surjit, a resident, said, “We have submitted a memorandum to MC authorities requesting them to resolve the issues. We have been given assurance that the issues will be resolved at the earliest.”The members of Textile Hosiery Kamgar Union have threatened to intensify the agitation if the problems of contaminated water supply and choked sewers are not resolved timely.Denying the allegations, MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said the complaint has already been resolved in the area. There is no problem of water supply in the area, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ews-colony-residents-labour-union-members-stage-protest-in-ludhiana-206507
02-02-2021||Ludhiana||Theft accused arrested||The Daresi police yesterday nabbed a person who was accused of committing a theft and escaping from the police custody.  The accused has been identified as Meenu alias Monu, a resident of Mohalla Baldev Nagar, Rahon Nagar. Additional DCP -1 Pragya Jain said the Daresi police nabbed the accused and his judicial remand was taken from court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/theft-accused-arrested-206522
02-02-2021||---||CMC holds white coat ceremony||Ludhiana, February 2 Christian Medical College organised a white coat ceremony for the 2020 Batch of MBBS students. The ceremony was held on the conclusion of 3-week long ‘foundation course’ which was introduced in the year 2019 as part of the New MBBS competency-based curriculum released by the National Medical Commission (NMC).  Dr William Bhatti, Director, CMC, spoke about the significance of the white coat in medical college.   Principal Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian said the new entrants into medical profession need to follow professional ethics while serving humanity. He then administered the ‘ White Coat Ceremony’ oath  to the first-year students who pledged their loyalty to the profession of Medicine. The official prayer was led by Rev. Alex Peter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmc-holds-white-coat-ceremony-206523
02-02-2021||---||‘Tractor2Twitter’ condemns action on their account||Ludhiana, February 2 After their Twitter account was withheld in the country in response to a legal demand, team members of ‘Tractor2Twitter’ have condemned the move. Team members said they had been raising voice of farmers protesting against the farm laws on Twitter, but their Twitter account was withheld in India. In a press release on Monday, team members said, “We are flabbergasted by the attack on freedom of speech in our free country when we need it the most. Till now Tractor2Twitter acted as voice of the people to keep the farmer movement peaceful.”  “We strongly condemn action of the authorities on our Twitter handle @tractor2twitr. We demand that gag orders should be taken back immediately. We will keep fighting for the people and keep exercising our legal and democratic rights because it’s our country. No action is being taken against those spreading provocative hashtags against farmers,” they added.  Notably, when the Kisan Andolan started, some youngsters of the Ludhiana district had initiated the campaign ‘Tractor2Twitter’ in support of farmers, who have been protesting against the farm laws. Thousands were following their Twitter account as per the information. A team member from Ludhiana later informed that their account has been restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tractor2twitter-condemns-action-on-their-account-206525
02-02-2021||Nitin Jain||Tax holiday for start-ups, interest rebate on housing loan hailed||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 1The extension of tax holiday for start-ups and the Rs1.5-lakh rebate on interest paid on affordable housing loans by one more year to March 31, 2022, has brought cheer to those having set up their own ventures and those availing the loans for affordable houses.Avantika, runs own e-classroom portalIt is a big boost for start-ups. Tax holiday extension by one more year will help me establish my own enterprise that I started from scratch after I was rendered jobless following the Covid-induced lockdown last year.The self-employed and the lower to medium class, especially the houseless who were going in for affordable housing, in the state’s industrial hub, have welcomed the announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Union Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament on Monday.“It is a big boost for start-ups. Tax holiday extension by one more year will help me establish my own enterprise that I started from scratch after I was rendered jobless following the Covid-induced lockdown last year,” said Avantika, who runs her own e-classroom portal.Dr Richa Dhawan, who runs an online health consultancy service, said, “The benefit will help the start-ups grow amid the pandemic scare and threat.”Preeti Singh, Vice-president, Housing chainLudhiana, being an industrial hub and maximum city of Punjab, with the largest migrant population, will be benefited the most as some 60 per cent of housing sales in the country are in this segment.“The extension of capital gains exemption given to start-ups will prove a game changer and attract more youths to become self-reliant,” felt an online travel portal owner Surbhi.A finance analyst Sudhir Agrawal said most of the expectations had been met by the Budget, which would give a new lease of life to the small and medium class, besides giving a major push to the infrastructure, especially the road network and healthcare sectors.“As it was expected, start-ups were given spotlight in this Budget by extending the tax exemption on the revenue as well as investments, by another year, which will give us more time to establish ourselves,” asserted Shalini Sharma, who ventured into an online boutique after Covid forced to shut her store last June.Bhupinder Singh, who works as a driver and had availed a bank loan under affordable housing scheme, said the Rs1.5 lakh benefit on interest paid on affordable housing loans by another year will help him repay the loan instalments with ease.“The Budget gave further push to affordable housing projects and it will help the homeless own their cheap houses,” said a housing project promoter Shiv Sethi.The FM has announced deduction under Section 80IBA of the Income Tax Act to the affordable housing projects. A leading realtor, Rachita Sanger, who was also offering affordable houses to the needy, said the Budget also offered additional tax exemptions for affordable rental housing projects which will be aimed at providing rental housing for migrant workers.“Ludhiana, being an industrial hub and maximum city of Punjab, with the largest migrant population, will be benefited the most as some 60 per cent of housing sales in the country are in this segment,” said Preeti Singh, vice-president of a leading housing chain.An expert in the real estate sector, Sudarshan Verma, said the Budget proposals for various investments in sectors like infrastructure would also benefit the real estate sector.“This will keep demand afloat for affordable housing in the next fiscal as well, besides bringing in more new supply within this segment,” observed another realtor Sakshi Kumar.The experts said affordable housing already accounts for one-third of the total supply across the leading cities in the country.“This will help achieve the ‘Housing for All’ objective of the government by enabling the small taxpayers to purchase affordable housing by March next,” added Jai Bhagwan Bansal, a tax consultant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tax-holiday-for-start-ups-interest-rebate-on-housing-loan-hailed-206501
02-02-2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 50 +ve, no death reported in Ludhiana district||Fifty persons tested positive for the Covid-19 while no death was reported in the district today. Now, total positive cases from the district have gone up to 25,847 while 1,001 have lost their lives so far.Swami Vivekananda Old Age Home located at Model Town Extension was declared micro-containment zone after six inmates tested Covid positive today. More samples were collected from here and their report was pending.Presently, there were 342 active cases in the district and 44 persons were home quarantined today. Three patients were on ventilator support out of which two belong to Ludhiana district and one was from other district.In all, 6,02,806 samples had been collected so far. The result of 1,390 samples collected in the last 24 hours was pending.The Ludhiana Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, said, “The vaccine is here and is being administered to healthcare workers. Covid cases have also seen a dip, but still everyone should wear mask, wash hands frequently and maintain social distance.”“With schools are re-opening both students and teachers need to be careful and take necessary precautions,” he added.Today, 480 healthcare were given Covid vaccine jab while 1,1,1823 kids were administered polio drops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-50-ve-no-death-reported-in-ludhiana-district-206504
02-02-2021||---||Classes resume for primary, pre-primary students in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 1After a gap of almost of 11 months, all government, aided and private schools reopened for Classes I and II and pre-primary classes on a regular basis from today. The state government had earlier given approval for restarting of classes from February 1.However, low attendance was reported in a number of schools on the first day. The school authorities have been told to follow the proper guidelines for prevention of Covid-19.Teachers at some schools said the attendance was low today but we hope that more students would start attending the classes in the coming days.Only 8 students of Class I in the Government Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU, Ludhiana, turned up for the class, said a teacher.Sharing his concern, a teacher at another government school in the district said, “There is a shortage of staff at a number of schools. Many times, a single teacher teaches all students. Thought attendance was low today but good strength of students is likely to be witnessed in coming days. It would be then difficult to maintain social distancing in the classrooms that are of smaller size.”Despite repeated attempts, DEO Rajinder Kaur could not be contacted for a comment.Meanwhile, students were welcomed at MGM Public School. Principal Sunita Vij said, “The occupancy in the class was 15%. We hope that in the coming days more students will come. Parents are reluctant to send their ward due to the pandemic. The school is following all guidelines.”Harmeet Kaur Waraich , Principal, Nankana Sahib Public School, said, “Students from classes I to IV came to school today. All students were wearing mask. The students were made to sit in their respective classes by maintaining proper distance and their body temperature was also checked.”Besides, anganwadi centers have also been reopened from today after a long time, said Anju Mehta, who is member of Anganwadi Workers Union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/classes-resume-for-primary-pre-primary-students-in-ludhiana-206505
02-02-2021||Vijay C Roy||Scrappage policy to spur biz in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The vehicle scrappage policy, under consideration since 2015, will boost business of India’s first auto shredding plant in Ludhiana and the second one in Rohtak, which will commence commercial production next month.The shredding unit in Ludhiana was set up by a New Zealand-based NRI of Punjab origin in 2019. The plant has a capacity to shred around 2 lakh old vehicles per annum. Besides End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs), the plant can also shred other metal wastes such as sheets and heavy appliances, etc.Ludhiana-based company B Lal Steel Shredding (P) Limited is importing raw material to the extent of 60-70% and the rest is sourced locally for the shredding purpose. “In the absence of the policy, we were unable to utilise our installed capacity. Although we are yet to get the fine prints, we expect that it will help in the easy availability of raw material,” said Rakesh Jindal, director of the company.In North, the second scrap processing plant of 0.5 million tonnes per annum capacity, which is being set up in Haryana’s Rohtak, is scheduled to be commissioned soon. It is being set up by Tata Steel and Aarti Green Tech Limited, a subsidiary of Aarti Steel Limited.“We are yet to receive the details of the scheme but going by the Budget speech, it seems to be voluntary. The government has to make it mandatory to promote fuel-efficient vehicles,” said Mahesh Mittal, managing director, Aarti Steels.Corporate Buzz"The measures initiated to use Rs 2,217 crore to tackle air pollution promote cycling as a mode of transport. We want to see the 42 urban centres demarcated for the purpose being used to lay dedicated cycling tracks." — Pankaj M Munjal, chairman, Hero Motors Company"We were looking forward to some measures for travel and hospitality sector such as awarding infra status and reducing GST rate, but our issues haven’t been addressed."— Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, Joint MD, MBD group"Northern states are the hub of MSMEs. There are many positives, including rationalisation of custom duty structures. The proposal to establish textile parks will help Ludhiana, Bhilwara, Gurugram and Panipat>" — Nikhil Sawhney, chairman, CII Northern region"There is nothing for exporters except a scheme to promote flagging of merchant ships. It will ensure easy availability of export containers. Many new shipping lines will come up." — SC Ralhan, president, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scrappage-policy-to-spur-biz-in-ludhiana-206634
