03-02-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Students suffer as teachers deputed on election duty||Mandi Ahmedgarh, February 2Caring two hoots for recommendations and appeals of higher authorities in the Education Department, the civil administration had deployed teaching staff of various government and private-aided schools on election duties, thus upsetting smooth functioning of these institutes.The move had hampered the normal functioning of the school due shortage of staff.Move may hit ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’The School Education Department had urged all deputy commissioners-cum-district election officers in the state to spare school teachers from poll duty. The department had maintained that sparing the teachers from election duty was more relevant in view of the ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ for 2020-21, especially when the school had reopened recently for offline classes after remaining shut for the past about nine months.Harjinder Singh Samra, a social activist of Chhanna village, said all four regular teachers, including centre head teacher (CHT) had been deployed on election duty; that too at far situated places in the district, leaving only an education provider for supervising five classes.“It is pitiable that the civil administration has ignored recommendations of Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, who had urged that only non-teaching staff should be deployed on election duty. We fail to understand how an education provider will handle routine affairs at our village school where five classes are being run and mid-day meal kitchen is also being organised,” said Harjinder Singh Samra.Rachhpal Kaur, village sarpanch, said the panchayat had taken up the issue with officials in the Block Primary Education Office and asked for deputation of at least one regular teacher from some other schools for the days when the teaching staff of the school would be leaving to perform election duty.Manish Malhotra, Headmaster, Government Elementary School, Rasulpur village, said functioning of his school had been adversely affected after he was deployed on election duty at Bhawanigarh. “Though we were expecting that none of our teachers will be deployed on election duty the administration disturbed our functioning by disrupting academic and administrative functioning of our school,” said Manish Malhotra regretting that construction work at his school was also affected.Normally, functioning at Government middle school Maholi Khurad was also paralysed as all the three teachers were deployed on election duty.Investigations further revealed that the School Education Department had urged all deputy commissioners-cum-district election officers in the state to spare school teachers from poll duty. The department had maintained that sparing the teachers from election duty was more relevant in view of the ‘Mission Shat Pratishat” for 2020-21, especially when the school had reopened recently for offline classes after remaining shut for the past about nine months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-suffer-as-teachers-deputed-on-election-duty-207069
03-02-2021||---||Jagraon family donates generator to farmers||Ludhiana, February 2 A family from Jagraon has donated a power generator for the ongoing Kisan Andolan. Kapil Narula, who runs a photo/video productions studio, said they have handed over the generator to Khalsa Aid organisation at Singhu Border today.  Narula, who is a resident of Jagraon, said, “The generator of 20KW was earlier installed at our store. I had read in a newspaper that power supply connections are being disconnected on Delhi borders. My family decided to donate the generator for Kisan Andolan so that the farmers don’t face any inconvenience.” He said that the power from this generator can be provided to around 100 trolleys and tents on the borders. The generator has been made portable and it can be used at any location where there is need of power supply, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jagraon-family-donates-generator-to-farmers-207070
03-02-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC chief directs staff to intensify challan drive||MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has given instructions to the staff concerned to intensify the drive to issue challans against those who are found littering in Buddha Dariya. He has also directed the officials to issue at least 100 challans daily against the use of banned plastic carry bags.The commissioner on Tuesday conducted a meeting with officials regarding Swachhata campaign. The meeting was also attended by Dr Puran Singh, project director, PMIDC. The commissioner said the employees or officials, who will perform well during the ongoing campaign to make Buddha Dariya solid waste free, would be honoured. He also gave the instructions to the staff to intensify the process related to citizen feedback so that the city can achieve good ranking in Swachh Survekshan-2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-chief-directs-staff-to-intensify-challan-drive-207071
03-02-2021||Sports Correspondent---||103 probables (U-16) selected by LDCA||Ludhiana, February 2 As many as 103 cricket probables (U-16) have been finalised for the regional coaching centre (RCC) being run by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association, an affiliated unit of the Punjab Cricket Association. The selection trials were conducted by the LDCA here at GRD Academy ground, Hambran Road on January 21-22. In total 223 aspirants attended these trials during which the selection panel comprising senior coach, Charanjit Singh Saini, former cricketers namely Arun Passi, Karan Goel, Ankur Kakkar and Gaurav Marwaha watched these players and shortlisted talented players to enrol them with the RCC and prepare them for the future competitions. The list of players, released yesterday included: nBatsmen: Subhsihaj Singh, Harkarn Singh, Sidharth Sharma, Avinash Singh, Soham Vij, Aditya Kapoor, Manish Kumar, Utkarsh Sharma, Rahul Sahota, Navdeep Singh, Jaiveer Singh, Karanveer Rana, Yuvraj Singh, Ishmeet Singh, Mahin Atwal, Dev Rajpoot, Gurjasleen Singh, Soham Baggan, Shabad Tangri, Manav Malhotra, Harshit Sangar, Imroz, Vansh Goyal, Shobit Khullar, Ayush Gupta, Kavish Ohri, Sahil Raza, Mohammad Taufik, Jatin Tangra, Midhansh, Sajan Dhillon, Ruhan Behl, Jarnail Singh, Lakshay Verma, Sudhanshu Pandey, Arman Walia, Nikhil Sharma, Nikhil Verma, Jaskaranbir Singh, Savinay, Vishal Jhanjotar, Chirag Arora, Raghav Vij, Aryanbir Singh, Anmol Chawla, Parth Jain, Shivam Verma and Aarush Pratap Singh. n Wicket-keepers: Saif Ali, Sandeep, Sarthak Tyagi, Sarandeep Singh, Gurneet Singh, Vipin Chaurasia, Madhur Sachdeva and Himanshu Prajapati. nRight-arm off spinners: Anmoljot Singh, Sudhanshu Sharma, Naval Uppal, and Gurpartap. n Right arm leg spinners: Karanjot Singh, Imrojpreet Singh, Arshdeep Singh, Himanshu, Rishi Vishwakarma, Riyal, Anhad Singh Walia, Guneet Sahni, Sarthak Jain, Chirag Arora, Raghav Vij, Aryanbir Singh, Anmol Chawla, Parth Jain, Shivam Verma and Aarush Pratap Singh. n Left arm spinners: Vivek Gaur, Harprabhjeet, Vivek Pandit, Shubham Rana, Varun Kaushal, Paras Kumar, Shivam Verma, Harmanjot Singh and Aryan Gupta. nMedium pacers: Adhiraj Singh Mangat, Karanveer Singh, Madhav Sapra, Mithlesh Kumar, Athar Alam, Shravan Gill, Raghav Sharma, Veeru Gautam, Jatin Sharma, Harmandeep Singh, Vikas Yadav, Aryan Sharma, Chetan Kumar Rai, Hargunveer Singh, Daksham Devgan,Pawan Khupal, Chirag Anand, Parth Jain, Damanjot Singh, Sidhant Chaudhary and Vansh Sabharwal. The selected players have been advised to report at GRD Academy ground at 8 am on February 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/103-probables-u-16-selected-by-ldca-207072
03-02-2021||---||PAU holds training on food safety, handling||Ludhiana, February 2 The Department of Food Science and Technology, Punjab Agricultural University, organised two food safety and supervisor trainings (FoSTaC) on January 28 (basic) and from January 30-31 (advanced).  The Punjab Agricultural University, being training partner of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), conducted the two trainings successfully under the patron-ship of Vice-Chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon and Director of Research Navtej Singh Bains.  A total of 38 and 12 participants for basic and advance trainings participated, respectively. Dr Dhillon appreciated the efforts made by the department for the execution of the training programmes. Dr Poonam A Sachdev, head of the department, welcomed the trainees and shared the details of the training programmes.  She informed that the trainees were acquainted with various laws and regulations related to food handling and manufacturing along with the Covid instructions to be followed in the food industry.  The trainees were further assessed on their level of understanding through a post training exam.  Based on this, the certification of food safety supervisors are generated for trainees, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-holds-training-on-food-safety-handling-207073
03-02-2021||Ludhiana||Opposition councillors meet Ludhiana Mayor||A delegation of Akali councillors met Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and demanded that the development works must be started in their respective wards at the earliest.  Harbhajan Singh Dang, Leader of Opposition in the MC House, that they demanded from mayor to order the officials to float tenders for various development works at the earliest. He said, “The councillors raised the matter regarding development works related to water supply, roads, sewerage and other in their respective wards. The estimates of these works were earlier approved but the tenders were not floated till date. However, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu assured that the tenders would be floated soon. If tenders are not floated by Saturday, we will plan for our next strategy.”  Dang further said they also raised the matter of contaminated water supply in areas of outer wards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/opposition-councillors-meet-ludhiana-mayor-207075
03-02-2021||Ludhiana||District weightlifting championship on February 6-7||The 37th edition of the Ludhiana District Weightlifting Championship for Men and Women will be held at the Ludhiana Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Club, Rakh Bagh near Guru Nanak Stadium, here on February 6 and 7. Parvesh Chander Sharma, general secretary, District Weightlifting Association said competition in women’s section would be held on the opening day while for men’s section, on the next day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-weightlifting-championship-on-february-6-7-207076
03-02-2021||Ludhiana||Theft accused arrested||The Daresi police yesterday nabbed a person who was accused of committing a theft and escaping from the police custody.The accused has been identified as Meenu alias Monu, a resident of Mohalla Baldev Nagar, Rahon Nagar.Additional DCP -1 Pragya Jain said the Daresi police nabbed the accused and his judicial remand was taken from court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/theft-accused-arrested-207077
03-02-2021||---||CMC holds white coat ceremony||Ludhiana, February 2Christian Medical College organised the white coat ceremony for the MBBS batch of 2020 students. It was held on the conclusion of a three-week ‘foundation course’, which was introduced in 2019 as part of the new MBBS competency-based curriculum released by the National Medical Commission (NMC).Dr William Bhatti, Director, CMC, spoke about the significance of the white coat in a medical college. He said the white coat adds responsibility to young doctors for patients and society.Principal Jeyaraj D Pandian said new entrants to the medical profession need to follow professional ethics while serving humanity. He then administered the white coat ceremony oath to first-year students who pledged their loyalty to the profession. It is a significant milestone in the lives of the budding doctors in their journey of life-long learning in the profession.The ceremony concluded when the principal handed over professional white coats to class representatives who, in turn, gave them to all students. The students then donned the coats for the first time as they enter the medical college to become medical graduates.The official prayer was led by Rev Alex Peter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmc-holds-white-coat-ceremony-207078
03-02-2021||Ludhiana||Convict nabbed with heroin||Two boys go missingSajjad (12), a resident of Noorwala Road, has been reported missing since Sunday. Gaffar, father of the boy, told the police that his son had gone to vegetable market on Noorwala Road in the evening with his friend Hussain (16). Both of them did not return since then. He suspected that the boys might had been abducted by someone. OCMan booked for harassing wifeThe police have booked Guriqbal Singh of Basant Nagar, Khanna, under Section 498-A for allegedly harassing his wife mentally and physically since their marriage in 2013. Gagandeep Kaur, wife of the accused and a resident of Ram Nagar, Tibba Road, in her complaint said she was being tortured and forced to bring more dowry from her parents. OCMobile phones seized from JailThe police have booked five undertrials at the Central Jail — Varinder Singh, Ankush, Raj Kumar, Gurmeet Singh and Rajesh Kumar — under Section 52-A, Prison Act, for keeping mobile phones in violation of the jail rules. Action has been taken on a report filed by Sukhdev Singh, Assistant Superintendent of the Central Jail, who said during a surprise checking on January 30, five phones were seized from the accused. Two other cell phones were also seized from the complex. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/convict-nabbed-with-heroin-207079
03-02-2021||Ludhiana||Session on civil services preparation||Founder’s day celebratedStudents, staff and management of GTB National College, Dakha, observed their Founder’s Day and the martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur by organising an ‘Akhand path’ and various events. They assembled in the auditorium to pay tributes to the founder of the college Baba Jiva Singh. Principal Dr Avtar Singh informed the audience the history of the college which is celebrating its 50th anniversary. The chief guest of the day was Dr Dharmjit Singh, Vice-Chancellor of Baba Bhag Singh University in Jalandhar. Special invitee Dr Nirmal Jaura, DYW, Panjab University, motivated the youth to come out of Covid-19 and contribute to the society.Inter-college business plan competitionThe Postgraduate Department of Commerce, Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, organised a national level inter-college business plan competition IMPRESSA-2021 virtually. Students of the undergraduate and postgraduate classes from different colleges from various cities were invited to showcase their talent and entrepreneurial skills of being an entrepreneur through PowerPoint presentations. In total 18 teams comprising of four participants in each team presented business ideas highlighting business plan’s uniqueness, marketability, financial feasibility and its future prospects. Principal Dr Mukti Gill appreciated the efforts of the event organisers and the entrepreneurial skills of the participants and congratulated the prize winners.R-Day parade participants appreciatedTwo NCC Cadets of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, have participated in Republic Day parade at New Delhi. Appreciating the efforts of cadets and NCC Department, Principal Dr Mukti Gill said that SUO Harleen and Cadet Aastha Sharma became part of Punjab Contingent during Republic Day Parade on January 26. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/session-on-civil-services-preparation-207081
03-02-2021||---||Twitter account ‘Tractor2Twitter’ condemns action on their account||Ludhiana, February 2After their Twitter account was withheld in the country in response to a legal demand, team members of ‘Tractor2Twitter’ have condemned the move. Team members said they had been raising voice of farmers protesting against the farm laws on Twitter, but their Twitter account was withheld in India.In a press release on Monday, team members said, “We are flabbergasted by the attack on freedom of speech in our free country when we need it the most. Till now Tractor2Twitter acted as voice of the people to keep the farmer movement peaceful.”“We strongly condemn action of the authorities on our Twitter handle @tractor2twitr. We demand that gag orders should be taken back immediately. We will keep fighting for the people and keep exercising our legal and democratic rights because it’s our country. No action is being taken against those spreading provocative hashtags against farmers,” they added.Notably, when the Kisan Andolan started, some youngsters of the Ludhiana district had initiated the campaign ‘Tractor2Twitter’ in support of farmers, who have been protesting against the farm laws. Thousands were following their Twitter account as per the information.A team member from Ludhiana later informed that their account has been restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/twitter-account-tractor2twitter-condemns-action-on-their-account-207083
03-02-2021||Nitin Jain||100 major roads to be encroachment-free in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 2The 100 major roads in the maximum city of Punjab are in for encroachment removal. The Ludhiana Commissionerate Police have launched a special drive to free all busy and important inner and outer passages and intersections of obstacles for the smooth movement of traffic.This is part of a slew of measures initiated by the police to ease traffic congestion and improve road safety in Ludhiana, popularly known as the Manchester of India.Road safety initiativesBesides the anti-encroachment drive, the police were also undertaking practical implementable solutions, controlling stray animal menace, reaching out to the students and youth, and recognition of good Samaritans, and have launched a dedicated WhatsApp helpline under a special drive to make the roads safer for commuters in Ludhiana.The development assumes significance as the industrial hub of the state has earned the dubious distinction of losing one precious life and leaving another injured in more than one road accident reported to the police daily due to clogged roads and traffic chaos which, at times, also lead to road rage cases. The situation turns grim during morning and evening hours.“We have started an anti-encroachment drive on all 100 important roads in Ludhiana. For the first 15 days, we will be requesting shopkeepers and vendors to remove encroachments on their own. We will also be taking the help of the Municipal Corporation (MC) and will videograph the encroachments,” said the Commissioner of Police, Rakesh Agrawal.He said after a fortnight, in case needed, we would be registering FIRs against the violators, who refuse to remove their unauthorised permanent or temporary structures on the public land.Seeking the cooperation of the local residents, shopkeepers and vendors, Agrawal said the anti-encroachment drive would ease traffic congestion on the city roads and intersections that remain clogged due to the obstructions by way of placing of goods and raising of illegal structures.“The enforcement of traffic rules and awareness activities will go side by side to maintain a check and balance on the violations,” the city police chief added.The Commissionerate Police had been observing the road safety month under the theme, “Sadak suraksha, jeevan raksha”, since January 18 and holding daily activities involving local residents and motorists to spread the message of road safety. To check the violation of traffic rules and catch the violators, around 250 traffic police personnel have been deputed at 134 strategic points, which were known for witnessing traffic chaos, in different parts of the city.Major roads under clearance||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/100-major-roads-to-be-encroachment-free-in-ludhiana-207080
03-02-2021||---||After talks fail, Ludhiana civic body to handle solid waste management||Ludhiana, February 2As the issues between the Municipal Corporation (MC) and A2Z Waste Management have not been resolved, the MC is likely to handle the solid waste management itself after February 4.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the firm had refused to continue the service and the civic body was making the required arrangements to ensure the proper lifting of solid waste in the city. He further said that the MC would float tenders to hire a new firm soon.A2Z Waste Management Limited had issued a termination notice to the MC last month. In the public notice, the firm had stated that it would stop work after February 4.There are 95 wards in the city and around 1,100 MT garbage is generated daily here. The Municipal Corporationlacks the required infrastructure for the lifting of garbage from secondary collection points and then shifting the waste to main garbage dump.The civic body also faces the shortage of the required vehicles, machines and manpower for the task.However, Sandhu said that the A2Z group had earlier sublet the work to a firm to carry out the work. “Now, we will ask that firm, which was hired by A2Z waste management, to continue the work as of now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-talks-fail-ludhiana-civic-body-to-handle-solid-waste-management-207064
03-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman loses gold chain to snatchers in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 2Rajni Bala (60 years), a resident of Shuvam Enclave on Chuharpur Road, here, lost her 15-gm gold chain to snatchers while buying fruits outside her house yesterday.The victim said two youths riding a black Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle stopped near her and snatched the gold chain from her neck and sped away from the spot. The police have registered a case in this regard.Mobile phone snatchedIn another incident, the mobile phone of Mohammed Naseer, a resident of Smart City colony and an e-rickshaw driver, was snatched by two scooter-borne snatchers.The victim said when he was going on his e-rickshaw from the Shivpuri side towards Ved Mandir, two persons on a Honda Activa (bearing registration no.PB 91C 2213) snatched his mobile phone and escaped from the place. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-loses-gold-chain-to-snatchers-in-ludhiana-207065
03-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Visitors question Ludhiana MC move to close Rose Garden between 11 am & 3 pm||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 2With the main gates of Nehru Rose Garden, a prominent park of the city, remaining closed for four hours during the daytime, visitors are disappointed these days. However, there are no such restrictions at any other park.Entry timings not displayedThe visitors are not being allowed to enter the park between 11 am and 3 pm due to which they are forced to return. Questions are being raised as to why such restrictions have been imposed at the garden. Even, the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, has not displayed any entry timings at entrance points of the garden. Gates are closed due to Covid: MayorThe Rose Garden gates were kept closed between 11 am and 3 pm due to Covid-19. People usually did not visit the place during this period. — Balkar Singh Sandhu, MayorLike other days, a number of youngsters, elderly and even some families on Tuesday were seen waiting near the entrance of the Rose Garden as main gates were locked from inside. When they were told that the gates will be opened at 3 pm, the visitors returned disappointed.Ravi (19), along with his relative from Uttarakhand, had come to spend some time at the garden but they got irked after seeing the closed gates.He said: “I had no information about the park timings. I did not visit the place in the past due to Covid-19. I and my cousin from Uttarakhand visited the garden but its gates were closed. The park should not be closed during the daytime.”There are limited areas in the city where people generally spend their leisure time. Most of the parks are already in a poor condition. Rose Garden and Rakh Bagh are prominent parks of the city.A family, who was surprised to see the locked gates of the garden, said: “We had no information that the park remains closed for four hours. We had come to spend some time with our child at the garden as it was a sunny day. It should remain open for visitors for the entire day.”A senior citizen as well as a member of the Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, Satish Thaman, said: “It is a wrong decision to keep the Rose Garden gates closed between 11 am and 3 pm daily. Has the MC taken any permission from the Department of Local Government in this regard.”He said: “The garden is meant for the public and it should remain open the whole day so that people can spend some time with the nature. Several senior citizens generally go out of their homes around 11 am during winters and they like to spend time at the garden in the sun.”Councillor Gurpreet Gogi said: “I am not aware about the matter as to why the Rose Garden gates are closed between 11 am and 3 pm. The garden should not be closed during the daytime. I will raise the matter with the MC Commissioner.”An official of the MC’s horticulture wing, Kirpal Singh, said: “The garden opens from 5 am to 11 am and later, 3 pm to 10 pm. Cleanliness is conducted in the garden between 11 am and 3 pm. A tractor and a trailer are used for the cleanliness purpose due to which visitors are not allowed to avoid chances of any mishap. The garden remains open the entire day on Sunday.”Meanwhile, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the Rose Garden gates were kept closed between 11 am and 3 pm due to the Covid-19 pandemic. People usually did not visit the place during this period. MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said they would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/visitors-question-ludhiana-mc-move-to-close-rose-garden-between-11-am-3-pm-207066
03-02-2021||---||37 more test +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 2Thirtyseven persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported today for the second consecutive day.Of the 64 samples collected, four more inmates of the Vivekananda Old Age Home have tested positive. Earlier, six inmates had tested positive and its premises had been declared a mini-containment zone.Now, the total positive cases from the district have reached 25,884 while 1,001 have lost their lives.Meanwhile, the Health Department has sought a list of all teachers teaching in government and private schools from the District Education Officer. The department plans to conduct tests of the teachers to contain the spread of the virus.After the reopening of schools, many teachers have tested positive for Covid.A total of 27 students and 14 teachers have tested positive from Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Galib Kalan, while a teacher lost her life to the virus. Besides, five teachers from Government Senior Secondary School, Gidderwindi, including the Principal, have also tested positive for Covid recently.One teacher each from Government High School, Mandiani, Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Dakha, and a city-based private school from Shastri Nagar have tested positive.Till date, around 20,000 frontline workers have got themselves registered on the government portal and the second phase of vaccination is expected to start from February 3 onwards.In the first phase of the vaccination, 16,322 healthcare workers got themselves vaccinated, which is the highest in the state.He said in second phase, around 20,000 frontline workers have got themselves registered on the government portal and many more are getting themselves registered as the registration is open till February 7, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/37-more-test-ve-in-ludhiana-district-207067
03-02-2021||---||Ludhiana DC offers to get first Covid jab in second phase||Ludhiana, February 2Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has offered to be the first one to get the Covid jab in the second phase of the vaccination drive that is expected to start here from Wednesday.He said all frontline workers from revenue, police, sanitation and those government departments that had remained in the frontline during the pandemic, would be administered the first dose of the vaccine in the second phase.Sharma said that till date, more than 20,000 frontline workers had got themselves registered on the government portal and their inoculation was likely to start in the second phase from February 3.The DC said that as a confidence-building measure, he wanted to be the first one in the second phase to receive the shot of the Covid vaccine on Wednesday.He appealed to people not to believe in rumours on the social media.Sharma said the vaccine had been launched after carrying out several trials and there was no need to panic.He said people should understand that if the doctors and healthcare workers had volunteered for the first phase, it clearly showed that they had full faith in the vaccine.He also said getting vaccinated was purely voluntary, but everyone should get the jab to fight Covid.Chairing a meeting of the District Task Force to review the ongoing vaccination drive here today, Sharma said that in the first phase of the vaccination, 16,322 healthcare workers had got themselves vaccinated, which was the highest in any district of the state.He said the registration of frontline workers, who are interested to get inoculated in the second phase, could get themselves registered on the government portal till February 7.He clarified that the vaccine had no side-effects as it had been developed after great research by world-renowned scientists.ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, Joint Commissioner of Police J Elanchezhian, Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, District Immunisation Officer Dr Kiran, and Dr Bishav Mohan from the DMCH, besides representatives of all prominent private hospitals attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dc-offers-to-get-first-covid-jab-in-second-phase-207068
