04-02-2021||Ludhiana||F&CC okays 125 proposals||The Municipal Corporation’s Finance and Contract Committee on Wednesday given nod to around 125 proposals of various development and other works. In the meeting, headed by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, the panel has approved various proposals.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they gave nod to purchase 16 biometric face recognition machines for attendance of employees and officials at MC offices.The proposalsThe F&CC has given nod for holding an e-auction for parking lots of the Model Town Extension market. Works related to installation of new tube wells in place of failed ones, interlocking tiles, construction and carpeting of roads, formation of new park management committees, cleaning of sewer lines with super suction machines and recruitment of safai sewaks on a contractual basis, besides others, have also been approved by the panel.“At present, biometric fingerprint scan machines are not being used due to the Covid-19 pandemic at MC offices. With the biometric face detection machines, the employees would be able to mark their attendance,” he said.Proposed water supply project yet to take offA number of proposals were placed before the panel regarding the installation of new tube wells in place of “defunct” tube wells. The MC spends crores of rupees on the tube wells every year but its proposed project of 24x7 canal-based water supply project has not been started so far.The panel has also given nod for holding an e-auction for parking lots of the Model Town Extension market. The reserve price for the lots would be around Rs 28 lakh. Notably, the MC had earlier re-auctioned the multi-storey parking lots near Mata Rani Chowk, BRS Nagar, Feroze Gandhi Market, Bhadaur House and Sarabha Nagar I Block.Besides, a proposal was also approved for purchasing a static shredder for pruning of trees.Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said most of the files were related to estimates for different development works.He said they also conducted a discussion on the solid waste management during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fcc-okays-125-proposals-207765
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||29 fresh cases in Ludhiana||The district reported 29 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Of them, six patients came in contact with positive patients, eight visited the OPD and 10 with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner. Besides, five other persons have tested positive for the virus.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 356 active patients in the district.He said a total of 39 patients, including 29 new patients from Ludhiana district and 10 from other states/districts, had tested positive in the past 24 hours.He said till date, a total of 6,06,526 samples have been taken, of which reports of 6,04,428 had been received. Of these, 5,74,565 samples were found negative while reports of 2,098 were pending.He said now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,913, while 3,950 patients belong to other districts or states.The Deputy Commissioner said till date, 56,408 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and now, the number of such persons was 683. Today, 29 persons were sent for home quarantine. Civil Surgeon Sukhjivan Kakkar has informed that two patients, including one each from Kapurthala and Moga, died of the virus. A total of 1,001 people from Ludhiana and 480 from other districts have died of Covid till date.As many as 1,956 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. The Deputy Commissioner has appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/29-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-207781
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Attack on Sukhbir: SAD holds protest, burns CM’s effigy||Led by district president of the party Ranjit Singh Dhillon, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) activists today held a protest at Clock Tower Chowk here and later burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Addressing the party workers, Dhillon said the attack on Sukhbir Singh Badal by goons of the Congress MLA from Jalalabad and his son had exposed the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.He said at the behest of its political masters, the police had not remained a law enforcement agency but had turned into a stooge of the ruling dispensation.“Goons and anti-social elements are ruling the roost in the state while the Chief Minister continues to enjoy the luxury of four walls of his palace,” Dhillon said.The district president of the party and other speakers demanded immediate arrest of all culprits behind the attack, including prime accused Congress MLA Raminder Amla and his son. They also demanded action against the SSP, Fazilka, and the DSP, Jalalabad, who had given a free hand to the assailants and remained a mute spectator to the ‘show of lawlessness’ in Jalalabad. Group leader of SAD councillors Harbhajan Singh Dang, Vijay Danav, Surinder Kaur Dyal, Sarbjit Singh Laddi, Mandeep Kaur Sandhu, Poonam Arora and Manpreet Bunty were among those others present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/attack-on-sukhbir-sad-holds-protest-burns-cms-effigy-207782
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Top district officials get first Covid jab||The second phase of vaccination for Covid-19 has been started in the city from today. Officials, including ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Aggarwal, DCP (Law) Ashwani Kapoor and a number of senior officials, have got vaccinated at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Sandeep Kumar today assured residents that the Covid- 19 vaccine was safe. He said he, along with other senior district administration and police officials, got vaccinated today and all of them were feeling totally fine.He also urged the residents not to believe any rumours circulated on social media regarding the vaccine.The ADC (D) was interacting with the residents during the weekly Facebook live session on the official page of District Public Relations Office, Ludhiana. He said none of the people who got vaccinated had developed any side effects and all of them resumed their offices after the vaccination.Meanwhile, the Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Sukhjeevan Kakkar, said 41 frontline workers were vaccinated today. He said they aim to give vaccination to around 900 frontline workers on Thursday.As per information, the frontline workers of government departments, including the district administration, Municipal Corporation, police and others, will be covered in the second phase. MC’s safai karamcharis would also be given vaccination during this period as they have been working as frontline workers.District Immunisation Officer Kiran Gill said a total of 280 persons, including 41 frontline workers and 239 healthcare workers, were given vaccination today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/top-district-officials-get-first-covid-jab-207793
04-02-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Residents resent indiscriminate cutting of trees in LIT colony||Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (E Block), a colony developed and maintained by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Pakhowal Road, here, are up in arms against the indiscriminate cutting and felling of trees in the name of pruning. They feel that cutting and felling of full-grown and shady trees in this manner was tantamount to depriving them of ‘green cover’ that is essential for both human beings and the environment.In a representation given to the LIT authorities, several residents of the colony said on the one hand several parks located in the colony were not being maintained in a proper manner and on the other cutting and felling of trees would wreak havoc on the air and environmental pollution, causing inconvenience to the public.Former councillor Pran Nath Bhatia, Arvind Sharma and Amarjit Singh, along with other residents, lament that even after the matter was brought to the notice of Trust officials and an appeal was made to get the pruning of trees done strictly under the supervision of horticulture experts, no action had been taken to stop ‘mass felling’ of trees in the colony.The residents said the city being one of the worst polluted places in the north India, special efforts required to be made to provide more and more green cover to it and that was the reason that the LIT had been entrusted with the task of developing green belts and leisure valleys at various locations in the city. “However, in its own colony, trees are being cut down mercilessly and the LIT officials are keeping their eyes closed,” they said. It has been specifically pointed out in the representation that felling a few trees that had completed their life span or which could fall down at their own due to roots have given way seems valid but ‘killing’ or denuding fully-grown and shady trees could not be justified in any manner and this has to be stopped, they said.LIT officials said there was nothing like ‘mass killing; of trees or felling of healthy trees in the colony where only pruning of over-grown trees was being undertaken. “The staff deployed for the purpose has been directed to be more careful in this regard,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-resent-indiscriminate-cutting-of-trees-in-lit-colony-207798
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Youth booked for impregnating minor girl||The rural police have registered a case against a youth who allegedly sexually exploited a minor girl. Later, to prevent police action, he got married with the girl. After conducting a probe, the police registered a case under the Child Marriage Act and the POCSO Act against Sahil of Nawi Abadi, Akalgarh.SI Rupinder Kaur said the girl was staying at the house of her relative Ruby in Akalgarh.She had developed a friendship with Sahil who allegedly started exploiting her sexually. Later, she became pregnant. When Ruby came to know about it, she solmenised her marriage with him. The police said since she was a minor, her marriage could not be considered as legal.After the wedding, the girl delivered a baby. Later, herfamily came to know about the matter and filed a complaint in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-booked-for-impregnating-minor-girl-207799
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||NGO protests misuse of signboards by politicians||Members of Yuva, an NGO, staged a drama to mark its protest against the misuse of signboards by a number of politicians and their supporters in the city. They gathered near Arora Palace on Gill Road where a number of unauthorised banners are displayed on the signboards.Notably, political leaders’ banners are being displayed on the signboards in the city but no strict action is taken against the violators. The NGO members blamed the civic body for not issuing any challan to the political leaders and their supporters who are violating the norms.Kumar Gaurav of the NGO said the signboards were meant for convenience of the public but these were being misused. As the political banners were generally displayed by covering the signboards, many commuters face inconvenience in finding way to their destinations.Gaurav blamed the civic body for ignoring these violations in the city.“We did ‘aarti’ and sprinkled flowers near one such banner to make the violators realise that how they misused the signboards. It has been seen that the commuters and ambulances from rural or other areas commonly face inconvenience in finding the right way when the direction signboards are covered with banners or posters. We are not against any political party but the leaders should ask their supporters not to misuse the signboards for publicity.”Notably, a huge amount has been spent on the installation of signboards under Ludhiana Smart City Limited. Before the NGO members reached Gill Road to mark the protest, the MC had already started a drive for removal of these banners from the signboards in the morning. Howewer, Zonal Commissioner Neeraj Jain could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngo-protests-misuse-of-signboards-by-politicians-207800
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Bangalore Eagles, Punjab Royals win||The three-day Avon Cycles Divyang Premier League (Wheelchair Cricket) being organised jointly by the Deaf Cricket Federation and Wheelchair Sports Society started at the PAU ground here on Wednesday.In a match, Bangalore Eagles defeated Uttarakhand Tigers by 71 runs. Bangalore Eagles posted a big score of 114 runs after losing just one wicket in the stipulated 10 overs in which Sagar Gowda hit 50 runs off 24 balls while Hareesh Kumar, Thippeswamy chipped in with 26 runs each.In reply, Uttarakhand Tigers could muster 43 runs for the loss of six wickets. .In another match, Punjab Royals beat Delhi Strikers by nine wickets. Chasing the target of 44 runs, Punjab Royals made 45 for one in only 4.1 overs. Rohit Anotra contributed 34 runs while Parveen Kumar took four wickets for winning side.In the third match, Rohit Anotra scored 47 runs to help his side (Punjab Royals) achieve the target of 80 runs, set by Mumbai Fighters and wrap up the issue by ten wickets. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bangalore-eagles-punjab-royals-win-207801
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Govt rolls out new excise policy, hoteliers hail move||To revive and provide relief to the reeling hospitality industry in the state due to the pandemic, the state government has come up with new excise policy.Rajat Aggarwal, Excise Commissioner, Punjab, told The Tribune that special provisions have been made in the excise policy (2021-22) to provide more relief to the hospitality industry, which incurred huge losses in all these months due to Covid-19.Annual fee loweredThe annual fee for hotels/ restaurants in Municipal Corporations of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala, Bathinda, Mohali is reduced to Rs 3 lakh from Rs 4 lakh, while for hotels having 5 star status, it is reduced to Rs 8 lakh from Rs 11 lakh.The hotel and restaurant industry has welcomed the relief given by the state government and feels that this was the need of the hour else many hotels/ restaurants would have been shut.Amarvir Singh, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association, said they are holding a state-level meeting tomorrow to thank the state government. Fee charged on per bottle of liquor, which is given to the department, has also been reduced. The annual license fee on banquets/marriage palaces who charge up to 1 lakh per function, has also been reduced from Rs 25,000 to Rs 20,000. The hotel industry feels These steps have given a sigh of relief to the hotel industry. The policy will put the hospitality sector on the path of revival, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-rolls-out-new-excise-policy-hoteliers-hail-move-207802
04-02-2021||Lovleen BainsDoraha||Doraha residents seek solution to waste crisis, overflowing sewers||Resolution of problems such as sewer water accumulation and mismanagement of garbage, especially on College Road, Bhaina Wali Gali, Charitable Dispensary Road, Harkrishan Public School Road, Railway Road, land allotted for ATI centre, would be the key demands of voters in Doraha from candidates contesting in the Municipal Council elections.The residents are fed up from sewer water accumulation and regular dumping of garbage, especially at those places which in every way should be kept neat and tidy. “Dumping garbage on roads has really made our lives hell. The garbage is picked only to be dumped on the roads and streets. The council has practically no place for dumping of the waste and the residents are bearing the brunt of the menace,” shared, a resident who resides on Charitable Dispensary Road.“Open waste dumping attracts stray animals. They feed on the garbage, gather at the place to make it messier and add to residents’ woes. The place not only gives a shabby look but is also a breeding ground for all sorts of insects, flies which further result in infections, ailments and disease in one form or the other,” lamented a resident who lives near a huge dump in Ward Number -3.A resident in the Bhaina Wali Gali, where the garbage is dumped as a matter of routine, rued, “It has been for years together but now the situation has gone out of control. It’s tough for us to breathe in such unhygienic conditions. The foul-smell emitted out of the sewer water is unbearable.”“We simply do not understand what is the use of picking up garbage when in no time it is allowed to accumulate again thus making the place all the more horrible. In the absence of any space for the garbage and sewage disposal, several acres of land, specifically allocated for setting up of an Advanced Training Institute, has been transformed into a dumping ground. We urge candidates to solve the problem along with the problem of sewer water accumulation urgently,” said a shopkeeper who runs a shop amidst garbage on the main market road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-residents-seek-solution-to-waste-crisis-overflowing-sewers-207803
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||30 attend course on cultivation of medicinal crops||The Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a two-day training course on “Cultivation of aromatic, medicinal and spice crops” here today. As many as 30 farmers and farm women attended the course.Dr TS Riar, Associate Director (Skill Development), said farmers and farm women can get better returns from the cultivation of aromatic, medicinal and spice crops in comparison to other crops.Dr Rupinder Kaur, Course Coordinator, highlighted the importance of the training course. Dr Rajinder Kumar, Technical Coordinator, explained the successful cultivation of mint and turmeric.Dr SS Walia, agronomy expert, advised trainees to adopt agronomic practices for the successful cultivation of aromatic, medicinal and spice crops. Dr Khushdeep Dharni, a PAU expert, gave tips for the marketing of aromatic and medicinal crops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/30-attend-course-on-cultivation-of-medicinal-crops-207804
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Govt school in Sunet sans basic amenities||Government High School, Sunet, is one of the oldest schools in the city, which started before 1970 with a handful of students.Now, after the lockdown phase, more and more students are taking admission in the school as the parents of many children were not able to pay hefty fees in private schools due to the pandemic. The strength of the school has shot up to over 800 students and more admissions are taking place. But the major problems the school faces are the lack of proper washrooms and number of classes for the students.There are just one or two washrooms in the school, which are in bad conditions. Looking at the increasing number of students, the school requires more washrooms. Besides, there are 14 classrooms but since the number of students has increased, at least 7-8 more classrooms are required to accommodate the students.There were just seven classrooms and other classrooms were constructed with the help of funds collected by the teachers. Approximately Rs 4.25 lakhs were collected and spent on the infrastructure.Besides, the boundary wall of the school is low-lying, which needs to be constructed afresh. There is a play ground in the school but it was too low and during the rainy season, it was flooded with water for several days, putting students/teachers in difficult situation. Again, with the help of village persons and funds collected, the level of the ground was raised by putting trolleys of sand but now this has to be leveled and inter-locking tiles are to be put-up on it for proper levelling. Besides, school is also facing problems in absence of permanent chowkidar.Headmaster’s takeRavinder Singh, the Headmaster said though they have started receiving the grants still at least Rs 10-15 lakh are required for levelling of ground, constructing washrooms and class rooms and raising the boundary wall, which is too low. “There is an increase of up to 20 per cent students after the lockdown and we need more infrastructure,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-school-in-sunet-sans-basic-amenities-207806
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Documentary on farmers protest||Competition on heritage handicraftsKhalsa College for Women Civil Lines Ludhiana, organised one day inter-college competition on heritage handicrafts in the college Main Hall. Around 25 students participated in the competition and exhibited their talent by making various handicrafts such as “gudia patole, chhikku, pranda, tokri, mitti de khidone etc”. The Principal, Dr Mukti Gill was the chief guest. The judges of the event were Kamaljeet Kaur Grewal, Botany Department, Dr Amrinder Kaur, Home Science Department and Dr Sukhjit Kaur from the department of History. The principal applauded the winners and gave away the prizes. Dr Narinderjit Kaur, incharge, Heritage and Arts, extended a vote of thanks to the Principal and her team Dr Vandana and Sandeep.Priya, Sneha excel in examsA two-week student development programme on “Enhancing student employability through Interdisciplinary Engagement”, sponsored by the TEQIP III Ministry of Human Resource Development, New Delhi, organised by Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College was inaugurated. Dr Sehijpal Singh, Principal, GNDEC, Ludhiana, welcomed the chief guest Sandeep (Minnie) Riat, MD, Akal Spring Ltd. and the guest of honour Gurdeep Singh Sidhu, Head, IT, Cremica Food Industries Ltd. Riat told students to enhance their interdisciplinary knowledge and invest in themselves.Intra Moot Court Competition heldGHG Institute of Law for Women, Sidhwan Khurd organised “First Virtual Intra Moot Court Competition”. Megha Sood, faculty member inaugurated the competition. Principal SK Nayak accorded a hearty welcome to judges, including Advocate Gautam Rishi, Advocate Sukhdev Singh and Assistant Professor Neelam, faculty members and participants. Two teams were qualified for the finals and each speaker was given 15 minutes to present their arguments.Community outreach programme heldKhalsa College For Women, Sidhwan Khurd, took an initiative for the welfare of society as the College NSS unit organised a community outreach programme at “Manukhta Di Sewa Society”, Hasanpur. They donated woolen clothes to the needy section of the society. The volunteers of the society gave a heartfelt gratitude to the Principal Dr Rajwinder Kaur Hundal, NSS programme officers and faculty for this noble gesture.School NotesNankana Sahib Public SchoolLudhiana: The school organised investiture ceremony of the students council for the session 2020-2021 here today on the campus. Deserving young talented students of the school were bestowed with the responsibility of leading their school with commitment, confidence and competence. Principal Harmeet Kaur Waraich rewarded the elected office-bearers of the council. The newly-elected council includes Jaskaran Singh Gill as Head Boy, Paramdeep Kaur, head girl, Gurveer Singh as vice-head boy, Yashmeek as vice-head girl. Pawandeep Kaur has been elected as discipline incharge, Sukhwinder kaur as vice discipline Incharge for girls, Anmol Iman Singh Sandhu as discipline incharge and Jasmeet Singh Kalsi as vice discipline incharge for boys, Gurleen Kaur as sports captain, Satnam Kaur as vice sports Captain for girls, Jasmeet Singh Gill as vice sports captain for boys.BCM Arya InternationalThe school celebrated virtual Annual Day for classes LKG to V. The theme of the event was ‘Happiness is the highest form of health’. The annual show encapsulated a plethora of performances and a gamut of emotions. The event unfolded with the lamp lighting ceremony. Principal Dr Paramjit Kaur presented the school annual report highlighting the achievements. The event was an interesting amalgamation of Indian and Western culture. Tiny tots of classes UKG, class II, and class II unraveled the secret of happiness and health through their power-packed performances. Principal Paramjit Kaur applauded the efforts of teachers, students and parents.BCM School, Chandigarh RoadIn order to bring awareness regarding different climatic changes among the future citizens, the school, organised a plethora of British Council activities in collaboration with its International partner Imaad School, Nigeria. A virtual expert lecture on ‘Adverse effects of Climate Change in India & Nigeria”’ was delivered by subject experts with the help of a PowerPoint Presentation. Students of Grade IV & V were enlightened about various terms related to weather and climate, its meaning, significance, global warming, causes and its effect etc in India and Nigeria. Students were also motivated to put forth collective endeavour to save our planet.BCM Arya School, LaltonThe school organised an “Inter-class skating competition “ for students of classes I-VIII. The zooming skaters of the school rolled on their skates following Covid-19 safety norms and showcased their stability, concentration, discipline and talent in various categories. It was a spectacular show. Winners under different categories Prabhnoor, Jiya, Anaad, Mahir, Sherazdeep, Modhit and Pavit were felicitated by the Principal Dr Paramjit Kaur.DAV PUBLIC SCHOOL PAKHOWAL ROADA series of English language skills promotional activities became the part of ongoing English fest at the school. The spectrum of activities such as story enactment for Class IV, declamation contest for Class V, poem recitation for Class VI, ad-mad show for Class VII and role play for Class VIII were organised. The students played the role of renowned laureates such as APJ Abdul Kalam, Sarojini Naidu, Elizabeth Bennet, Munshi Prem Chand etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/documentary-on-farmers-protest-207808
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||17 booked for attacking man in village||A man was reportedly attacked by 17 persons over old enmity at Koom Kalan village near here. The assailants also snatched cash from the victim.The Koom Kalan police have registered a case against the accused, Pawandeep Singh of Bilga village, Bunty Gujjar of Sahnewal and 15 unidentified persons.Complainant Harpreet Singh of Bhairomunna village told the police that on February 1, he, along with his friend Rupinder Singh, was going to his home in Hyundai Venue car. The accused stopped him in the village and attacked him with sharp weapons and baseball bats.After attacking him, they snatched Rs 20,000 and keys of the car from him, he said.The victim said the accused attacked him as he had arguments with them over some issue during a marriage function on January 31 in Amloh, during which two of the identified accused had threatened him.Investigating officer ASI Kamaljit Singh said after registering a case, probe had been launched and raids were being conducted to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-booked-for-attacking-man-in-village-207811
04-02-2021||Ludhiana||Traffic awareness for auto drivers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-awareness-for-auto-drivers-207815
