05-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Sewage overflow after rain||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 4As rain lashed the city on Thursday afternoon, sewage started overflowing badly, resulting in water accumulation near Police Colony Chowk on the main Chandigarh Road, here. The accumulated stinking water caused inconvenience to commuters as the government authorities have failed to resolve the issue on the stretch despite repeated complaints by residents.The residents said the sewer manholes start overflowing on the stretch whenever it rains, even after a short spell. They will again demand from the government to direct the departments concerned to resolve the issue at the earliest.A resident of the Chandigarh Road area, Premjit Singh, said: “It was harrowing time for commuters due to waterlogging on the main road. After rain started today, the sewers started overflowing within minutes due to which water accumulated on the road. It was difficult for the commuters to pass through the stretch. When vehicles used to pass through the flooded stretch, water also flow towards our buildings. During rainy days, sewers start overflowing on the road. The government should provide a relief to residents by finding a permanent solution to the problem at the earliest.”The residents have complained to the authorities in this regard a number of times but to no avail. During the rainy season of last year too, commuters and residents of the area had suffered hardships. In July 2020, a complaint was sent to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh regarding the issue of water accumulation on the stretch. The residents said however, no action had been taken to resolve the problem till date.MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said employees were deployed to remove the accumulated water from the stretch after rain today.“Sewer connections of dyeing units of Focal Point will be disconnected from the MC’s sewer line in days to come. Once the work is done, the load on the MC sewer line will get reduced. Moreover, we are going to conduct desilting of the main sewer line with super-suction machines soon”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sewage-overflow-after-rain-208210
05-02-2021||Ludhiana||Fire breaks out in factory||A minor fire incident reported at the Duke factory near the Jalandhar bypass on Thursday evening. There was no report of any loss of life or injury in the incident.Aatish Rai, sub-fire officer, said the incident occured at around 5 pm and in a few minutes, two fire tenders reached the spot. Fire personnel took two hours to douse the flames.He said fire broke out in a boiler in the factory due to leakage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fire-breaks-out-in-factory-208211
05-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Govt school at PAU sans boundary wall||Tribune News Service  Ludhiana, February 4  There is no boundary wall at the Government Primary School in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here. As there is no proper demarcation, small students at times go on the road outside the school premises.   It is a long-pending demand of the school authorities to construct boundary wall, which is yet to be met.   One of the schoolteachers said, “Not many students are coming to school these days, but since the government has ordered to resume small classes more students will come and then it will become difficult for us to keep an eye on all of them.”   “During recess when students play they go here and there. Washrooms are also near the boundary. We accompany students so that they don’t go outside school premises. Teachers and the school authorities are also trying for a Samaritan to come and help, but with no success. The school needs boundary wall for the safety of the children,” she added.  At times, stray dogs roam on play ground for children in the school. Around 193 metre running boundary wall has to be constructed at the cost of Rs10 lakh for the school. Schoolteachers alone cannot collect this amount.   Paramjit, parent of a student, said, “School uniforms are not given to boys, who belong to the general category. We may not belong to the SC or reserved class still my husband, who works as mechanic at a shop, gets meager salary. Our wards should also be given uniforms like other students. The pick and choose policy is uncalled for.”   The school head teacher, Amarpreet Kaur, said, “This issue has to be raised with the Education Department, which releases many grants. We hope that funds will be released for this purpose too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-school-at-pau-sans-boundary-wall-208212
05-02-2021||Our Correspondent||PIUs demand relief in power tariff from regulatory body||Ludhiana, February 4Power intensive units (PIUs), represented by the Induction Furnace Association of North India (IFANI), have made a fervent plea for relief in power tariff and other regulations in the tariff order for the financial year 2021-22 in a public hearing conducted by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) here today regarding the petition no. 45 of 2020 filed by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for the approval of annual revenue requirement (ARR) and determination of tariff for the next financial year.Taking up the issue before the PSERC chairperson Kusumjit Sidhu and other members, KK Garg and Dev Gupta, president and general secretary, respectively, of the association said the PIUs, providing maximum revenue to the PSPCL by way of high volume of energy consumption, were persistently being discriminated against in terms of the two-part tariff system, repeated hike in power tariff, special night tariff, increase in electricity duty, fuel cost adjustment charges and imposition of coal washing charges, all of which added to the cost of production and rendered the units located in the state uncompetitive.The body of the induction furnace units called for introduction of ‘One India – one tariff’ linked to demand and consumption only and also urged the regulatory body to come out with a ‘maximum overall rate (MOR) for the industry to give relief to the industrial sector working on the margin, otherwise there were bound to suffer financially, causing a huge blow to the efforts of the Punjab Government to revive the industry in the state.“The induction furnace industry is still passing through a critical phase and still recovering from the losses of previous years, thanks to the support of the state government and its departments. The Covid pandemic has further impacted the industry which remained shut for about three months during the lockdown and is even now operating at a partial capacity. The cost of power constitutes around 50-60 per cent of the total value addition cost in the sector and as such, the tariff and rebates of power play a vital role in its sustenance,” said functionaries of IFANI.They said the industry was looking forward to further concession in power rates, increase in voltage rebate, one tariff for all consumers of the LS category irrespective of the CD and merger of power intensive and general industry into one category which would go a long way in giving th required impetus to industrial growth which was still continuing on life support after the crippling blow of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pius-demand-relief-in-power-tariff-from-regulatory-body-208213
05-02-2021||---||Eight villages to get reverse osmosis system||Ludhiana, February 4 Eight villages of Ludhiana district will soon have reverse osmosis (RO) system. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has funded this Rs 88-lakh project to provide clean and safe potable water to the rural populace in the district. Stating this here today, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Sandeep Kumar said the villages where the RO systems were being installed included Begowal, Daburji, Gidri, Sirthala, Aloona Palla, Kauri, Bains and Bhattian Dhaha. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had launched “Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai” mission as part of the Punjab Government’s campaign to accomplish the goal of 100 per cent potable water supply to all rural households in the state by March next year, thus making Punjab the first state in the country to achieve this distinction. Kumar said under this project, the villages having high total dissolved solids (TDSs) had been chosen to be covered in the first phase of the project. He said the main aim of the project was to ensure that the residents of these villages get clean and safe potable water. He said under the “Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai” mission, the residents of these eight villages in the district would have water purifier reverse osmosis (RO) plants, as currently they were not having access to safe drinking water due to heavy metal contamination in the groundwater. Hardyal Singh and Surinder Singh of Begowal village said that due to the presence of high TDSs in groundwater, they had no access to clean and safe potable water. They said villagers had to install RO systems in their houses from their pocket, which was a heavy financial burden that everyone could not afford. They added that several villagers used to fall sick by consuming contaminated drinking water. Karam Singh, sarpanch of Aloona Palla village, thanked the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for starting the “Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai” mission under which clean and safe potable water would be provided to the residents in the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eight-villages-to-get-reverse-osmosis-system-208214
05-02-2021||Sports Correspondent---||Hockey academy honours students||Ludhiana, February 4  Students of the Government School, Jarkhar, who excelled in academics and sports activities, were honoured by the Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy yesterday. They were felicitated at a function organised on the school premises during which area magistrate and tehsildar Anudeep Kaur and chartered accountant Ramesh Bandha were the guests of honour.  Sukhdeep Kaur Jarkhar, Manvir Kaur Jarkhar, Simrandeep Kaur Jarkhar and Balbir Kaur Dangora were felicitated for excelling in academics. Hockey players Arjun Pandit and Gurwinder Singh Guri were also honoured on the occasion. All were given bicycles and Rs1,100 each for their achievements.  Addressing the gathering, Anudeep Kaur said academy organisers were doing good job by encouraging youths to take part in sports. All villages of the region would follow them so that the energy of youngsters could be channelised in a proper way.  Speaking on the occasion, Ramesh Bandha said there was no dearth of talent in villages. Organisations such as Mata Sahib Kaur Sports and Charitable Trust should come forward to tap the talent and prepare them for the future.   He also gave a financial assistance of Rs11,000 for the needy and poor students of the school.  While expressing gratitude, the Jarkhar Hockey Academy director, Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, announced an aid of Rs10,000 for the welfare of the school. He also gave Rs10,000 to the academy.  School principal Hardev Singh along with Paramjeet Kaur Bhutta, Sukhwinder Singh, Rajeev Kumar, Jagdev Jarkhar, Tejinder Singh, Sahibjit Singh, Gursatinder Singh Pargat, Gurdeep Singh, Amrik Singh, Gulzara Singh, Nikka Singh, Chamkaur Singh, Bhajan Singh, Charanjeet Singh Channi, Bant Singh, Jarnail Singh, Bhag Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Sukhdev Singh Sukhu, Kuldeep Singh Lala, Raghbir Singh, Rajinder Singh Raju, Harminder Singh Dhoni and Money were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hockey-academy-honours-students-208215
05-02-2021||dhiana||Bank staff rally against privatisation||On the call given by the United Forum Of Bank Unions (UFBU), a massive rally was organised by unions in the city in front of the State Bank of India, Civil Lines Fountain Chowk, here, today. Various leaders of the UFBU, Naresh Gaur, convener, UFBU, Pawan Thakur, president, Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation (PBEF, AIBEA) Ludhiana, Ashok Arora, GS Mangat, JP Kalra from AIBOC, Iqbal Singh Malhi and KK Khullar from the NCBE, Gurmeet Singh and Chiranjeev Joshi from AIBOA addressed the demonstration. The protest was held against the announcement of privatisation of public sector banks and insurance companies by the Union Finance Minister in the recent Budget session. While addressing the rally Naresh Gaur said the Budget presented by the Finance Minister was again full of claims and rhetoric and far away from ground realities. It was expected that with the experience gained during the Covid pandemic, there would be some sensible measures to take our economic forward. But the Budget was again another exercise on the same track. They said already about 120 million people have lost their jobs. In the Budget, there was no measure to create jobs, except some meagre announcements. In the Budget, the minister has mentioned about doubling the farmers’ income but it does not mention how it is going to be achieved. With the government insisting on farms laws, the their plight will further worsen. They said there was also a major announcement that two PSBs and a general insurance firm would be privatised. Banks and insurance companies deal with public money. Privatising them means handing over money of people to private vested interests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bank-staff-rally-against-privatisation-208216
05-02-2021||Sahnewal||Students shine in badminton c’ship||The 2nd HL Aneja Memorial Open Badminton Championship-2021 was organised at Tagore International School here today.  A total of 107 teams under various categories participated in the event. The championship was organised by Principal Suresh Aggarwal. BK Aneja was the chief guest and Swati Aneja was the guest of honour. Results: U10 (girls) single: Nancy (first), Samiha (second); U10 (boys) single Wazir Singh (first), Aarush (second); U10 (boys) doubles: Tania and Aarush (first), Waryam and Qazir (second); U12 (girls) single:Prabhjot Kaur (first), Tania (second); U12 (boys) single: Aditya (first), Wazir Singh (second); U12 (boys) doubles: Wazir and Kesar (first), Suryans and Shahan (second), U14 (girls) single: Prabhnoor Kaur (first), Tania (second), U14 (boys) single: Gurshan (first), Aditya (second); U17 (girls) single: Prabhnoor Kaur (first), Tania( second), U17 (boys) single: Manan (first), Dilpreet (second), U19 (boys) Single: Adesh (first), Sugam (second), U19 (boys) doubles: Manan and Adesh (first), Khushal and Akanksh (second); open category (single): Bhuvan (first), Hakam (second); open category (doubles): Bhuvan and Hakam (first), Deepak and Karanvir (second). Managing director of the school BK Aneja congratulated coach Sonu Yadav and Manjinder Singh and other supporting sports staff, including Vijay Kumar and Sukhpal, for the smooth conduct of the event. He said more such sports activities would be conducted in the future for the overall development of  students. He also encouraged other students to motivate and take part in sports competitions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-shine-in-badminton-cship-208217
05-02-2021||---||3 lose life; 61 +ve||Ludhiana, February 4Three persons lost their life, while 61 tested positive for Covid in the district today.At present, there are 383 active patients in the district.A total of 6,08,598 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 6,07,494 samples have been received. Out of these, 5,77,564 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,104 samples were pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 25,974, while 3,956 patients belong to other districts/states.Today, three patients lost their lives in the district. Now, the total number of persons who have lost their lives include 1,004 from Ludhiana and 480 from other districts.According to the Health Department till date, 56,441 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and the number of such persons is 689. Today, 33 persons were sent for home quarantine.Today, 2,072 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently for everyone’s safety.Meanwhile, the vaccination of frontline workers continued today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-lose-life-61-ve-208218
05-02-2021||---||Bid to loot liquor vend foiled, 3 held||Ludhiana, February 4The Ludhiana police claimed to have busted a gang of robbers and arrested three of its members. The gang was planning to commit a major dacoity at a liquor vend here. The police recovered sharp weapons and a Toyota Innova vehicle from them.The accused have been identified as Gurjit Singh Sonu of Nurpur village, Fatehgarh Sahib, Arvinder Singh Monti of Kadupur in Kapurthala, and Ravi of Begowal, Kapurthala. Two other accused, Amarjit Singh of Choti Haibowal and Sunny Gill of Fatehgarh Sahib, managed to give a slip to the police.As per the press release issued by the police, a tip-off was received that a gang of notorious robbers was present at a specific spot in the city. Accordingly, a team of the anti-smuggling cell conducted a raid in which three gang members were arrested along with sharp weapons and two managed to flee the spot.During preliminary questioning, the gang members revealed that they had committed several incidents of loot and theft in the city in the recent past.Some of the accused are also facing cases of drug and liquor smuggling and now, they were out on bail. After coming out on bail, they again started committing the crime.Additional DCP (Investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti in a press release stated that on the intervening night of January 19 and 20, some of the gang members had also committed a theft at liquor vend in Ghumar Mandi from where they had decamped with 21 cases of illegal liquor and cash.On the intervening night of January 6 and 7, the accused stole 25 cases of liquor from a liquor vend on the Metro road. On January 26 night, the gang stole 25 cases of liquor and Rs15,000 in cash from a vend on Tibba Road. It had also committed robberies and thefts at liquor vends in the city in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bid-to-loot-liquor-vend-foiled-3-held-208219
05-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj ---||2,000 notices to shopkeepers to remove encroachments||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 4 In the ongoing drive to make the Ludhiana roads free of encroachments, the Ludhiana Traffic police have issued more than 2,000 notices to shopkeepers and roadside vendors. The drive to give notices began on February 1 and the police have given these notices in just four days of the extensive campaign. Under this campaign, 100 roads are to be made encroachment-free with a clear purpose to solving traffic issues and ensuring road safety for commuters and pedestrians. Joint Commissioner of Police, City, Ludhiana, Deepak Pareek, has been made the nodal officer of the entire campaign and has been entrusted the task by the Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal. Pareek said the traffic police, along with the police stations and officials of the Municipal Corporation, have been serving notices and warnings to the shopkeepers and roadside vendors who have been encroaching roads in the city. “I have formed separate teams to serve notices to shopkeepers and owners of establishments resorting to encroachments on city roads. Till date, more than 2,000 notices have been served. These notices contain warning to the shopkeepers and roadside vendors. If after February 15, encroachments are found on city roads, the police will register an FIR against the violators without any delay,” added Pareek. He said the day the police started giving notices, shopkeepers and roadside vendors have themselves started removing the encroachments. The response in the city has been really good and the police hope that the residents will cooperate and the situation to register FIRs will not arise. “I have been visiting the markets and meeting shopkeepers and all are giving full support to the police campaign.” The police said the campaign was started as many times, clogged roads and traffic chaos have become the cause of road accidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-000-notices-to-shopkeepers-to-remove-encroachments-208220
05-02-2021||---||Ludhiana set to be garbage-free soon||Ludhiana, February 4Ludhiana will soon become a garbage-free city. For this purpose, 40 static compactors are being installed at different locations in the industrial hub of the state to ensure a better and effective management of solid waste.The static compactors will first segregate the solid refuse into wet and dry waste and then compress it five times so that it can be managed and transported in an effective manner.Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu made this announcement while opening the first such compactor near Jyoti Kendra on Hambran Road, here.Speaking on the occasion, Ashu said he was committed to making Ludhiana garbage-free and urged the residents to assist the civic body for succeeding in this social cause.He said for better and effective management of solid waste, a total of 40 static compactors were being installed in different parts of the city.Later, the minister inaugurated the work for the laying of interlocking tiles in a street in ward number 81 of the Haibowal area. The work will be carried out at a cost of Rs48 lakh.MC holds trial for garbage liftingWith A2Z firm announcing that it will not lift garbage from the city after February 4, the MC officials conducted a trial at a few locations for the lifting of garbage.A2Z Waste Management Limited, which had issued a public notice that it would stop lifting garbage from the city after February 4, had been hired in 2011 for 25 years.After the firm issued termination notice in December 2020, the civic body officials had held talks with the company officials, but issues between the duo were not resolved as per information.There are 95 wards in the city and around 1,100 MT of garbage is generated daily here. The MC has a shortage of required vehicles, machines and manpower for the task. However, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has already stated that the MC would ensure proper lifting from the city and would soon hire a new firm.Notably, the National Green Tribunal has already given strict instructions to the MC to ensure the compliance of rules for solid waste management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-set-to-be-garbage-free-soon-208221
05-02-2021||---||MC plan to implement new water, sewer tariff from new FY||Ludhiana, February 4The Municipal Corporation’s Finance & Contract Committee has given its nod to a proposal regarding new water and sewer tariff and hike in tariff.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu gave this information today. It is learnt that the civic body is planning to implement the new tariff from the upcoming financial year 2021-22.Once the proposal is implemented, exemption on water supply and sewer charges given to residential properties up to 125 sq yards will be revoked. As per the fresh proposal, the exemption for the domestic water supply connection will be given to only single-storeyed residential property up to 50 sq yards.The monthly water and sewer tariff will be fixed for up to 50 sq yards (multi-storeyed) and 50 to 125 sq yards residential properties. Besides, new water and sewer tariff will also be fixed for properties above 125 sq yards as per the proposal.The Municipal Corporation is charging fixed slab rates from consumers under different categories at present, but once the water meters are installed, volumetric tariff shall be implemented.In November 2020, the Municipal Corporation House had approved a proposal regarding new water and sewer tariff and hike in tariff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-plan-to-implement-new-water-sewer-tariff-from-new-fy-208222
