06-02-2021||---||Property tax defaulters face music in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 5 The Municipal Corporation (MC) has come up with a unique way to recover pending dues from tax defaulters.  As per the initiative, ‘dhols’ were played outside the property of defaulters who had not paid pending dues to the civic body. The MC’s Superintendent at Zone C, Vivek Verma, said the staff concerned visit the area where defaulters live and beat the ‘dhol’ reminding them to deposit their pending property tax and other charges to the civic body. Meanwhile, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal conducted a meeting with officials of different branches and directed them to pulls up socks to conduct recovery. Sabharwal said that the staff has been given target for recovery and they have been asked to intensify recovery drive. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said that the officials have been strictly asked to conduct recovery in all the zones. The officials have been asked if they fail to conduct recovery, required action would be initiated against them, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/property-tax-defaulters-face-music-in-ludhiana-208612
06-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana Mayor, MC chief inspect garbage dumps||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 5A day after A2Z Group, a solid waste management firm, stopped its services in the city, officials of the MC on Friday were seen in the field to check the lifting of garbage from different points in the city.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, along with officials, inspected various garbage dumps in the city on Friday. They also visited the main garbage dump site near Tajpur Road to check the situation. After inspecting the dumps, the Mayor and the Commissioner expressed satisfaction over garbage lifting in the city.The duo today visited secondary garbage collection points on Chandigarh Road, Sherpur Chowk, Fish market in Zone C, Gill Road, Haibowal Kalan, BRS Nagar and other areas.Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana and health branch officials also inspected the garbage dump points.Sandhu and Sabharwal have asked the officials and employees concerned to do works related to solid waste management in a proper manner.They said any kind of negligence on part of any official or employee would not be tolerated.Notably, the A2Z firm had earlier issued a public notice that it will stop lifting garbage from the city after February 4. The firm was hired in 2011 for lifting of garbage in the city for 25 years. Now, it has terminated its services in the city.BJP raises questionsBJP Ludhiana president Pushpinder Singhal alleged: “It seems Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has made the MC a private company of some of his favorites and political bosses. When the A2Z firm had served a termination notice, why the MC not floated tenders to invite a new firm? Without floating any tender, it is giving the task to another private firm as I learned. Do the Congress wants to benefit their people by awarding them the contract of solid waste management. The Mayor should call a House meeting and all- party meeting soon and state facts that on what basis the new private firm is being hired without floating any tender?”Denying the allegations, the Mayor said: “A private firm, which was hired by the A2Z firm, has been asked to continue the lifting of garbage from the secondary garbage collection points on a temporary basis as of now in emergency. No rate has been increased. The garbage lifting is being done properly in the city. Now, BJP leaders are levelling false allegations as they did not find any flaw in the garbage-lifting process after the A2Z firm ended its service. They wanted to criticise us instead of supporting us for the betterment of the city. The MC will soon float tenders to hire a new firm for solid waste management. We are ensuring proper door-to-door collection of garbage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mayor-mc-chief-inspect-garbage-dumps-208613
06-02-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||‘Women safety will be my top priority’: Saloni Puri||Mandi Ahmedgarh, February 5 Safety and security of working women, better civic amenities for residents and organising seminars and workshops for maids, besides education of girls are some of the priorities of Saloni Puri, the only candidate who has been reportedly elected unopposed in the Municipal Council that is yet to be constituted through polling on February 14. Saloni, an independent candidate, was declared elected from Ward No. 15 of the Ahmedgarh Municipal Council after all other candidates withdrew from the contest today. She said the platform of the Municipal Council would enable her implement ideas on social service. Dedicating her victory to women empowerment, Saloni said she would leave no stone unturned to ensure that rural women and those coming to the town from other localities for various jobs receive proper facilities during their stay in the town. Saloni said as a non-political representative of her ward she would strive to get demands of residents accepted and implemented from MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-safety-will-be-my-top-priority-saloni-puri-208614
06-02-2021||Lovleen Bains---||Panjab University cancels exams after technical glitch||Doraha, February 5 The exams of environment, road safety education and violence against women and children to be conducted by Panjab University (PU) in the morning and the evening slots today, were cancelled. The cancellation resulted in much chaos and panic among appearing candidates. As per the instructions of PU, the exam of environment education was supposed to be conducted online through Google form. The question paper was to be available at 9.10 am (approx.). The link was to be activated at 9.30 sharp. Students were supposed to go to the website and click on the download question paper (January 2021). However, as they tried to click on the option ‘download question paper’, they failed. Only a few of them were able to download the same. Panicked students, began calling their specific colleges or even visited their to inform about the problem. “I could not clear the paper in my previous two attempts. It was my third chance and I had to clear it by all means. As I  tried to download the paper, I failed. The first thought that came to my mind was that I have not only failed to download the paper but failed in the exam too. However, its good that the university has cancelled the paper,” said an examinee. “The university should have been prepared before hand to handle any and every technical hitch that may arise while conducting the paper. It is not a joke after all. The students were prepared for the exam but sadly enough the university could not manage to handle the exam,” rued a college teacher. “We spent days to inform students about the date of the exam and at the same time the urgency to appear in the exam on the specific date. The lack of preparedness on the part of the university, created unnecessary problems for the students,” another teacher opined. According to the sources, the new dates for these examinations will be notified on website shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panjab-university-cancels-exams-after-technical-glitch-208615
06-02-2021||Ludhiana||PAU Ludhiana sets up info centre at Attiana village||The Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has set up an Information Centre and Nutritional Outlet in the adopted Attiana village, Ludhiana, to impart training to farmers in advanced agriculture under the guidance of Directorate of Extension Education and Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education. Dr Kuldeep Singh highlighted the importance of scientific agriculture and urged the farmers to adopt different subsidiary occupations to augment their income. He urged the farmers to adopt Integrated Nutritional Garden Model, in which three kanal area is dedicated to the cultivation of vegetables and pulses for domestic requirement. Dr Kamalpreet Kaur, Extension Scientist (Extension Education), stressed upon the need for farmer-scientist linkages and farm literature for profitable agriculture. Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, Block Officer, also shared his views on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-ludhiana-sets-up-info-centre-at-attiana-village-208616
06-02-2021||---||International webinar at GADVASU Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 5 A two-day international webinar on the successes and challenges of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) in veterinary diagnostics was held at the College of Animal Biotechnology of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana. These webinars were organised by the Institutional Development Plan (IDP) Cell of the GADVASU. Dr Y S Malik, Dean, College of Animal Biotechnology informed that the key speaker. Dr. Sunil Mor from University of Minnesota, USA and  he is developing highly sensitive and specific molecular assays for rapid detection of emerging and zoonotic pathogens. While talking about NGS, Dr Mor said that the DNA sequencing has revolutionised the field of genomics and has impacted almost every field of biological research. As a diagnostic test NGS helps in detecting previously unidentified microorganisms of outbreaks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/international-webinar-at-gadvasu-ludhiana-208617
06-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||GLADA begins e-auction of commercial sites||Ludhiana, February 5The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has commenced the sale of a prime site in front of the Mini-Secretariat here and 19 other commercial sites through e-auction. The bidding process would close at 1 pm on February 15.The site (8.21 acres) is a prime commercial land right in front of the Mini-Secretariat on Ferozepur Road (a national highway) and it is being offered for sale for the 5th time with a reserve price of Rs 333.79 crore.Among other commercial sites put on the block are six shop-cum-offices (SCOs) near the Old District Courts measuring 148.69 sq m each, five shops in the same complex with a floor area of 40.14 sq m each, three SCOs in Old Jail Road Market with area ranging between 182.08 and 193.22 sq m and five shops in pocket 2 of Old Jail Road Market with an area of 27.87 sq m each.Possession of the sites will be handed over to successful bidders on the payment of 25 per cent — 10 per cent after the closure of the bid and another 15 per cent within 30 days of allotment. Allottees would be required to deposit the balance payment in instalments at an interest rate of 9.5 per cent per annum.For participating in the e-auction, intending bidders will be required to sign up on the auction portal and obtain user ID and password. The bidders have to deposit the refundable/adjustable eligibility fee through internet banking, debit card, credit card, RTGS or NEFT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-begins-e-auction-of-commercial-sites-208618
06-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana cops reunite missing child, women with kin||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 5Besides catching drug peddlers and notorious elements, the Ludhiana police have another face of humanity too.Special initiativeThe newly appointed Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police-1, Pragya Jain (IPS), took personal interest in cases pertaining to missing elderly persons and children.The newly appointed Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police 1 Pragya Jain (IPS) took personal interest in cases pertaining to missing elderly persons and children.Three such cases of a missing child, a woman and an elderly woman were reported in the past few days in which the police took immediate action to trace and reunite persons with their family.The ADCP said on January 31, the police received a complaint from Paramjeet Kaur that her daughter Kawaljeet Kaur, alias Aman, was married to Toni, alias Sonu, of Bazigar Basti since six years. She left the house on Sunday after some dispute with her husband and mother-in-law.The next day, after getting information, the police checked the CCTV camera footage of the area and found the woman from the Bahadur Ke road, she said.Kawaljeet was suffering from depression and was undergoing some treatment for the same. The woman handed was over to her mother amicably. The ADCP said the police would ensure that the woman did not face any further torture at the hands of her spouse or mother-in-law.Talking about another case, Pragya said three-year-old Shivam of Atal Nagar, Rahon road, went missing on the morning of February 4. After receiving information, officials of the Jodhewal police station swung into action and recovered the girl from the Basti Jodhewal chowk.The ADCP said the boy had gone to the ATM with his mother from where he went missing.In the third case, 75-year-old Chander Kanta, wife of Jagjit Singh, and a resident of Sardar Nagar, Jodhewal, had gone missing on January 27 from her house. She is a retired principal and was being tortured mentally and physically by her son Monu due to which she left the house.The woman stayed at gurdwaras and on railway tracks and roads for almost three days.The ADCP said: “The woman had visited the office of Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and later, the PC asked me to provide immediate help to the woman and reunite her with the family.”The woman reached her office on January 30 and asked for help, adding that she was not only reunited with the family immediately but her son was also convinced to ensure care of his mother, to which he agreed.“We will also follow-up the case to ensure that the victim is being taken care of by her family,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-reunite-missing-child-women-with-kin-208619
06-02-2021||---||34 more fall prey to Covid in Ludhaian district; no death||Ludhiana, February 5Thirtyfour persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported due to the virus in the district today. The total positive cases from the district have reached 26,008 while 1,004 lost their lives so far.At present, there are 376 active patients and 57 were home quarantined today. Meanwhile, two patients were on ventilator support today of which one belonged to Ludhiana and the other was from another district.A meeting between Health and Education department officials was supposed to be held on Friday to discuss about the Covid testing of teachers but it could not take place due to the busy schedule of the DEO.All govt schoolteachers to be testedThe Health Department has come up with an action plan to test all government schoolteachers within 15 days and the decision about testing of students will be taken after the arrival of reports of the teachers.Teachers from Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Galib Kalan; Government Senior Secondary School, Gidderwindi; Governmen High School, Mandiani; Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Dakha; Government Middle School, Chet Singh Nagar; and a private school at Shastri Nagar have tested positive so far.Meanwhile, the vaccination of frontline workers continued today.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the Covid vaccine had no side effects as it had been developed after big research by world-renowned scientists.He appealed to people that they should not believe in rumours circulating on social media.Gill MLA tests positiveMLA from the Gill constituency Kuldip Singh Vaid has also tested positive for Covid. At present, he is home quarantined. His family members, driver and personal assistant have been told to get the Covid tests done. Besides, a staff nurse from the DMCH and a doctor from Krishna Nagar have also tested positive today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/34-more-fall-prey-to-covid-in-ludhaian-district-no-death-208620
06-02-2021||Ludhiana||NRI booked on charge of raping hotel employee in Ludhiana||A 37-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a Germany-based NRI after developing friendship with her. The accused has been identified as Paramjit Singh, a native of Koom Kalan. The victim said she got married 20 years ago.  She got separated from him due to some dispute with her husband. Now, she is staying at her parents’ home in Fatehgarh Sahib. To earn a livelihood, she started a job at a hotel in Doraha as an assistant manager, the woman alleged. “When the accused used to visit his native place Koom Kalan from Germany,  he used to stay at the hotel. Since I was the assistant manager, I developed a friendship with him,” she said. She said the accused used to call her at his house for help in household work and she had visited his house on several occasions. Recently, when he came from Germany, he called her to his house where he forcibly developed sexual relationship with her. He also threatened her of dire consequences. She informed her family and later, the police were also informed. A case had been registered and raids were on to nab him, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nri-booked-on-charge-of-raping-hotel-employee-in-ludhiana-208621
06-02-2021||Ludhiana||Trials for school sport wings on February 11, 12 in Ludhiana||The Punjab Sports Department will organise selection trials in 18 sports disciplines to register players (boys and girls U-14, 16 and 19) with the school sports wings in Ludhiana district on February 11 and 12.In a press release today, Ravinder Singh, district sports officer (DSO), Ludhiana, said these trials would be held at five venues across the district to select players for enrolment in the 2021-22 session.Trials for archery will be held at GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, and for hockey, handball and cycling at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, on February 11 and 12.Likewise, trials in weightlifting will be organised on February 11 at Naresh Chander Stadium Khanna whereas Kishori Lal Jethi Government Girls Senior Secondary Smart School, Khanna, will be the venue for trails in boxing.Trials for as many as 12 disciplines, including athletics, basketball, badminton, judo, gymnastics, kho-kho, lawn tennis, softball, shooting, volleyball, wrestling and football, will be held at Guru Nanak Stadium, Ludhiana.Physically and medically fit players born on or after January 1, 2008, can participate in the U-14 category while those born on or after January 1, 2005, are eligible for trials in the U-16 section. Players born on or after January 1, 2003, can attend trials in the U-19 group.Players, who have won first three positions in the district and state tournaments and those who have participated in the national competitions, can appear for the selection trials.Interested players have been asked to report at their respective venues at 8 am on February 11. They have to bring with them their birth certificate, Aadhar Card and sports achievement certificates in original, besides photocopies and two passport size photographs.Selected players would be provided daily diet/refreshment money as per the residential and day scholar schemes of the department in addition to sports kit and free coaching, said DSO. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trials-for-school-sport-wings-on-february-11-12-in-ludhiana-208660
06-02-2021||Ludhiana||Payal Gupta shines with 89% marks||Jyoti tops college in PU resultsStudents of Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College, Ludhiana, brought laurels to the college by their excellent result in M.Com 2nd semester, Panjab University examination. Jyoti secured 88.5 per cent marks, Kartik Sharma obtained 85.64 per cent marks and Kanika secured 84.42 per cent. Ashok Jain, president of the college managing committee, Narinder Jain, general secretary, and principal Dr Sandeep Kumar congratulated the students and the members of the faculty for their outstanding achievements.Panel discussion on NEP-2020GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, organised a panel discussion on the topic “Teacher education in National Education Policy-2020: TEI’s at crossroads”. The panel discussion was organized in collaboration with Council for Teacher Education Foundation (CTEF). The panelists for the seminar included Dr Khushvinder Kumar, president, CTEF, Punjab and Chandigarh chapter, Dr Amit Kauts, Dean Faculty of Education, GNDU, Amritsar, Dr Sandeep Sawhney, principal, Doraha College of Education, Doraha, Dr Anurag Asija, principal, DAV College of Education, Fazilka and Dr Somu Singh, assistant professor Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. Principal Dr Pargat Singh Garcha acted as moderator for the panel discussion.Workshop on emotional distressKCW Counselling Cell and the Department of Psychology, Khalsa College for Women, Civil lines, Ludhiana, organised a workshop on dealing with emotional distress “From Chaos to Calm.” The resource person, Priya Kapila, a DBT and Life Skills Trainer from Toronto, Canada, apprised the participants on various techniques used to deal with emotional distress in everyday life. The Principal, Dr Mukti Gill appreciated the efforts of the Department of Psychology and motivated the students to learn various life skills to help themselves and others to deal with life challenges more effectively.Lecture on road safety rulesNCC and NSS units of Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, organised an extension lecture on ‘Road Safety and Rules’. Principal Dr Rajwinder Kaur Hundal, and Kirpal Singh Bhathal, secretary, Sri Guru Hargobind Ujjagar Hari Trust, welcomed the resource person Dr Rajinder Chawla, chairman, Asha Chinh Welfare Society and former professor biochemistry, CMC Hospital, Ludhiana, and Paras Bhatia, manager of the society. The road safety pledge was taken by the resource person, the college principal, teachers, non-teaching staff, bus supervisor, drivers and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/payal-gupta-shines-with-89-marks-208671
06-02-2021||Ludhiana||Ryan International School||SDP Sr Sec School, hazuri roadThe NSS Unit of the school organised two-days camp of cleanliness drive at SDP College for Women. The aim of the camp was to aware people about cleanliness and to keep their city and country worth living. In the camp 70 volunteers and three teachers under the leadership of Neena Sharma Programme Office, Jagmohan Verma, Kulbir Singh and Ajaypal Singh contributed in this drive. Jasveer Singh Chauhan Principal appreciated the efforts done by the teachers andthe NSS volunteers.GREEN LAND SR SEC PUBLIC SCHOOLAfter days of silent hallways and empty classrooms, it was a delight today to welcome all of our students back into the building. The extensive preparation and planning was put into making school re-entry safe and welcoming is a testament to the care and commitment of all Green Land management and staff.. It was really quite wonderful to see shining eyes peeking over the top of masks, as students arrived ready for the school today. Principal Baldeep Pandher, extended a warm welcome to the students and also thanked all parents and guardians for helping to prepare their children for the first day of the school, as this had a huge impact on helping to make the day successful.girls bring laurelsStudents of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gill, Ludhiana, bagged the 3rd position in state at the Children Science Congress conducted jointly by SCERT and Pushpa Gujral Science City Jalandhar recently. Earlier, the team stood first in district level Children Science Congress competition. DEO (Secondary) Rajinder Kaur said the science project was developed under the guidance of Science Mistress Shaffy Makkar and executed by of Class IX students Lakshmi Kumari and Jaskiran Kaur; under the theme “Social Innovation for sustainable living” . Shaffy Makkar, project incharge, said the developed project can assist in developing concrete from biomedical waste. Principal Smriti Bhargav, District mentor Jasvir Singh Sekhon and Block Mentor Gurinder Kaur congratulated the school team. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ryan-international-school-208673
