07-02-2021||---||‘Chakka Jam’ hits normal life in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 6In view of the “Chakka Jam” call given by the farmers unions protesting the farm laws, the national as well state highways in Ludhiana were blocked for three hours on Saturday.Tractors and other vehicles were stationed in the middle of roads to as a mark of protest.A large number of agitating farmers and their supporters started sitting on dharnas at different locations from 12 noon and continued their protests till 3 pm. The protesters were raising slogans against the Modi government, demanding repealing of the “draconian” farm laws.The Bharti Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) members staged a protest near MBD Mall on Ferozepur Road. Sudagar Singh Ghudani of the BKU Ugrahan said, “We demand that farm laws should be repealed at the earliest. We want from government to give guarantee of MSP. The Swaminathan report should be implemented. The farmers who have been in jail should be released.”“The FIRs against farmers should be cancelled. Besides, the police have damaged our machinery and tractors in Delhi and the government should pay compensation for the same,” he added.Resentment on roadsThe farmers and their supporters staged dharnas at different locations on the Jalandhar-Delhi (NH 44) stretch, Ferozepur Road and other major roads in Ludhiana. Members of the Bheem Army Punjab and Azad Samaj Sewa staged a protest at Jalandhar Bypass to extend their support to the Kisan Andolan. Besides, farmers also staged protests near Jodhewal Basit Chowk, near Green Land School, Karabara Chowk and other locations on the NH-44. A protest was staged at the Ladhowal toll plaza on the national highway.Members of the Textile Hosiery Kamgar Union, Karkhana Mazdoor Union and Naujwan Bharat Sabha marked their protest near Samrala Chowk, Ludhiana. Rajwinder Singh of the THKU said the Central government should revoke the farm laws and cancel the cases registered against the farmers and activists.City residents chip inA numbers of city residents came forward to extend their support to the protesting farmers during the “Chakka Jam” in Ludhiana. Students and youngsters, carrying placards in support of farmers, participated in the protests on Ferozepur Road and other sites. Students of Gurmat Gian Missionary College and a group of senior lawyers staged A protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk, Ludhiana. A number of women too came forward to participate in the protest to raise their voice against the farm laws.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers were seen making way for an emergency vehicle on NH-44 near Jodhewal Basti. The protesters also made way for an ambulance on Ferozepur Road during the protest.Bus stand employees conduct gate rallyThe PUNBUS Contractors Workers Union Ludhiana Depot president Shamsher Singh said they held a gate rally at the bus stand in support of the farmers. The members blamed the Union government for harassing the farmers who have been agitating against the farms laws.‘Bills will lead to pauperisation’Addressing a rally organised opposite Verka Milk Plant, Ludhiana, Amarjeet Kaur, national general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) said the farm bills would not only lead to the pauperisation of farmers but also push the common man into hunger crisis.Amarjeet Kaur said, “Corporates will not only snatch land of farmers but also hoard the agricultural produce and sell it at much higher prices at a later date. This will further push the already food-starved common people of the country to bigger crises as they will not have the required purchasing capacity. The government is blatantly working for the corporates. The events of January 26 have exposed the conspiracy hatched by the government to defame the movement of the farmers.”“The way barricades are being put up at the Delhi borders and the farmers are being denied water, food supply and Internet services is pointer to the concentration camps in the making on the pattern of the Nazis in Germany by Hitler,” she added.Com Mangat Ram Pasla, leader of the CTU Punjab said that the farmers have challenged the Modi government which is shaken and is trying to intimidate the farmers. Members of the Lok Insaaf Party also staged a protest at the Jalandhar bypass.Horns blown to ‘awaken’ Central governmentAt the end of the “Chakka Jam” on Ferozepur Road, a number of protesters blew horns of their vehicles expressing as a mark of their protest. Saudagar Singh Ghudani of the BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) said the horns were blown “to awaken the government which is not listening to the voice of farmers”.Celebrities thankedThe farmers union on Ferozepur Road appreciated and thanked all celebrities, activists and all other people, who had come forward to extend their support to the agitating farmers. These included pop star Rihanna, climate and environmental activists Greta Thunberg, Vanessa Nakate and others who have tweeted in support of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chakka-jam-hits-normal-life-in-ludhiana-208985
07-02-2021||---||Farmers protest: Commuters a harried lot||Ludhiana, February 6The Ludhiana police diverted traffic at various sites from early morning to prevent any jam or harassment to the commuters, but the latter were a harassed lot today.The traffic on the inner roads of the city was not hit as much as there was a smooth movement of traffic. Shops, commercial establishments and other business units also functioned in a normal way.Though the police had provided diversions for traffic, sudden increase in the traffic load on the internal or link roads caused traffic jam at some places.Surinder Kataria, a businessman, said due to the protest, the movement of traffic in city areas remained smooth to a great extent as commuters used diversions provided by the police, but people could not move towards Jalandhar as farmers were sitting at the Jalandhar bypass and at the Ladhowal toll plaza where only emergency vehicles were allowed to pass and routine traffic was not allowed to cross.Differently abled cricketers reach city railway station on wheelchairsDue to the “Chakka Jam” call by different organisations, physically challenged cricketers of Uttrakhand had to reach the railway station from the Verka Milk plant on wheelchair as their bus was not allowed to pass from the dharna spot. They had come to participate in the three-day Avon Cycles Divyang Premier League (Wheelchair Cricket) held at the PAU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-protest-commuters-a-harried-lot-208986
07-02-2021||Nitin Jain---||Samrala Chowk to be model of ‘zero tolerance’||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 6 The busiest Samrala chowk in the city will be made a model of ‘zero tolerance’ for traffic violations with ‘total adherence’ to rules. This will free the major junction, which connects the vehicular traffic from Delhi, Chandigarh and Jalandhar, with Ludhiana, of traffic chaos, congestion and jams that often leads to minor and major accidents. Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal has issued directions to this effect after taking a serious note of problems being faced by commuters while passing through intersections, where vehicles get stuck after coming in heavy volume from all four sides. While the traffic from Delhi, Chandigarh and Jalandhar heading to and fro or passing through the industrial hub of the state pass through this busy chowk, the entry and exit to major parts of Ludhiana, including the bus stand, railway station and leading Christian Medical College and Hospital, also passes through the intersection. “I have assigned the Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) to make the Samrala chowk a model of ‘zero tolerance’ for traffic violations and ‘total adherence’ to traffic rules for ensuring smooth flow of vehicular traffic,” the city police chief told The Tribune, here today. Acting swiftly on the CP’s directions, the traffic police launched a mega drive to strictly enforce traffic rules and catch violators at Samrala chowk. Under the drive, an ACP, two zonal heads and a chowki in-charge with requisite police force have been deputed to free Samrala chowk of traffic congestion, chaos and traffic violations. On February1, the Commissionerate Police had launched a special drive to free 100 major roads in Ludhiana of encroachments. Joint Commissioner of Police (City) Deepak Pareek had been appointed the nodal officer of the drive to free all busy and important inner and outer passages and intersections of obstacles for smooth movement of traffic. This was a part of a slew of measures initiated by the police to ease traffic congestion and improve road safety in the city. The development assumes significance as the industrial hub of the state has earned a dubious distinction of losing one precious life and leaving another injured in more than one road accidents reported to the police daily due to clogged roads and traffic chaos, which at times also lead to road rage incidents. The situation turns grim during morning and evening hours. The Commissionerate Police had been observing the Road Safety Month under the theme, ‘Sadak suraksha, jeevan raksha’, since January 18 and holding daily activities involving local residents and motorists to spread the message of road safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/samrala-chowk-to-be-model-of-zero-tolerance-208987
07-02-2021||Ludhiana||Gang of snatchers busted, 3 nabbed in Ludhiana||The Sadar police station claimed to have busted a gang of notorious snatchers and arrested three of its members. The police also recovered 10 cell phones from them.The accused have been identified as Presh Kumar, alias Prince (20), Deepak Yadav, alias Ganja (20), and Ravi Shankar (21), all residents of Phullawan village.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said a tip-off was received that the accused were members of a gang of snatchers and they had committed several mobile phone snatchings in the city.As per information, the gang was on the way to sell snatched mobile phones to some persons on the Dhandra road. Accordingly, the police party laid a naka and arrested the accused near Phullanwal chowk.The police said the accused had committed over 12 mobile phone snatchings in the city in the recent past and now, their police remand would be sought for further interrogation. The police will also probe their involvement in major snatching or loot incidents.The police said efforts would be made to hand over the recovered mobile phones and those sold by the accused to their owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-snatchers-busted-3-nabbed-in-ludhiana-208988
07-02-2021||---||Covid-19: 2 more succumb; 32 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 6Thirtytwo persons tested positive for Covid while two persons lost their lives to the virus today. Now, the total positive cases from the district have reached 26,040 while 1,006 have lost their lives to the virus.A 68-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman from Krishna Nagar and Lalton Khurd, respectively, died of Covid on Saturday. Both of them were suffering from diabetes.A total of 6,12,861 samples have been taken, of which reports of 6,11,001 have been received. Of these, 5,80,993 samples were found negative while reports of 1,860 are pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 26,040 while 3,968 patients belong to other districts or states.Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives include 1,006 persons from Ludhiana and 483 from other districts.Till date, 56,525 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 724. Today, 27 persons were sent for home quarantine.46-year-old teacherfound infectedMeanwhile, a 46-year-old female teacher from Government Primary School, Dashmesh Nagar, tested positive today. The Health Department has devised a plan to conduct Covid testing of all teachers.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid-19 safety guidelines issued by the state government.‘Provide vaccination to schoolteachers’Chandarkant Chadha, a leader of the Shiv Sena Hindustan, issued a statement and asked the state government to ensure Covid-19 vaccination for schoolteachers on a priority basis so that teachers could stay safe and continue their work at schools.Chadha praised the state government for providing the vaccination to frontline workers from the Police and Health departments. He said several schoolteachers in the district had tested positive for Covid and they should be administered the vaccination as soon as possible.“Many parents have raised the issue that despite several teachers in Ludhiana have been tested positive, schools are being opened. Parents are not allowing their wards to visit schools due to the same. Include teachers of government and private schools in the frontline workers’ category and ensure their vaccination at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-2-more-succumb-32-ve-in-ludhiana-208989
07-02-2021||Ludhiana||Manpreet bags top spot||Manpreet Kaur hogged limelight, lifting a total 142 kg weight to clinch top position in the below 71-kg weight group on the first day of the 37th Ludhiana District Weightlifting Championship for Men and Women being organised at the Ludhiana District Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Club, Rakh Bagh here on Saturday.Manpreet’s attempt (snatch 64-kg and clean jerk 78-kg, total 142 kg) fetched her first position while Balwinder Kaur with a total lift of 80-kg, finished as runners-up.Earlier, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board inaugurated the championship in which a large number of participants are vying for top honours. He said that the state government was committed to encourage the youth towards sports and wished the participants good luck.Parvesh Chander Sharma, honorary general secretary of the association, along with other members, including former international weightlifters PP Khullar and Ram Singh, coaches Kamaljit Singh, Shubhkaran Singh and Gurjinder Singh were among others present there. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/manpreet-bags-top-spot-208990
07-02-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU Ludhiana former welfare officer dead||Dr Darshan Singh Barri, former welfare officer of Guru Angad Dev  Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, passed away. He breathed his last at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, on the night between February 5-6.  Barri did his PhD research on Punjabi Kissa Poetry and served as welfare officer for about 10 years.  A popular face in Punjabi films and theatre, he was also an international-level kabaddi commentator. He also worked in the theatre group of eminent theatre director Harpal Tiwana. He worked with Om Puri, Raj Babbar, Girija Shanker, Sardar Sohi and Gurdas Mann. He was cremated today at his native village, Barri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-ludhiana-former-welfare-officer-dead-208991
07-02-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Many takers for ‘farmer driving tractor’ symbol||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Payal/Raikot, February 6 “A farmer driving tractor has emerged as the most sought-after symbol among aspirants contesting elections to urban local bodies as Independent candidates. Huge tractor marches during the ongoing farmer’s agitation for the withdrawal of Centre’s three farm Acts were cited to be the reason behind the craze for the agrarian symbol. Candidates supported by political parties except the Congress hesitated to contest on party symbols. It was learnt that the majority of Independent candidates for the elections to civic bodies at Ahmedgarh, Payal and Raikot had sought symbols related to agriculture and farmer driving tractor dominated all other symbols. The authorities had to adopt a lottery system in some cases where over one candidate from the same ward had sought the agrarian symbol. As many as seven candidates are now contesting the elections on tractor symbols at Ahmedgarh. Plough and Truck are among other symbols related with agrarian society. The Congress has been fortunate to field maximum number of candidates during the elections to urban local bodies in the region and AAP has also succeeded in finding candidates for the party. Candidates fielded by the Ahmedgarh unit of the BJP had to adopt the party symbol in pursuance of advice of senior functionaries at the district unit in Sangrur whereas a few Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidates chose to contest on the party symbol. Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said a few candidates fielded by the Payal Subdivision SAD unit had shown courage to fight the elections on the party symbol. “Hesitation of candidates from fighting the poll on the party ticket shows that the Payal segment is no more a stronghold of the SAD as the state government led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has undertaken unmatchable development during the ongoing term of the government,” Lakha said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/many-takers-for-farmer-driving-tractor-symbol-208992
07-02-2021||rshraj Singh---||Ludhiana residents rue potholed roads, MC officials’ apathy||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 6 Potholed roads clubbed with MC officials’ apathy have become a major concern for commuters. The MC’s hot mix plant, where material is prepared for patch work, is still lying closed due to cold weather conditions. A numbers of potholes on major and internal roads of the city are giving an open invitation to mishaps. Many potholes have appeared on a road just near Dayanand Medical College & Hospital causing inconvenience to the commuters. Potholes on Canal Road (that links Lohara and Gill Road), stretch near Sunet Railway crossing at BRS Nagar, Kochar Market Road, Ishmeet Singh Road, Model Town, Giaspura roads and many other areas have not been repaired. Even, potholes on a stretch leading to residence of Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner near Rakh Bagh are also crying for attention. Earlier, MC officials had claimed that the potholes would be repaired on temporary basis. Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Vigilant Citizens’ Forum, Ludhiana said, “The people are suffering a lot due to on different roads in the city. The safety of commuters is being ignored. When people pay taxes to the government, it should ensure timely repair of the roads.” Gaganpreet Singh, a resident, said, “The authorities concerned have turned a blind eye towards a road along canal. The stretch from Shimlapuri area on Gill Road towards Lohara Bridge has flooded with potholes but no action is being taken to repair road for a long time. There are high chances of mishaps on this stretch being ignored by the government authorities concerned.” MC’s Superintending Engineer Parveen Singla said the hotmix plant is closed at present due to the cold weather. It is expected to be opened soon once the weather conditions are improved, he said. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the MC has arranged required material for carrying out the patch work. “Once the weather conditions are improved, the patch would be started in the city,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-rue-potholed-roads-mc-officials-apathy-208993
