08-02-2021||---||Racket of 32 bogus firms busted||Ludhiana, February 7Acting upon specific information, the CGST Commissionerate Ludhiana has busted another nexus of 32 bogus firms being managed and operated by Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal.“The total value of the outward supplies of these 32 firms amounted to Rs 427 crore involving fake input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 65 crore,” said Ashutosh Baranwal, Principal Commissioner, here today.He said the two accomplices, Sandeep Kumar, alias Puri, alias PP, and Rajinder Singh, of the main accused, who had been working as the main operators for Happy Nagpal for all banking transactions undertaken in several banks in these 32 bogus entities had been arrested.Giving details, Baranwal said Rajinder Singh had created and operated two bogus firms in his own name. He had issued GST invoices to the tune of Rs 21 crore involving fake ITC worth Rs 4.28 crore and had also availed and utilised fake ITC worth Rs 3.43 crore on the strength of such bogus GST invoices.In addition to being the operator and controller of the two bogus entities, he was also engaged in performing banking operations (like Real Time Gross Settlement entries, cash withdrawal) in respect of other 30 firms controlled and operated by Happy Nagpal.“He had been withdrawing cash worth Rs 10-40 lakh almost daily from May 2018 till date. He has, until now, withdrawn cash amounting to a whopping Rs 100-125 crore from the bank accounts of 32 firms operated by Happy Nagpal,” he revealed.The officer disclosed that Sandeep Kumar, alias Puri, alias PP, the second accomplice of Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal, used to create fake firms based upon the identity proofs of different persons and give these Goods and Services Tax registration details of fraudulent entities to Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal.Sandeep Kumar himself had been operating five such fraudulent firms under the supervision of Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal, for which he used to receive Rs 60,000 per month from Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal.Apart from these five firms he, like Rajinder Singh, was also engaged in performing banking operations in respect of 32 firms controlled and operated by Happy Nagpal, alias Gurbax Lal Nagpal, added the Principal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/racket-of-32-bogus-firms-busted-209473
08-02-2021||---||3 booked in fraud cases||Ludhiana, February 7The Ludhiana police have registered two cases of fraud involving a whopping amount of over Rs 35 lakh.The first case was registered by the Focal Point police for a property fraud against Paramjit Singh, a resident of Sector 32, Chandigarh road.Complainant Manjit Singh of Circular road, Madhopuri, alleged that he had bought a plot in a colony on the Kotla Link road, Sahnewal, and he gave Rs 34 lakh to the accused on various dates.When the date of execution of the registration deed came, the accused refused to transfer the plot in his name. Now, he has also refused to return the money.Investigating officer ASI Shiv Kirpal Singh said a case of fraud under Section 420, IPC, was registered against the accused.Another case was registered by the Model Town police station against two persons on the complaint of Vishwas Bansal of Chaura Bazaar. The accused have been identified as Dinesh Chawla and his brother Munish Chawla, residents of Army Flats, Dugri.The complainant alleged that the accused had promised to sent him to Canada and in lieu of the same, they had taken Rs 1.25 lakh from him but they failed to arrange a visa for him. Whenever he asked the accused to return the money, they used to make excuses.The SHO, Model Town, Rajan Pal, said a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy was registered against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-booked-in-fraud-cases-209474
08-02-2021||Ludhiana||Generator, AC vents stolen||Thieves struck at the Improvement Trust market in Rishi Nagar and took away eight AC vents and a generator set.Shopkeepers came to know about the theft when one of them went to the rooftop on Saturday and found that the AC vents were missing.Sunil Vashishth, a shopkeeper in the market, said 11 AC vents were installed on rooftops of the Improvement Trust market, opposite the BSNL Exchange, of which eight vents were stolen between January 14-24.Shopkeepers said some unknown people were staying in abandoned shops in the market and some drug addicts could also be seen roaming in the area. They could have committed the theft.They said many complaints were given verbally to the PCR but no action was taken.Thieves were also captured in CCTV cameras but due to fog, the CCTV footage was not clear. Now, the shopkeepers have submitted a complaint to the PAU police station and have sought action against the miscreants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/generator-ac-vents-stolen-209475
08-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man posing as I-T officer dupes jeweller of Rs 1.44L||A man posing as Income Tax (I-T) officer duped a Mullanpur Dakha-based jeweller of Rs 1.44 lakh as the former did not pay bills of gold ornaments he reportedly bought from him.The accused, Santosh Yadav, alias Mora Rajesh, was said to be a native of Hyderabad. He is at present staying in the city. However, these whereabouts are still being verified by the police.Complainant Rajinder Kumar of Dakha told the police that on February 5, a man came to his jewellery showroom. He introduced himself as an inspector in the I-T Department and claimed that he would join his office in the Dakha area soon.The accused then asked for two gold chains and a gold locket. After selecting the ornaments, he asked for a complete bill, including the GST, in the name of Santosh Yadav. When the bill was handed over to the accused, he claimed he was not carrying cash, hence, he would transfer the payment via online mode.“The accused took my current account details and claimed that he has transferred the amount of Rs 1.44 lakh to it but when I did not receive the amount, I told the accused that the payment was not received. Afterwards, he sent me a WhatsApp message showing the transfer of the amount. Later, when I went to bank to check my account, I was shocked to found that the accused had shown a self-made message of the bank and no payment was transferred to my account,” the jeweller alleged.The victim said he then approached Kiranpal Singh, the driver of the Toyota Innova cab (in which the accused came to the shop), who said he picked the accused from Hyatt hotel but he don’t know about his whereabouts.The jeweller said he then rushed to the hotel and its staff said the accused had already left the hotel. The hotel staff provided his ID proof in the name of Mora Rajesh, which he gave to them, and he had booked a room from the online hotel booking site. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-posing-as-i-t-officer-dupes-jeweller-of-rs-1-44l-209476
08-02-2021||Ludhiana||Rajveer, Dilabar bag gold in weightlifting||Dilabar and Rajveer excelled in the men’s section of the 37th Ludhiana District Weightlifting Championship for Men and Women organised at the Ludhiana District Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Club, Rakh Bagh, which concluded here on Sunday. Rajveer lifted total 300-kg weight (snatch 135 kg and clean jerk 165 kg) to bag a gold medal in the below 109-kg weight category while in the plus 109 kg-weight section, Dilabar with a total lift of 300 kg (snatch 135 kg and 165 kg) secured a gold. Dr Iqbal Singh Ahuja, chairman of the organising association distributed prizes among position holders. Office-bearers of the association Parvesh Chandaer Sharma, PP Khullar, Ram Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Jaspinder Singh, Inderjit Singh, Bikramjit Singh Joshi, Vikrant Sharma, Rajinder Singh, Parmod Kumar, SS Dara, and coaches Guurinder Singh, Kamaljit Singh and Shubhkaran Singh were among those present during the prize distribution function. First day’s results Men (below 55 kg): Chandan 183 kg (1st) and Vicky 150 kg (2nd); below 61 kg: Anmoldeep 209 kg (1st) and Lovedeep 180 kg (2nd); below 67 kg: Jatinder Sharma 188 kg (1st), Sukhwant 170 kg (2nd) and Deepak 160 kg (3rd); below 73 kg: Manish 190 kg (1st), Shubham 186 kg (2nd) and Harsh 177 kg (3rd); below-81 kg: Ravi 215 kg (1st), Arun Kumar 209 kg (2nd) and Ajay Kumar 208 kg (3rd); below 89 kg: Abhijeet Pandey 258 kg (1st), Gautam 241 kg (2nd) and Maninder 220 kg (3rd); below 96 kg: Jasveer Singh 256 kg (1st) and Namandeep 240 kg (2nd); below 102 kg: Aman Singh 219 kg (1st) and Karanveer Singh 215 kg (2nd); below: 109 kg: Rajveer 300 kg (1st); plus 109 kg: Dilabar 300 kg (1st) and Tejveer Singh 252 kg (2nd). — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rajveer-dilabar-bag-gold-in-weightlifting-209477
08-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||MC Commissioner demands report||Ludhiana, February 7Having allegedly earned notoriety as corrupt and inefficient wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC), the building branch of the civic body is once again in the news for wrong reasons.Contrary to claims made by top officials, elected representatives (Mayor) and even the cabinet minister from the city regarding curbing the menace of illegal commercial buildings proliferating in the city with a heavy hand, several new commercial buildings are under various stages of construction in the posh locality of Model Town Extension and commercial hub Bhadaur House in violation of the change of land use, without approved building plans or against building bylaws.Taking note of a complaint about a hotel in Bhadaur House being converted into a shopping complex, the MC Commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal has ordered a probe into the matter and the municipal town planner (MTP) has sought relevant records from the assistant town planner (ATP) concerned of zone-A after a spot visit.It is learnt that in the layout plan of Bhadaur House Market, which was developed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust and later handed over to the MC for maintenance, the hotel was constructed in a shop-cum-office (SCO) site and now it was being converted into a shopping complex.Similarly, a shopping complex is under construction in a residential area of Model Town Extension where already many shops and commercial establishments are in existence without any change of land use or approved building plans.Even though the field staff and supervisory officials of the MC claim that notices have been issued to builders for violations, they fail to explain if the illegal construction activity was in their knowledge and notices had been issued, how the construction work was allowed to continue?ATP (Zone-A) Mohan Singh said the MTP had visited the site on the directions of senior officials and further the owners of the building had already deposited the CLU charges. As for the approval of the building plan, he said the owners had claimed that no major alteration in the structure was made and no floor area had been added.Total inaction against such illegal buildings and blatant violations was more due to active “connivance” of the employees and officials of the building branch rather than negligence or dereliction of duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-commissioner-demands-report-209478
08-02-2021||---||Teacher among 23 test +ve; no death||Ludhiana, February 7 No death was reported due to Covid, while 23 persons tested positive for it in the district today. A 39-year-old male teacher from Govt High School Bhundari was among those who tested positive. The total positive cases in the district have reached 26,063, while 1,006 people have lost their lives so far.  There are 354 active patients in the district at present. Twentynine patients (23 from Ludhiana district and six from other states/districts) tested positive in the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 6,15,182 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 6,13,519 samples have been received. Out of these, 5,83,482 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,663 samples were pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 26,063, while 3,974 patients belong to other districts/states. Till date, 56,554 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 707. Today, 29 persons were sent for home quarantine. A total of 2,321 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teacher-among-23-test-ve-no-death-209479
08-02-2021||What should be done to check the menace of begging in the city?||Formulate rehabilitation plan, impart skill training||Though the administration and other social organisations have taken many steps to bring an end to begging, the practice continues unabated. We should avoid giving money to beggars. Some people have the ability to earn but they have made begging as a habit. Recently, I heard that there was a beggar getting rent from his flats but still he was engaged in begging , we need to stop giving money rather offer them some work in you factory or household work . Children are also forced to beg. At Bharat Nagar Chowk, transgenders have also started begging. They must be encouraged to work. We should not feel pity that they are begging rather we should feel pity that they are deprived of basic education, teach them the right path. More employment opportunities must be provided for them. We have noticed that people sell their products at traffic lights. We should buy if we need them and encourage their work. We need to organise some awareness campaigns regularly especially for beggars on roads such that they are guided towards the right path and they feel motivated. We should lend a helping hand to them and offer them a respectful work to do.Simarjot KaurCreate job opportunitiesWe need to analyse the psycho-social factors responsible for creating a mindset warm to begging. Corruption, unemployment, lack of self-confidence, loss of dignity of labour, drug addiction, low level of education, greed, impoverished family background coupled with lethargy to work and subsequent development of poor self-worth along with negative social importance are some of the factors that offer critical driving force to the begging phenomenon. To combat the menace, the government should raise awareness for dignity of labour and dangers of offering and accepting any type of freebies. Eradicating unemployment should be the top priority. Persons with disabilities may have a reason to beg, but even the hale and hearty are seen begging without any qualms of conscience. It's a sort of sin to offer alms to such people and they should rather be motivated to work.In some cases, begging is an organised business. The begging mafia is sometimes responsible for trafficking of children, stealing of infants from hospitals and using them as a workforce to beg, sometimes after amputating and even blinding them. If all the people stop giving alms, this business will fall apart and all related crimes will vanish. Even those not related to the 'gang' will stop begging and start earning their bread with honest labour.Vansh ChaniDon't give moneyReports tell, a total number of 4,13,670 beggars are reside in the country. Most of them are part of drug trade. They beg to sustain their drug habit. By the same token, many millionaire beggars also come to light who earn Rs 70,000 to 80,000 per month by begging. They also have personal flats in Mumbai. If they can earn so much by begging then why would they like to work? The people have to support the government to free their country from this curse. They must cease giving money to beggars to abolish begging. If people really want to help them, they can provide them their basic necessities- food, shelter, clothing, medicine. They can also be helped by giving employment. But don't give them money.Gurpreet KaurAppoint committeeTo remove the problem of beggars in the city, the Municipal Corporation must appoint a committee to have a look on the beggars begging in different areas of the city. Beggars must be given directions what they can do productive work as they are the part and parcel of society. They must know that begging is a crime. The government should assign some work appointing head among beggars. The local government must involve some NGOs to assist in curbing the problem of begging. Those beggars who are able to run their business at small level must be honoured publicly to motivate other beggars to come out from this problem. Citizens must stop giving alms to them and assist local government in this regard.Farzana KaurEstablish beggar housesDespite several efforts of the administration, the police and non-government organisations, the menace of begging in the city has not stopped. The solution lies on the control of beggars, their begging and the public who give alms to the beggars. To control the number of beggars and their activity, those found begging must be caught and held back. The government must construct a number of beggar houses in the city wherein beggars in general and those caught begging should be housed, provided food with or without payment and given appropriate assignments/jobs suiting their age and ability so that they do not move around for begging. Thereby, they will keep busy in these houses and will not have time to go out in the city for begging. Regarding control of the public, arrangements must be made to educate the people that they must not give any alms to the beggars. Such education programmes may also be started in schools and colleges as well to educate the youth for not giving alms to the beggars so that they become knowledgeable about this need and use it during later stages of life. The vehicles giving alms at the road crossings must be challaned and fined. Begging at the road crossings brings a bad name to the country and even means a number of accidents resulting in injury and even death of many beggars themselves and of other innocent pedestrians on the roads.Gautam DevCoercive steps won't give desired resultsIn our country, the major reason behind begging is not poverty, but the tendency of not doing any work. In Ludhiana, the authorities have miserably failed in curbing the menace of begging as lack of work culture is widely prevalent in many sections of our society. Coercive steps alone can't bring the desired results as this is not a law and order problem. It is high time we create ample opportunities for the impoverished lot and try to make them aware of the significance of leading a life full of hard work, self-reliance and self-esteem. We should always keep in mind that 'Education emancipates.Dr Sunil ChopraLaunch drive against beggingBegging is one of the most serious social issues in the city. In spite of its rapid economic growth, Ludhiana is a poverty-driven cit , which is also leading to the growth of beggars in the state. The police should install boards on every traffic signal and roundabouts to asking residents to discourage begging. The police claim to have started rehabilitation programmes for beggars. The administration should also discourage residents to give alms to beggars by disturbing pamphlets and pasting posters on roadsides. The task, however, is bound to be a challenging one as the cash-strapped city residents are known to be generous with their donations, a trait that the beggars have learnt to exploit. Most beggars are active at the traffic light points, Shri Durga Mata Mandir near Jagraon Bridge, Nav Durga Mandir in Sarabha Sarabha Nagar and Krishna Mandir in Model Town extension, as they know residents visiting religious places are often keen to distribute food. The police should work in close coordination with the civil administration, Municipal Corporation,Health Department, Child Welfare Department and Social Security Department for the success of the drive.UrvashiTrain them to start their own businessBegging is a curse and stigma on the society. The city is facing a very serious problem of beggars as their numbers are increasing day by day. In the past, no beggar was seen at different roundabouts as administration had taken a step to ban the menace. But they came again. To put a curb on the problem, the local administration must construct shelter home for beggars. Those who are well to do must be assigned some minor jobs. There must be a school for their children where they may be educated and guided for avoiding begging. Local administration must appoint some doctors for their medical check-ups. Beggars must be trained to start their own business such as selling fruits and vegetables in local areas. Habit of dignity of labour must be inculcated among them. Beggar must take oath not to beg in future.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiTake help of NGOsBegging as a social problem has existed in our society since the inception of human civilisation and still persist even after our government intended to abolish it by taking a lot of measures and bringing in legislation. The district administration and the police had started "Beggar- free Ludhiana" drive in November 2020 but still we can see beggars on roads in the city. Begging also leads to human trafficking. Citizens should not donate money or food to the beggars on roads. Old people who are forsaken by their wards should be moved to old-age homes. NGOs should come together and work on rehabilitation of such people by providing them some means of work. The government should start its own institutions where widows, orphans and helpless people may find shelter. Further, the government should also pass laws which should make begging by persons below a certain age a crime. Above all, begging can be stopped only combined efforts of police and public.Dr Jasdeep KaurMake them understand value of moneyIn my opinion, beggars are of two types- beggars by choice and beggars by circumstances. The former category is catastrophic as this includes those individuals who are shirkers. They do not want to work. It seems very easy for them to beg. The second category is pathetic. They are beggars due to any physical deformity etc. I will not hesitate to say that the stigma of begging is propagated by us only. Most of us are ready to shed few pennies to support these beggars, thinking little that we are making them dependent upon begging forever. The authorities concerned should arrange some unskilled jobs for these beggars so that they are not a burden on society. We as responsible citizens can give them temporary task of cleaning our car, scooter etc. before giving them free money. They must understand the value of earned money. So, we all must try our level best to control begging by choice and we ought to help the real needy person. More concrete efforts to control begging by the authorities is also the need of the hour.Bir Devinder Singh BediCreate employment opportunitiesBegging is a curse for society. It has been seen that the most of the beggars are capable of doing some manual work but they shun their responsibility and find an easy way to earn money. Government must create some employment opportunities and instead of punishing them, they must provide some sort of work where unskilled labour is required. Some beggars are handicap and government must provide accommodations to them and reasonable tasks which they can perform easily without much efforts. General public should stop giving money to them and if they want to help them, then they should guide and motivate them to do some work instead of begging. Begging should be 100% prohibited because some criminals and culprits take advantage of this situation for conducting robberies.Ritu PriyaOPEN HOUSE COMMENTCreate awareness about govt schemesShivani BhakooBegging is major menace in this Industrial city. At times, beggars become so violent and aggressive that they can even harm a person. The deserving and needy should be helped but not all small children, women and young ones posing to be “helpless” should be given alms.The police and administration have tried so much to curb the social evil but to no avail. The residents giving alms to hale and hearty beggars should be fined and that collected fund should be spent on their rehabilitation.The beggars should be made aware about govt policies/schemes if any and govt should encourage them to work.The government must help them to find suitable work too. Children begging on roads should be motivated to go to school. The administration should reach to their parents and ask them to admit their wards in school.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONDo old persons deserve old-age homes? What should be done by society to make old and helpless wanted and happy? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/formulate-rehabilitation-plan-impart-skill-training-209481
08-02-2021||Ludhiana||Repeal laws, ensure MSP: Rights body||The International Human Rights Organisation (IHRO) has called upon the Centre to repeal the farm laws and bring another legislation to ensure the purchase of all agricultural products at the pre-announced minimum support price (MSP) throughout the country.In a meeting organised jointly with Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Sarabha Nagar here, the IHRO observed that these farm laws were not in line with the Constitution.IHRO chairman DS Gill and general secretary Mohindr Singh Grewal said the meeting also demanded adequate compensation for family members of all those who had lost their lives or those who suffered injuries during this farmers’ agitation. The arrested persons must also be released forthwith unconditionally.“These laws affect not only the farmers, but all sections of society. Therefore, this struggle should not be seen as only for the rights of the farmers but for the welfare of all people,” they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/repeal-laws-ensure-msp-rights-body-209424
08-02-2021||Renu Sud Sinha||The resolute businesswomen of Ludhiana||Rajni Bector was a BA second-year student at Miranda House in New Delhi when she got married in 1957 into a prominent Ludhiana business family. She was yet to turn 18. Born in Karachi in a family of bureaucrats, her role in her new family was well defined — she had no role. Like her mother-in-law, what she was expected to do was to join the ranks of a well-rounded support system. To keep herself busy, she started taking cookery classes, an activity she excelled in and enjoyed. Her mother-in-law could not wrap her head around why a ‘rich Ludhiana wife’ would want to work, so the young daughter-in-law did not touch a rupee of what she earned; all went to charity. Appreciation of her culinary and management skills inspired confidence, and her husband in particular saw business potential in her ‘part-time indulgence’. She had found her role. Today, she is a role model.Founder and chairman of Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities Limited, the Padma Shri bestowed on her this year for contribution to trade and industry comes on the heels of a bumper IPO showing — oversubscribed 198 times; a nearly Rs800-crore empire that started as a backyard business.Mridula Jain, Sandeep (Minnie) Riat, Meenakshi Jasuja, Ruby Marjara and scores of other women entrepreneurs in the city may draw inspiration from the matriarch of Ludhiana Inc, but their stories are no less inspiring, no less revealing of the fact that inheritance or family name counts only if you succeed. And each success story has its own failures and setbacks. For a woman, the odds simply multiply, but through it all, a common thread is the unstinted support of the immediate family — the husbands, the sons and daughters, the siblings, the parents.Rajni Bector can’t thank her husband enough for his unflinching belief in her abilities. Mridula Jain of Shingora Textile Ltd’s initial foray may have been an extension of her husband’s business, but Shingora shawls is her baby alone. Meenakshi Jasuja was a housewife who didn’t want to be known as just “Mrs Jasuja”. She wanted an identity of her own — and one she could be proud of. With initial help from her husband, she started her own label of T-shirts, sweatshirts, etc. nearly a decade ago and now supplies to major chains.Audacity of hopeFor these three ladies, starting their own business was a matter of choice. However, there are those who were compelled by circumstances to take the deep dive. Sandeep (Minnie) Riat’s has been one such gritty story. “I was born with a silver spoon, came on road, but got the silver spoon back by my sheer determination,” says the managing director of Akal Springs, manufacturer of automotive components.A graduate in business management, Minnie was all of 21 when her father died in 2004, leaving her a debt-ridden company, nearly 50 court cases, an army of creditors to wade through and a family to look after. But he also left her a legacy of steely determination and a never-say-die spirit. It took her four years to clear the financial mess through sheer willpower and perhaps a foolhardy courage, as there was no help from any quarter. Her relatives wouldn’t touch her with a bargepole; seven banks had shown her the door, with two of them telling her plainly that they could not risk a loan to a woman.Besides her three siblings, only her father’s old workers stood by her, working with almost no wages initially. Minnie sold off a part of her property to settle her debt, shifted her plant and was finally able to convince one bank for a loan. Today, Tata Motors and Mahindra & Mahindra are among her clients and she exports to almost all major countries, including the US, Canada, Japan, Russia and Australia.From a pariah to an award-winning entrepreneur, her survival-to-success story is being taught as a case study in two business schools. Anyone listening in Bollywood?Ruby Marjara, who has her own knitwear label for women called Waves, is another such destiny’s not-so-favourite child. Daughter of a business family and married into another, for Ruby, a post-graduate in textile design, being financially independent was the core of her being. Work wasn’t just worship, it was passion. Steeped in Ludhiana’s conservative milieu, her new family could not comprehend this fierce necessity to work. However, her resilience and husband’s tacit support saw her through the resistance.In 2000, when the family business hit a rough patch, it was Ruby and her various activities that kept the family afloat. With survival at stake, Ruby took on all sorts of work — from holding lifestyle exhibitions to selling life insurance, no job was too menial for her. In 2004, she launched Waves. In 2010, she started the Yellow Tree, a premium fashion and lifestyle biennial event, something the socialites of the city look forward to. The passionate workaholic acquired Kilol’s franchise in 2018. “From being made to feel guilty for working to being called the pride of the family, perceptions and expectations have surely changed drastically,” says Ruby.What the city offersBut where does the confidence come from? Does Ludhiana have this inbuilt ecosystem of business sustainability, a positive energy that keeps one going? Industrialist SC Ralhan, former president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations, agrees. “The city offers great opportunities.” But does it offer similar chances to women entrepreneurs too? The veteran businessman’s response is pragmatic: “It is surely easier for women from business families than those from non-business background.”Minnie offers a different perspective. According to this hardy, self-made entrepreneur, “The city had never been a hindrance to anyone who wanted to grow wings. Men or women, it offers a level-playing field. If you are willing to work hard, stretch your limits and scale up, then up is the only way to go.”Her super senior in the business world, Mridula Jain concurs. Married at 21, Mridula, a science graduate, had to opt for BEd at her mother’s insistence. Two kids in quick succession limited her options to home coaching for 10 years. But as this daughter and daughter-in-law of a business family says, “Entrepreneurship is part of our culture.” With kids grown up, Mridula wanted to step out of home. A chance remark by her nephew gave her an idea and Shingora shawls was born. From a utility item, Shingora (derived from Hindi word shringar meaning ornament) made shawls a fashion statement. Starting with eight handlooms and eight weavers, the business now employs nearly 1,000 workers. With Shingora growing at a mercurial speed, her husband and sons have joined her.Shawls is not the only thing that Mridula has restructured. She has given shape to the shawl industry in the North. She formed the shawl manufacturers’ association, tied up with Wool and Woollens Export Promotion Council for export of shawls. And when exports grew, necessitating more production, she crusaded for an amendment in law that allowed for import and use of power looms in India. She admits with justified pride, “Much of the amendment had been worded by me.”However, not everything has been hunky dory in the male-dominated business scene of the city. Many women entrepreneurs have faced numerous challenges — condescending behaviour by contemporaries, lack of credibility about deliverance, a sullen, unresponsive male workforce, delayed payments, cheating agents.When Meenakshi started work in 2009, for the initial two years the workers in the workshop made her life miserable — not taking her orders seriously, shoddy workmanship, under-deliverance. Exasperated, she fired the whole lot and started afresh. While things have been better since inside the workshop, unprofessional behaviour, bordering on chauvinism, by field agents in northern states of UP, Haryana, Punjab, even the North-East, has made her resolve to only work with brand stores in the South.This patriarchal mindset may have been a reason why the number of women entrepreneurs has remained miniscule, feels SS Bhogal, a veteran industrialist. There are other factors too. In a city dominated by small and medium enterprises, a lack of technical education and, of course, conservative mentality that women should not be on the forefront may be responsible for these small numbers.Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Ludhiana Knitwear Club, agrees. “There was no appreciation or acceptance of women in the city’s business scenario. But things are changing slowly now.”He is not off the mark. The winds of change can be felt. While this lot of women entrepreneurs may have faced a tough trek, they are making sure their daughters and daughters-in-law, as well as other women, are not left behind. Mrs Bector’s daughters-in-law and granddaughters-in-law are active stakeholders in her business. Both of Mridula’s daughters-in-law are working with her, as is Ruby’s daughter-in-law. Thapar’s own daughter, Sharadha, married into a business family, has turned around a sick cycle unit into a profitable one.Ludhiana Inc has a distinct women link, and they mean business."It is easier for  women from business families to start their own venture than those from a non-business background." — SC Ralhan, former president, the Federation of Indian Export Organisations"There was no appreciation or acceptance of women in the city’s business scenario. But things are changing slowly now." —Vinod Thapar, chairman, Ludhiana Knitwear Club"A patriarchal mindset may have been a reason why the number of women entrepreneurs has remained miniscule." —SS Bhogal, former vice-chairman (northern region), Engineering Export Promotion Council of India||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/the-resolute-businesswomen-of-ludhiana-209024
