09-02-2021||Ludhiana||Ayurvedic therapy of diabetes||91 screened at free knee & hip joints problem campAs many as 91 patients were screened in a free knee and hip joints problems camp at Ivy Hospital, Khanna, on Sunday. In camp, a hospital team led by Dr Manuj Wadhwa, Chairman & Executive Director, Elite Institutes of Orthopaedics and Joint Replacement examined the patients. In camp, besides free physiotherapy consultations, BMD tests were also done free of cost. During the occasion, Dr Manuj also addressed an information session on natural knee resurfacing ( NKR) which is a latest technology in knee surgeries. He said NKR is an active knee solution created for arthritis patients seeking options beyond traditional total knee replacement. The advanced technology aims to provide more normal motion and higher performance through natural preservation of bone and soft tissues. This is stitchless surgery where resurfacing of bone is done in less than 15 minutes and the patients are walking within 3-hr of surgery. This is painless surgery where the patient can walk, squat and sit cross-legged like a natural original joint, he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ayurvedic-therapy-of-diabetes-209752
09-02-2021||---||Varsity holds Hostel Premier League||Ludhiana, February 8CT University conducted a flagship series of events under ‘Hostel Premier League’ (HPL) - Season 1, which was launched by CTU Chancellor Charanjit Singh Channi. The one week programme comprised of ‘Anatakshari’, board games such as ludo, carrom, chess; sports activities such as basketball, badminton and football and also a fashion show. The winning teams were: Team Desert in Cricket (boys), Team Neon (girls); for student fashion show Umar Farooq from School of Healthcare Sciences and Paramedical Sciences bagged the title of ‘Mr Charming’ and ‘Ms Charming’ title went to Deliwe from School of Healthcare and Paramedical Sciences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/varsity-holds-hostel-premier-league-209755
09-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Kamaljeet Singh secures AIR 169||Doraha, February 8Kamaljeet Singh, an alumnus of Guru Nanak National College, here, and an assistant professor in the college, has cracked the CSIR NET and the JRF by securing All India Rank 169.CSIR NET is a national-level exam conducted to find candidates eligible for the post of assistant professor or Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) and both. The exam is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) twice a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kamaljeet-singh-secures-air-169-209756
09-02-2021||---||Training on beekeeping for officials, scientists||Ludhiana, February 8A five-day online advance training course in Beekeeping was organised by the Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) for the in-service candidates under the guidance of Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, Director of Extension Education.A total of 37 agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation officers; scientists from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras attended the course.Dr Tejinder Singh Riar, Associate Director (Skill Development), informed that the course was designed in collaboration with the Department of Entomology under National Horticulture Mission to enhance the knowledge and skills of the officers in apiculture.Dr Kiran Grover, Principal Extension Scientist (Food and Nutrition) and Course Coordinator, said the training was planned in view of the importance of honey bees for sustainable agriculture and entrepreneurship development.Dr Pardeep Kumar Chhuneja, Professor and Head, and Dr Jaspal Singh, Principal Entomologist, were the training coordinators.Dr Jaspal Singh briefed the importance and scope of beekeeping in sustainable agriculture. He also discussed the bee floral resources in Punjab and prospects of migration of honey bee colonies to adjoining states along with management of honey bee colonies for crop pollination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-on-beekeeping-for-officials-scientists-209753
09-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Labour unions demand release of arrested activists||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 8Demanding release of arrested farmers and activists, including Nodeep Kaur, numbers of labour organisations in the city have come forward seeking justice for them.Members of Karkhana Mazdoor Union, Punjab Textile Hosiery Kamgar Union, Naujwan Bharat Sabha, various farmers and others organisations have demanded immediate release of the labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, who was arrested on January 12 by Haryana Police near Singhu Border. They also demanded that all arrested/detained farmers, supporters and activists, who were participating in Kisan Andolan, should be freed.Rajwinder Singh, of Textile Hosiery Kamgar Union, said, “Nodeep Kaur had been actively mobilising support in the ongoing struggle against farm laws on the Delhi border but she was sent to jail by Haryana Police after levelling false charges. We strongly condemn the arrest of Nodeep Kaur. She should be released immediately.”He further said, “A numbers of farmers and activists, who were participating in the ongoing Kisan Andolan were arrested. All charges against them should be dropped and they should be released immediately.”Lakhwinder, of Karkhana Mazdoor Union, said, “The police have arrested Nodeep Kaur on false charges. She should be released at the earliest. New farm laws are not only against the farmers but also against the labourers and common people. All those who have been arrested for opposing the farm laws should be released. The voice of people should not be suppressed.”Meanwhile, the people are raising demand on social media for release of arrested activists, farmers and others, who were participating in the ongoing agitation against the farm laws. They are using hashtags like “#ReleaseDetainedFarmers, #ReleaseRanjitSingh #SpeakUpForNodeep, #ReleaseNodeepKaur and others”on Twitter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/labour-unions-demand-release-of-arrested-activists-209751
09-02-2021||Ludhiana||Killed in Kabul blast, Ludhiana man leaves behind son he never saw||“We were planning to celebrate our first wedding anniversary, but fate had something else in store for us. We are shattered,” says an inconsolable Shivani.A resident of Mundian Kalan village in Ludhiana, Shivani lost her husband Sunny Singh (27) in a blast that took place in Kabul on Saturday. “He was excited to see our newborn for the first time. Before coming home, he wanted to earn some more money,” says Shivani.She married Sunny, a small-time general merchant in Afghanistan, last February and gave birth to a boy in October.Sunny had left for Afghanistan in August. Two other Afghan Sikhs — Sher Singh and Chucha Singh — sustained serious injuries in the attack that killed Sunny.“I had lost my father when I was six months old and my son has been left without his father when he is merely three months old,” Shivani said.Shivani has not eaten since she heard the tragic news.Repenting the day Sunny decided to go to Kabul for greener pastures, Shivani says, “We have lost everything. What will money do when we don't have him?”The deceased was working hard to earn money, so that he could build a house in his village.“I could not even see his face for the last time or attend his last rites,” rues Shivani, who watched Sunny's final journey over a video call by her in-laws, who were staying with him in Kabul. Besides her own fate, she is worried about the health of her toddler as well, who has been undergoing treatment for a heart ailment since birth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/killed-in-kabul-blast-ludhiana-man-leaves-behind-son-he-never-saw-209851
09-02-2021||---||Goat farming a lucrative venture: Experts||Ludhiana, February 8The Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Extension Education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, organised one-week training programme on goat farming for the empowerment, self-employment and uplifting youth.Dr Rajesh Kasrija and Dr Ravdeep Singh, training coordinators said that a total of 10 trainees from Punjab had participated in this training programme.Nowadays, goat farming is coming up as an emerging enterprise and people from different sections of society are taking it as an enterprise. The department has already completed three goat training programmes this year and planning to conduct more in the future.These types of training programmes help in overall grooming of the participants and makes them more knowledgeable and aware about the scientific livestock rearing practices. The training programme has covered both theoretical and practical aspects of the goat farming like breeds, breeding, management, shed design, weather management, vaccination protocols, diseases and their prevention, value addition of meat, milk, economics of goat farming etc. as theoretical lectures and practical training on handling of goats, measuring temperature, signs of healthy animals, age determination by seeing dentition and hoof management.Dr Parkash Singh Brar, Director Extension Education informed the farmers about the current scenario and demand of goat farming in the future. He further emphasised on value addition of goat products (milk and meat) that can enhance farmer’s income and helps in economic and nutritional security of farmer.Dr Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Head, Department of Veterinary Extension Education said that Veterinary University is diffusing and disseminating knowledge on Goat farming in the form of printed book and through ICT media (a mobile app), which can be downloaded from Google Play store.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/goat-farming-a-lucrative-venture-experts-209754
09-02-2021||Lovleen Bains||14 Independent candidates in fray in Doraha||Doraha, February 8Of the 59 candidates contesting for the 15 wards of the Municipal Council, Doraha, 15 belong to Congress, 15 to AAP, 11 are of SAD and 4 of BJP. A total of 14 candidates are contesting independently.A total of five candidates are contesting from Ward Number 1 which is reserved for SC (women). Candidates in fray include Ajit Kaur (SAD), Sheela Rani (Congress), Paramjit Kaur (AAP). Neetu and Pooja are contesting independently.Similarly, in Ward Number 2, which is an SC reserved ward, a total of six candidates are in contest. Rajinder Singh (SAD), Navjit Singh (Congress) and Boota Singh (AAP). Rajesh Kumar, Rocky, and Harjit Kaur are contesting independently from the ward.n In Ward Number 3, general (Women) reserved ward, Sukhwinder Kaur (AAP), Sonia from (BJP), Kiranjeet Kaur Mangat (Congress) and Pankaj Gautam is contesting as an independent candidate.nFrom Ward Number 4 (General), Abhay Pal Bector is contesting as an independent candidate, Sanjeev Kumar from AAP, Sandeep Kumar from BJP and Sudarshan Kumar Sharma from INC.nFrom Ward Number 5 General (Women) Reserved, Savita Sharma is fighting the elections independently, Gurdeep Kaur (AAP) and Pardeep Kaur Jhajj from Congress.nFrom Ward Number-6, which is BC reserved 3 candidates are contesting the elections. Davinder Singh is the AAP candidate while Navjot Singh Babbar is contesting from SAD and Rajinder Singh is from Congress.nFrom Ward Number-7 is reserved for women and 4 women candidates are contesting from this place. Sarvjeet kaur and Sukhdeep Kaur are contesting independently while Paramjit Kaur (AAP) party candidate and Priya Sharma is from the Congress.nFrom Ward Number 8, a general ward, Kawardeep Singh Jaggi is fighting as SAD candidate, Kulwant Singh as Congress candidate, Amarpartap Singh as BJP candidate and Gurcharan Singh Kala as a candidate of AAP party.nFrom ward number -9, an SC (women) reserved ward, Simarpal Kaur is SAD candidate, Jaswant kaur is AAP party candidate and Baljit Kaur is from the Congress.nFrom Ward Number -10 General, Sukhwinder Singh Nona is contesting as AAP party candidate, Kaka Bajwa as independent, Chandan preet Singh as SAD candidate and Rajveer Singh as Congress candidate.nFrom Ward Number-11(SC reserved) Harnek Singh is SAD candidate, Harbhajan Singh Congress and Ravinder Singh is AAP candidate.nFrom Ward Number-12 (general ward) Karamveer Singh (AAP), Manveer Singh (SAD) and Ranjeet Singh (Congress).nFrom Ward Number -13(General) Jaspreet Kaur (SAD), Dalwinder Kaur (AAP), Nanda Sood (BJP) and Neeraj Sharma ( Congress).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/14-independent-candidates-in-fray-in-doraha-209757
09-02-2021||---||Industry up in arms against PSPCL on hike in charges||Ludhiana, February 8Industrialists here have lambasted Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for proposing an approximately 8 per cent increase in the rate of power.As the regulatory committee of the PSPCL had asked for suggestions and objections for the hike, the already crippled industry due to Covid has condemned the proposal of the PSPCL.Levelling allegations against the PSPCL, its officials and staff, Jaswinder Singh Thukral, president, Janta Nagar Small Scale Industries, said, “We are surprised that even after levying heavy power rates, taxes, penalties etc, the PSPCL still remains in losses. Many employees in the department are so corrupt that without greasing their palms, industry cannot get its works done. We are paying them huge amounts, officially and unofficially, still they always propose to hike the power rates. If these are the circumstances, the government should shift power to private players.”Industrialists rued that they were already paying hefty power bills to the PSPCL compared to other states where electricity is given at much cheaper prices. The power users had to pay the fixed charges too during the lockdown phase, although the Chief Minister had announced that these would be waived off. The state claims to be providing “cheap” power at the rate of Rs 5 per unit, but the industry is already paying anything between Rs 10-12 per unit and still it wants an increase.All Industries Trade Form president Badish Jindal said the election promise (in manifesto of providing power at Rs 5 per unit) was not fulfilled by the ruling party in the state. Instead of making adjustments in subsidy bills, the government was putting burden in the form of fixed charges, said Jindal.Thukral said the PSPCL takes the bills in advance from power users, huge penalties are levied if bills are not deposited on time and the connections are cut. Even after imposing strictness at this level, the PSPCL was in losses. The government should give a serious thought to this, he added.Industrialists allege corruptionLevelling allegations against the PSPCL, its officials and staff, Jaswinder Singh Thukral, president, Janta Nagar Small Scale Industries, said, “We are surprised that even after levying heavy power rates, taxes, penalties etc, the PSPCL still remains in losses. Many employees in the department are corrupt. We are paying them huge amounts, officially and unofficially. If these are the circumstances, the government should shift power to private players.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industry-up-in-arms-against-pspcl-on-hike-in-charges-209758
09-02-2021||Manav Mander||Resume offline classes, demand PAU students||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 8Though the state government had asked universities to re-open, Punjab Agricultural University was yet to take any decision on it. However, final year students of the undergraduate classes want their classes to go offline.A studentWe only want that at least classes for the students of final semester will be held in person and their exams, especially practical, should be taken offline.Postgraduate and Phd students are already attending the classes physically but according to the sources university has decided to continue with the online classes for the undergraduate students as providing hostel facility for everyone will provide little difficult amidst pandemic when social distancing had to be maintained.The final year students on the other hand have their own plea and want the studies to go online as it is their last semester.A final year student of agriculture, on the condition of anonymity, said they have received message from the university that their classes will be held online only.“We only want that at least classes for the students of final semester should be held in person and their exams, especially practical, should be taken offline. This is our last opportunity to improve our grades as it is our last semester,” he said.Another student said the university has their own plea for not conducting offline exams as arrangements cannot be made for hostellers. “Due to Covid, rooms cannot be shared and it will become difficult if all the classes are called. We want only final year students should be called for offline classes or at least practicals should be taken in person,” she said.Despite repeated attempts Registrar Dr Rajinder Singh Sidhu could not be contacted for attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/resume-offline-classes-demand-pau-students-209759
09-02-2021||---||Three men attacked over old rivalry||Ludhiana, February 8A group of around five persons allegedly attacked three car-borne men near the Issa Nagri puli in Ludhiana on Monday afternoon. The police claimed that old rivalry was the reason behind the incident. Both groups allegedly pelted stones and bottles at each other.According to information, Pargat Singh and his friend Indermohan Singh received injuries in the attack. In his complaint to the police, Pargat alleged that he, along with his friends, was returning from a local court today, when the accused attacked them near Issa Nagri puli. It is learned that Pargat and Indermohan entered a liquor vend to protect themselves from the attackers. Meanwhile, the assailants allegedly pelted stones at Pargat and his friends and, in reply, they threw liquor bottles at them.SHO of the Division Number 3 police station Jarnail Singh said both parties had some old rivalry. The accused had been identified and an FIR would be registered against them as per the statement given by the victims, Pargat and Indermohan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-men-attacked-over-old-rivalry-209760
09-02-2021||Ludhiana||Violation: Eatery owner booked||Two-wheeler, cash stolenLudhiana: The police have booked unidentified persons for stealing a two-wheeler and cash from a house at Bank Colony here. In his complaint, Yogesh said he and his family had gone to Zirakpur, near Chandigarh, to attend a function on February 5. When they returned home the next morning, they came to know about the theft. He alleged that somebody broke open the door and stole Rs 1,500 in cash. The accused also took away a two-wheeler from the house. A case under Sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Haibowal police station. TNSCM mourns sr lawyer’s deathLudhiana: Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has mourned the demise of former member of the Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee Ramesh Chand Lakhanpal (76), who passed away following a cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Ludhiana. In his condolence message, the Chief Minister said the outstanding services of Lakhanpal as a senior advocate in the legal cell of the Congress party would be remembered by its rank and file. OCAwareness campLudhiana: On 23th day of Road Safety Month, the Ludhiana traffic police organised a seminar with drivers and attendants of school buses at DAV Police Public School Police Line Ludhiana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/violation-eatery-owner-booked-209761
09-02-2021||---||5 teachers among 29 test positive; elderly man dies in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 8Twentynine more persons have tested positive for Covid today that included five teachers from Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, while one person lost his life to the virus.The sampling of teachers and students was done. A total of 250 samples were collected from the school. “Today, 250 samples of teachers and students were collected. Samples of students are collected from those schools from where teachers test positive. Samples of students were collected after taking parents’ consent,” said Dr Ramesh, District Epidemologist.Four healthcare workers have also tested positive today.The person who lost his life today was a 65-year-old man, a resident of MIG flats. He was admitted to the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). He was also suffering from diabetes and chronic kidney disease.Total positive cases in the district have reached 26,092 while 1,007 have lost their life so far.Now, there are 337 active cases and 55 persons were home quarantined today. Till now, 6,16,835 samples have been collected and reports of 1,650 are awaited.Today, the staff of the District Public Relations Office got vaccinated.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the vaccine had been launched after carrying out several trials and there was no need to panic.He said people should understand that if doctors and healthcare workers have themselves volunteered for the first phase, it clearly shows that they had full faith in the vaccine. He said getting the vaccination done was purely voluntary, but appealed that everyone should get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-teachers-among-29-test-positive-elderly-man-dies-in-ludhiana-209744
09-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Norms of apartment, property regulation Act diluted in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 8The lack of coordination, misinterpretation of laws, coupled with vested interests of certain employees and officials of various government departments, have created a situation in which the process of regularisation of illegal and unlicensed colonies in the state has been reduced to a mockery.A city-based developer‘Proofs ignored’The sub-registrar version is being treated as a gospel truth and all other proofs like Google images, field reports, jamabandis and girdwaris are being given a go-by, leading to the proliferation of more and more illegal colonies in almost every city and town in Punjab.The government, either deliberately or through oversight, has of its own accord negated the efforts being made towards planned and systematic growth in urban areas through successive policies for the regularisation of illegal colonies. Almost absolute immunity has been granted to developers from all types of criminal action if full charges (towards composition fee, license fee, development charges) have been deposited without taking the status of the application for regularisation into consideration.Sources in the Housing and Urban Development Department, Punjab, said a clarification issued by the department on January 18, 2021, after a meeting of the minister concerned with the stake-holders had directed the area development authorities to take a lenient view of the pending cases for the regularisation of colonies if all charges for this purpose were paid by applicants.“Through a single stroke the government has diluted the provisions of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA), which provided for criminal cases against violators,” said the sources.In the clarification letter of January 18, 2021, the government had further directed the area development authorities to ensure the compliance of provisions made in the (now lapsed) regularisation policy which required that khasra location with superimposed internal layout plan submitted by the developer would be marked on the Googlc map of the date closest to the date of application and verified by the STP concerned for conformity to the master plan.The government had also stated that all pages of the sale agreements (front and back) should be submitted with the authority which would enter stamp paper numbers, details of developer and buyers and further check that there was no duplicity in stamp paper numbers.“However, the sub-registrar version is being treated as a gospel truth and all other proofs like Google images, field reports, jamabandis and girdwaris are being given a go-by, leading to the proliferation of more and more illegal colonies in almost every city and town in Punjab,” claimed a city-based developer choosing not to be named.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/norms-of-apartment-property-regulation-act-diluted-in-ludhiana-209745
09-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Mid-day meal workers rue low salaries||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 8Mid-day meal workers, who prepare food for hundreds of students of government schools on a daily basis, maintain that as compared to other employees, they get meagre salaries due to which they do not feel satisfied.One of the primary objectives of the mid-day meal scheme is to enhance children’s nutritional profile, thus having a positive impact on their health as well as learning outcome. The state government has hired cooks and helpers for preparing mid-day meal to provide food to students up to Class VIII. At the same time, cooks and workers feel that they were paid meagre salaries of Rs 1,700 a month.Motiya Devi, a mid-day meal preparing worker at Shaheed-E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Senior Secondary School, said in a year, they were not provided salaries for two months — June and December — due to vacations.“When all other workers are given pay throughout the year, why we are not paid for two months? Moreover, Rs 1,700 is too less to run our households but since our family members are not willing to send us anywhere else we have to continue the job. We prepare food for about 150-250 children every day. If not much, at least a reasonable salary should be given to us,” said Motiya Devi.Another worker at Government Primary School said: ”Domestic helpers and cooks get around Rs 8,000 salary or even more. The government must think about our meagre salaries.”The workers said though wheat and rice were sent on time to schools but for other items, including spices and vegetables, grants were sent later and schools had to manage everything on their own. The workers have requested the government to provide funds on a timely basis for the smooth functioning of the mid-day meal scheme.The state government started providing cooked meal to all students of primary classes in government schools from September 2004.Cooks, helpers getting Rs 1,700 per monthThe state government has hired cooks and helpers for preparing mid-day meal to provide food to students up to Class VIII in government schools. At the same time, cooks and workers feel that they were paid meagre salaries of Rs1,700 a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mid-day-meal-workers-rue-low-salaries-209747
09-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana residents take out peace march in farmers’ support||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 8Coming in support of farmers protesting against the three farm Acts, a number of residents of the city took out a foot march giving a message of communal harmony. People from different faiths participated in the march that was started from Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Sarabha Nagar here and ended at a temple in the area.The march also passed in front of a church while members of the Muslim community organised a ‘langar’ for participants on the way. The residents carried placards displaying slogans such as ‘Main kisan di beti, kisan de naal’ (I am daughter of farmer, I am with farmer), ‘Sada kisan sada maan’ (our farmer our pride), ‘I am farmer’ and ‘Jai Kisan, Jai Hindustan’, which attracted many during the peaceful march.The participants slammed the “divisive politics” and also those who are spreading misinformation and hatred in the country. They announced that they strongly stand with farmers and also made an appeal to countrymen to stay united always.Shivam Arora (26), one of the participants, said: “We are giving a message that we all are united and supporting the farmers. We are against the ‘divide and rule’ policy. We started our march in favour of the farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. We started the march from Gurdwara Sahib and then passed from outside a church in Sarabha Nagar. The pastor of the church was present outside it when the march passed through the place.”“Later, we passed through various areas and reached Chhoti Market of Sarabha Nagar where members of the Muslim community organised a ‘langar’ for us. They also participated in the march. We ended the march at Durga Mata Mandir. Our message was clear that we all are united in supporting the farmers. We are following footsteps of Shaheed Bhagat Singh who gave a message of humanity,” he said.Another resident Kakul Gill, who was one of the organisers, raised the voice in support of the farmers. During the march, the participants demanded that the Central Government should meet demands of the farmers at the earliest.Preet Dhanoa, a city resident, said: “Residents of the city are with the protesting farmers. The ongoing struggle of the farmers should not be linked with any religion. People from all religions came forward to support the farmers today. We all are with our farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-take-out-peace-march-in-farmers-support-209748
09-02-2021||---||Civic body takes legal advice on garbage-lifting issue||Ludhiana, February 8After a third party private firm had sought increased rates for lifting garbage in the city, the civic body officials here today conducted a meeting with the legal adviser to find a solution to the matter.When the A2Z group left services recently, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had asked this private firm, which was earlier also hired by the A2Z group, for continuing garbage lifting service in the city.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the private firm was demanding increased rates for garbage lifting now, but the legal adviser had said that the MC could not pay the increased rate to the firm.It is learnt that the third party firm had demanded that the MC should pay Rs 366 per ton as tipping fee for lifting garbage in the city, but the MC was paying Rs 325 to the A2Z group. The Mayor said the excess payment could not be made to this firm.“We have asked the legal adviser to find a solution to this issue. Fresh tenders will be floated soon to hire a new firm. However, we need to resolve the matter till a new firm is hired. At present, lifting is being done properly,” he said.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur and other officials attended the meeting today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-takes-legal-advice-on-garbage-lifting-issue-209749
09-02-2021||Ludhiana||Policeman booked in Ludhiana||Almost a year after a fire had broken out in a tent outside a room where electronic voting machines (EVMs) had been kept at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), a head constable has been booked by the police as the rifle and bullets that had been issued to him were gutted in the incident.Fire incidentThe head constable had been deployed for the security of the EVMs at the PAU.When the fire broke out in the tent late on the night of February 19, 2020, the constable’s rifle and bullets also got burnt.Now, an FIR has been lodged against the constable, identified as Dharmpal.ASI Gian Singh said the head constable and ASI Gurbaksh Singh had been deployed for the security of the EVMs. They were staying in the tent outside the room where the EVMs had been kept. According to the police, the tent had caught fire when a storm hit the city that night. An SLR rifle, 25 bullets and some articles, including beds and a pedestal fan, were burnt in the incident. A committee had been formed to investigate the matter.ASI Gian Singh said the rifle and bullets had been issued to the head constable, but he had not handed over these to the official concerned before going home. Meanwhile, the tent had caught fire due to which the rifle and bullets were burnt, he said.Following the committee’s report, a case under Section 30 (contravention of licence or rule) of the Arms Act at the PAU police station was registered against the head constable. The police added that he would be arrested soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/policeman-booked-in-ludhiana-209750
