10-02-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Suspended sanitation worker brings mothers’ body to MC office||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 9 Suraj (26), a suspended sanitation worker of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, had been running from pillar to post to get his job resumed for the past over one year. After his mother passed away last night, he brought her body to the MC’s Zone D office at Sarabha Nagar this morning to raise his voice as his job was not being resumed so far. He said: “My mother was suffering from health issues. Somebody had told her that the MC is going to dismiss me. She was worried and in a shock after hearing about the same. She suffered a heart attack last night. I got a regular job in 2014 on compassionate grounds after the death of my father, who was an employee of the MC.” Suraj said: “I had not gone to the office for some days in the past. At that time, I could not send my leave application as my mother was ill. I was marked absent in the MC records. I had been making rounds to the MC’s office for the past one-and-a-half year but my job was not being resumed. Two clerks of the civic body were delaying the matter.” He said: “Documents which I had submitted to the civic body in support of resumption of my job were removed from the file. The clerks added documents in it that were against me. One of the clerks was demanding a bribe of Rs 80,000 to clear  my file but I was unable to pay the same. My mother used to ask me about my job but now, I have lost her. She wanted to see me get back to work. Earlier, my grandmother had passed away.” Chaudhary Yashpal, a councillor, said: “Suraj was marked absent from duty. He had been making rounds of the civic body office for a long time but his voice was ignored. His mother was depressed and she died last night. Suraj was not getting salary due to which it was difficult for him to arrange money for her treatment also.” Yashpal said: “We met the MC Commissioner who assured that his job will be resumed. We also demand that legal action should be taken against erring employees who delayed the matter.” MC’s Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh said: “It came to light that Suraj was absent from duty and after that he was suspended by the health branch. However, he had filed an application, requesting to resume his job but the decision on his application was yet to be taken. It is not in my notice if he has complained about any clerk demanding bribe from him. However, we are looking into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/suspended-sanitation-worker-brings-mothers-body-to-mc-office-210310
10-02-2021||Manav Mander---||Newly constructed washrooms lying closed at Civil Hospital||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 9 Newly constructed washrooms at the Civil Hospital are lying locked, giving a tough time to both patients and attendants. Located on the Mother and Child Hospital premises inside the Civil Hospital near the canteen, these are lying closed since the time they were constructed. One of the water outlet pipes of the washroom is burnt. It was learnt that one day when garbage was set afire, the pipe also got burnt with it accidentally and now, whenever the washrooms will be opened and during rain, there will be problems related to drainage of water. “Finding a bathroom at the hospital is a task in itself. Sometimes the washrooms inside OPDs are closed and I have never seen these newly constructed bathrooms opened. I fail to understand what was the need of constructing the same, if these were not to be opened,” said a patient at the hospital. Locked bathrooms are not a new thing at the hospital. Patients generally complain about locked bathrooms and even those at the OPD are also locked sometimes and the one for physically challenged persons is also usually found closed. Senior Medical Officer Malwinder Mala said there was a problem of drainage of water on the Mother and Hospital premises due to which they were not opening the washrooms as of now. “We are in the process of solving the issue on a permanent basis and have also written to the higher authorities in this regard. The sewerage is being cleaned from time to time but it needs a permanent solution. Once the problem is fixed, the washrooms will be opened as opening them now will only create problems,” Dr Mala said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/newly-constructed-washrooms-lying-closed-at-civil-hospital-210311
10-02-2021||---||On BJP’s questions, Mayor claims all is well||Ludhiana, February 9When the BJP leaders here are raising questions over the garbage-lifting process after A2Z Company left its services, Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu assured the residents that all was well in terms of the lifting of garbage and management of solid waste in all areas falling under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation.The Mayor said ever since the contract of A2Z Company, which was earlier involved in the solid waste management of the city, was terminated, all senior MC officials had been in the field and looking after the solid waste management so that people did not suffer.Accompanied by MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and other senior officials, Sandhu today took a round of several areas of the city and supervised the ongoing lifting of garbage from the secondary collection points.In a press statement, Sandhu said even the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had given the instructions to make the audit of the legacy waste that they had created and make the recoveries from them to remediate that legacy waste. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), too, at various occasions, had passed strictures against A2Z for not complying with the solid waste management rules of 2016. The Municipal Corporation Ludhiana (MCL) too had been regularly issuing them notices for such non-compliance.He said since A2Z Company, which was given a contract for solid waste management by the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janta Party combine in the year 2011, was not working as per the agreed agreement, their contract was terminated in the interest of the residents. He said that the bank guarantee of A2Z Company would also be forfeited by the MC.He said fresh tenders for the solid waste management of Ludhiana would also be floated shortly and assured the residents that the new company would be hired in a transparent manner.BJP Ludhiana president Pushpinder Singhal, along with other party leaders, held a press conference, raising questions over the role of Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for allegedly not taking timely measures to find a solution related to garbage lifting in the city after the A2Z group had issued termination notice.The BJP leader alleged that garbage was not being lifted from some locations in the city.Singhal said when the A2Z group had served termination notice of 45 days in December 2020, why required steps were not taken?Pushpinder Singhal further said that if the A2Z group was not lifting the waste properly, why the Municipal Corporation authorities had earlier not taken any action against the company?“The Mayor should have taken timely steps to call an immediate House meeting and taken suggestions of the councillors to find a solution when the company had issued notice to quit service,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/on-bjps-questions-mayor-claims-all-is-well-210312
10-02-2021||---||Now, Congress leader opposes sealing drive||Ludhiana, February 9A Congress leader, Kamaljeet Singh Karwal, has opposed the Municipal Corporation’s sealing drive over the recovery of the change of land use (CLU) fee from shopkeepers.The civic body is sending notices to shopkeepers for the recovery of the CLU fee from them. Karwal, along with some Congress councillors and shopkeepers, met MC Commissioner and Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu over the issue.Kamaljit Singh Karwal said if any shop was sealed, they would strongly oppose the MC officials and stage protests. He said, “The MC employees used rough language when notices were served to the shopkeepers over the recovery of the CLU fee. Even the closed shops were being sealed.”He said, “Amid the Covid pandemic, the shopkeepers are already facing financial problems. We wanted the MC to delay the process for the recovery of the CLU fee from the shopkeepers for at least one year. Moreover, we wanted the MC to give option to the shopkeepers to deposit the CLU fee in instalments.”“We met MC Commissioner today, but he did not give any satisfactory response. If any shop is sealed, we will oppose the officials concerned of the Municipal Corporationand sit on dharna,” he said. Karwal later met Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu regarding the issue.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said they were hearing the voice of all and every work was being done as per the law. If anyone had any issue, it would be resolved, he added. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the MC’s drive for the recovery of the CLU charges would continue.The Congress leader Gurpreet Gogi had earlier also opposed the Municipal Corporation’s sealing drive over the recovery of the change of land usefee in the Ghumar Mandi area. However, the civic body had then continued its drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-congress-leader-opposes-sealing-drive-210313
10-02-2021||Sports Correspondent||Surinder, Arshpreet, Arman shine||Ludhiana, February 9Surinder Kaur and Vishavpartap Singh were declared the best athletes among girls and boys in the U19 category in the 43rd annual athletics meet of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Park, here today.In the U14 section, Arshpreet Kaur was named the best athlete in the girls’ group and Armandeep Singh was adjudged the best athlete among boys.In the U17 group, Arman Gill and Gursewak Singh were declared the best athletes in the girls’ and boys’ sections, respectively.A large number of students representing four houses, Sahibzada Zorawar Singh, Sahibzada Fateh Singh, Sahibzada Ajit Singh and Sahibzada Jujhar Singh, took part in different track and field events in the one-day meet.Dr Sehajpal Singh, principal, Guru Nanak Polytechnic College, Ludhiana, was the chief guest at the inaugural function. Principal of the school Harmeet Kaur Waraich administered oath to the participants to play in true sportsmanship.Addressing the students, teachers and staff, the chief guest said sports was must to keep the body healthy and fit. The principal said sports were integral part of a student’s life and in the current academic session, budding players could not get an opportunity to showcase their talent due to the Covid-19. She expressed hope that the sportspersons would achieve new heights in upcoming competitions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/surinder-arshpreet-arman-shine-210314
10-02-2021||Ludhiana||‘Act against cops for manhandling health workers’||Doctors have condemned an incident occurred on January 26 when medical teams who had gone to provide medical aid to people during the Tractor March were manhandled and some of the health workers were beaten by the police in Delhi.A press meet was held in this regard by members of the Indian Doctors for Peace and Development.Addressing mediapersons, Dr Arun Mitra said since the start of the farmers’ protest, doctors had been regularly going to various borders of Delhi to provide medical aid to the protesters as no medical assistance was available for them.“On January 26, it was decided by the doctors to take out a march in ambulances as part of the tractor march so that immediate first aid can be provided to the protesters during any emergency,” he said.He said unfortunately, one of the medical teams was attacked and doctors were beaten up. Police personnel manhandled the doctors’ team.“We demand that an FIR should be registered against the guilty,” Dr Mitra said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/act-against-cops-for-manhandling-health-workers-210315
10-02-2021||Lovleen Bains---||Uttarakhand tragedy: Residents pray for well-being of kin||Doraha, February 9 Four persons, three of them married, of Purba village in Samrala, working at the NTPC’s under-construction project on Dhauli Ganga river near Tapovan are missing ever since the portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday. While two out of the total six have been traced, four are still reported to be missing. They have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, son of Ram Asra, Sukhwinder Singh, son of Jawala Singh, Kewal Singh and Kulvir Singh. Kewal Singh (42) is the only breadwinner for his family. His two daughters and a son are all too small to manage on their own. Similarly, Sukhwinder Singh, son of Ram Asra (42), whose parents are no more, has only his wife and three children left behind. Another Sukwinder Singh’s (30) only son became bed-ridden as he fell from the terrace six months ago. The fourth one Kulvir Singh (26) is unmarried. Kulwinder Kaur, wife of the missing Sukhwinder Singh, uttered in a feeble voice, “Our only son fell from terrace six months ago and is on the bed ever since. My husband is the only one to fetch for us. All our savings have been exhausted on the treatment of our son. Now, we are left with simply nothing. The tragedy that occurred on Sunday has shattered us completely. My husband is still untraced. I and my son are praying day in and day out for his safe return.” Kewal, who has his wife and three children left behind, too is shattered. “My father was the only one who earned for us. Our father has still not been traced. We are spending sleepless nights. We earnestly urge upon the administration to trace them at the earliest,” uttered the wailing daughter of Kewal. With a marriageable son and daughters at home, Sukhwinder’s wife too is completely heartbroken. “We are glued to TV screens. The almighty cannot be so cruel to us. He will sure bring my father home, safe and sound,” said the hopeful son of Sukhwinder. Chairman, Block Samiti, Samrala, Ajmer Singh, who is a resident of Purba village, said most of the villagers of Purba were hired by contractors for the construction of dams in Rajasthan, Bhutan, Chennai, Uttarakhand, etc. “A total of 6 residents of village Purba had gone to work at NTPC’s under-construction project out of which four are still missing. All the four are the only bread winners in their families. We have asked the government to act fast on this issue.” MLA Samrala Amrik Singh Dhillon assured every possible support from the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/uttarakhand-tragedy-residents-pray-for-well-being-of-kin-210317
10-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Work begins on basic infra||Ludhiana, February 9 Frequent statements of political leaders of all hues on the commencement of domestic and international flight from the civil terminals of the Halwara airport in the near future could not be taken at face value, as of now work has been taken in hand only for providing basic infrastructure like boundary wall and approach road which have been entrusted to the Punjab Mandi Board and the Public Works Department (PWD), respectively, by the government. The construction of the terminals thereafter to make the airport operational would take quite some time, claimed sources. If the pace of the ongoing work is any indication, the boundary wall would be completed in the next about four months, while the construction of the approach road was scheduled to be finished by October 2021. Only after these basic infrastructure development works were completed by the agencies of the state government, the joint venture company (JVC), comprising the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), would take up the work for the preparation of the designs of the domestic and international terminals. On behalf of the Punjab Government, GLADA had already acquired 161.270 acres for the proposed international air terminal in Aitiana village and the payment of around Rs 15.72 crore has already been made to the land owners. GLADA Additional Chief Administrator Bhupinder Singh confirmed that the land had been handed over to the AAI and as of now, GLADA had no further role to play in the development of the airport and the construction of terminals which had been assigned to the JVC. Airport director SK Sharan, representing the AAI, said the PWD would also construct a temporary terminal at the site which would be later used as a cargo terminal when the airport became operational. The construction of apron, and both domestic and international terminals would be thereafter undertaken by the JVC. He said it would be premature to give any timeframe for the airport to become operational and the commencement of flights. “The construction of apron and terminal are civil works and it depended on the speed of the execution of these works. Once the designs (of terminals) are finalised and works awarded to construction agencies, only then it would be appropriate to estimate the completion of the construction work and the commencement of flights from this airport,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-begins-on-basic-infra-210318
10-02-2021||---||No fatality; 27 fresh cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 9 As many as 27 persons tested positive for Covid today while no death was reported from the district.  Those who tested positive also included also a healthcare worker. In all, 150 samples were collected from Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal. Till date, 6,19,101 samples have been collected. Of these, 5,88,434 were found negative while the reports of 559 were awaited. The total number of patients in Ludhiana is 26,119 so far, while 3,989 patients belong to other districts/states. Till date, 56,628 persons have been kept under home-quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 707. Today, 19 persons were recommended home-quarantine. Today, 2,266 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected soon. With the opening of the schools, positive cases are being reported from many of them and efforts are being made to test the teachers. Students are also being tested for Covid in schools where teachers tested positive.  District Epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said the department had chalked out a plan to test teachers of all schools and efforts were being made to test students in schools where teachers had tested positive.  “Students are tested after the consent of the parents and we request the parents to get their wards tested as it is for their safety,” said he. A teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said parents were apprehensive about getting their children tested. “We are educating them but still many parents are not ready to get their children tested,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-fatality-27-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-210319
10-02-2021||Nitin Jain||283 fatalities, 184 injured in 418 road accidents in 2020||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 9The maximum city of Punjab witnessed 418 road accidents, which claimed 283 lives and left 184 injured, including 139 grievously, in 2020.The numbers could have been more as several mishaps remain unreported to the police.The number of fatalities in the road mishaps increased last year despite the fact that the Covid-induced curfew and lockdown had kept the roads free of vehicular traffic for several months.In 2019, as many as 264 persons were killed and 389 were injured, including 273 seriously, in 428 road accidents reported in the industrial hub of the state.The figures compiled by the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police revealed that the roads in Ludhiana reported more than one accident on a daily basis.According to the figures, which were available with The Tribune, of the total 418 road accidents reported last year, 276 were fatal, 105 with grievous injuries, 34 with minor injuries, and three with no injuries to the persons involved in the mishaps.As many as 467 persons, who were involved in the road accidents, included 283 killed, 139 seriously injured and 45 who sustained minor injuries.Comparatively, a total of 428 road mishaps reported to the police in 2019 included 264 fatal, 273 with grievous injuries, and 16 with minor injuries. Of the total 553 persons involved in the accidents of 2019, 264 were killed, 273 sustained serious injuries and 16 were left with minor wounds.Taking a serious note of the dubious distinction of killer roads that the city’s most of the outer and inner stretches and intersections have assumed, the Commissionerate Police have identified 10 black spots after conducting thorough survey and investigation of the accidents reported and causes that caused them in the recent past.“We have held meetings with all stakeholders involved after the identification of the black spots and measures have been shortlisted to convert these into white spots with liaison and cooperation of various agencies concerned,” said the Commissioner of Police, Rakesh Agrawal.He said the measures being taken included structural changes, road safety steps, removing encroachments and other changes as per the specific needs of a particular spot.On February1, the Commissionerate Police had launched a special drive to free 100 major roads in Ludhiana of encroachments. Joint Commissioner of Police (City) Deepak Pareek had been appointed the nodal officer of the drive to free all busy and important inner and outer passages and intersections of obstacles in smooth movement of vehicular traffic.This was part of a slew of measures initiated by the police to ease traffic congestion and improve road safety in Ludhiana.The development assumes significance as the industrial hub of the state is notorious for losing one life and leaving another injured in more than one road accident reported to the police daily due to clogged roads and traffic chaos which, at times, also lead to road rage cases. The situation turns grim during morning and evening hours.The Commissionerate Police had been observing the road safety month under the theme, “Sadak suraksha, jeevan raksha”, since January 18 and holding daily activities involving the local residents and motorists to spread the message of road safety.To check the violation of traffic rules and catch the violators, around 250 traffic police personnel have been deputed at 134 strategic points, which are known for witnessing traffic chaos in different parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/283-fatalities-184-injured-in-418-road-accidents-in-2020-210320
10-02-2021||---||Man found killed on rail tracks||Ludhiana, February 9 A man was found murdered on the railway tracks near the Jagraon bridge today. The body bore injury marks and the man seemed to have been killed by the hitting of stones on his head. The GRP registered a case of murder against unknown persons under Section 302 of the IPC in this regard.  The deceased was identified as Ram Sewak, 39, a resident of Field Ganj. He was working in a gas company godown near the Jagraon bridge. The GRP said on Monday morning, the man had gone to work, but didn’t return home at night. When his family members started searching for him, his body was found lying on the railway tracks. On Monday night, Ram Sewak had left the godown at 10 pm and his scooter was found parked near the railway tracks. The GRP suspected that the victim could have been killed by the hitting of stones on his head as blood-stained stones and bricks were recovered from near the body. The switched-off mobile phone of Ram Sewak was also found near the body. The police said it could be a case of old enmity. The CCTV footage of the area was being checked by the police to get clues about the killers. Phone call details of the man were also being checked to get clues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-killed-on-rail-tracks-210321
10-02-2021||---||13 booked for attacking man, son||Ludhiana, February 9 A father-son duo was attacked by 13 persons on the Rahon road after they entered into arguments with a truck driver over “rash driving”. The suspects have been identified as Prabhdeep Singh of Mangat village and his 12 unknown accomplices. Complainant Tilakraj of Guru Nanak Nagar told the police that he, along with his son Rishi Pruthi, was heading home on their Swift car. When they reached the Rahon road, a truck was being driven rashly. “My son stopped the car and asked the truck driver to drive slowly and responsibly. Instead of paying heed to my son’s advice, the driver started arguments and hurled abuses at us. He called 12 of his aides and all of them attacked us. The suspect also damaged our car baldy,” said the victim. The victim said the assailants had also threatened him of dire consequences if he informed the police about the attack. Investigation officer ASI Surinderpal Singh said a case under various sections of the IPC had been registered against the truck driver and his accomplices. Raids were being conducted to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-booked-for-attacking-man-son-210322
10-02-2021||Ludhiana||Nihang attacks cops on duty, arrested||A Nihang Sikh was arrested for allegedly attacking two policemen on the Tajpur road near Fish Market.  The suspect has been identified as Gurvinder Singh of Tajpur road. According to the complainant, ASI Karnail Singh, in-charge of the Tajpur police post, said he, along with a senior constable, was heading towards Amrit Dharam Kanda from the Tajpur police post to keep tabs over anti-social elements.  The ASI said they noticed a Nihang carrying a hammer was creating trouble for commuters. The suspect was disturbing the law and order due to which he was told to stay calm. Instead of paying heed to our advice, the suspect attacked the police party and inflicted injuries on them, said the ASI. According to the police, the injured cops were shifted to the Civil Hospital for treatment and they were discharged later. The ASI said the Nihang was arrested. A case under Sections 353(assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public function), 323 and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered against the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nihang-attacks-cops-on-duty-arrested-210323
10-02-2021||---||Ludhiana man held for murder by Nalagarh police||Solan, February 9The Nalagarh police have arrested Ludhiana resident Karamjit in a murder case of 2019. A local court today remanded Karamjit in three-day police custody, said Baddi SP Rohit Malpani. He was brought from Ludhiana on a production warrant, as he was lodged in a jail in some other case.He said while investigating a case of firing on a scrap dealer an accused was arrested from Punjab. He disclosed the involvement of Karamjit in the murder of a 25-year-old Nabha youth.The police had recovered the body of a boy, who had been thrown from a cliff in 2019 at Ramshehar. Since his body was not identified, an untraced report had been filed by the police.“The deceased boy has now been identified as Sandeep Singh, a resident of Ramdasia Mohalla, Nabha, in Punjab. The motive of his murder will be ascertained during the three-day remand of Karamjit,” added the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-man-held-for-murder-by-nalagarh-police-210194
