11-02-2021||Ludhiana||Best-Out-of-Waste competition held in Ludhiana||Road Safety Awareness monthPolice DAV Public School, Police Line, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, celebrated the Road Safety Awareness month on the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’ as per the guidelines of the CBSE under the aegis of traffic police in which different online activities were organised for the students of classes 1 to 12. the students express their interest and creativity by participating in poster making competition and Jingle singing contest under the Road Safety Awareness Contest organised by Traffic Police Ludhiana with an aim to sensitize the students to follow the traffic rules in order to avoid road accidents and other eye catching performance was ‘Nukkar Natak’ staged by the students of the school highlighting the importance of traffic rules. Besides, an interactive session was held for the bus drivers of the school to make them more cautious while driving. Principal Anu Verma appreciated the efforts of the students.Chess competition heldAn interclass chess competition was organised by BCM Arya School,Lalton.Students of class I to VIII took part in it.The participants showed great enthusiasm and thoroughly enjoyed playing chess.The matches clearly brought forth the eagerness with which our students have been building their skills in this brain game.30 students took part in it under four categories. Winners from different categories were Mridul Jain (VII), Pavneet Kaur (class V), Arnesh Joshi (class IV), Manraj Singh (class III). Winners were felicitated by the school manager Sanjay Khosla and Headmistress Anu Verma.Ankur Jain tops in CA FoundationBhartiya Vidya Mandir Udham Singh Nagar today was placed on seventh heaven as BVM alumnus Ankur Jain (2019-20) emerged City Topper, in CA Foundation with distinction scoring 328 out of 400. Proving that success happens when opportunity meets preparation, Ankur left no stone unturned to acquire this pedestal of glory. Congratulating Ankur on his stupendous success, members of the BVM trust showered their blessings for his immaculate future. Principal Ranju Mangal also extended her felicitations for making his alma mater proud. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/best-out-of-waste-competition-held-in-ludhiana-210623
11-02-2021||Ludhiana||Government College for Girls (GCG), Ludhiana gets new principal||Freshers’ partyThe Partap College of Education has organised a freshers’ party on Tuesday at the college auditorium. The programme was held in the presence of director Dr Balwant Singh, principal Dr Manpreet Kaur and all staff members. The principal welcomed the chief guests and new students. She said it was a special party for freshers as they were going to start their new journey.Low-cost innovation by studentsStudents of the electrical engineering department of the GNDEC have developed a conversion kit for converting an internal combustion-powered engine (IC) to electric vehicle. “The low-cost innovation would not only save costly fuel but also help reduce carbon emissions, thus, help in preserving the environment. The team comprising Puneet Singh Bedi, Sukhpreet Singh, Mayank Bakshi, Rajat Tyagi, Riaz Mohammed and Arunjot Singh, all students of final electrical, worked on the project,” the college authorities said. Project guides Kuldeep Singh and Baljeet Singh Ahluwalia claimed that this was an economical model. “The vehicle saves precious fuel since it will work on electrical charging. With a one-time charge, the vehicle is able to travel a distance of approximately 100 km with a top speed of 40 km/hr”, they said.60 clear CA foundation courseCA batch students of Arya College, Ludhiana, have excelled and proved their mettle in the CA intermediate and CA Foundation exams the results of which were declared by the ICAI. As many as 60 students of BCom I and BCom II cleared their CA Foundation Course and 35 students of BCom II and BCom III cleared their CA Intermediate (both groups) or group I. Satisha Sharma, secretary, ACMC, and Dr Savita Uppal, principal, Arya College, congratulated the students, their parents and staff for their achievement.Alumni meet at Arya collegeAn alumni meet was organised in girls section of Arya College in which about 100 students participated. In the beginning of the programme welcoming the students, Suksham Ahluwalia, Convenor, IQAC and in-charge girls section presenting a PPT described the achievements of college and old students. On the occasion, ACMC secretary Satisha Sharma wished all good luck to the students. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Savita uppal, principal, Arya College, said students get an opportunity to rejoin the college through such programmes. Students shared their memories through poems, lectures and songs. In this way leaving indelible memories the programme concluded.Jain College students shineShree Atam Vallabh Jain College informed that number of students have cleared CA Foundation and CA (Inter) examination. "Ritika Aggarwal of BCom 1st cleared CA Foundation with Distinction. Yogya Madaan (B.Com), Payal Sharma (B.Com) and Pranjal of (B.Com II) cleared CA Foundation. Tanishka Aggarwal (B.Com II), Aryan Verma (B.Com II) and Rhythm Sood of (B.Com II) cleared CA (Inter) exam. They have brought laurels to their family and the college too," said Principal of the college. Dr Sandeep Kumar and congratulated the students and wished them for their bright future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/government-college-for-girls-gcg-ludhiana-gets-new-principal-210617
11-02-2021||---||Ludhiana Municipal Corporations fails to check leakage in water pipeline at Gol Market||Ludhiana, February 10An RTI activist, Arvind Sharma, blamed the civic body for failing to resolve the problem of leakage in water pipeline at Gol Market of Model Town despite repeated complaints.He said the water supply pipeline was getting leaked again and again for the past three months as the civic body failed to find out exact fault behind the leakage.“The road was earlier dug up multiple times for the repair work. But the water has started leaking again and it is getting accumulated outside shops. Visitors as well as shopkeepers are facing inconvenience,” he said.“The shopkeepers demand from the Municipal Corporations authorities to take concrete steps to resolve the issue as there are chances that a road portion can cave in too. Moreover, water is getting wasted due to leakage. It is the responsibility of the authorities concerned to inspect the site and take apropriate action in this regard,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-municipal-corporations-fails-to-check-leakage-in-water-pipeline-at-gol-market-210620
11-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Industrialists raise doubts over tender allotment||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 10Bahadurke Textile and Knitwear Association and other industries have raised their doubts over the allotment of tender to a company for cleaning the Buddha Nullah.Reportedly, both the state government as well as the Centre will spend about Rs 650 crore to clean Buddha Nullah. The association said firstly, the project could be set up by not spending Rs 325 crores for which the government will pay Rs 650 crores. Secondly, even after spending such a hefty amount, the purpose will never be solved (cleaning the nullah).Tarun Jain Bawa, President, Bahadurke Textile and Knitwear AssociationWe object to wastage of taxpayers’ money and oppose the execution of the project, which is full of ambiguities, design flaws and shows recklessness on the part of government.Talking to the media here, Tarun Jain Bawa, president, Bahadurke Textile and Knitwear Association, said the government was adamant of wasting public money on the project, which will not bear any fruit.“The PMIDC has got its project report made by spending huge amount. We, at our own expenses, have got a report prepared from the testing and consultancy cell of the GNDEC, which says that the discharge water level of Buddha Nullah to be cleaned is approximately 2000 MLD and not 700 MLD, mentioned in the PMIDC report. This explains less compatibility of the project estimations, which means desired result will never be achieved after such a huge expenditure of public funds. We strongly object the waste of taxpayer’s hard-earned money and oppose the execution of this project, which is full of ambiguities, design flaws and recklessness involved on the part of Administrative Government”, said Bawa.Association to file PIL in High CourtFurther, the industry has said if within 15 days, no decision is taken on the project or it is not stopped, the association will file an PIL in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The association members said similar claims were made by the then Congress MP by bringing a Cabinet Minister here and Rs 15 crores were spent, that public money has also gone in drain. “We do not want this money to be wasted again,” said Bawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industrialists-raise-doubts-over-tender-allotment-210621
11-02-2021||Ludhiana||Rajiv Gandhi Colony residents in Ludhiana stage protest||Residents of Rajiv Gandhi Colony, led by the Karkhana Mazdoor Union members, today staged a protest at the Sherpur office of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana. The people demanded the problem of choked sewers in the colony should be resolved as soon as possible. They also demanded that safe drinking water supply should be restored and broken water pipes should be repaired.Jasmeet Singh, of Karkhana Mazdoor Union, blamed the Municipal Corporation for ignoring the problems in the areas with poor population whereas the emphasis is on providing amenities in the areas where rich people live.“The residents have been suffering due to problem of choked sewers at Rajiv Gandhi colony. Despite repeated complaints, the problem has not been resolved. As the problem escalated, people were forced to stage a dharna today. Also the drinking water pipes are broken and the people are getting contaminated. If required steps are not taken, we will be forced to intensify agitation”, said Navjot, a member of the union.JE Harinder Singh said that the problem has been resolved at Rajiv Gandhi Colony. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rajiv-gandhi-colony-residents-in-ludhiana-stage-protest-210619
11-02-2021||---||Covid cases from govt schools spread panic among teachers||Ludhiana, February 10After surfacing of Covid cases at government schools in Ghalib Kalan, Mundiyan Khurd and Chaunte, now more persons have reportedly contracted virus in Sekhewal, which definitely has spread panic among teachers.Meanwhile, there is a lot of pressure because with the opening of schools in the state, the Education Department has asked heads/teachers to ensure 100 per cent attendance in their respective schools.Naresh Kumar, principal, Govt Sr Sec School, SekhewalFive teachers are Covid positive. Samples of 550 students have been taken and their report is awaited. We are taking all precautions. Almost 50 to 60 per cent students are coming to school.With surfacing of new Covid cases, many parents are still reluctant to send their wards to schools.A primary school head master said, “Many children have taken admission after the pandemic because parents cannot afford to pay fee of their wards in private schools. While there is more student strength in government school, but the infrastructure has not improved.”“We are being asked to ensure that all students come to schools. But the Covid panic is still in the minds of parents and students. And in such situation when more and more students start coming to schools, it is not possible to follow all necessary protocols. We are under much pressure these days,” the head master added.Naresh Kumar, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, said, “Five teachers are Covid positive. Samples of 550 students have been taken and their report is awaited. We are taking all precautions. Almost 50 to 60 per cent students are coming to school.”But, such incidents do trigger panic button. One parent said, “Schools are getting grants for sanitising premises. Children from poor families, who cannot afford to change mask daily, come to school. The government should provide disposable masks to all till the threat of Covid subsides.”District media coordinator Dr Davinder Singh Chinna, however, said “The Education Department is taking all precautions. Grants are being given to schools for purchasing sanitisers and other material. Collective efforts of parents, teachers and students can bring back normalcy.”Discussion on improving resultsTo ensure good results in the upcoming examinations, a review meeting of Ludhiana district mentors was held under the aegis of Salinder Singh, Assistant Director, SCERT ( Training), at Government Senior Secondary School, Baddowal, here today. Analysis of students’ progress report on the basis of the house examinations and micro planning being executed for the weak, average and meritorious students was done through power point presentation at the meeting. Simplified learning material, question banks and model test papers as per the revised syllabus and structure of question papers are being provided to students so that they can sit in exams without any stress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-cases-from-govt-schools-spread-panic-among-teachers-210618
11-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Overflowing sewage: Ludhiana Municipal Corporation fails to resolve issue||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 10Overflowing sewers is a major problem in several areas of the city for a long time but the MC seemed to be not serious about resolving the issue.Residents have been continuously raising their voice against poor sanitary conditions and stagnant water outside their houses but no concrete measures have been taken to provide them any relief. There are complaints that sewers generally remain choked at various locations, including Dhandari Khurd and nearby areas, Kailash Nagar, Jassian Road and other parts of the city.Shiv Bachan of street number 3.5 of Kailash Nagar, said: “Our street is flooded for a long time as the sewer line is overflowing. We have been complaining again and again but nothing has been done to resolve the problem. If steps were not taken, there are high chances of any disease outbreak. Moreover, there are chances of water contamination also.”Earlier, the MC had claimed that the problem at Dhandari Khurd has been resolved but streets in the area were flooded again on Sunday. People were forced to pass through accumulated sewage in the streets. The residents blamed the civic body for not finding any permanent solution to the menace.Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Dhandari Khurd, said: “After a gap of a short period, sewers had started overflowing again in the area on Sunday. We generally witness the problem in the morning and evening. Even no steps are being taken to remove the accumulated sewage in a public park. We appeal to the civic body to resolve the issue.”The residents said sewers are not being cleaned on Jassian Road near the railway bridge. A resident of Jassian Road in ward no. 94 said: “Sewers are lying choked in the area. Now, the stinking water is getting accumulated beneath the railway bridge too. It is difficult for commuters to pass through the accumulated sewage. The MC authorities should take steps to resolve the problem at the earliest. The sewer lines should be cleaned with super suction machines.”MC’s Superintending Engineer from the O&M branch Rajinder Singh said staff had been deployed in the Dhandari Khurd area to resolve the problem. He said the contractor/workers had dumped construction waste in sewer manholes when the road construction work was being done at some locations due to which sewer lines got choked there. The staff was deployed for resolving the problem at Kailash Nagar, where a sewer line had also got choked when the road construction waste was thrown in it, he said.Superintending Engineer of the O&M branch in MC’s Zone D Ravinder Garg said he would look into the matter about choked sewers on Jassian Road area.No concrete steps despite complaintsResidents have been continuously raising their voice against poor sanitary conditions and stagnant water outside their houses but no concrete measures have been taken to provide them any relief. There are complaints that sewers generally remain choked at various locations, including Dhandari Khurd and nearby areas, Kailash Nagar, Jassian Road and other parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/overflowing-sewage-ludhiana-municipal-corporation-fails-to-resolve-issue-210610
11-02-2021||---||Covid-19: Virus claims one more life, 35 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 10Covid-19 has claimed another life while 35 fresh cases have been reported in the district during the past 24 hours. A 63-year-old man from Dhandra Road in Ludhiana died due to the virus at SPS Hospital here.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said 38 cases, including 35 from Ludhiana and three from other districts or states, were tested positive here today.Of the 35 cases, eight patients came in contact with positive patients, three visited the OPD, 16 with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner. Besides, eight others, including an undertrial, have tested positive for Covid.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 307 active patients in the district.He said till date, 6,21,860 samples had been taken, of which reports of 6,20,448 had been received. Of these, 5,90,302 samples were found negative while reports of 1,412 were pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 26,154 while 3,992 patients belong to other districts or states.Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives includes 1,008 persons from Ludhiana and 483 from other districts. Till date, 56,671 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 713. Today, 57 persons were sent for home quarantine. A total of 2,759 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to residents to adhere to safety protocols of the state government.11 students test positiveWith opening of schools, positive cases have been reported from several schools. Now, 11 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, in Ludhiana have tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, five teachers from the school had tested positive. Samples of many students and teachers were collected for the Covid-19 test. The results of 200 samples were pending and of these, reports of 11 students came out positive for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-virus-claims-one-more-life-35-ve-in-ludhiana-210611
11-02-2021||Nitin Jain||State-of-the-art hi-tech valley industrial park to come up in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 10A state-of-the-art hi-tech valley industrial park that will provide plug-and-play infrastructure to mobility and advanced manufacturing industrial units is coming up in Ludhiana.Spread over an area of about 380 acres, the approved industrial park would not only attract global investments but also facilitate Punjab-based industries to expand their capacities, thereby generating new employment opportunities in the state, a senior government functionary told The Tribune, here today.The development of the hi-tech valley by the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) was on in full swing and allotment of the land through e-auction has commenced.She said the construction of the internal road network, including storm water drainage, effluent collection system, and water supply distribution system will be accomplished by July. For effective water management, uninterrupted supply and its distribution, the valley will be equipped with the canal water supply and necessary fully functional arrangements such as underground service reservoir, and pumping machinery, including water treatment plant, by December.To support operations of the units within the valley, round-the-hour common utilities such as streetlights, internal electricity distribution system and other allied works will be completed by January next. The park will also have green spaces and scenic landscape in line with the global best practices.To ensure environment safety, encourage zero liquid discharge and to reduce operational cost burden, the PSIEC was providing critical shared facilities such as the sewage treatment plant (STP) and the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for the industrial units inside the park as per the development plan of the hi-tech valley.The park has direct connectivity with Ludhiana-Chandigarh NH-05 through an under-construction four-lane approach road, which will be completed by this month. “This connectivity will provide seamless logistics ease to the industrial units within the park,” the officer said.Ludhiana being a commercial hub of north India and densely industrialised district of the state was always a preferred destination for both global and local investors. The establishment of the industrial park was evident testament of receptiveness of the state government to the industry feedback and timely implementation of required policies and decisions on ground. The valley will provide impetus to the flourishing business-friendly ecosystem across all sectors.Investment opportunityTo attract global and local investors to the valley, country’s top performing state investment promotion agency, the Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion (Invest Punjab), has been aggressively reaching out to the investors to attract investment in the valley by highlighting the vast investment opportunities in the state.“As proven in leading economies of the world, focusing on the development of industrial infrastructure by the government has always been instrumental in harnessing the investment and sustainable development of the economy,” the officer said.Preferred destinationLudhiana being a commercial hub of north India and densely industrialised district of the state is always a preferred destination for both global and local investors. The establishment of the industrial park is evident testament of receptiveness of the state government to the industry feedback and timely implementation of required policies and decisions on ground. The valley will provide impetus to the flourishing business-friendly ecosystem across all sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/state-of-the-art-hi-tech-valley-industrial-park-to-come-up-in-ludhiana-210612
11-02-2021||---||Ludhiana Municipal Corporation disconnects sewer connections of 5 colonies||Ludhiana, February 10In a major action, the Municipal Corporation (MC) today disconnected irregular connections of five colonies in the city. According to information, developers of these colonies had taken sewer connections from the MC’s sewer line without any permission.It is learnt that the civic body had to recover around Rs26 crore from these colonies.A team led by executive engineer Ranbir Singh took action against illegal connections. Ranbir said the sewer connections of GK Estate (Part 2), Bhagaya Homes on Rahon Road, Bhagya Homes on 33 feet Road, Dhaliwal Colony and Neelkhant Colony on 33 foot road had been disconnected.“Earlier, the MC had sent notices to colonisers concerned to pay charges for regularisation of sewer connections, but they failed to do so. Today, we disconnected illegal sewer connections of these colonies,” Ranbir added.“The MC has to recover Rs14 crore pending charges from these five colonies,” said Ranbir.Earlier, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had given strict instructions to officials of different branches to ensure recovery of pending dues from defaulters by end of this financial year.Sources said many other colonies, including posh areas located outside MC’s jurisdiction, had also taken sewer connections from the civic body’s sewer line without paying any charges. However, the MC is yet to take action against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-municipal-corporation-disconnects-sewer-connections-of-5-colonies-210613
11-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man murdered over old enmity in Ludhiana||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-murdered-over-old-enmity-in-ludhiana-210616
11-02-2021||---||Family alleges rape of minor in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 10A seven-year-old girl has allegedly been raped at Aman Nagar, Salem Tabri. Victim’s family said the girl had gone to school and when she returned home blood was seen on her private parts. The girl was immediately taken to a hospital for check up and the police was informed.After getting information, senior police officials led by ADCP Pragya Jain immediately reached the spot and started probe.The ADCP said the girl belonged to a migrant family, which alleged that she was raped. A case was being registered in this connection, the ADCP added. When asked about the suspect, the ADCP said the family was yet to name any person, but the police would conduct thorough probe into the incident and guilty would be punished.The family was yet to give written statement, the ADCP said.Once family records statement the police would pursue probe accordingly, the ADCP added.The police had went to the school for investigation where girl was studying in LKG standard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/family-alleges-rape-of-minor-in-ludhiana-210622
11-02-2021||---||Man rapes niece on pretext of marriage in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 10Haryana-based man allegedly raped his niece on the pretext of solemnising marriage with her. The suspect has been identified as Ginny, a resident of Hari Nagar, Ambala.The victim stated that although she belonged to Ambala, from the past one year she had been living at her aunt’s house in Salem Tabri and doing private job here.Recently, her parents had also shifted to Ludhiana and were living in Chitti Colony, Salem Tabri, the victim added.The victim alleged that from the past few months, her uncle Ginni had been calling and promising to get married with her. In June last year, her uncle came to Ludhiana and took her to Kangra, HP, the victim added.Her uncle had taken a room on rent in Kangra where he developed sexual relationship with her, the victim alleged. Initially, the victim told suspect that she would enter into physical relation with him after getting married with him. Later, the suspect convinced victim to develop physical relations by assuring that he would soon solemnise marriage with her.The victim revealed that the suspect had also snatched her phone and was also not allowing her to talk to her parents.“When I got pregnant, I requested suspect to solemnise marriage with me. He promised to get married with me after lockdown. Now, after lockdown, the suspect is still making hollow promises,” the victim alleged.The victim was taken from Kangra to Ambala by his uncle Raj Karan a few days ago. They immediately lodged a complaint at the women cell, Ambala, where zero FIR was registered against the suspect and file was sent to the Ludhiana police for further probe.The investigation officer at the Salem Tabri police station, ASI Tamana Devi, said after receiving zero FIR from Ambala, a case had been registered under Section 376(2) N, IPC, against the suspect and raid would be conducted to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-rapes-niece-on-pretext-of-marriage-in-ludhiana-210624
11-02-2021||---||Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner receives jab, says feeling fine||Ludhiana, Febraury 10Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma was inoculated against Covid at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here today.After receiving the jab, the DC said he was feeling completely fine and healthy. He urged residents not to panic or believe in rumours spread on the social media regarding the vaccine.Later, he interacted with residents through his weekly Facebook live session. The DC was accompanied by Dr Bishav Mohan, Professor of Cardiology, and Dr Ashwani K Chaudhary, Professor and Head, Community Medicine, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, in the session.During his interaction, the DC said after getting vaccinated at around 11 am he chaired two important meetings at his office, held his court and later went for cycling.Around 17,000 of the total registered 34,000 healthcare workers had been vaccinated in the district so far and their vaccination would continue till February 19, the DC added.“In the ongoing second phase of the vaccination drive, around 20,000 frontline workers have been registered in the district, which include around 11,000 police personnel, 8,000 sanitation workers and 1,000 officials of the revenue and other associated departments,” the DC said. “Till date, around 2,700 frontline workers have been vaccinated and the district administration aims to cover maximum frontline workers by March 5,” the DC added.“The Punjab Government has already made it clear that this vaccination is totally voluntary. Still, all people should get themselves vaccinated because this vaccination is totally safe,” the DC said.Dr Ashwani K Chaudhary said all vaccinated persons were completely fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-receives-jab-says-feeling-fine-210625
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mahapanchayat of farmers in Jagraon today||After Haryana, a mahapanchyat will be held in Punjab’s Jagraon on Thursday.The mahapanchayat is being organised by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha. Kanwaljit Khanna of Inqualbi Kendra Punjab said the panchayat would be attended by all walks of life of society.Farmers, during the panchayat labourers, employees and students will participate in the protest meeting. “This mahapanchayat is the first mega event in Punjab after farmers marched to Delhi,” said Khanna.Leaders from Delhi protests, including Balbir Rajewal, Nirbhay Singh Dhudike, Buta Singh Burjgill are expected to join the meeting. Mahapanchayats have been organised in support of farmers in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mahapanchayat-of-farmers-in-jagraon-today-210653
