12-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||No furniture, kids sit on  floor to attend classes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 11Students of pre-primary classes at Government Primary School, Sunet, are forced to sit on the floor mats due to scarcity of desks or chairs. The school needs at least about 150 chairs to accommodate all students of pre-primary classes.Headmaster Harjeet Singh said, “The total strength of students in the school is 911. Earlier, the strength of students was less but after the lockdown, many parents were not able to pay fee of their wards studying in private schools, so they started shifting them to our school. But for accommodating all students, we need more infrastructure.”Till now, there was not much problem but with the opening of schools for all students, more and more attendance is witnessed and children are made to sit on mats.Besides, the strength of the school is more as compared to the area but still all students are properly accommodated in the classrooms. There is no proper parking space in school for parking vehicles. Residents extend all cooperation to school authorities as and when needed still infrastructure part needs to be taken care of by the government only.Mustafa, an artisan near school, said the school provides good education to the students and most of the residents were satisfied but there are few flaws like it needs proper playground, chairs and desks, cleaning facilities etc. If all these things are provided, we would be too happy and satisfied to provide education to our wards here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-furniture-kids-sit-on-floor-to-attend-classes-211200
12-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Doraha police raise awareness on road safety||Doraha, February 11 The Doraha police in collaboration with NGOs and educational institutions today organised an elaborate programme under Road Safety Month to educate the truck and tempo drivers, sarpanches and panches of the surrounding villages, residents of Doraha and the youth in general about the road safety norms and spread awareness regarding traffic rules. Payal DSP Hardeep Singh Cheema along with Doraha SHO Nachattar Singh; Maloud SHO Devinderpal Singh; Khanna traffic in-charge Manpreet Singh; Doraha traffic in-charge Gurdeep Singh; Manpreet Kaur from Civil Hospital, Payal; Jandeep Kaushal, Sabu Sethi, Harish Kapila, Ishtpreet Singh, Ginni Kapoor, Pawan Ahuja from Youth Forum and Doraha Ambulance Welfare Society, especially assisted the extension cell in their motif to spread awareness about road safety rules and regulations. DSP Payal Hardeep Singh Cheema, addressing students of educational institutions of Doraha, shared that road accidents can be avoided to a great extent if the driver remains vigilant while driving the vehicle. “Accidents may occur at any point of time. In order to avoid mishaps, it is very essential for the driver to remain on his toes. Students who are below the permissible age should desist from driving. Others should remain alert and drive with utmost precaution.” If we keep in mind three Es i.e. Educate, Engineer and Enforce, accidents can be reduced to a considerable extent” he added. Gurdeep Singh, traffic in-charge, Doraha, said the police has been inviting the truck and tempo drivers, especially in the past as well, to keep vigilance and at the same time warn them of overspeeding. “Over-loading, over-speeding, use of mobile phones etc lead to road accidents and the drivers should be vigilant enough not to engage in any such activity at the cost of their or anybody else’s life,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-police-raise-awareness-on-road-safety-211201
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||Meeting on tax dispute settlement scheme||A special meeting was organised to inform people about benefits and extension for date of applying for Vivad se Vishwas Scheme up to February 28. The meeting was held by Krinwant Sahay, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax. He informed about the following benefits of scheme to taxpayers: n Settlement of pending dispute for the relevant assessment year by paying only the tax component of demand after adjustment of amount already paid. n In cases of disputes involving only interest and penalties, 25 per cent of the amount under dispute is to be paid. Specially beneficial for penalties u/s 271(1)(b) and 271F. n Waiver of all types of Interest levied and further liable to be charged. n Immunity from penalty for concealment and prosecution. n Refund of excess amount, if any, already paid over and above the amount of tax component. n The tax payers, in whose case any appeal is pending, filed by the tax payers or the government, with respect to any income tax proceeding are eligible to avail themselves of the scheme.  n The eligible tax payers are advised to consider availing of the scheme, which is open up to February 28. The application regarding this can be filed online on the e-filing website of the department.  For any assistance, guidance or clarification, the tax payers can consult the Additional CIT, Range-4, Ludhiana or Joint CIT, Range-1, Ludhiana, on any working day.  In the meeting, Advocate Jatinder Khurana, Ravinder Mittal, Additional Commissioner, Income Tax, and Priyanka Singla, Joint Commissioner, Income Tax, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/meeting-on-tax-dispute-settlement-scheme-211202
12-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Schools get grants for 100 pc result||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 11 To achieve 100 per cent result in schools under ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’, the state government had recently allotted grants to all districts to provide assignments and study material to students studying in higher classes. Proper instructions have been sent to respective district education officers to ensure that all notes are provided to students of various subjects so that they can perform better in upcoming examinations. A letter in this regard has been issued by the Director, SCERT, in which it is mentioned that under “Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab”, the government has sanctioned grants for students studying in classes XI and XII for getting assignments and study material for subjects, including English, Social Studies, Maths, Hindi and Punjabi etc). These grants will be Rs 40 per student. Under the Learning Enhancement Programme (LEP), there are total about 37,033 students in Ludhiana district, who are studying in classes XI and XII. About Rs 14.81 lakh have been sanctioned for students in the district. The department has asked the school heads to ensure that the grant is properly utilised and students get print-material so that they can go through everything again and again before their final examinations. After spending this grant for the particular purpose, a certificate will be sent to the DEO by respective schools. Surinder Kaur, a school teacher, said this was a good decision taken by the department. “If study material is readily available with the students, they can go through it a number of times before their final or board exams. Many times, because of financial constraints, not all students get photocopies done for notes, which are not available with them. This way they can get the desired study material, old question-papers, assignments etc to memorise,” said the teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schools-get-grants-for-100-pc-result-211203
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||Day 1: 691 attend trials for school sports wings||A total of 691 aspirants turned up on the first day of the trials being conducted by the Punjab Sports Department at different venues across the district on Thursday.  These selection trials are being organised at five different venues GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Naresh Chander Stadium and Kishori Lal Jethi, Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Khanna, besides Guru Nanak Stadium, Ludhiana, in 18 sports disciplines to register the players (boys and girls U-14, 16 and 19) with the school sports wings in Ludhiana district for the session 2021-22. Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer, Ludhiana, said the maximum number of aspirants (97) appeared in the game of boxing while only five players attended the trials in lawn tennis. The break-up (game-wise) of aspirants is athletics (54 boys and 24 girls, total 78), archery (8 boys and 4 girls, total 12), basketball (20 boys), badminton (7 boys and 2 girls, total 9), boxing ( 55 boys and 42 girls, total 97), cycling (7 boys and 4 girls, total 11), football (38 boys and 12 girls, total 50), Gymnastics (34 boys and 34 girls, total 68), hockey (22 boys and 26 girls, total 48), handball (23 boys and 13 girls, total 36), judo (37 boys and 28 girls, total 65), kho-kho (35 boys), lawn tennis (5 boys), shooting (9 boys and 5 girls (total 14), softball (21 girls), volleyball (40 boys), weightlifting (20 boys and 35 girls, total 55) and wrestling (27 boys). The selected players would be provided daily diet/refreshment money as per the residential and day scholar schemes of the department in addition to the sports kit and free coaching,  he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/day-1-691-attend-trials-for-school-sports-wings-211204
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||4th JITO Premier League to start from Feb 14||The stage is set for the 4th JITO Premier Cricket League scheduled to be held from February 14 to 21 here at the Satish Chander Dhawan Government College for Boys ground in which 16 teams will be vying for top honours. The league is being organised by the Ludhiana Chapter of JITO Youth Wing and sponsored by major industrial houses. A total of 35 matches will be played during the course of this league. A meeting of the organisers and sponsors was held at the tournament venue at which the arrangements made for the successful conduct of the event was reviewed. The inaugural match of this league will be played between Wave Warriors XI and M Jain Super Kings XI. Bhushan Jain and Rajeev Jain Chaman, chairman and chief secretary, respectively were among others present at the meeting today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4th-jito-premier-league-to-start-from-feb-14-211205
12-02-2021||---||Survey sought to check violations||Ludhiana, February 11The Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to act against a number of commercial multi-storeyed buildings here that have been constructed without parking facility.As no parking arrangements are available in such buildings, the visitors are forced to park their vehicles on road.Also, no parking lots are available at many of the markets in the city. The improper parking of vehicles on roads generally causes traffic-related problems in different areas. Now, residents want the MC to conduct a survey to check parking violations in the buildings in all four zones in the city and take appropriate action to resolve the parking as well as traffic-related problems.A complaint has been sent to the Chief Secretary Punjab, Additional Chief Secretary of Department of Local Government and MC Ludhiana against the parking-related problems due to the illegal constructions in the city. The complainant, Baljeet Singh, who is a civil engineer and resident of BRS Nagar, has demanded that a survey should be conducted in this regard.Baljeet Singh said, “It has been seen that a number of commercial buildings without parking arrangement have come up at Pakhowal Road, College Road, Model Town, Link Road, Ferozepur Road, Malhar Road, Gill Road, Lodhi Club Road, BRS Nagar, Canal Road Fatehpur Awana, GT Road, Samrala Road, Chaura Bazar, Mata Rani Chowk and also in old city areas. Even such buildings have come up in residential areas under the nose of the MC’s building branch.”He said, “The illegal/unapproved constructions are going on in all zones of Ludhiana in both residential and commercial areas and practically no space is being provided for parking, resulting in traffic problem. Many of the constructors don’t allocate space for parking for vehicles in the buildings.”He added, “I have requested the state authorities to look into illegal/unapproved/non-compoundable constructions going on in Ludhiana. I appealed to them to conduct a survey of multi-storeyed/buildings to check parking violations and non-compoundable constructions in all zones.”A resident of College Road, Rajat Sood, said, “The traffic problem is common on the College Road and other areas as a number of buildings have come up without parking arrangements. Illegal constructions should be curbed. A survey should be conducted to identify all those buildings that have been constructed or are under construction by violating norms. The civic body should take the required action to resolve the traffic-related problems in the city.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said a survey would be conducted to check the buildings that lack parking arrangements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/survey-sought-to-check-violations-211206
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||Brother raped seven-year-old girl, say police||A day after the mother of a seven-year-old girl alleged the rape of her daughter at a private school in Aman Nagar, Salem Tabri, the Ludhiana police claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of a 13-year-old boy, who happens to be the brother of the victim. The girl belongs to a migrant family. Since the boy is also a minor, his identity was withheld by the police. Meanwhile, the kin of the girl, along with hundreds of people, today held a protest on the national highway, alleging the police were implicating girl’s brother. The protesters blocked the service lane on the highway for hours and a large number of cops were deployed to prevent the protesters from blocking the national highway. The protesters alleged that the girl was raped in the school where she was studying in the LKG standard. Additional DCP 1 Pragya Jain led the investigation and she, in coordination with the Salem Tabri police, conducted a probe in the case and after investigating the case from various angles, she identified the victim’s brother as the main culprit. Jain said the girl’s statement was recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC in court, where the girl alleged that she was sexually assaulted by her brother at their home. Last night, the police had registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC, 4 of POCSO Act and today after the arrest of the girl, the addition of Section 6 under the POCSO Act was made in the case. The protesters were levelling allegations of negligence against the school administration and alleged that the girl was raped in the school by someone. To verify the claims, the police checked the CCTV footage of the school, but didn’t find anything suspicious. The ADCP said in further probe if the role of any other person comes to light, action would be taken accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/brother-raped-seven-year-old-girl-say-police-211207
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||No buyers for residential plots, commercial sites in industry hub||High hopes of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) to sell residential plots and commercial sites in the proposed colony Glada Estate on the Sua road here (behind Keys Hotel) were dashed as even after repeated offers, buyers have stayed away, with the result that the last date for the allotment of 70 plots through the draw of lots and sale of five shop-cum-office (SCO) sites through e-auction has yet again been extended from February 5 to 20.The initial offer for the sale of residential plots and commercial sites in Glada Estate was made by GLADA in June-October 2020, but even after the extension of the last date twice due to the lukewarm response from buyers, only 21 applications were received from out of the total 93 residential plots offered for allotment and just two SCO sites out of nine were sold.GLADA has come out with yet another offer for the sale of 70 residential plots (including nine for economically weaker sections) through draw of lots and five shop-cum-offices (SCOs) through e-auction in the proposed colony, GLADA Estate, on the 80-feet wide Sua Road (behind Keys Hotel) here.Now after a gap of about six months, GLADA had relaunched the scheme and applications were invited for the allotment of 70 residential plots through the draw of lots and sale of five SCO sites through e-auction. The scheme was to remain open from January 4 to February 5 and bids for the SCO sites were also to close on the same date. However, owing to poor response to the offer from buyers, the date has now been again extended.Among 70 residential plots now being offered for allotment, 61 were freehold plots, 48 with an area of 100 sq yds and 13 with area ranging between 100-125 sq yds with a reserve price of Rs29,000 per sq yd and nine others for EWS with an area of 100 sq yds each at a reserve price of Rs26,100 per sq yd. Nine SCO sites, with floor area of 138 sq yds each to be sold through auction, carry a reserve price tag of Rs87,000 per sq yd. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-buyers-for-residential-plots-commercial-sites-in-industry-hub-211208
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||One succumbs, 60 test positive||Today, 60 people tested positive for Covid while one death was reported in the district. Now, the total positive cases from the district are 26,214 while the Covid death toll has gone up to 1,009.  At present, there were 330 active cases and 38 people were home quarantined today. The person, who succumbed to the virus, is a 65-year-old male, who was admitted to the DMCH. He had co-morbidities of hypertension and diabetes. Today, one patient from the city was on the ventilator support.   Meanwhile, vaccination drive continued in the district today.  Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said the vaccine had no side effects as it was developed after research by scientists.  Residents should adhere to all safety protocols, he added. Today, one more student from Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, tested Covid positive. Yesterday, 11 students from the same school had tested positive for the virus. The report of 150 samples from the school was pending from which one came positive. Earlier, five teachers from the school tested Covid positive after which samples of teachers and students were collected.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-succumbs-60-test-positive-211209
12-02-2021||---||MC disconnects 12 sewer connections||Ludhiana, February 11The Municipal Corporation (MC) has intensified its recovery drive against those who have not deposited their pending water supply and sewer charges.A civic body team, led by joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, today got 10 sewer connections disconnected in block number 34 in the city in this regard.The joint commissioner said the civic body had to recover over Rs1 lakh from each of 10 properties. He said the civic body would disconnect more such connections of the properties of those people who had not deposited water supply and sewer charges to the MC.In the Kangwal area of Zone C, the MC disconnected sewer connections of two vehras, as the owner concerned had not deposited the pending dues to the civic body.The sewer connections of a number of areas that fall outside the MC’s jurisdiction had been linked with the MC’s sewer line in the past without any approval. Sources said some politicians had also got sewer connections of several outer areas linked with the MC’s sewer line. However, the civic body had not taken any concrete action against such irregular connections at that time and now.An official of the O&M branch said a survey was being conducted to identify the colonies which had connected their sewer connections with the Municipal Corporation’s sewer line without permission. The civic body had earlier also written to the GLADA authorities to pay the charges for using the MC’s sewer line on the Pakhowal road. The process is under way to recover charges from GLADA, said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-disconnects-12-sewer-connections-211210
12-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cyber criminals target people seeking matrimonial alliances||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 11Cyber criminals have been daily finding novel ways to cheat people. Nowadays, those posting matrimonial advertisements on the Internet, matrimonial sites and other mediums to seek suitable match are being targeted by such criminals.Experts believe the reason of targeting matrimonial advertisements is that criminals can come to know the exact requirement of the people seeking a match and can then easily prepare grounds to commit fraud.In a latest case, one Harwinder Sharma of the Jassian road was duped of Rs5,500 by cyber criminals who acted as owners of a matrimonial agency in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh.“I had given advertisement in a newspaper and on a matrimonial site to find a suitable match for my son and the day the advertisement was carried, I got a call from some unknown person who claimed himself to be the employee of a matrimonial agency dealing in community relationships,” said Harwinder, a commission agent.He said since it was the first time he had given an advertisement to seek a match for his son, he considered that caller to be genuine.“I was surprised that during the first call, the caller sent me the profile of a beautiful girl and the profile was such that I immediately agreed as the girl’s profile was fully compatible with my son’s. The person asked me for Rs6,500 charges and only then he assured me to share the phone number of the girl’s family. Finally, the deal was struck for Rs5,500,” said the victim.The moment the money was transferred in the bank account in the name of Mangaldeep Matriminial, Medical Road, Jabalpur, the accused also gave the phone number of the girl’s family.When a call was made to the girl’s family, their language was not Punjabi as their accent seemed to be of the Madhya Pradesh side. This was despite the fact that the accused had claimed that the girl was from Punjab.“Initially, the girl’s family agreed for talks, but after two calls, their phone remained switched off. I then tried the number of the matrimonial agency, which was also switched off. Then I realised that I had been cheated,” added the complainant.In another case, one Raghuvir Kalra of Harbans Pura said he had given an advertisement for his son’s marriage on a matrimonial site and had got a call from one caller who claimed himself to be the owner of a matrimonial agency. He claimed of having several suitable profiles for his son and in lieu, he asked for Re 1 as registration fee and the rest money to be deposited once any match got final.“The said person sent me some link and asked me to click on the link to deposit Re 1. The moment I clicked on the link, Rs 8,500 was deducted from my account. When I tried to contact that person later, his phone was found switched off and then I realised that I had been duped,” alleged Kalra.Talking to The Tribune, Additional DCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti told The Tribune that the police had recently also received one such complaint in which a man after shotlisting the profile of a girl, claimed himself to be a resident of the UK, proposed girl for marriage and also fixed the date of his visit to India.Later, the accused gave the excuse that he could not come to India due to some issue, but had sent lots of expensive gifts for her and told her to receive the same. Later, some persons, acting as customs officials, called the girl and sought a huge sum to release the gifts that came from the UK. The moment the girl deposited the money, all accused switched off their phones.ADCP Bhatti said the Ludhiana police were creating lots of awareness campaigns to make people aware of cyber crimes and strict action was being taken against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyber-criminals-target-people-seeking-matrimonial-alliances-211211
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||DMCH starts palliative care services||Dayanand Medical College and Hospital has started palliative care services which is another patient-oriented service added in the hospital.It was inaugurated by Prem Gupta, secretary, DMCH Managing Society.In his message, Gupta said that the hospital is committed for extending services to provide best medical care at affordable prices.Principal Sandeep Puri said this is a specialised medical care required in patients with incurable progressive life threatening disease. It helps in relieving the pain and suffering from other symptoms and may help in reducing the hospital admissions.He said Dr Kunal Jain, Dr Vivek Gupta and Dr M Rupinder Singh along with nursing team have undergone structured training in palliative care from AIIMS New Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dmch-starts-palliative-care-services-211262
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||Birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur celebrated at Ludhiana's Ramgarhia Girls College||Making Buddha Dariya garbage-freeIn collaboration with Swachh Bharat Abhiyan of the Ludhiana MC, NSS, NCC, students council and Rotract students of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, completed their 7 days campaigning programme for spreading message to make Buddha Dariya garbage-free. Nearly 80 students took out awareness rally in area from Zone-A Gandhi Nagar to Shivpuri Pully Buddha Nullah. As many as 50 NSS/NCC students raise awareness regarding disposal of based, segregation of waste and cleanliness of their surroundings. On the final day, street play by NCC Cadets and NSS Volunteers was presented near Chand Cinema. Anjali, a NSS volunteer, recited a poem. Principal Dr Mukti Gill, appreciated the efforts made by NSS, NCC, students council and Rotract students and thanked the programme officers.NCC camp heldA five-day NCC camp held at Gulzar group of Institutes, Khanna, and Ludhiana. Over 250 NCC cadets, both boys and girls joined the NCC Annual Training camp at GGI Campus. “GGI is happy to host the cadets and facilitate the training under the mentorship of Corps Cammander, Col Manjit Singh,19 PB BN. The aim of this camp was to develop character, comradeship, discipline, leadership, secular outlook, spirit of adventure and ideals of selfless service among the youth of the country”, said College Executive Director Gurkirat Singh.Event to boost innovative thinkingThe Entrepreneurial Cell of PCTE Group of Institutes organised B-Pitch competition with the aim of igniting creative thinking and nurturing entrepreneurial instincts in students. The competition witnessed 41 teams from various disciplines gathered to exhibit their unique and creative ideas. The event was judged by Pushpinder Singh Dhaba, Founder of Brand Wizards. Prof. Naresh Sachdev, Dean (Corporate Relations), PCTE Group of Institutes, said that PCTE E- Cell has always encouraged and guided the students starting from idea generation to pitch development where workshops and guest sessions from renowned industrialists are organised to help them in practically shaping their idea.HR conclave at CT UniversityCT University organised an International HR Conclave V2.0 ‘Redefining HR Post Covid19’ in association with LinkedInLocal Ludhiana, District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises, Government of Punjab and Punjabi Chamber of Commerce. The chief guest for the conclave remained Miri Rodriguez, Global Intern Head from Microsoft, USA. The guest of honors were Sandeep Kumar, IAS, ADC (Development), Ludhiana, Advocate Vikrant Rana, Director Legal Cell (IHRO), Preeti Chaudhary, Founder, LinkedInLocal India, Advocate Vivek Aggarwal, Director-PCC and Navdeep Singh, Deputy CEO-DBEE-Govt. of Punjab. Dr Harsh Sadawarti, Vice Chancellor, CTU said that in today’s globalized world the business dynamics make it imperative that the HR function undergoes a constant metamorphosis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/birth-anniversary-of-guru-teg-bahadur-celebrated-at-ludhianas-ramgarhia-girls-college-211263
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||Farewell party at St Thomas School||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farewell-party-at-st-thomas-school-211264
12-02-2021||Kuldip BhatiaOur CorrespondentJagraon||Kisan mahapanchayat held in Punjab's Jagraon; leaders say agitation no longer a fight of only farmers||Complete unity among various farmer unions and their cadres was at display at the kisan mahapanchayat that got under way at Grain Market here on Thursday.Senior leader of SKM and chief of BKU-Rajewal Balbir Singh Rajewal was the keynote speaker at the rally. He said even though the agitation had commenced from Punjab but now it was no longer confined to borders of this state.“Not only most of the states but the entire global community is watching the farmers’ stir keenly and repressive action of Modi government against peacefully protesting farmers is also being debated across the world,” he said, adding that for the first time in history as many as 40 organisations of farmers had come on a single platform to fight for their rights.Rajewal said the grit and determination shown by farmers camping on Delhi borders had shaken the Modi government to the extent that it was now trying to find a face saving formula to wriggle out of the mess that it had created through enactment of three farm laws.“The government is out to disband the best and proven marketing system in the world by allowing free trade of food grain so as to leave the farmers at the mercy of big business tycoons and a failed model of marketing is being thrust upon the farming community,” said the BKU leader.Announcing the decisions taken by SKM for next phase of agitation, Rajewal said farmers would take out candle/torch light marches on February 14 in memory of martyrs of Pulwama attack, February 16 would be observed as ‘kisan/mazdoor day’ in memory of Sir Chhotu Ram and a four-hour ‘rail roko’ protest would be held on February 18.Farmers and people from many other walks of life thronged the mandi ground with their vehicles — tractor trollies, cars. SUVs, buses and trucks — parked wherever a vacant space was available around the venue.The proceedings of the mahapanchayat were delayed by more than an hour owing to bad weather and late arrival of leaders. Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders Surat Singh Dharamkot, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Manjit Dhaner, Nirbhai Singh Dhudike and Harinder Singh Lakhowal were present.The rally attracted an estimated gathering of 25,000 to 30,000 people.Speaking at the mahapanchayat, SKM leaders Manjit Dhaner (BKU-Ekta Dakaunda), Kulwant Singh Sandhu (Jamhoori Kisan Sabha) and Harinder Singh Lakhowal (BKU-Lakhowal) vowed to fight the Modi government till it reaches a definitive conclusion on the issue of farm laws.Manjit Dhaner said BKU’s Rakesh Tikait had given a new lease of life to the struggle.He said: “It is no longer a fight of only farmers but has now become a mass agitation. In the ongoing agitation, 99 per cent of people are standing by farmers but unfortunately, Prime Minister Narndra Modi has chosen to side with corporate houses.”Lakhowal said the Centre’s claim that doors were open for dialogue on farm acts was a white lie because all doors had been slammed shut in the form of barricades erected on borders, with nails and iron rods fixed on roads, and denial of basic amenities to protesters.“Farmers are prepared to shed their last drop of blood to safeguard their lands and their rights to remunerative prices,” Dhaner added.BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan exhorted farmers and people to be prepared for a long-drawn struggle because “the fight is not merely against Modi or the NDA government”.“The real culprits for these new economic policies are the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the IMF and the Word Bank, who were out to snatch the bread from the mouths of the hungry people and turn the farmers into paupers,” Ugrahan said.He said if the three farm acts were implemented, more than 80 per cent farmers — especially those with small holdings — would lose their land to the corporate and big business houses.SKM leaders also cautioned people and protesting farmers against nefarious attempts by all political leaders to hijack the farmers’ agitation for their own political interests.“The struggle has not been launched by any political party but by farmers, farmworkers and the common people for their survival, and to stop the onslaught by corporates and big business,” they asserted.Senior leader of SKM and chief of BKU, Rajewal Balbir Singh Rajewal turned out to be a keynote speaker at the rally. He said that even though the agitation had started from Punjab, it is no longer confined to the borders of the state.“Not only most of the states, but the entire global community is watching the farmers’ stir keenly and repressive action of Modi government against peacefully protesting farmers is also being debated across the world,” he said adding, that for the “first time in the history as many as 40 organisations of farmers have come on a single platform to fight for their rights”.Rajewal said the grit and determination shown by farmers camping on Delhi borders has shaken the Modi government to such an extent, that it was now trying to find a “face-saving formula to wriggle out of the mess, that it had created through the enactment of three farm laws”.“Government is out to disband the best and proven marketing system in the world by allowing free trade of food grain so as to leave the farmers at the mercy of big business tycoons and a failed model of marketing is being thrust upon the farming community,” said the BKU leader.Announcing the decisions taken by SKM for next phase of agitation, Rajewal said the farmers would take out a candle and torchlight march on February 14—in memory of martyrs of Pulwama attack— February 16 would be observed as ‘kisan-mazdoor day’ in memory of Sir Chhotu Ram, and a 4-hour rail roko protest would be held on February 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kisan-mahapanchayat-held-in-punjabs-jagraon-leaders-say-agitation-no-longer-a-fight-of-only-farmers-210895
