14-02-2021||Ludhiana||GST raid yields Rs 80 lakh, illegal documents||Cash amounting to Rs80 lakh and a bunch of incriminating documents, including multiple bills, receipts and cheque books, were seized by the Ludhiana chapter of the State GST department during a search and seizure operation from a local trader in Mandi Kesar Ganj here today.The firm, involved in the trading of edible oil and non-edible oil, was having annual turnover running into crores of rupees, said a senior official.The action was taken on a tip-off by a team of state tax officials, comprising Manu Garg, Dharminder Kumar, Davinder Pannu and inspectors Munish Kumar, Ashwani Kumar and Rishi Verma.It was done after Punjab Taxation Commissioner Nilkanth S Avhad and Additional Taxation Commissioner-1 Showkat Ahmad Parry had asked the Deputy Commissioner of State GST to take action in the matter.Ludhiana Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner Tejveer Singh Sidhu said that the records seized were being examined for ascertaining the actual amount of tax evasion involved and further investigation was in progress.After recovering huge amount of cash, the state tax officials, while following the protocol, called the officials of the Income Tax Department on the spot for handling the heavy amount of cash.The Income Tax Department officials counted the cash in the presence of the state GST authorities.A bunch of loose papers and books of account, pertaining to business transactions, were also impounded from the business premises.The officials suspected that more than one firm might be operating from the same premises. “It is also suspected that edible oil was purchased by the dealer with sale shown through bogus transactions where actual goods were sent elsewhere and tax payable was evaded in this way,” the officials added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gst-raid-yields-rs-80-lakh-illegal-documents-212149
14-02-2021||---||1 fatality; 7 students of two schools positive in district||Ludhiana, February 13A person lost his life to Covid, while 30 persons tested positive for the virus in the district today. Now, the total positive cases in Ludhiana are 26,283 and 1,013 persons have lost their lives since March 2020.Three more students from Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, have tested positive and with this, the total number of students who are positive from this school has reached 15. Five teachers from this school are also positive.Four students from MAM Public School, Samrala, have also tested positive and one teacher from GSSS Bhaini Baringa is also positive.At present, there are 308 active patients and 31 people were home quarantined. The samples collected so far are 6,29,630, while the reports of 1,627 are awaited.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said awareness and information are the only methods to prevent this disease. He added anyone could escape from this disease just with a few basic precautions such as maintaining adequate social distancing, washing hands with soap and water and wearing mask.“School students and teachers attending need to follow all precautions while attending the school. They should wear mask and follow social distancing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-fatality-7-students-of-two-schools-positive-in-district-212150
14-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||SIT to probe special child’s rape case||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 13As the issue of the rape of the seven-year-old special child in Aman Nagar here is yet to die down due to the allegation of the victim’s family that the police had wrongly implicated the victim’s brother in the case, the chairman of the Child Protection Commission Punjab Rajinder Singh visited the city today to take stock of the matter.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma, Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, along with other senior police officials, also attended the meeting held at Circuit House. Before holding the meeting, the chairman went to meet the girl at the Doraha centre where she was being given counselling and all kinds of medical help.“I have come to ascertain the status of the case involving the rape of the special child as residents are holding protest against the police. I met the girl, her family and other persons to take feedback whether they were satisfied with the probe. The family alleged that the victim’s brother could not commit rape of her sister and the police had wrongly implicated him in the case,” said the chairman.The family demanded a fresh probe in the case, claiming that their son was innocent. Accordingly, he asked the Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to form a special investigation team (SIT) in the case and probe the case again and take further legal action as per the report, said the chairman.The family is claiming that some other person could have committed the crime, held the chairman.He said that there was a provision in the law in which the victim could get compensation between Rs4 and Rs7 lakh and the officials concerned had been told to initiate the proceedings so that girl could get compensation.Singh claimed that the family had also agreed for the fresh probe in the case.Meanwhile, CP Agrawal said an SIT, including Joint Commissioner of Police, City, Deepak Pareekh, Additional DCP, Zone 1, Pragya Jain, and ADCP, Zone 4, Rupinder Kaur Sra, had been constituted. “I have told the SIT to thoroughly probe the case from all angles and satisfy the victim and her family in all respects,” added CP Agrawal.‘Create awareness’The Child Protection Commission chairman Rajinder Singh said such incidents take place in entire Punjab, but in the industrial hub, more such incidents are being reported due to the presence of a huge population of migrants. The only solution to this issue is awareness. He said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma had been requested to hold awareness session in schools in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sit-to-probe-special-childs-rape-case-212151
14-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Tremors raise alarm in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 13Though the city falls in the seismic zone 4, a high damage risk zone, it has become a hub of illegal constructions that give an open invitation to disasters but the Municipal Corporation and other departments concerned have turned a blind eye towards such violations for a long time. Earthquake tremors on Friday raised an alarm for the authorities concerned to pay heed towards the high-rise buildings being constructed in violation of the norms.Without ensuring structural safety and in the absence of any approved plan, hundreds of buildings have been constructed across the city under the nose of the MC, GLADA and Ludhiana Improvement Trust.In various parts of the city, illegal high-rise buildings are a common feature. Even in narrow streets of the old city, where an emergency vehicle can’t even move, the height of numbers of buildings have been extended without strengthening the foundation or approval from the departments concerned. Moreover, booths (on ground floor) under different schemes of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust have been converted into multi-storey commercial buildings at various locations. It seems the authorities were waiting for any tragedy by turning a blind eye towards such violations.Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers said: “Ludhiana areas fall under the seismic zone 4 that is highly vulnerable to earthquake. Thus, illegal constructions are an open invitation to disasters in the city. The MC, LIT and GLADA must conduct structural audit of multi-storeyed buildings. All departments concerned should ensure implementation of the building by-laws to curb the illegal constructions.”Many buildings are commonly being occupied without obtaining the completion certificate from the MC. Chairman of the Ludhiana Architects Association Karamjeet Singh said: “As Ludhiana is in a severe intensity zone, there is a need to promote earthquake-resistant buildings. The earthquake tremors last night were strong enough to raise an alarm. The government should focus on dealing with the menace of illegal constructions in the city. Around 90 per cent buildings are being constructed by violating the norms. Structural safety is being ignored. It has been seen that height of many buildings is increased by ignoring the weak foundation. Such wrong practices should be curbed.”MC to check structural safety certificateMunicipal Town Planner SS Bindra said they conducted a discussion today in view of the earthquake tremors that were felt last night. “We have passed an order that owners of high-rise buildings (above 15-m height) will be directed to show structural safety certificate to the MC within 45 days. The MC will start a sealing drive against buildings whose owners fail to show the certificate,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tremors-raise-alarm-in-ludhiana-212152
14-02-2021||Ludhiana||Barber held for rape of 15-yr-old||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a barber at his shop in Guru Nanak Pura here. The accused was arrested by the police. The accused has been identified as Suraj Kumar of New Kundanpuri.As per the complainant, father of the girl, on February 9, his daughter had gone to market to buy some household things and when she reached near the barber shop in Guru Nanak Pura, the accused dragged her inside the shop and violated her.After committing the crime, the accused threatened the girl of dire consequences if she reveal anything to the police.Investigating officer Sub Inspector Rajinder Kaur said after receiving the complaint, the police conducted a raid at whereabouts of the accused and arrested him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/barber-held-for-rape-of-15-yr-old-212153
14-02-2021||Manav Mander||18 ventilators gather dust in absence of employees||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 13Ventilators at the Civil Hospital have started gathering dust as the ICU facility has been suspended. It was in October last year that the hospital had got 18 ventilators operational and catered to critically ill patients during the pandemic.Again, the critical patients in the hospital, who are in need of intensive care, are being referred either to the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) or Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, posing inconvenience to them.Patients are referred to other hospitalsStaff that were assigned duty in the ICU were told to return to their places of posting. Some staff from the Operation Theatre were stationed here while some of the field staff from Samrala and Khanna were also assigned duty in the ICU. All of them have returned to their places of posting.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the government had asked to shut down the Level 3 facilities that were given in the Civil Hospital for Covid patients, keeping in view the decreased number of cases. The Level 3 facilities had been suspended and staff had returned to their duties, he said.He said for starting non-Covid ICU facility, they need trained staff such as anaesthetists, nurses and ward attendants.“The demand for the staff has been sent to the government and the ICU facility will be started only when the hospital gets the required staff. At present, patients in need of critical care and ventilators are being referred to the CMCH or Rajindra Hospital, Patiala,” the Civil Surgeon said.When Covid was at its peak, the ventilators were installed here. In March 2020, a woman from Amarpura, who was Covid positive, died a few hours after reaching Rajindra Hospital. She was referred to Patiala as she was in need of ventilator and Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, was not having the same.After the incident, the demand for installation of ventilators at the Civil Hospital was raised and the hospital got 18 ventilators and afterwards there were negligible referrals as staff were also available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-ventilators-gather-dust-in-absence-of-employees-212154
14-02-2021||Mahesh Sharma||All set for smooth conduct of elections, claims admn||Mandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot/ Payal, February 13The administration claimed to have completed all arrangements for the smooth and fair conduct of elections to urban local bodies in the region falling under Ludhiana and Sangrur districts.Vikramjit Singh Panthey, Dr Himanshu Gupta and Mankanwal Singh Chahal advised members of political parties to ensure that the poll code of conduct is implemented at their respective polling booths in letter and in spirit.Viveksheel Soni and Charanjit Singh Sohal, SSPs at Sangrur and Ludhiana (rural), respectively, advised police personnel deployed on the election duty to be overcautious during their duty to safeguard poll personnel and poll material till the results are announced on Wednesday.“We have updated the rank and file in the department about probable risks and threats involved in the elections and asked them to ensure that no one is allowed to interfere in the smooth conduct of polling on Sunday,” said Viveksheel Soni, adding that extra security arrangements had been made at polling stations identified as hypersensitive and sensitive.Hypersensitive polling stations in AhmedgarhPerusal of records revealed that six polling stations had been declared hypersensitive in Ahmedgarh. These included Government Elementary School, Amarpura, Kennedy High School, Sanatan Vidya Mandir School, PUNSUP office, Jagera Road, Government Primary School, Vishawkarma Mandir and Islamia School.At Raikot, only Government Middle School, Eidgah Road, has been declared hypersensitive.At Jagraon, Guru Nanak Bal Vikas Kender, Malak Road, Sanmati Vimal Jain School, Saint Mahapragya School, Raikot Road, Government Science and Research College and Lajpat Rai Kanya High School, Shashtri Nagar, have been declared hypersensitive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/all-set-for-smooth-conduct-of-elections-claims-admn-212155
14-02-2021||Lovleen Bains||Campaigning ends, wooing continues||Doraha, February 13Last-minute wooing by candidates continued even as official campaigning ended yesterday. Wooing seems to have taken the entire town in its stride as almost every candidate was found on streets of his or her ward making a final door-to-door visit, seeking voters’ support and winning their sympathies.As this correspondent tried to contact candidates in different wards, they seemed to be too busy to attend to the call as they did not wish to waste a single moment in issues which are not worth paying. Though none of them agreed to be campaigning anymore, almost everybody was found strengthening his or her personal connections and making a final last-minute attempt to win the poll.Besides spending a huge amount of money on flags, hoardings and posters, the candidates are now allegedly luring voters by wooing them with cash and kind. A resident said: “Though the day of voting is important but a day before is equally significant as candidates wish to give a last try to make further inroads into voters’ minds.”“The ones who are already confident of having established a comfortable position too are not at ease. To keep their position stronger till the last moment, they have to be extra cautious,” said a candidate.Another candidate, however, thinks differently as he says: “Voters are clear in their minds. They will listen to all but do what their conscious tells them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/campaigning-ends-wooing-continues-212156
14-02-2021||Ludhiana||Street vendors seek relief||Members of the Rehri Phari Federation, Ludhiana, and the National Association of Street Vendors of India have urged the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) to first set up vending zones instead of taking action against them.Tiger Singh, president, Rehri Phari Federation, Ludhiana, said they met the police commissioner and MC Commissioner and requested them not to take any action against the vendors till the vending zones are not set up.He said a number of street vendors have faced harassment as their carts were being removed from different areas. It is the responsibility of the civic body to provide a designated space for them.“The vendors have taken loan under a central government scheme. If their carts are removed from streets without setting up the vending zones, how will they earn and return the loan amount? We appeal to the MC and the police not to take action against the vendors at present. All registered vendors should be shifted to the vending zones first,” he said.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he had given instructions to Tehbazari head Neeraj Jain for shifting the vendors to the identified sites for vending zones. Till, toilet and water facility is not made available, no fee will be collected from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/street-vendors-seek-relief-212157
14-02-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Company ignoring our issues, say shopkeepers||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 13 Members of the Omaxe Market Association on Pakhowal Road held a protest against the management of Omaxe for allegedly ignoring their issues. Shopkeepers alleged that registry of shops was not being done even after nearly two years of getting possession. They also blamed the company for imposing ‘unexplainable’ maintenance charges and electricity charges. Karan Grover of the association said: “We have been demanding that the registry of our shops should be done at the earliest but to no avail. Problems being faced by us are also not being resolved. Waterlogging in the basement is a regular affair. Hence, we were forced to protest today as our voice was being ignored.” Another member Gagan Sood alleged that cleanliness was ignored outside shops. “There is no sanitation and cleanliness. The sewer system is poor and waterlogging issue is not being resolved,” he said. On the other hand, business head of Omaxe, Pakhowal Road, Parmod Gupta, denied the allegations. He said there was no problem related to maintenance, electricity charges, waterlogging and sewerage. He said electricity charges were collected as per the government norms. However, he further said once they get required completion certificate of two blocks, the registry process would be started and the matter would be resolved. “We have already talked to the shopkeepers regarding the registry process but they are pressuring us to do it immediately,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/company-ignoring-our-issues-say-shopkeepers-212158
14-02-2021||Sports Correspondent---||U-19 cricket trials on February 15||Ludhiana, February 13 The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), an affiliated unit of the Punjab Cricket Association, will organise trials to select players (U-19) on February 15 at GRD Global Education Institute, Hambran Road. Satish Mangal, president, LDCA, said the trials were being held for the cricket session 2020-21 in accordance with the decision of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) since the Punjab State Inter-District Cricket Tournaments were suspended midway last year due to Covid-19 and now the board has directed the state associations to instruct the district bodies to hold the selection trials afresh so that the tournaments could be accomplished.   Players born on or after September 1, 2001 are eligible for these trials. The selected players will represent Ludhiana district in the state championship, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/u-19-cricket-trials-on-february-15-212159
14-02-2021||Ludhiana||Workshop on human values||Road Safety Month observedThe NSS Unit and Red Cross Society of Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Model Town, Ludhiana observed National Road Safety Month 2021 as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. An online lecture on the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha- Jeevan Raksha’ was organised. Gurpreet Singh representative, Traffic Police, Ludhiana was the resource person. He apprised students about the intensity of the increasing number of road accidents and discussed traffic signs. He stressed upon the need to follow and observe traffic rules in our daily lives. Principal Maninder kaur appreciated the efforts of NSS Unit of the college and advised students to follow traffic rules in their daily lives. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/workshop-on-human-values-212160
14-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Harsimran aims more medals at int’l events||Payal, February 13Harsimran Kaur Jhajh, a Class VII student, Delhi Public School, Khanna, had fetched laurels to her town and the institute after she won four gold medals at the district level 10-m air rifle shooting competitions in Under 19, Junior 21 and Senior 21 besides her own U-17 category, organised by the International Shooting Sports Federation at Ludhiana recently. She had won four gold medals in the 29th Ludhiana District Air Rifle Shooting Championship and aims more positions at the international-level events.“I had been able to beat contestants in higher categories due to technical and scientific training by her coach Parvej Josh at the Best Shooter Shooting Academy, Patiala, and persistent motivation by her parents,” she said.“Having succeeded in paving the foundation in 10-m shooting competitions, I wish to explore chances in other events too. I also intend to strike a balance between sports and academic studies as both are complementary to each other for overall success at international level,” said Jhajh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/harsimran-aims-more-medals-at-intl-events-212164
