15-02-2021||Nitin Jain||High tempers, chaos mark MC polls in dist||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 14Tempers ran high and chaos prevailed at several polling stations as minor incidents of violence were reported during voting to 114 wards of the eight civic bodies in the district on Sunday. While 112 wards in six municipal councils went to the general elections, two wards in Mullanpur Dakha and Sahnewal nagar panchayats conducted bypolls.However, District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma claimed total peaceful polling. “No untoward incident was reported and it was a peaceful exercise,” Sharma told The Tribune at the end of the polling.The high and mighty candidates — supported by both ruling Congress and the Opposition AAP, SAD, BJP, and Independents — had their own way. After parting ways over the contentious farm laws, the SAD and the BJP contested the civic polls separately for the first time.While the Congress contested all 114 seats on the party symbol, the AAP fielded 109 candidates, SAD 86, BJP 45, and BSP 13. As many as 123 nominees opted to contest as Independents.The polling began at 8 am and continued till 4 pm, officials said.According to official figures, 70.33 per cent turnout was recorded, with Payal witnessing a brisk polling and recording the highest 83.09 per cent and Sahnewal registering the lowest 61.16 per cent voter turnout.The final polling figures compiled by the district election office revealed that as many as 1,43,036, including 75,771 males and 67,262 females and three transgenders of the total 2,03,385 voters exercised their franchise to elect 33 councillors in Khanna, 23 in Jagraon, 15 each in Samrala, Raikot, Doraha, 11 at Payal municipal councils, and one each in Mullanpur Dakha and Sahnewal nagar panchayats.The counting of votes would be held on February 17 and the results would be declared the same day.There were sporadic reports of bogus voting, rigging and minor violence going mostly unnoticed. Affected candidates, mostly from Opposition parties, were crying foul.But the story was not the same in all civic bodies. Several places saw peaceful polling and maximum voter turnout.The polling was disrupted for some time at some of the booths following a snag in electronic voting machines (EVMs).Supporters gave a tough time to the police in several areas, where tension prevailed throughout the day, as heavy police force intervened many times to ward off supporters of rival groups to avoid a clash.Meanwhile, the polling remained at low ebb at the beginning of the day and an average polling of 13.79 per cent was recorded till 10 am and 31.29 per cent till 12 noon, but it picked up pace as the day progressed and crossed 51 per cent at 2 pm to reach 70.33 at the close of the day. Several polling booths witnessed queues of voters even after the end of the polling time at 4 pm, when the voter turnout had crossed 70 per cent mark. Sources said several impersonators were held at polling booths and were let off by officials after the polling was over as no formal complaints were received against them.Most of the bogus voters, who were detected from several wards, were either young boys or migrant labourers posing as voters.However, the police denied any such incident while claiming that no case was registered in this regard till reports last came in.The police had to call additional force in some areas to bring the situation under control just before the polling was scheduled to end.Civil and police officers, led by District Election Officer Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, remained on foot the whole day. Sharma and Agrawal claimed that the polling was by and large peaceful with no violence reported from any part of the district. Election Observers also supervised the poll exercise throughout the day.The ruling and Opposition MLAs accompanied with their respective party leaders kept boosting their supporters in and around polling booths during the voting. The fate of a total 490 candidates, including 251 males and 239 females, in the fray was sealed in the EVMs.Foolproof arrangementsOfficials said necessary arrangements, including those pertaining to security, were put in place to ensure smooth polling. As many as 258 polling stations had been set up in the district.Enthusiasm writ largeEnthusiastic voters were seen at several places. A bridegroom went to cast his vote in Jagraon before solemnising his marriage. Voters, especially first-timers, queued up since early morning to cast their vote at several booths. There were reports of a few centenarians also exercising their franchise. A large number of women were seen in queues at a polling booth in Samrala.Bogus votersMost of the bogus voters, who were detected from several wards, were either young boys or migrant labourers posing as voters. However, the police denied any such incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-tempers-chaos-mark-mc-polls-in-dist-212602
15-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Buildings along Ladhowal bypass highway under NHAI scanner||Ludhiana, February 14A large number of residential and commercial buildings located along Sidhwan Canal from Verka Chowk to South City and further till Jhammat on the Ladhowal bypass highway are under the scanner of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).At least 60 owners of buildings that have entry or exit towards the highway have been served a one-month notice to get their buildings regularised under the revised guidelines of the NHAI issued in June last year.The Ladhowal bypass project, connecting Ferozepur Road with NH-44, has become operational after completion and as per the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, all buildings located along the highways were required to get “no objection certificate” (NOC) from the NHAI in accordance with the safety norms.The notices issued by the NHAI project director say that all property owners located along the highway, including industrial townships, estates, educational institutions, hospitals, shopping malls, commercial establishments , wayside amenities, fuel stations, restaurants, individual houses, stand-alone shops and farm houses, were required to obtain ‘permission of access’ to the highway on the payment of the stipulated one-time application fee and other charges fixed for this purpose for different categories of resident, commercial and institutional buildings.It has been also laid down in the revised guidelines that the competent authority (NHAI) was not bound to regularise all applications for regularisation (granting permission of access) to applicants since various factors like the smooth flow of traffic, minimum interference from vehicles entering the right of way of the highway and safety of road users had to be taken into consideration.As per the guidelines, all existing building owners would be required to gain access to highways through slip/service roads, and wherever such slip/service roads were not already provided, the owners would have to make changes for entry/exit of the buildings as per the directions and instructions of the competent authority.The building owners have been advised to apply for the regularisation of their properties (seek permission of access) as directed in the notices in their own interests without any delay as provisions have been made in the guidelines to block access of all such buildings to the highway that fail to respond to the notices and also within the stipulated period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/buildings-along-ladhowal-bypass-highway-under-nhai-scanner-212603
15-02-2021||Ludhiana||No death; 57 test +ve in dist||Fiftyseven persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district today. Six healthcare workers were also among the positives.At present, there are 328 active patients in the district. Today, a total of 68 patients (57 new from Ludhiana district and 11 from other states/districts) tested positive in the last 24 hours.One more student from Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, has tested positive. Now, a total of 16 students and five teachers have tested positive from this school.“A total of 1,028 samples were collected, out of which 16 students have tested positive,” said Dr Ramesh, district epidemologist.Till date, a total of 6,32,018 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 6,30,552 samples have been received. Out of these, 6,00,171 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,466 samples were pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 26,340, while 4,041 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date, 56,861 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 784. Today, 60 persons were sent for home quarantine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-57-test-ve-in-dist-212604
15-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Congress MLA’s fake obscene video goes viral||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 14After an alleged obscene video, claiming to be of Congress MLA from the East Constituency Sanjay Talwar went viral on social media, the MLA got registered a case of extortion and defamation against unknown persons. The MLA alleged that persons who circulated the video on social media in which a man’s face resembled him also demanded Rs 50 lakh ransom.The MLA said somebody, who had political rivalry with him, had been trying to defame him by spreading the fake video.He said unfortunately, on January 25, he got a shock as his wife Meenu Talwar’s health deteriorated and she breathed her last on February 1.“My political opponents who are jealous of my political career hatched a conspiracy to end my political career. They uploaded an obscene video of a man who has resemblance with my face on the Facebook page, ‘Congress Mukt Punjab’. In the video, the man was kissing a dancer,” Talwar said.The video also has a title, ‘Kisani bill maaf kranda Ludhiana da MLA Sanjay Talwar’, (farmers Bill being waived off by Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar.’)Later, on February 13, when his PA Kanwaljit Bobby opened his office, he found a letter, which had mentioned that the MLA should give Rs 50 lakh ransom to the accused otherwise more such videos of him would be made viral on social media.A case under Section 384 (extortion) 506 (criminal intimidation) and 499 (defamation) of the IPC and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act has been registered against the unknown persons and a probe has been launched to identify the accused.Congress workers said the video was not of Congress MLA Talwar. It shows some other person resembling him.Video still available on FBThe fake video is still available on a Facebook page, ‘Congress Mukt Punjab’, despite registration of a case against unknown persons in this regard by the Ludhiana police. The video has 1,700 shares, Rs 1.49 lakh views and hundreds of comments.The page shows the Congress and its leaders in a negative way and it has several obscene and objectionable videos of Congress leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-mlas-fake-obscene-video-goes-viral-212605
15-02-2021||---||13 persons booked for attacking man||Ludhiana, February 14A man was attacked by 13 persons at Bazigar Basti in Daad village near here. The victim suffered injuries and rushed to a hospital for treatment.The booked accused have been identified as Sunil Chand, Vijay, Mundri, Ashok, Pyar Ram, Tehal Singh, Kasturi Lal, Kaka, Ram Kumar, Pamma, Raman, Madhu Ram, and Karma, all residents of Daad village.Complainant Jaspal Singh of Kot Gangu Rai village told the police that he had borrowed Rs 2.20 lakh from the accused and in lieu he had given a blank cheque and property documents of his house to them.After repaying the amount, when he went to take back the documents the blank cheque, the accused started arguments with the victim and attacked him. After attack he submitted a complaint at the Sadar police station.Investigating officer ASI Om Prakash said a case under varius sections of the IPC was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-persons-booked-for-attacking-man-212606
15-02-2021||---||National honour for GADVASU Dean||Ludhiana, February 14Prof (Dr) Yashpal Singh Malik, Dean, College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), has been honoured with the prestigious “Fellow Award” of the Biotech Research Society, India (BRSI), for his contributions and highly significant achievements in the field of animal biotechnology, including development of state-of-art diagnostics for several pathogens affecting livestock and poultry.Prof Malik has developed several technologies and diagnostic kits and has two national patents to his credit. His contribution on zoonotic pathogens, affecting both humans and animals, was chosen for this prestigious award.Prof Malik earlier served as ICAR-National Fellow at the premier Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar.At the College of Animal Biotechnology, GADVASU, he is leading the team of experts in animal genomics, molecular diagnostics and vaccinology where advance research, facilitating the livestock sector is going on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/national-honour-for-gadvasu-dean-212607
15-02-2021||---||Lions Club ceremony||Ludhiana, February 14The installation ceremony of the new cabinet of the Lions Club Ludhiana (321F) was held today.The chief guest on the occasion was district governor, PR Jairath. Nakesh Garg, Lalit Bahl and Jagpreet Bahl were the guests of honour. The ceremony began by the reading of invocation by master of ceremony Dr Arvind Dhingra and Arvind Malhotra.SP Sharma was sworn in as the president for 2020-21, with Vaneet Kumar as secretary and Sham Sunder Goyal as treasurer. More than 50 Lion members attended the ceremony which was organised with full Covid protocol and precautions. The ceremony had fun games for families of lions.Zonal activity chairman and former president Varun Chandok apprised the audience of the permanent projects of diabetes clinic,homeopathic dispensary and computer centre. The meeting ended with the recitation of National Anthem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lions-club-ceremony-212608
15-02-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Take out time to express your love, respect for elderly||Our elders are a crucial part of our lives who guide us with their wisdom and experience throughout our lives, but unfortunately, today's generation doesn't treat them properly. The modern generation considers elders to be a burden on them and sends them to old age homes without even asking what they want. Old age homes are built for the senior citizens to stay and enjoy with their other companions but people have found it to be a way to get rid of the so-called 'burden' caused by the elders. The solution to the problem lies with none other than ourselves. If common people like us stop thinking of our seniors as a burden and start giving them the respect and value they deserve, we will understand how they are a blessing to us rather than a burden. We should try to take out some time to spend with them and try to make them happy. Kids should spend some time with their grandparents which will make the elders happy and the kids will learn moral values from them which will be a valuable gift to help them throughout their lives. Just a few small steps from our side will make the elders feel happy and wanted.Vansh ChaniTreat them with respectElders should always be treated with respect. Social interaction is the key to happiness in this age. The children should communicate with them by playing indoor/outdoor games and watching movies and also learning life lessons from them. They don't need much from us. Our first morning wish with a smile to them makes up their whole day. Nobody deserve old-age homes unless or until one is all alone in the world. The family should make arrangements to keep their elders busy. Moreover, they should be given work according to their will and capacity.Amarpreet KaurGive them time, loveOld people are an important part of our lives. But we still see people shifting these precious gems to old age homes. Everyone in this universe has to go through this phase. So, following are some tips that can help us know what makes old people happy. Firstly, social connections is a good key to a happy and joyful life. We should make them connected with family, friends and community. Secondly, we should keep them mentally active. We should converse with them and devote our time as much as we can. Thirdly, helping them in every way can also bring a smile on their faces. We should also go out for a walk with our grandparents and make them feel the happiness. Just these little small steps can make their lives filled with golden years and happiness.Harleen kaurDon’t make them feel aloneWe all must visit old-age homes once in our life to see the plight of our elders. They must be treated equally. Whatever we are eating, liking they must be a part of it. We must sit with them and listen to them. They should be taken to cinemas, parks and malls to see that they are a part of society. They should not feel alone in the society. God has created society to help each other but not to give any pain. Those who are sending their elders in old-age homes must be taxed heavily and all the expenses must be borne by them. On holiday and weekend, people must visit these centres and take these elders to their homes to spend at least one night with them in a month. There must be some indoor and outdoor games for these people. There must be a provision of libraries and newspapers so that they may spend their time easily. There must be some mini-theatre to watch some movies or other documentaries. They may be given some work so that they may remain busy.Farzana kaurEncourage physical & mental activitiesAll older adults or senior citizens who have gone through ups and downs deserve a better place to stay where they can find the fragrance of love and respect for them. The security in an old-age home give the senior citizens protection from intruders and help them live a safe and secure life. The elders also get companions there and get constant company of people of their own age. The society can also contribute in making oldest people wanted and happy by investing their time at old-age homes. If you find anyone suffering from depression then medical treatment should be called for. Remind senior citizens that they are useful and needed. Encourage physical and mental activities that will build their stamina and can relieve depression also. Above all, keep them connected to family, friends as isolation and loneliness need to dementia.Dr Jasdeep KaurMaintain traditionsIdeally, elders must stay at their residence instead of old-age homes. They are a source of continuous guidance and experiences for the youngsters. It is unfortunate that old persons are sent to the old age homes even though mostly a handsome of price has to be paid every month for their stay and maintenance there. This bad practice of making the old people stay in old age homes has been copied from the western culture and this is proving a curse here both for the old and their blood relations who move them from their original to old age homes. Our culture teaches us tolerance and respect to the elders and that must be followed and preferred. Several times, for this new trend of sending old people to old age homes women are blamed and this may not be true all the time. In the processes to reverse this trend, programmes must be launched by both by the government and various NGOs to educate the families to maintain our old traditions of giving respect to the elders in the family and keeping them comfortably in the homes along with the family instead of putting them in the old age homes. The old people feel miserable in the old age homes staying away from the children, while being eager to pass rest of their life with the kith and kin.Gautam DevShow deep regard, affection for themThose who have sacrificed their lives for us should be suitably rewarded rather than despised or disowned. An elderly is like a Banyan tree which always gives us shade and protects us from disasters. Our grandparents did everything to make us successful. At no cost they should be thrown into old-age homes, it is nothing short of a crime. Here neither do they get homely food nor do love as well as playmates (grandchildren) and they just face neglect, separation and seclusion. We owe a lot to our elders, their blessings and timely suggestions as well as guidance are really precious. We should invariably show deep regards and affection to them and those who don't have any senior citizen in their families should adopt one from the abandoned ones from the old age homes. This will give us a lot of contentment and of course a company to the deserted ones.Dr Sunil ChopraTeach children to respect eldersIn the era of technology, elderly are being sent to old age home. But they does not deserve that place they deserve place in our heart and deserve love, care and affection of their wards. By discovering new interest so that they can't feel bore and ignored at home. Fitness camp are to be organised in smart cities. Meet them with smiling faces, always wish them and take their blessing. Teach your children to respect the elders. Give priorities to the elders everywhere.SanjnaProvide them assistanceOld age persons don't deserve old age homes. They are the backbone of the society as they have experience of life and they are caretaker of their children. Moral values at school and college levels should be given to the students so that they can know the difference between right and wrong. Like foreign countries, government should take initiatives and make provision in budget about the safety and maintenance of old age people. The government should provide compulsory and good amount of pension to them so that they don't feel themselves as burden on their children and can live their life freely.Ritu PriyaServe them voluntarilyThat may be the worst time in the life of that person when people he/she sends his/her elders in an old-age home. This is not the way to return their efforts, kindness and pain full time they devoted to shape our lives. It becomes the duty of the society and those whose relatives are living in old aged centres to look after them. In each area, some people must come forward voluntarily on a rotation basis to serve these people. They must visit these centres and spend quality time with them. Some NGOs must come forward and depute their volunteers to play with them, share their lunch and dinner with them. The local government must make it mandatory for everyone, especially for relatives to visit alternatively in these centres. Parents must teach and educate their children to have respect for elders and parents and children must pledge not to send their elders in old aged homes. Other helpless people who are residing in these centres must be looked after by the citizens or NGOs so that they may not feel alone. They are also a part of the society.Dr. Mohd Saleem FarooquiIt’s children’s turn to support their parentsWith changing times we are becoming selfish. In my opinion, there is no need of old-age homes in a society like ours. These were never a part of the Indian tradition. The court has rightly made a judgement, according to which a son or daughter who cannot take care of their old parents, lose their right over their parents property. This is an apt judgement. The children should understand as they needed their parents in their childhood for proper upbringing, their parents too need them in their old age. Think that if they would have left them on their own during their infancy, how they would have been a healthy adult today. Same applies to the parents in old age. If children will not take care of them, they will be shattered not only physically, but also mentally. Now, it is the children's turn to support their old parents. Moreover, we must remember that whatever our children see, they will treat us the same way. So, all must respect their parents as well as take care of them.Bir Devinder Singh BediPayback timeThe steady security in an old age home gives them protection from intruders and helps them live a safe and secure life. One of the factors that make old-age homes attractive to elders is the companionship. They are in constant company of people their own age. Aged people without their child lives very upset. Leaving elders at old-age homes is very bad as that’s when they need our care and support. I think living in old age homes is nothing wrong. Wrong is when you leave your old parents there and live a comfortable life away from them.Akshar Kumar SinglaOPEN HOUSE COMMENTBe part of their joy, sorrowShivani Bhakoo“Old age is second Childhood”- Aristophanes. Nothing can be more painful than being abandoned by your loved ones at the dusk of your life. Today, many old-age homes have been opened to give support to senior citizens who are “helpless”. Good Samaritans, social organisations come forward to help these people by sharing their joys and sorrows. At the same time, the government has a major role to make their lives more comfortable.The government should make sure that old age persons are taken care of well.A panel of doctors should be arranged for their regular and routine check-up. Clubs should be asked to ensure that these people get entertainment dose at least once or twice a month by arranging fun-filled activities for them.The schools should be roped in to send students to spend quality time with them. And if possible, the wards who have abandoned them, should be counseled to take care of them well.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONWill filing online complaint solve the problem of air pollution in the industrial city of Ludhiana? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/take-out-time-to-express-your-love-respect-for-elderly-212609
15-02-2021||---||Road safety seminar at Halwara Air Force Station||Ludhiana, February 14In the ongoing National Road Safety Month, the Ludhiana traffic police organised a special seminar on road safety at Halwara Airforce Station. Air Force officers, their families and children took part in the seminar.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Gurdev Singh took part in the seminar on behalf of the traffic police.ACP Gurdev said prior to the seminar, the Air Force station had shown a special presentation highlighting the consequences of drunken driving, rash driving etc.Competition of children was also held at the Air Force station and they were also awarded prizes. On the conclusion of the seminar, Group Captain Tyagi honoured the ACP and extended thanks for his initiative.An interaction session on road safety was also organised at Punjab Roadways office where drivers and attendants were made aware about the road safety. Drivers were requested to follow the traffic rules and road safety norms so that accidents on road can be avoided.ACP Gurdev said the Punjab Roadways Department was also handed over a letter on the behalf of Ludhiana police requesting them to install CCTV cameras in their buses for the safety and security of female folk.Notably, the Ludhiana police was holding road safety and traffic awareness activities in city daily to observe the Road Safety Month started on January 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-safety-seminar-at-halwara-air-force-station-212610
15-02-2021||Ludhiana||Jiwanjot, Samarbir,  shine in skating||Shaan Kaur and Jiwanjot Kaur in the girls’ section and Samarbir Singh in the boys’ group clinched two titles each in the 23rd Ludhiana District Roller Skating Championship for Boys and Girls (Cadet) that began at the Leisure Valley Skating Rink, Sarabha Nagar, on Saturday.Shaan secured top positions in the 9-11 years’ category in rink race IV and rink race VI while Jiwanjot proved her mettle by winning the first position in the rink I and rink II events in the same age group whereas Samarbir stamped his authority, annexing titles in the 7-9 age group in rink IV and V events.Around 45 participants are vying for top honours in this two-day competition. JS Dhaliwal, honorary general secretary, Ludhiana District Roller Skating Association, and other office-bearers were among those present.ResultsBoys: (9-11 years) rink race IV: Bipinpreet Singh 1st, Sarthak 2nd and Kavanpartap Singh 3rd; (7-9 years) rink race IV: Samarbir Singh 1st, Karanbir Singh 2nd and Tavreez Singh 3rd; (9-11 years) rink race I: Anhad Singh 1st, Subhjot Singh 2nd and Satwinder Singh 3rd; (7-9 years) rink race II: Jason Walia 1st, Abhiraj Singh 2nd and Reyansh Gupta 3rd; (5-7 years) rink race II: Pranav Chauhan 1st, Aumamdeep Singh 2nd and Vaibhav Verma 3rd; (7-9 years) rink race III: Raninder Singh 1st, Jason Walia 2nd and Avyukt Sharma 3rd; (7-9 years) rink race V: Samarbir Singh 1st, Karanbir Singh 2nd and Gaurish Aneja 3rd; Girls: (9-11 years) rink race IV: Shaan Kaur 1st, Vishavpreet Kaur 2nd and Sukhmanjot Kaur 3rd; (7-9 years) rink race IV: Sirjan Kaur 1st, Gurasis Kaur 2nd and Ekampreet Kaur 3rd; (9-11 years) rink race I: Jiwanjot Kaur 1st, Peehu Chopra 2nd and Avneet Kaur 3rd; (5-7 years) rink race II: Sehajpreet Kaur 1st, Anahat Preet Kaur 2nd and Taisha Garg 3rd; (9-11 years) rink race VI: Shaan Kaur Grewal 1st, Vishavjeet Kaur 2nd and Ridhima 3rd; (9-11 years) rink race II: Jiwanjot Kaur 1st, Maanya 2nd and Avneet Kaur 3rd. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jiwanjot-samarbir-shine-in-skating-212662
