17-02-2021||Ludhiana||All set for counting of votes in Ludhiana||Amid apprehensions that electronic voting machines (EVMs) could be tampered with and the Opposition parties keeping a strict vigil at strong rooms where EVMs are stored, all arrangements are in place for the counting of votes polled for eight civic bodies – Khanna, Jagraon, Raikot, Doraha, Samrala, Payal, Sahnewal and Mullanpur Dakha – at 8 counting centres in Ludhiana district on Wednesday.8 Counting centresThe counting centres have been set up in Ludhiana district for February 17.The fate of 490 candidates, including 251 males and 239 females, which was sealed in the EVMs on Sunday, would be known on Wednesday when the counting of votes gets under way at the counting centres, one each located in every MC town.The polling to 114 wards of eight civic bodies in the district was held on Sunday. While 112 wards in six municipal councils went for the general elections, two wards in Mullanpur Dakha and Sahnewal nagar panchayats conducted bypolls.Doubts on EVMs baseless: CongThe Congress leaders said the Opposition parties were “seeking excuses in the face of their imminent defeat and raising doubts over EVMs”. “When they see their defeat is imminent, they raise doubts over EVMs, but when they won elsewhere, they didn’t say anything about EVMs,” they said, adding, “Why did they not raise doubts after they won in Haryana and Delhi?” They said the Opposition was making needless controversy over EVMs which, they claimed, were foolproofThe counting of votes would begin at 8 am, the District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said. The second and the final randomisation of the counting staff in the presence of election observers was conducted here today.Ludhiana Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said a three-tier security arrangement had been put in place at the counting centres, with the heavy deployment of police personnel to avert any untoward incident and ensure free, fair, and peaceful counting of votes followed by the declaration of results. The voter turnout in Ludhiana district was recorded at 70.33 per cent, almost 1 per cent lower than the average 71.39 per cent votes polled during the MC elections in the state. While Payal had recorded the highest 83.09 per cent polling, Sahnewal had registered the lowest 61.16 per cent voter turnout.The final polling figures compiled by the district election office revealed that as many as 1,43,036 persons, including 75,771 males, 67,262 females and three transgenders of the total 2,03,385 voters, exercised their franchise to elect 33 councillors in Khanna, 23 in Jagraon, 15 each in Samrala, Raikot, Doraha, 11 at Payal municipal councils, and one each in Mullanpur Dakha and Sahnewal nagar panchayats. While the Congress contested all 114 seats on the party symbol, the AAP fielded 109 candidates, SAD 86, BJP 45, and BSP 13. As many as 123 nominees opted to contest as Independents.The poll outcome will decide whether the Congress, which had won maximum eight of the total 14 Assembly constituencies in this district in the 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections, would be able to retain the hold at the grassroots level. The main Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which had won three Assembly seats, and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which was able to retain the lone Sahnewal segment during the last general Assembly polls, were also trying hard to mark their existence in the civic body elections. However, the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), which represents the Ludhiana South and Atam Nagar Assembly segments, had not fielded the candidates on its party ticket.After parting ways over contentious farm laws, the SAD and the BJP contested the civic polls separately for the first time.All candidates belonging to the ruling Congress and the Opposition parties had put in their best and were locked in a fierce contest while facing each other ahead of the state general elections, due early next year.With the leaders of both the ruling Congress and the Opposition parties exuding confidence on their victory, who wrests control over the civic bodies in the district, will be known tomorrow.Cong remains optimisticDespite the State Election Commission (SEC) repeatedly allaying apprehensions on this count, dismissing all reports of EVM manipulation, workers of the Opposition parties are putting up a 24x7 vigil outside the counting centres where the sealed EVMs had been stored under strong guard.The AAP, SAD, BJP, and BSP leaders have urged their respective party workers to have faith in their leadership and told them to remain vigilant. “Remain alert and vigilant. You are fighting for truth. Don’t get disheartened by false claims. Have faith in yourself and the party, your efforts would not go in vain,” the Opposition leaders told the activists.Meanwhile, the Congress leaders said the Opposition parties were “seeking excuses in the face of their imminent defeat and raising doubts over EVMs”. “When they see their defeat is imminent, they raise doubts over EVMs, but when they won elsewhere, they didn’t say anything about EVMs,” they said, adding, “Why did they not raise doubts after they won in Haryana and Delhi?” They said the Opposition was making “needless controversy” over EVMs, which they claimed were foolproof.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-in-ludhiana-213607
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Resident complains to MC against blockades||As the work on ROB/RUBs on Pakhowal Road is in progress, residents of areas like Sarabha Nagar and Jagjeet Nagar are facing a lot of inconvenience.Now, a resident has sent a complaint to the Municipal Corporation (MC) against the alleged unauthorised blockades on a road in Jagjeet Nagar in the city.Jagdip Madaan, a resident of Jagjeet Nagar, has sent the complaint to the civic body’s zonal commissioner concerned, demanding the removal of the blockades from the road parallel to the railway lines in the area.“As the Pakhowal Road stretch is closed due to the construction work, so there is no way left to go outside. Three poles installed on Jagjeet Nagar road are obstructions in traffic movement. In case of an emergency, the Fire Brigade or ambulance can’t move through this road in Jagjeet Nagar due to the blockade, while the Pakhowal Road stretch is already closed,” he said.“To restrict traffic movement through this stretch in Jagjeet Nagar, some persons had earlier got poles installed. In view of the ongoing work on Pakhowal Road, I request the MC to remove these illegal blockades from the road parallel to the railway lines in Jagjeet Nagar,” he said.Zonal Commissioner, Kulpreet Singh, said he had no information regarding such complaint at present. He said he could comment only after looking into the complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/resident-complains-to-mc-against-blockades-213609
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Pre-board examinations begin||The pre-board examinations of various classes in government schools have started. While the state government has claimed to have converted many schools into Smart ones, still students suffer due to the lack of infrastructure.In many schools, students were made to sit on floor in corridors outside classes as there were not enough benches available for them or the classrooms got too congested to accommodate them in the classrooms.Teachers have complained that these days, many cases of Covid are being reported from schools, still guidelines are not being followed simply because of the lack of infrastructure. A teacher at Government High School, Kot Mangal Singh, said one teacher in the school had come as Covid positive.“We have to ensure that students and teachers are safe, but we cannot do so simply because of the lack of facilities and infrastructure. The students cannot sit by maintaining proper distance as there is not enough space available. Teachers, students and their parents are in panic because of the present situation of Covid positive cases, but how can we maintain proper guidelines in the absence of facilities?” asked the teacher.A visit to Shaheed-e-Azam Senior Secondary School for Girls, Bharat Nagar Chowk, showed that students were made to sit on floor. “Honestly, neither proper distance is being maintained nor it is ensured that students sit on benches, but we cannot help and it is the state government to see that students do not suffer,” said a teacher.It is not that problems are faced in these two schools only. At many schools, similar problems were evident. Gurpreet Kaur, a student appearing for her science pre-board exam, said sitting on the floor was not easy, especially when exams are going on. Card-boards are tilted here and there while sitting on floor, but there are not enough desks to accommodate all students, said Gurpreet Kaur.Students from classes VI to X are appearing for various examinations in the pre-board examinations. The exams started from February 15 and will continue till February 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pre-board-examinations-begin-213610
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Disability no dampener for this para-athlete aiming for Olympics||Tarandeep Singh Randhawa, aged 31, did not get the job he desired as he was disabled and anywhere he applied for work, physical fitness was a prerequisite.Instead of losing heart for being physically challenged, Randhawa made his disability strength and today, he is making sincere efforts to participate in Olympics as a para-athlete.Talking to The Tribune, he said, “I have just one arm, the other one is not there since birth. Life was too difficult, but then I never allowed this disability to dampen my spirits. I am working in the field of ayurvedic medicine and side by side, I am preparing myself for athletics. I have already created a niche for myself at the district and state level, but now I want to achieve something big,” he said.Not just an athlete, Tarandeep Singh Randhawa played cricket between 2011-15 and represented the Indian team (disabled) in a triangular series. “I see everything in a positive manner. I do yoga, jogging, push-ups regularly and this disability has never made me feel inferior. Some things are not in your hands and for that, you cannot crib all the time. Life is to move on and enjoy”, he said.Sports is his passion and for it, he regularly goes to Guru Nanak Bhawan for practice. His friends always support him whole-heartedly and believe that he will make a name for himself as he is committed and focused.A resident of Harnam Nagar, Model Town, Tarandeep said his elder brother taught him cricket when he was small and after that, there has been no looking back.Cricket and athletics are his passion. If he runs as a para-athlete, he also has a great craving to play cricket which makes him feel happy and relaxed. He is practising to participate in 2021, 2024 Olympics as a para-athlete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/disability-no-dampener-for-this-para-athlete-aiming-for-olympics-213611
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested for killing neighbour||The Ludhiana police claimed to have arrested a man who had brutally killed his neighbour over old enmity in New Shimlapuri. The accused was hiding in Karnal after committing the crime.The accused has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, alias Rinku, of New Shimlapuri.Joint Commissioner of Police (Rural) Sachin Gupta, along with ACP Sandeep Wadehra, addressed a press conference in this regard.The JCP said on February 10, Jora Singh (55) was standing near his house and the accused came on his motorcycle and started throwing stones at stray dogs. He also beat the canines. When the deceased stopped the accused from doing the same, the latter turned furious and attacked the victim with a sharp weapon.Gupta said the deceased was immediately taken to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.The accused also had old enmity with the victim as a few months ago both had a scuffle over some issue.The JCP said since the day of murder, separate teams were formed to trace the accused and on February 15, the police got a tip-off that he was hiding at his relative’s house in Karnal, Haryana, where a police party conducted a raid and nabbed him.During preliminary questioning, the accused confessed that after killing Jora, he had thrown the sharp weapon (knife) on an empty plot on the Dhandra road. The weapon was also recovered from the spot.The JCP said Gurmeet has no criminal history but his son had been facing some criminal cases and he was at present lodged in the Central Jail here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-killing-neighbour-213613
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||MC spent Rs 212 cr on road maintenance in 5 yrs: RTI||Though a number of city roads have been riddled with potholes, information obtained under the RTI revealed that the Municipal Corporation has spent around Rs 212 crore on the maintenance of roads in the past five financial years. After obtaining the information, an RTI activist raised questions over the poor condition of many roads in the city.Vigilance probe soughtAlleging irregularities, Rohit Sabharwal of the Council of RTI Activists has sought a Vigilance inquiry into the use of Rs 212 crore on the maintenance of roads. He questioned as to how and where the maintenance of roads was done by spending this huge amount when most of the roads have big potholes? He sent a complaint to the Chief Secretary, Punjab, and the ADGP-cum-Chief Director of Vigilance Bureau, demanding a probe in the matter.Alleging irregularities, Rohit Sabharwal of the Council of RTI Activists has sought a Vigilance inquiry into the use of Rs 212 crore on the maintenance of roads. He questioned as to how and where the maintenance of roads was done by spending this huge amount when most of the roads have big potholes? He sent a complaint to the Chief Secretary, Punjab, and the ADGP-cum-Chief Director of Vigilance Bureau, demanding a probe in the matter.The information revealed that Rs 55.38 crore were spent during 2015-16, Rs 79.30 crore during 2016-17, Rs 27.96 crore during 2017-18, Rs 22.11 crore during 2018-19 and Rs 27.50 crore during 2019-20 for maintenance of roads in the city. Besides, around Rs 176 crore were spent on new road works during the five years.Sabharwal said: “A huge amount of around Rs 212 crore has been spent on the maintenance of roads by the MC, Ludhiana, in the past five years. No proper record has been maintained by the B&R branch regarding how much material was used in patchworks on specific roads and against that material how much amount was spent. The civic body has also failed to maintain measurement books regarding the road works.”He alleged that “by looking at the condition of roads in the city, it does not seem that this much of huge amount was spent on maintenance of the roads as most of roads are damaged and have huge potholes on them, which ultimately proves life threatening to commuters. Thus, we have sought a Vigilance inquiry into the use of huge amount on maintenance of roads.”Notably, questions were raised earlier also over the quality of the patchwork done on a number of city roads as potholes had reappeared within a short period. Moreover, it is also learned that information regarding the patchwork is not being updated on the MC’s official website timely.On the other hand, MC’s B&R branch officials claimed that proper record was being maintained. MC Superintending Engineer Parveen Singla, who looks after the hot mix plant work, said: “The material is distributed among subdivisions from the plant. We keep a record that how much material was distributed and on which date.”Another official of the B&R branch claimed that a ward-wise record that how much material was used on which road for patchwork was also being maintained. Additional Commissioner Rishipal Singh said he had no information regarding any such complaint but he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-spent-rs-212-cr-on-road-maintenance-in-5-yrs-rti-213614
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Remote Sensing Centre bags project||The Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), Ludhiana, has bagged a research project, ‘Modelling interrelationships among air quality, crop residue burning, soil moisture and crop yield using geospatial technology’ from the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS).Dr Brijendra Pateriya, Director, PRSC, stated that this pilot study was a novel attempt to evaluate the interrelationship among air quality, crop residue burning, soil moisture and crop yield.The project team is led by Dr RK Setia, senior scientist, along with Dr Sharad Gupta of the PRSC, and Dr H Sembhi from the University of Leicester, United Kingdom. Dr Setia said the effect of initial soil moisture on the concentration of emitted gases due to the crop residue burning and also the effect of residue burning on wheat yield in parts of Central Punjab would be studied using satellite remote sensing.Dr Gupta added that the interrelationship among crop yield — soil moisture — crop residue burning-air quality would also be evaluated. The study will deliver actionable data towards sustainable crop production and mitigating air pollution sources in the Indo-Gangetic plains. Earlier, the PRSC also got support from Microsoft for working on climate and natural resources using geospatial technology as the PRSC have capabilities to work on managing natural resources of Punjab and local service delivery with the support of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-remote-sensing-centre-bags-project-213615
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||MC officials face resistance||A team of the Municipal Corporation (MC) was opposed when it went to demolish a staircase in front of a shop at Ghumar Mandi. MC officials claimed that the staircase was installed in an unauthorised manner.However, president of Ghumar Mandi Market Association Pawan Batra opposed the MC action.He said: “A staircase was installed in the area that belongs to me. It is not illegal and it was set up on my land.”“A shopkeeper has complained against the staircase. Following his complaint, the Municipal Corporation had visited the area to take action against the same. However, the MC had not served any notice in this regard to me or my family. Hence, I opposed the Municipal Corporation’s action,” he said.Afterwards, the MC team returned without removing the staircase.ATP MS Bedi said they had received a complaint against the staircase. “Now, a fresh notice has been served to the property owner to remove the staircase at his own level, otherwise action would be taken”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-officials-face-resistance-213616
17-02-2021||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana||Assn to hold softball trials tomorrow||The Punjab Softball Association will organise selection trials to select the Punjab teams (men and women) at the Guru Nanak Stadium here on February 18 from 10am onwards.PN Passi, honorary general secretary of the association, said selected players would attend a coaching/training camp before finalising squads to take part in the 42nd Senior National Softball Championship, scheduled to be held from March 20 to 24 at Bharatpur in Rajasthan.Aspirants have to bring copy of Aadhaar card and two passport size photographs.Meanwhile, trials to select the Ludhiana district senior men and women teams will be held at the same venue from 11.30 am onwards and selected players would participate in the Senior Punjab State Softball Championship. Players are told to bring their two passport size photographs along with Aadhaar cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/assn-to-hold-softball-trials-tomorrow-213618
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||ATC Bashers, NB Scorchers log wins in cricket meet||ATC Bashers, along with M Jain Superkings NB Scorchers, Techno Finishers and Redhill Rippers scripted victories in their respective matches on the third day of the 4th JITO Premier League being organised by the youth wing of the Jain International Trade Organisation on the SCD Government College ground here today.In the first match of the day, Vijay Vallabh Swaggers scored 58 runs after losing eight wickets in 10 overs while ATC Bashers achieved the target, making 61 runs for the loss of just one wicket in only 6.2 overs and wrapped up the issue by nine wicktets. The highlight of their win was an unbeaten 40 runs by Kanav Jain. The second match was played between M Jain Superkings and Sweet Touch Strikers in which the former came out triumphant by six wickets.In other matches, NB Scorchers defeated SP & SV Riders by 30 overs; Techno Finishers beat Bhomia Sunrisers by four wickets and Redhill Rippers overpowered Charlie Strikers by 12 runs. Sixteen teams are taking part in the week-long league, being organised with the theme ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/atc-bashers-nb-scorchers-log-wins-in-cricket-meet-213619
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Civic body to use new vehicles for recovery||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-to-use-new-vehicles-for-recovery-213620
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Malwa Central College||Gobindgarh Public CollegeOn the occasion of Basant Panchmi, a webinar was organised on the significance of Basant Panchami’ at Gobindgarh Public College, Alour (Khanna). The webinar began with Saraswati Vandana, invoking the blessings of Goddess Saraswati for seeking knowledge and wisdom. Dr Jagjit Kaur, principal, Shaheed Kashi Memorial College, Mohali, and Dr Kulwinder Kaur, Malwa College, Bondli, Samrala, were the resource persons. College principal Dr Neena Seth Pajni was the convener for the event.Bhai Kahn Singh Nabha InstituteBhai Kahn Singh Nabha Institute of Management and Human Resource Development, Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle, Ludhiana, organised a one-day teachers’ training workshop at Blossoms Convent School, Jagraon. Gurjit Singh, secretary of the institute, welcomed participants. Gurmit Singh, director of the institute, inaugurated it and said besides training given to the cadre, the institute holds training programs for teachers, principals, intellectuals, sportsmen, granthis, etc, for imparting moral and ethical values.Partap CollegePartap College of Education, Ludhiana, celebrated Basant Panchami with zeal. Teachers motivated students to attend regular offline classes. “All students and faculty, wearing colourful costumes, participated enthusiastically in the celebrations, which were aimed at making everyone aware of the history and importance of the day,” said Prof Balwant Singh, Director of the college. Principal Dr Manpreet Kaur released a book, ‘Jivan Ke Rang’, written by Poonam Bala on the occasion.Khalsa College for WomenNCC cadets of the Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, participated in an annual training camp at Moga. “It was organised under the supervision of 5 Punjab Girls Battalion Col BS Kumar. The commanding officer motivated cadets in his opening address to participate in every activity organised in the camp. Cadets were provided with practical as well as theoretical knowledge regarding first aid, disaster management, weapon training, map reading and drill,” said principal Dr Rajwider Kaur Hundal.Arya CollegeArya College girls’ section celebrated Basant Panchmi with Saraswati Vandana. Suksham Ahluwalia, convener, IQAC, and in-charge, girls’ section, said Maa Saraswati’ is a goddess of knowledge and bestows the same on everyone. “On this occasion, all associated with art should worship her,” she said. Sweets were distributed among all at the end of the event.CT UniversityA two-day ‘Industrial Motivation Campaign’ on self employment opportunities by Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) Development Institute, Ludhiana, was organised at CT University. Officials from the MSME and other government departments attended the event and shared knowledgeable insights for students. RK Parmar, director, MSME DI, Ludhiana, GoI, said: “The MSME, in continuation of its efforts, is focusing on unemployed and educated youth to ensure that they are motivated to start their own ventures.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/malwa-central-college-213621
17-02-2021||Ludhiana||Cell phones, tobacco seized from jail inmates||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cell-phones-tobacco-seized-from-jail-inmates-213623
