19-02-2021||---||Farmers block railway tracks in Ludhiana district for 4 hours||Ludhiana, February 18 In view of the rail roko call given by farmers’ unions, hundreds of farmers and their supporters staged dharnas on railway tracks at different locations in the district from 12 noon to 4 pm on Thursday, marking their protest against the new farm laws. In Ludhiana district, farmers blocked the tracks at the Ludhiana railway station, Jagraon, Chowkiman, Mullanpur, Kila Raipur, Sahnewal, Dhandari Kalan and other locations. A number of residents also participated in the protests in the city and suburbs. The agitators raised slogans against the Modi government, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. Members of the Bharti Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) criticised the Central Government for ignoring the demands of farmers. Farmers also kept a two-minute silence on the Amritsar-Delhi railway tracks in Ludhiana, paying tributes to those who had lost their lives during the ongoing stir against the laws. They demanded the release of the arrested farmers and activists and the cancellation of the FIRs that were registered against them at the earliest. Bharpoor Singh Tharike of the BKU Ekta (Ugrahan), said, “On the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, we are sitting on the tracks at the Ludhiana railway station. We have been demanding from the Centre the repeal of the laws. More than 200 farmers have died in the ongoing stir.” “The government should hear the voice of the farmers and repeal these laws. The MSP-based procurement should be guaranteed. Moreover, the farmers and activists, arrested for raising their voice in support of farmers, should be immediately released. We will keep fighting for our rights till the black laws are repealed.” During dharna at the railway station, Jaswant Singh Jirakh said, “We are following the footsteps of martyrs Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha and Shaheed Bhagat Singh, who sacrificed their lives for the country’s freedom We are fighting for our rights. All should be united against the divisive forces.” Members of the Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha Punjab Ludhiana, Moulder and Steel Workers Union, Tarksheel Society Punjab, Lok Ekta Sangathan, Inquilabi Kender Punjab, and other organisations also participated in the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-block-railway-tracks-in-ludhiana-district-for-4-hours-214551
19-02-2021||---||Man found dead in hotel room, friend’s role under scanner||Ludhiana, February 18 A man was found dead in a hotel room at Bhadaur House here this afternoon. The deceased was identified as Rahul Jain, aged 55, of Kitchlu Nagar and was in hosiery goods business. On Tuesday, some person had booked a room in Nanda hotel. The room number was 504 on the fifth floor of the hotel. The same evening the person left the hotel, telling the hotel staff not to disturb his friend Rahul as he had some health issue. The hotel staff didn’t disturb the person, following the request of the man. After the matter reached the police today, ADCP Pragya Jain reached the spot, along with a dog squad and forensic experts. Police sources said on February 16, a man, said to be the friend of the deceased, had booked a hotel room and the next morning, he left the room with clear directions to the hotel staff not to disturb his friend. Today, on suspicion when the hotel staff went to check the room, they found Rahul lying dead. Sources said Rahul had left his home on February 16 and had told his parents that he was going to  Chintpurni shrine in Himachal Pradesh to pay obeisance, but instead of going to the shrine he, along with his friend, booked the hotel room.  Sources said the man seemed to have died due to drug overdose as some injections were also reportedly recovered from the hotel room, but the police denied to confirm any such information, citing the ongoing probe. The police suspected both had consumed drugs and Rahul could have died due to overdose. Fearing action, his friend left the hotel. A case under Section 304 (culpable homicide) was being registered by the police against the friend of the deceased who had booked the hotel room. The police are yet to identify the friend of the deceased and the phone number used by him to book the hotel is being scanned to identify the friend. The phone number is said to be of some other state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-dead-in-hotel-room-friends-role-under-scanner-214552
19-02-2021||---||AAP MLA among 40 booked for blocking highway||Ludhiana, February 18The police have registered a case against an MLA of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) among 40 persons for blocking the National Highway in Jagraon.Those booked have been identified as MLA Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, Sukhwinder Singh, Sukhvir Singh, Ram Saran, Santosh Rani, Balvir Singh, Gagandeep Kaur, Lovepreet Kaur, Jasvir Kaur, Jaswant Bhalla, Rama Nagar, Raj Singh, Vicky and 30 unknown persons.The investigation officer, sub-inspector (SI) Gaganpreet Singh, said he was present at DAV College, Jagraon, where counting of votes for the Municipal Council election was going on.When counting was almost complete, AAP MLA with party workers went to the National Highway and blocked the stretch, the SI added. Huge traffic jam was witnessed on the highway due to road blockade by AAP workers, the SI said. AAP workers were told to clear the highway, but they didn’t budge, the SI added.AAP workers violated instructions of the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner issued under Section 144, CrPc, and the Covid prevention guidelines, the SI said. So, they were booked by the police, the SI added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-mla-among-40-booked-for-blocking-highway-214553
19-02-2021||Ludhiana||House theft case solved, Rs 8L recovered||The police claims to have cracked a house theft case reported from Meharban on February 13. The suspect has been identified as Raju, alias Bramanand of Uttar Pradesh.  While addressing a press conference, the Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP), Rural, Sachin Gupta said, “The police have recovered Rs8.07 lakh cash from the suspect.”  Kewal Kumar of Kakka village had lodged a complaint against his servant Raju after he decamped with cash and valuables worth lakhs from his house, the JCP added.  Kewal went to market along with his family and on returning home, they found their servant missing, the JCP said. On checking, cash and valuables were also found missing, the JCP added. Today, a tip-off was received about suspect’s whereabouts in Ludhiana and he was nabbed after conducting raid, the JCP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/house-theft-case-solved-rs-8l-recovered-214554
19-02-2021||---||25 positive; one death in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 18One person lost his life to Covid, while 25 tested positive for the virus in the district. The total positive cases in the district have now reached 26,488, while the death count has gone to 1,016.At present, there are 365 active cases in the district, while 15 people were home quarantined today.Till date, a total of 6,41,572 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 6,39,827 samples have been received. Out of these, 6,09,261 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,745 samples were pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 26,488, while 4,078 patients belong to other districts/states.The person who lost his life today was a 66-year-old male from GK Colony and had been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital. He had co-morbidities of diabetes and acute kidney disease.Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, said it was the duty of the people to follow the safety measures. Wearing masks, washing hands frequently and maintaining social distance was vital. People should not get careless and not their guard down in the matter.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma also appealed to the residents to follow all Covid safety protocols.Don’t send students to rallies, functions: Edu deptWorried over the Covid cases found in various schools, the Education Department has issued instructions to school heads not to send students in awareness rallies, being organised by NGOs and in villages etc.As per the instructions issued by the department, the heads have been advised not to send students to rallies or campaigns by non-government organisations and agencies so that students do not get any health problems due to the spread of Covid or changing weather.Meanwhile, many teachers have welcomed the move. They believe that Covid has already put a dent on the regular routine. Things were coming back to normal after a gap of 10 months and the concentration should be on better performance in the upcoming exams of all classes. The rallies will not just expose the students to health issues, but also make them lose focus in studies. Surinder Kaur, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Ghudani Kalan, hailed the decision of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/25-positive-one-death-in-ludhiana-district-214555
19-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested with 38 bottles of syrup||The police Division No. 6 nabbed a drug peddler and recovered 38 bottles of banned syrup from him. The suspect has been identified as Saaji of Malerkotla. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said acting on a tip-off, a naka was laid on the Overlock road. The suspect was stopped for checking at the naka, he added. Later, in the presence of the ACP rank officer, belongings of the suspect were checked, which led to the recovery of banned syrup, he said. The police also seized the motorcycle of the suspect, he added. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-with-38-bottles-of-syrup-214556
19-02-2021||Ludhiana||Woman delivers twins at park in hospital||An expectant woman gave birth to twins in the park of the Civil Hospital here this evening. She had been admitted to Mother and Child Hospital on Wednesday.  According to Santosh Kumar, the husband of the woman, the woman was sent for getting her echo test at the CMCH, but was not provided ambulance and when she started going towards the gate of the hospital on foot, she started having labour pains. She soon gave birth to the twins in the park with the help of women present around. After this, the woman was admitted in the hospital. According to the hospital authorities, it was a pre-mature delivery. The weight of the twins was less and they had been referred to the PGI. “We could not get the ambulance and when I went inside the hospital to seek help, she had already given birth,” said her husband. The SMO, Dr Amarjit Kaur, said the incident had come to her notice and she had marked an inquiry into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-delivers-twins-at-park-in-hospital-214557
19-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Farmers, women block rly tracks at Kilaraipur||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Feb 18 Intensifying their agitation against the three new agricultural laws, protesting farmer unions today blocked railway tracks for four hours in the region. The railway tracks were blocked in response to a nationwide call given by the Sanyukat Kisan Morcha. Harnek Singh Gujjarwal, an office-bearer of the morcha, said activists of various farmer unions, including women, sat on tracks at Kilaraipur railway station from 12 noon to 4 pm. Speakers, including Zamhoori Kisan Sabha leaders Prof Jaipal Singh and Dr Jaswinder Singh, alleged that the arrogant and arbitrary attitude of the Prime Minister and his colleagues had created a situation wherein farmers, agricultural labourers, artisans and small traders, including commission agents, had stopped trusting those governing the country. The speakers demanded that the Prime Minister should either resign from his post or announce to repeal three agricultural laws without any further delay. Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September last year. The protesting farmers have been alleging that the new laws will weaken the MSP mechanism and end the cultivator friendly mandi system. Many join protest in Doraha  The call for ‘rail roko’ today received a good response at Doraha railway station with each and every section of society joining hands with sons of the soil to protest against the three ordinances of the Centre Government.  Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union EKTA (Ugrahan) actively collaborated with other farmer unions to protest against the three anti-farmer and anti-people Farm Acts 2020 and Electricity Amendment Bill 2020. “We simply cannot tolerate a government, which has no space for discussion, expression or dialogue. How can the government ever think of imposing a particular law, rule or Act without the consent of those with whose support it has come to power?,” said BKU (Ekta) Ugrahan general secretary Saudagar Singh Ghudani while addressing farmers today.  Kuldeep Singh Grewal, Lakhveer Singh Nanowal, Paramveer Singh Ghaloti, Baljinder Singh Gujjarwal, Harmanjit Singh Aasi Kalan, Hakam Jargari, Lakhwinder Singh Uksi, Taranjit Koohli, Darshan Phallewal and Baldev Jeerah were among those, who addressed protesting farmers at the Doraha railway station. “Our protest will continue till the Centre is forced to take back the three farm laws. Wrong beliefs, which the Centre has nurtured, will be falsified when the farming and the non-farming community remains steadfast till the end and resists each and every arbitrary move of the so called people’s government,” said unionists.  “We have been protesting for long, but with perseverance and show of strength we shall prove that the governments cannot unthinkably impose any such decision on the community, which is the feeding bowl of the country,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-women-block-rly-tracks-at-kilaraipur-214558
19-02-2021||Nitin Jain||Capt, not anti-incumbency, was on voters’ mind||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 18The Congress party’s landslide victory and the Opposition’s decimation in the Municipal Council elections in the district has a clear message from the voters. They still want the Congress, notwithstanding the anti-incumbency, rising inflation and other local issues which await a solution even four years after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has been in office. This sentiment is doubly underlined by the absolute majority logged by the Congress candidates, the highest being winning all 15 seats in Raikot, which was represented by the main Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, in all 6 MCs that went for elections.It underscores the point that the massive protest against farm laws failed to benefit the AAP in Punjab. It will not be inapt to say residents have voted for Capt Amarinder Singh, more than the Congress. However, some observers contend that these were local elections with the majority of voters in urban areas having nothing much to do with the farmers’ issues.  Opposition cries foulWhile the AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ranks, who had made much of the farmers’ stir, are demoralised, the Congress workers and leaders are in high spirits and feel that the outcome in the MC polls will find its echo in the state assembly elections also. The mandate is not only shocking for the BJP but is also beyond what the saffron party, which had contested separately its first ever election in Punjab after its age-old ally SAD had parted ways with it over the farm laws, had expected.“We were expecting a majority, but not two-thirds,” confided a senior Congress leader. In the history of the civic polls, it is the biggest defeat for the Independents as well, who managed to win just 11 of the total 123 seats they had contested. For the BSP, it was a complete rout as the party failed to open its account in any of the eight civic bodies. For the SAD also, it was a poor show as it won only 16 of the total 86 seats it had fought. The only saving grace for the Badal’s party was the victory in the Sahnewal MC bypoll and finishing a distant main Opposition in all the civic bodies. It was a landslide victory for the Congress, which won 82 of the total 114 seats. However, two former presidents of Khanna MC Vijay Sharma and Vikas Mehta faced the drubbing. Even Mehta’s mother Manju also lost the election.A Congress rebel, Sukhdev Kumar Middha, defeated Sharma from Ward No. 32.The SAD’s main losers were former Khanna MC and Improvement Trust chief Iqbal Singh Channi and a four-time councillor Rajinder Singh in Khanna. The AAP’s block president Ishar Singh’s wife Gurdeep Kaur lost in Doraha. The majority of the BJP candidates even lost their security deposits. The biggest loser was Nanda Sood, who got only 3 votes in Doraha’s Ward No 13. The double-digit scorers from the saffron party in Doraha were Sonia 10 votes, Sandeep Kumar 15, and Amar Pratap Singh 34 votes.The BJP district chief Pushpinder Singhal alleged “misuse of official machinery” and “arm-twisting” by the ruling party to win the elections by “hook or crook”.AAP’s deputy leader of Opposition in the Assembly Sarvjit Kaur Manuke protested with her supporters against what she alleged rigging in civic polls in Jagraon and Raikot, which the Kejriwal’s party represents in the assembly. However, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma claimed free, fair, and peaceful conduct of the MC polls.In an interesting development, Mohd Imran became the lone Muslim candidate to win the elections in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/capt-not-anti-incumbency-was-on-voters-mind-214559
19-02-2021||---||MC burdening residents with taxes, say SAD councillors||Ludhiana, February 18 Blaming the civic body for ignoring the development and putting extra burden of taxes on residents, a delegation of leaders and councillors of Shiromani Akali Dal met Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Thursday. Ludhiana SAD president Ranjit Singh Dhillon and leader of Opposition in the MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang said sewerage, water bills and taxes were waived for those living in houses up to 125 sq yards during the tenure their government but now Congress imposed these charges and taxes. As per a new proposal, the exemption for domestic water supply connection will be given to only single-story residential property up to 50 sq yards as per information. “Those who had installed submersible pumps did not need to pay any fee earlier during their government in the state but now Congress imposed a burden of thousands of rupees on them. The MC turned a blind eye towards shortage of safe drinking water for residents. Even no alternative arrangement has been made for solid waste management after A2Z group left services”, said Ranjit Singh Dhillon. Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “If the issues being faced by people are not resolved, we will be forced to mark protests.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-burdening-residents-with-taxes-say-sad-councillors-214560
19-02-2021||Sports Correspondent---||22 teams participate in 4th Kundanite Premier League||Ludhiana, February 18 A total of 22 teams will be seen in action during the 4th Kundanite Premier League (KPL) to be organised by the Kundan Vidya Mandir Alumni Association (KVMAA) at the school ground from February 21-28.  A meeting of the KVMAA was held at school premises today with Principal Navita Puri in the chair to review the arrangements made for the league. The jerseys and logos for the participating teams were released also and handed over the same to the captains of teams. The main attraction of the week-long league will be the participation of former IPL batsman Karan Goel besides national level players namely Deepin Chitkar, Arjun Puri and Varun Chitkara among many others. Saurabh Gupta, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sonepat, and KVM alumnus will be chief guest on the opening day while former national cricketer and selector, Bhupinder Singh Sr. distribute the prizes to winners on February 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/22-teams-participate-in-4th-kundanite-premier-league-214561
19-02-2021||---||Experts address issues of veggie cultivators||Ludhiana, February 18 A meeting of PAU Kisan Committee, and PAU Fruit and Vegetable Growers Committee was held at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) today under the chairmanship of Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, Vice-Chancellor, PAU, Farmers from across the state sought queries regarding improved varieties of sugarcane; new varieties of mint; PR 126 variety of paddy; direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique; plantation of tahli and safeda tress; scope of guava cultivation; protected cultivation; techniques for enhancing shelf-life of vegetables; recommended agro-chemicals for the management of insect-pests and diseases in various crops; weed management in vegetables, oilseeds and pulses; training in vegetable cultivation; training in primary processing and bakery products; crop residue management with the adoption of Happy Seeder/Super Seeder technology; and marketing of Kinnow and strawberry. Experts from PAU responded to all queries. Dr Dhillon stressed on reorienting the research programmes keeping in view the farmers’ agrarian issues. Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research, urged farmers to keeping giving their feedback from time to time to PAU for devising research programmes. Dr JS Mahal, Director of Extension Education, welcomed the participating farmers and advised them to remain in contact with PAU experts working on-campus and at Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Farm Advisory Service Centres for technical guidance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-address-issues-of-veggie-cultivators-214562
19-02-2021||---||Action sought in assault case||Ludhiana, February 18 The national president of the All India Lok Raj Party Balkar Singh Mangli, who was allegedly attacked by a gangster at Indira Colony, Rahon Road, today met the Police Commissioner and submitted a complaint to seek the registration of an FIR in the matter. He said on February 15, he had gone to the Varadhman colony where he owned a plot and the moment he reached there, around 25 persons barged into his plot and attacked him. He said he identified two persons, including a gangster of the area, who attacked him with baseballs. The assailants also badly damaged his Honda car. When he raised an alarm, people nearby gathered at the place, making the assailants flee. Before leaving the place, the accused also snatched his gold bracelet, he added. Complainant alleged that one of the accused who is aide of gangster had recently asked to give plot on rent and when he denied accused had threatened him of dire consequences.  He alleged that the gangster was running a gang of around 25 persons and was already facing heinous crimes. He said the the police by interrogating the gangster could also recover illegal weapons from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/action-sought-in-assault-case-214563
19-02-2021||Ludhiana||Issues faced by vendors highlighted||The Ludhiana Rehri Phari members highlighted the problems being faced by vendors in the city, during the meeting of Town Vending Committee of MC Ludhiana on Thursday. The meeting was held under the guidance of MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal.  The meeting was also attended by ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh, MC Zonal Commissioner Neeraj Jain and some councillors. Tiger Singh of Rehri Phari Federation said, “We highlighted the problems being faced by the vendors. We have given nod that if any vendor is found without wearing ID card, then action should be taken against that vendor. The meeting was arranged by Councillor Mamta Ashu so that our issues can be resolved.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/issues-faced-by-vendors-highlighted-214564
19-02-2021||Ludhiana||Sharing charges payment: Colonisers oppose MC notices||Days after the Municipal Corporation (MC) started removing “irregular” sewerage connections of colonies, members of the Punjab Colonisers and Property Dealers Association met Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and opposed the action today.  They demanded that the MC should not harass residents, who got their plots regularised in colonies.   Earlier, the MC had served notices to colonisers to deposit sharing charges. The association joint secretary, Jashanpreet Singh Chawla, said, “When the government is charging regularisation fee, it should provide facilities as per the policy. Those, who are following the norms, should not be harassed.”  The association president, Gurvinder Singh Lamba, said, “As per the government policy, the composition charges collected from colonisers and regularisation fee collected from plot holders should be used for providing water supply, sewerage and other facilities. We  appeal to Mayor to resolve the matter and revoke notices.”  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sharing-charges-payment-colonisers-oppose-mc-notices-214565
19-02-2021|| Ludhiana||Wool Wave Warriors enter semis||A fine display of batting by Rohit Jain (35 runs) and Neeraj Jain (35 not out) helped Wool Wave Warriors outperform Red Hill Rippers by eight wickets and secure a berth in the semi final on the fifth day of the 4th JITO Premier League being organised by the youth wing of Jain International Trade Organisation at the SCD Government College ground here on Thursday. In the first quarter final, Wool Wave Warriors restricted their opponents to small total of 95 runs for the loss of three wickets in the stipulated 10 overs in which Karan Jain contributed 42 runs with the help of four sixes and three hits over the fence. Target set by Red Hill Rippers turned out to be a meagre one as Wool Wave Warriors surpassed the total in 7.3 overs after losing only two wickets. In the second quarter final, M Jain Super Kings XI defeated Charlie Strikers by 18 runs to qualify for the last four stage. Batting first, M Jain Super Kings made 138 runs after losing five wickets. Kanishak Jain scored 67 runs and was followed by Vimal Tater, Karan Jain and Sumit Jain who chipped in with 27, 18 and 16 runs, respectively. In reply, Charlie Strikers could muster 120 runs, losing seven wickets and made an exit. In other league matches, played today, Vira Ke Veer XI (130 for 5) beat ATC Bashers (94 all out) by 36 runs, Techno Finishers (94 for 2 in 9 overs) beat Glory Champions (91 for 6 in 10 overs) by eight wickets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wool-wave-warriors-enter-semis-214566
19-02-2021||---||Passengers bear the brunt at Ludhiana railway station||Ludhiana, February 18Hundreds of passengers, including children, women and elderly, remained stranded for over four hours at the city railway station due to the rail roko protest by farmers against the new farm laws.In view of the call given by various farmers' unions, the Railways authorities had decided to stop the trains at different railway stations so that the passengers did not face much inconvenience and could get basic tea and water facilities.The Paschim Express was held for nearly five hours at the Ludhiana railway station. Passengers were seen waiting for trains at platforms during the protest. An elderly woman said she had to visit her daughter's home at the earliest, but the train, which she had to catch, was running late due to the protest.Though it was an inconvenient situation as trains were running late due to the protest, a number of passengers also expressed sympathy and support for the farmers and demanded that the Central Government should meet their demands at the earliest.Lalit, who hails from Madhya Pradesh (MP) and is working in Ludhiana, said, “My foot has fractured due to which I am going back home in MP. I learned that the train is delayed due to the ongoing protest by the farmers. But it needs to be understood why they are protesting? The Centre should hear the voice of farmers and give them written guarantee of MSP-based procurement of crops.”Firdosh, who was travelling from Phagwara to Faridabad in Paschim Express and came out to hear the speech of farmers during the protest, said, “The train has stopped here due to the protest. But I support the farmers as I also do farming in Kashmir. The government should accept the demands of the farmers.”Another passenger of Paschim Express, Rajesh said, “I am travelling from Jalandhar to Mathura. The demands of the farmers should be fulfilled by the government so that people don’t face any inconvenience and everything becomes normal in the country.”Meanwhile, some farmers served tea as part of langar to the stranded passengers in Paschim Express at the railway station."We served langar and tea to the passengers in the trains and also at the railway station during the protest,” said Bharpur Singh of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan.Station superintendent at the railway station Ashok Singh Salaria said, “Paschim Express and two good trains were held at the Ludhiana railway station amid the protest. There were around 800-900 passengers in the train that had arrived in Ludhiana at 11.40 am. The train movement was resumed after 4.30 pm. Now, the situation is normal. No train was cancelled.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/passengers-bear-the-brunt-at-ludhiana-railway-station-214567
