20-02-2021||---||CCTVs, alarms must for  financial institutions in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 19Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal has made installation of CCTV cameras and alarms mandatory for gold loan companies and financial institutions in Ludhiana.Besides, spa and massage parlours have also been made accountable with certain directions issued to them for regulating their operations.The ordersHe also asked them to instal burglary alarms in branches linked to head offices where in-call message can be immediately dispatched to the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate control room (78370-18500, 0161-2414932, 0161-2414933) and text messages can be automatically sent to the SHO, ACP, ADCP, JCP and CP concerned in case of any emergency for immediate necessary counteraction.The alarm must be connected to a BSNL landline phone with an auto-dialler in the branch, he directed, while stating that as soon as the alarm goes off, a teleprompter should automatically inform the police control room regarding the suspicious activity in the branch in a pre-recorded message.It was further instructed that the system must be able to give out loud sound alarms/ hooter, which should be audible to neighbouring areas up to 100 meters and operate automatically in case of forceful opening or any damage to vault/ strongroom/ currency chest.He said the security staff must be deployed through police verification and they must not be utilised for any other duty. Besides, the management must ensure that the main entrance was provided with shutter gates/ collapsible gate/ steel barricades with chain and locking arrangements.It was further directed that important phone numbers of the police control room, 112, local SHO, ACP, and ADCP must be displayed prominently in the branches.Meanwhile, taking note of some spa centres and massage parlours indulging in anti-social activities in contravention with the law, the CP observed that they were entertaining people without proper identification and providing them illegal services which fall under various offences of the IPC and other local and special Acts.To check such illegal activities, the CP directed all spas and massage parlours to instal good quality day and night CCTV cameras to cover all entry and exit points and also cover clients at reception desk, with a DVR storage of up to 30 days with UPS backup.Owners will be responsible to maintain the record of every customer visiting the centre in a register/ computer and a copy of the identity proof will be kept along with the working mobile number of the customer.The owners will also ensure police verification of all employees working at the centre, including foreign workers, if any, along with copies of necessary documents such as Aadhaar card and passport.The owners were also directed to ensure that foreign workers working in spas and massage centres were on proper visa, which enables them to work in the city. There should be no secret entry or exit gates or secret cabins at the centres.The owners were further instructed to ensure that no violation punishable under Immoral Trafficking Act (Prevention Act, 1956), Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act, 2012, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, 2012, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and Indian Penal Code (IPC), was carried out on their premises.The owners shall also ensure that no alcoholic beverages were served and no abuse of intoxicating substances or drugs masqueraded as hookah bars were allowed at these centres.The owners were asked to provide the list of all employees with their mobile numbers to the police stations concerned. The orders had come into operation with immediate effect and would remain in force for two months, the CP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cctvs-alarms-must-for-financial-institutions-in-ludhiana-214855
20-02-2021||---||2 students among 65 new cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 19Sixtyfive persons tested positive for Covid today which includes a student each from MAM Public School, Samrala, and Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) in Chaunta. Earlier, from the GSSS, Chaunta, 30 students, a teacher and a peon have tested positive. As many as 111 samples have been collected from the school.A healthcare worker (doctor) from Gopalpur has also tested positive today. However, no death was reported from the district.At present, there are 396 active patients in the district.A total of 6,44,151 samples have been taken, of which reports of 6,42,342 have been received. Of these, 6,11,693 samples were found negative while reports of 1,809 were pending. So far, the total number of positive cases related to Ludhiana is 26,553 while 4,096 cases belong to other districts or states.Till date, 57,032 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 768. Today, 21 persons were sent for home quarantine.As many as 2,579 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-students-among-65-new-cases-in-ludhiana-district-214856
20-02-2021||---||Peddler nabbed with 4,020 banned tablets in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 19 The Ludhiana police claimed to have arrested a notorious drug peddler and recovered 4,020 intoxicating tablets from his possession. The accused has been identified as Raj Kumar (46), a resident of Gopal Nagar, Haibowal. He also had a notorious past as a case of drug smuggling was also registered against him in 2019 in Jagraon. ADCP Sameer Verma conducted a press meet in this regard. The ADCP said a tip-off was received that the accused was into the smuggling trade and he was on the way to deliver a huge consignment of banned drugs to his clients. Accordingly, the police laid a naka at a spot where the accused was stopped. When he was asked to produce the bill of the medicines, he failed to do the same. Verma said later during the probe, it was found that the seized medicines were banned intoxicating tablets. During the preliminary probe, the police found that the accused runs a salon near the DMCH where he book clients to sell the banned drugs. Two of his aides Bobby Sharma and Dhiraj Kumar of New Patel Nagar were also in the illegal trade and are at present lodged in a jail. The accused disclosed that he had bought the banned medicines from somebody residing in Kila Mohalla .He would also be booked in the case. The police are expecting to bust the entire supply chain of banned drugs in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/peddler-nabbed-with-4-020-banned-tablets-in-ludhiana-214857
20-02-2021||---||2 FCI officials held for taking Rs 50,000 bribe in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 19The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a manager and a technical assistant of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for allegedly accepting bribe, an official spokesperson said here today.According to the information, the CBI has arrested one Prem Kumar, Manager, Quality Control, Ludhiana, and technical assistant Raj Karan, posted in Mullanpur Dakha in the district, in a bribery case of Rs 50,000.The spokesperson said a case was registered on a complaint alleging that Prem Kumar was demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 for checking and stacking of complainant’s rice consignment at the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation godown in Kailpur near Ludhiana.Acting on the complaint, the CBI laid a trap and caught the manager while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000.“During the probe, it was revealed that the bribe amount was to be shared with the technical assistant, who was also caught later,” said the official spokesperson, while adding that searches were conducted at the residences of both accused in Ludhiana.Both the accused were produced before the court of Special Judge, CBI, Mohali, which remanded them to one-day CBI custody, informed the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-fci-officials-held-for-taking-rs-50-000-bribe-in-ludhiana-214858
20-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Education Department instructs DEOs to ensure SOPs at schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 19In view of the rise in the number of Covid cases in schools, the Education Department has issued fresh instructions to the DEOs to ensure that the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are properly followed in all the schools-government, private, aided etc. for the safety of students and staff.During a recent review meeting held by the officials, it was observed that in many schools, the guidelines are not being followed religiously.A principal of a government school here said in many government schools, both the students and teachers were taking Covid lightly. It is because of that lenient approach that Covid cases have come to light. In the district only, Covid cases are reported from about 5-6 schools in the last about one month.“Schools have opened but there are no masks for students to wear. Authorities need to provide masks, sanitisers in bulks for the safety of students. In other cases, the students don’t wear mask properly. Proper social distancing is not being properly maintained. Even the teachers are not strict with the students and they too move around in schools without wearing masks. We cannot blame the government for everything. For ensuring that fresh guidelines are followed, a teacher will act as the nodal officer, who will visit all over to check that all wear asks, proper distance is maintained, etc. Similarly, in every class, there will be a monitor, who will ensure that SOPs are adhered to. We cannot afford to be lenient as Covid has still not eliminated,” said the principal, wishing not to be quoted.Recently, many Covid cases were reported from government schools creating panic among staff and students. The health teams are also visiting the schools from where Covid cases are reported and samples are taken. One of the schools was ordered to shut till March because many Covid cases were reported from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/education-department-instructs-deos-to-ensure-sops-at-schools-214859
20-02-2021||Ludhiana||1 held for firing at youth two yrs ago||The Ludhiana police claimed to have nabbed a man who opened fired at a youth about two years ago in Daba. The victim is a property dealer.The accused has been identified as Pawan Kumar of Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri.Joint Commissioner of Police (Rural) Sachin Gupta conducted a press conference in this regard.On November 22, 2018, Sharanpal Singh Shalu (32) of Gobind Nagar had suffered bullet injuries on his head and later, the Daba police had registered an attempt to murder case against the accused.Today, acting on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid at Bapu Market, Lohara, and nabbed him. The police also recovered two countrymade weapons (.315 bore and .303 bore).The JCP said the police remand of the accused would be sought from court. The accused fired at the victim as the latter used to urinate in front of his shop and the duo also had a scuffle over the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-held-for-firing-at-youth-two-yrs-ago-214860
20-02-2021||Ludhiana||PAUTA slams delinking of pay scales||The Punjab Agricultural University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) along with Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Teachers’ Association (GADVASUTA) held a protest against the delinking of pay scales of the university and college teachers from the 7th UGC pay scales.  Teachers from both the universities participated in the protest to sensitise them about the present status of pay scales.  The UGC recommended pay scales have always been adopted by the state government in toto in the past. Punjab is lagging behind in the adoption of 7th central pay scales as well as the 7th UGC pay scales and is probably the only state in the country which has not implemented these scales. The teachers have been deprived of these scales since January 2016. The state government has issued an order on December 28, 2020 for fixing basic pay for new recruitment of teachers in colleges and universities of Punjab which decreases the basic pay to be given to teachers as compared to the 7th UGC pay scales. The delinking of scales from 7th UGC scales will result in delinking of the higher education system of the state from the national higher education system, said Dr Harmeet Singh Kingra, president, PAUTA. He further added that the university administration is also deviating from the earlier notified career advancement scheme for the promotion of the teachers of the university. These two actions taken in conjunction will affect the working environment of the teachers affecting their productivity. PAUTA will intensify this agitation against the state government and the university administration in coming days. It plans to hold a campus rally in the PAU on February 24 where teachers from other colleges and universities will also participate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pauta-slams-delinking-of-pay-scales-214861
20-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Day off, bouquet for traffic cops on b’day||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 19The Ludhiana Commissionerate have started a novel initiative to appreciate cops on traffic duty. The move aims to boost the morale of cops who spend hours on road managing traffic amid the pandemic.According to the initiative, the policemen having birthday will be given a day off to enjoy the special day with their family.The initiative, a brainchild of Joint Commissioner of Police (City) Deepak Pareek, the guidance of Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, was kicked off yesterday with the birthday celebration of Constable Rajinder Kaur. The constable was given a bouquet by the senior traffic police officials along with sweets.Photos to be shared on FB, TwitterJoint Commissioner of Police (City) Deepak Pareek said photos of the cop having birthday will also be shared on the official Facebook and Twitter accounts of the Ludhiana Commissionerate and the traffic police.“From now onwards, every traffic cop will get leave on his/her birthday. One day before his/her birthday a police officer of ACP or Inspector rank will go to his place of duty and give him one rose or small flowers bouquet,” Pareek told The Tribune.“The services that you provide every day do not go unnoticed. Happy birthday, may your day be filled with laughter and great achievements,” read the note from the top cop for the constable.“Traffic cops at the ones who give duty in every situation whether it’s summer, winter or rainy days. From now onwards, every traffic cop will get leave on his/her birthday. One day before his/her birthday a police officer of ACP or Inspector rank will go to his place of duty and give him one rose or small flowers bouquet,” Pareek told The Tribune.Pareek said photographs of the cop having birthday will also be shared on the official Facebook and Twitter accounts of the Ludhiana Commissionerate and the traffic police.A personal note with birthday wishes and appreciation from the Police Commissioner will also be given to cops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/day-off-bouquet-for-traffic-cops-on-bday-214862
20-02-2021||---||Civic body panel to check illegal submersible pumps in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 19Keeping in view the problems related to environment and depleting water level, the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, has constituted a committee that would conduct routine checking of installation of illegal submersible pumps in the city so that action could be taken against violators.According to the information, the MC had received a complaint against installation of an illegal submersible pump at Jain Colony in ward 7. The officials said that a MC team had inspected the site and got pump installation work stopped but when MC team returned from the site, the property owner had got the installation work resumed.“After receiving the second complaint, team was again sent to stop the work but the property owner obstructed the government work. An FIR was later lodged against the property owner for obstructing government work”, said the officials.MC Superintending Engineer, Rajinder Singh said, “The city falls in the Red Zone area where installation of submersible pump is prohibited.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-panel-to-check-illegal-submersible-pumps-in-ludhiana-214863
20-02-2021||Manav Mander---||Dug-up road stretch in PAU irks residents||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 19 A road inside Punjab Agricultural University near the gate opposite Rose Garden, which was dug for fixing inter-locking tiles, has become a nightmare for commuters as the work has been discontinued abruptly.  The half-dug road was not only causing inconvenience to motorists but also leading to accidents from the past many days. Although the road has not been re-carpeted fully, today it was covered with sand as a temporary measure.  A student who yesterday met with an accident said she was coming to university from the gate located near Rose Garden. “A speeding vehicle was coming from another side. I moved to one side to save myself but the road was dug. I lost my balance and fell on the road. I got a few bruises. Had my vehicle been on high speed it could have proved fatal,” she said. A B.Sc (Agriculture) student said authorities concerned should get it re-carpeted at the earliest.  “A portion of the road was dug many days ago and the work here is still incomplete. Either, the work should be completed or the road patch should be repaired,” said an employee from the university. Dr Ashok, Estate Officer, PAU, said the work was being done by the Mandi Board. “Actually there was no plan to install tiles on the road and it has been wrongly dug. We have asked the concerned to re-carpet the road since there is no plan to install the tiles in the road and hopefully it will be done soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dug-up-road-stretch-in-pau-irks-residents-214864
20-02-2021||---||Trader’s death case: NRI held||Ludhiana February 19The Kotwali police managed to crack the case of a mysterious death of a man, Rahul Jain, a hosiery trader, with the arrest of his friend.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Singh of Partapura in Phillaur. He is an NRI, residing in Phillaur.SHO, Kotwali police, Harjit Singh,  said the police carried out an intensive investigation in the case and managed to identify the friend of the deceased. Today, acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted and the accused was nabbed.The SHO said Sandeep had met Rahul over some friendship app. After they became friend, they booked a hotel to meet. On February 16, both had injected drugs and Rahul got an overdose due to which he succumbed.Fearing police action, Sandeep fled from the hotel.Earlier, on February 5 both had met in the hotel and consumed drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-death-case-nri-held-214865
20-02-2021||Ludhiana February 19||Training session to cut post-harvest losses||The Punjab Horticultural Postharvest Technology Centre (PHPTC) organised a training programme on postharvest management, value addition and marketing of fruits and vegetables for “Apka Family Farmer” a Farmer Producer Company (FPC) from Himachal Pradesh.Dr BVC Mahajan, Director, said postharvest losses and marketing of fruits and vegetables are the major challenges faced by the farmers and need to be tackled with application of postharvest interventions such as appropriate packaging and storage techniques.Dr Ritu Tandon, Dr Swati Kapoor and Dr Pooja delivered lectures on judicious use of pesticides, processing and fresh cut technologies for fruits and vegetables.Dr Sandeep Mann and Dr PN Guru from CIPHET also discussed in detail about packaging requirements and problems of insect pest management in food products. Exposure visit to Namdhari Packhhouse Kohara, Food Incubation Centre and Department of Processing and Food Engineering, PAU, Ludhiana, were also arranged.Ashish Gupta, CEO of the FPC, explained that ‘Aapka Family Farmer’ has been formed by a group of farmer entrepreneurs who are practicing natural farming in districts of Sirmaur, Shimla and Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-session-to-cut-post-harvest-losses-214866
20-02-2021||---||Property tax: Ludhiana MC seals 4 buildings||Ludhiana, February 19Teams of the Municipal Corporation (MC) conducted a recovery drive and collected lakhs of rupees from defaulters.MC Superintendent Abdul Sattar said they had sealed four properties at Sundar Nagar, Tajpur Road, Sector 32-A and Chandigarh Road in Zone B for not depositing property tax.He said they also recovered Rs 7 lakh in cash on the spot during the drive. MC superintendent at Zone C Vivek Verma said a team had gone to seal buildings of defaulters who had not deposited property tax. “After we visited their premises, the owners of the four buildings have deposited around Rs 11 lakh. The owner of another building has promised to deposit Rs 12 lakh by Monday."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/property-tax-ludhiana-mc-seals-4-buildings-214867
