21-02-2021||Ludhiana||Smart card holders start getting wheat at Rs2/kg||The smart ration card holders have started getting subsidised wheat at their doorstep at Rs2 per kg. The distribution scheme was kick-started by the Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s councillor wife Mamta Sharma in Ludhiana on Saturday.A total of 1.45 crore beneficiaries enrolled in 38 lakh smart ration cards have been covered under the subsidised wheat scheme in the state. In Ludhiana, 4.45 lakh families have been given the benefit of the scheme.Speedy benefitThe scheme, covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), which was launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in September 2020, entitles each beneficiary biannual supply of subsidised wheat in one go. The Food and Civil Supplies Department directly distributes the foodgrain directly to the beneficiary, who gets the wheat in jute bags to be retained by him.The beneficiaries, who were verified on the basis of Aadhaar card, reserve the right to approach consumer court, if he fails to get wheat as per his entitlement. Under the scheme, wheat was delivered in the 30-kg standard packing. The department officials work in coordination with the beneficiary, transporter, gram panchayat and supervision committee for the transparent disbursement of wheat.With no upper cap, every member enrolled in smart ration card gets 5 kg wheat per month.The Centre had capped the maximum number of beneficiaries at 1.41 crore and, despite repeated requests, had not agreed to provide subsidised ration to the deserving 9 lakh people not covered under the NFSA in the state. Subsequently, the state government had decided to cover all such left-out eligible persons under a State-funded scheme.Launching the scheme in the Sunet locality of the city, Mamta said the state government had brought complete transparency in the distribution of wheat to the needy through the EPos machines and the programme had become a boon for the poor families by ensuring the distribution of the foodgrains to the real beneficiaries.District food and supplies controller Harveen Kaur, food supplies officer Jaswinder Singh, inspector Rahul Kaushal, councillors Hari Singh Brar and Sunil Kapoor were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smart-card-holders-start-getting-wheat-at-rs2-kg-215476
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man posing as NRI dupes woman of Rs20L||A man posing as a non-resident Indian (NRI) from England duped a city-based woman of Rs 20 lakh on the pretext of marrying her.The accused in the matter have been identified as Hmar Khawbung Lalvenhimi of Janakpuri Delhi, Maya Shan Chakma of Noida, Sattte of Uttar Pradesh, Chammirudhin Miya of Noida, Majina Bibi of Noida, Jatin, Mukesh, Rajendra Dattaram Dhanawade and Rana Vasudev Harish Chandra of Mumbai.Tne complainant, Heena Dhingra, of New Sant Fateh Singh Nagar told the police that she had posted an advertisement on a matrimonial site to seek a suitable match for herself and one Pardeep Anand expressed interest in her. The said person posed himself as an NRI from England and claimed that he had a big business in England.The complainant said she started having talks with the alleged NRI for marriage and in December, 2020, he told her that he would be visiting India on December 22, 2020.Then on the same date, she got a call from different mobile numbers from airport and the said persons said one Pardeep Anand had come from England and was carrying 2 lakh pounds. The alleged persons also made her talk to Pardeep who also asked for cash to release the pounds.“Since the accused had developed trust with the woman, I kept on sending payment in bank account provided by the accused. In total, I transferred Rs 20.37 lakh to the accused. After the money was transferred, the accused switched off his mobile number and then I realised that I was cheated,” the complainant added.The complainant said she then filed a complaint to the Police Commissioner who marked a probe to the ADCP (Investigation). The police identified that not one person but a gang behind the fraud.Investigation officer Avneet Kaur said a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy had been registered and raids would be conducted to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-posing-as-nri-dupes-woman-of-rs20l-215477
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||No death; 62  test positive in Ludhiana||Sixtytwo persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported due to the virus in the district today.The total positive cases have reached 26,615, while there are 387 active cases in the district.The number of persons who have lost their lives so far is 1,016. With the reopening of schools, many cases are being reported and school staff and students have been being advised to follow the Covid protocol, said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.The reports of 1,722 samples were awaited. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to save themselves and others around them safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-62-test-positive-in-ludhiana-215478
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||One of twins born in hospital park dies||Sewa kendras to remain open todayLudhiana: All sewa kendras in the district will remain open on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said here today. He said yellow cardholder/accredited journalists, smart ration card beneficiaries, construction workers, small traders, and J-form holder farmers could get their e-cards made by visiting their nearest sewa kendra, common service centres (CSCs) or suwidha kendras for availing the benefit of the Punjab Government’s ambitious cashless health programme Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (AB-SSBY). The DC said the beneficiaries had to pay Rs 30 for card generation. He said they had to carry their Aadhaar cards while visiting these establishments to avail on-the-spot enrolment and e-card generation facilities. Sharma said the beneficiaries could claim cashless treatment up to Rs 5 lakh under the scheme. He said the list of empanelled hospitals and eligibility of the beneficiaries could be viewed at the official website sha.punjab.gov.in. The scheme offered 1,579 packages to the beneficiaries, including 180 packages, reserved for public hospitals of which 25 packages were referable to private hospitals.Father-son duo kills manLudhiana: A father-son duo killed a man over an old enmity on the Dhandra road, falling in the jurisdiction of the Sadar police station. The Sadar police registered a case against Mohan Sahni and his son Abhishek Sahni in this regard. SHO Sadar Jagdev Singh said the deceased Pashupati Jha, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was staying at Inder Singh Nagar, on the Dhandra road for the past few years and was running a provisional store there. The duo had reportedly old enmity with the victim and today when Mohan and his son met Pashupati, they started having heated arguments with him. The man and his son allegedly pushed Pashupati, resulting in his head hitting the footpath and his death on the spot. Both accused fled from the spot after the incident. The police have begun probing the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-of-twins-born-in-hospital-park-dies-215479
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||This spot badly needs authorities’ attention||The industrial hub of the state has 10 black spots that have witnessed maximum road accidents.Though the city has 91 black spots, most accidents occur on these 10 spots. Despite taking various measures, the number of road mishaps are yet to be curtailed at these points.16 lives lost in 3 yearsAs per information, the black spot near Green Land School on the National Highway-44 needs immediate attention. As many as 16 persons have lost their lives on the spot in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) by getting hit by speeding vehicles. Most of these victims were pedestrians, cyclists or two-wheeler riders. There is a cut in front of the school. The traffic coming from the Jalandhar side takes the service lane from the cut to enter the city. The portion of the road at the cut is damaged.As per information, the black spot near Green Land School on the National Highway-44, needs immediate attention. As many as 16 persons have lost their lives on the spot in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) by getting hit by speeding vehicles. Most of these victims were pedestrians, cyclists or two-wheeler riders.During a visit to the spot, it was observed that there is a cut in front of Green Land School, Jalandhar Bypass. The vehicular traffic coming from the Jalandhar side takes the service lane from the cut to enter the city. The portion of the road at the cut is damaged. Even buses coming from the Jalandhar side also stop there to drop and pick passengers which creates traffic hurdle on the highway.The road towards the Bhora village cut is a low-lying stretch due to which people coming from the village side speeds up their vehicles at the slope to take the highway and collide with vehicles coming from the opposite direction.Even the service lane is inappropriate at several spots. During rainy days, rainwater gets accumulated on the lane and the national highway.There are many factories on both sides of the road where a large number of labourers are working in two shifts. The labourers do not make use of the underpass and overpass, located at a distance of around 1 km, and cross the highway through unauthorised cuts, due to which they are becoming victims of road mishaps.Residents of the area said there was a need to construct an underpass and an overpass for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders at every 1 km in populated areas as well as places where factories are located. A speed radar should be installed at the spot. Even a footpath alongside the service lane should also be constructed.ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh said the cut where traffic coming from the Jalandhar side take the service lane to enter the city needed to be repaired and the work was done. Even there was no blinker and the same was installed by the traffic police.He said a direction board was also installed at the black spot to caution commuters.The ACP said people should also follow road safety norms to prevent road mishaps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/this-spot-badly-needs-authorities-attention-215480
21-02-2021||Sahnewal ||Another mishap victim succumbs to his injuries||Another accident victim of road mishap occurred near Sahnewal on Wednesday succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at Arora Hospital, Ludhiana, yesterday. A number of persons, who received minor injuries in the accident, have been discharged. The accident occurred when the wheel of a tempo, in which devotees were traveling in from Ludhiana towards Doraha for idol immersion, got loose and came off and hit iron railings along the road near Zimidara Dhaba at Sahnewal.While interacting with this correspondent, investigating officer Raghuveer Singh said: “The devotees were taking an idol for immersion in the Sidhwan canal near Doraha. Men were travelling in one tempo while women, along with the idol, were travelling in the other vehicle. The tyre of the tempo in which men were travelling in suddenly came off due to which the tempo turned turtle and almost all devotees received injuries.”“While Rajneesh Kumar of Bhagat Singh Colony died on the spot, Roshan Kumar, a Class X student of the same colony, succumbed to his injuries at Arora Hospital, Ludhiana, yesterday. Four of the other eight injured — Sukhpal, Sukhram Gunjan and Rakesh — have been discharged from various hospitals. A case was registered under Section 174 of the IPC.“The incident was an accident. But it has been observed these days that generally devotees while travelling in an inebriated condition give two hoots to traffic rules, risking lives of other commuters as well. They also play loud music in the vehicle while travelling to their destinations. We can counsel them and try to make them understand the matter,” the IO said.Sahnewal SHO Balwinder Singh said nowadays, due to idol immersion, he had deployed a special team to keep a check on any sort of nuisance being created by inebriated groups which hardly care about traffic rules. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/another-mishap-victim-succumbs-to-his-injuries-215482
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||AAP protests FIR against Manuke, party workers||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a dharna in front of the office of the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP). Jagraon, against the FIR registered by the police against AAP’s senior leader and deputy leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke and party volunteers.The protest was joined by Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, MLAs Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, Amarjeet Singh Sandoya and Baldev Singh Jaito and a number of party volunteers.On the occasion, the party leaders said: “In the civic body elections, the ruling party, Congress, had used every possible means to loot the elections by undermining the values of democracy.”The leaders alleged that in the Jagraon council elections, when the deputy leader of opposition in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha saw that they were influencing the electoral process, she opposed it.They said it was surprising that dates of EVMs did not match as they were different.“In some of the machines, Congress candidates were declared winners and seals of some machines were tampered,” they said.They said later, Manuke was forced to block the highway with party volunteers and demanded from the administration to recount votes.They said instead of the administration conducting recounting of the votes, the police registered a case against Manuke and her associates.“The Captain government is filing false cases against AAP leaders and volunteers who were protesting for their rights,” said Cheema.“When AAP comes to power in the state, stern action will be taken against those who have suppressed voice of people in an undemocratic manner,” said MLA Meet Hayer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-protests-fir-against-manuke-party-workers-215483
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||5-day training programme on bakery, confectionary||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-day-training-programme-on-bakery-confectionary-215485
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||CICU holds global business summit 2021||Dr Amar Singh, MP, Fatehgarh Sahib, presided over the event and appreciated the working of the CICU for the industry. He assured that he would discuss issues of the industry with the higher authorities. Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, highlighted that embassies were playing active role in developing business relationships between countries and collaboration and joint venture would increase import and export. He said there were a large number of products. JR Singal, JS Bhogal, Publicity Secretary, CICU, and Amit Thapar, also spoke about business relationships between India and Africa. The meeting was attended by over 150 prominent industrialists.Robotic, CNC machines attract visitors at expoLudhiana: The robotic technology, latest CNC machines, laser cutting machines and other innovative technology attracted visitors at Mach Auto Expo-2021 organised on the GLADA grounds, Chandigarh road, here.On the second day of the expo on Saturday, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Aggarwal and Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma visited the event. They praised organisers for providing a platform to exhibit new technology that would benefit industrialists a lot. Robotic welding machines and portable welding machines were offered for live demos. The portable welding machines can be carried easily to any place. While using the robotic machines, there is no need of skilled workers. With six axis, robotic machines produce results with just one click on computer screen after uploading the design in computer attached with the machine. The compact hammering and heating machines were also the attraction among visitors. Besides the live demos of machines, the visitors were also guided about the machines. The visitors had an advantage of witnessing live running machines. MD of Udan Media and Communications GS Dhillon said over 300 exhibitors had showcased machine tools, CNC machines and SPMs, hydraulic products, electrical/electronic equipment, engineering Machinery and parts, power tools, welding and cutting equipment, material handing equipment, quality control accessories, hardening and heating machines, industrial robots and other machines. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, CICU, said the industrialists from the state and other neighbouring states had the advantage of witnessing, learning and adopting the latest technology. The expo will be continued till February 22. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cicu-holds-global-business-summit-2021-215486
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||MC inks pact with NGO for shifting 150 stray cattle||The Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, will start a drive against the stray cattle menace in the city.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal ordered the health branch concerned to act immediately in the matter. Senior veterinary officer Harbans Dhalla said: “An agreement has been signed in this regard between Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana on the behalf of the Commissioner and Ajit Lakra, a volunteer of the Dhyian Foundation, an NGO.”“It has agreed to move 150 stray cattle from the city to the government gaushala at Burj Pawat village near Samrala. The foundation will look after the feeding, labour and medical expenses of the cattle while the MC will pay them for the same. The foundation is already managing about 30 gaushalas across the country,” Dr Dhalla said.He said more stray cattle would be shifted to other gaushalas, including Krishan Balram Gaushala on Pakhowal road and Gobind Gaudham on Hambran Road.MC sets up another micro forestThe Municipal Corporation has set up one more micro forest near the Buddha Nullah.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Additional Commissioner Rishipal Singh, Zonal Commissioner Tejinderpal Singh Panchi, Chief Sanitary Inspector Ashwani Sahota were among those present during the plantation drive at the micro forest site near the Shivpuri pulley on Friday. The Zonal Commissioner said 100 saplings had been planted in the micro forest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-inks-pact-with-ngo-for-shifting-150-stray-cattle-215487
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||DLSA opens legal aid clinic||To provide advantage of various legal services to needy in a hassle-free manner at free of cost, the DLSA opened a legal aid clinic in Chaudhary Dharamshala near Sanglan Shivala Chowk today.District and Sessions Judge-cum-DLSA chairman Gurbir Singh inaugurated the clinic.He appealed to people to contact the legal aid clinic in case of any dispute. He said every kind of legal service would be offered free of cost to the needy.DLSA Secretary Preeti Sukhija said anyone could visit the office of DLSA in the judicial complex or can call at 0161-2400051 for availing free legal services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dlsa-opens-legal-aid-clinic-215488
21-02-2021||Ludhiana||Thieves target petrol pump of MLA’s kin||Thieves targeted the petrol pump of a kin of Lok Insaf Party (LIP) MLA at Nurpur Bet and decamped with cash.The Ladhowal police reached the spot and started a probe.Ladhowal Station House Officer Baljit Singh said after the petrol pump was closed last night, thieves entered the main office of the pump by creating a opening in the wall.Despite closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras were installed at the pump, thieves could not be captured in the cameras as they entered from the rear side of the petrol pump.After entering the main office, they broke open the cash box and took the money with them.Sources said the police were also ascertaining the role of petrol pump employees and their mobile phone details were also being checked.Fingerprint experts and a dog squad team had also reached the pump to assist the police in investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-target-petrol-pump-of-mlas-kin-215489
