22-02-2021||---||Seven students, teacher test positive; 2 fatalities||Ludhiana, February 21 School students and teachers testing positive for Covid is not halting and today seven students and a teacher tested positive out of the total 49 people who tested positive today. In addition, two patients lost their life to the virus. The students who tested positive today included two from Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta, three from Government School, Baude, and two from MAM Public School, Samrala. One teacher from Government School, Bhamudi, also tested positive.  Till now, a total of 32 students from the Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta, have tested positive. In addition, two government employees and one healthcare worker also tested positive for coronavirus today. The two patients who lost their lives belonged to Samrala and Fatehganj and both had been admitted to Fortis Hospital with co-morbidity of hypertension and diabetes.  The number of active patients increased to 411 on Sunday.  Till date, a total of 6,48,795 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 6,46,755 samples have been received. Of these, 6,15,983 samples were found negative, while the reports of 2,040 samples were pending. Now, the total number of confirmed cases from Ludhiana is 26,664, while 4,108 patients belong to other districts/states. Till date, 57,187 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 852. On Sunday, 80 persons were sent for home quarantine. A total of 2,025 samples of the suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-students-teacher-test-positive-2-fatalities-215985
22-02-2021||---||Man held on fraud charge||Ludhiana, February 21The Jamalpur police arrested a man, Munish Bhardwaj, of New GTB Nagar, Jalandhar, on the charges of committing a fraud with a city-based man.The complainant, Satya Dev, of Sector 32, Chandigarh Road area, told the police that he had met Munish a few years ago and the accused had told him about some lucrative business deal.“I started trusting Munish Bhardwaj as talks about the business deal were also on. One day he borrowed my car and promised to return the same in a specific period. Later, when I asked him to return the vehicle, he started making excuses. Recently, he refused to return it,” the complainant alleged.He said he had bought the car on loan and he was still paying its instalments.The complainant said later, he gave a complaint to the Police Commissioner, Ludhiana, Rakesh Agrawal, who then marked a probe in the matter and following an inquiry, the police registered a case against the accused and arrested him.The police also recovered the vehicle from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-on-fraud-charge-215986
22-02-2021||---||8-yr-old among two minors raped in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 21An eight-year-old girl was among two minor girls who were allegedly raped in the city in separate incidents.In the first incident, the Ladhowal police booked Ranjit Singh of Majara Khurd for raping the eight-year-old-girl. As per the complainant, on February 20, her sister had gone to the forest area alongside the Sutlej where the accused raped her. The accused had also threatened her sister of dire consequences if she reveal anything to the family or the police.Investigating officer SI Manpreet Kaur said a case under Section 376, IPC, and Section 4, POCSO Act, was registered against the accused and a raid was being conducted to nab him.Another case was registered at the Jodhewal police station on Saturday against Arshdeep Singh Bhatia of Pancheel Colony on the charges of raping a 15-year-old girl of the locality.The victim said she, along with with her family members, were staying as tenants in the house of the accused. On February 8, when she was alone at home, the accused barged into the room and forcibly took her to Amritsar where he held her hostage in hotels and raped her.The victim said the accused had developed a friendship with her and had promised to marry her.“When the accused took me to Amritsar, he assured that he will soon get married with me. Afterwards, he developed physical relationship with me. He kept me in different hotels in Amritsar. Later on February 12, he refused to marry me and dropped me on the Noorwala road, “ the victim said.Investigating officer ASI Gurmukh Singh said a case of rape and criminal intimidation was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab him.15-year-old violated in KhannaA 15-year-old girl was raped at Payal in police district of Khanna. Khushpreet Singh Khushi of Mahpur village in Payal booked in the case. As per the complainant, the mother of the victim, on the intervening night of February 19 and 20, her daughter went missing from her room. Later, she was traced on the Sirthala road.She said the accused had developed a relationship with her and took her to his house where he raped her. He refused to marry her and left her left her on the road. Investigating officer SI Rajwant Kaur said the accused was yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-yr-old-among-two-minors-raped-in-ludhiana-215987
22-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Illegal colonies cock a snook at GLADA||Ludhiana, February 21Despite tall claims of stern action against unregulated growth, including the registration of criminal cases against offenders, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), it seems, is finding it difficult to come to terms with the menace of illegal and unlicensed colonies which are proliferating in almost every nook and corner of the city.In many cases, internal and external development works in such colonies continue even after notices served to them by the regulatory and field staff of the Authority.It was a couple of months ago that the matter of development of several illegal colonies under different stages of development at Dhandra and surrounding areas was brought to the notice of the GLADA authorities by certain well-meaning residents of adjoining colonies. GLADA officials had then claimed that notices were served to the developers and in one or two cases, police complaints were also lodged for the registration of cases for the violation of PAPRA.However, the defiant developers continued with the internal and external development works and in a couple of these colonies, buildings were under construction, while in another colony, interlocking tiles were being laid on pavements.This lackadaisical attitude of the regulatory body indeed pointed towards the involvement of field staff and officials of GLADA in the development of these illegal colonies not only in Dhandra but several other areas in the periphery like Jaspal Bangar, Lohara, Humbran Road, Jassian Road, Pakhowal Road, Sherpur, Rahon Road and Threeke areas.A city-based developer alleged that GLADA staff and supervisory officials were hand in glove with the unscrupulous developers and most of the illegal colonies were being developed in or around Ludhiana with their tacit approval and big money was involved in this unlawful activity.Defiant developersIn many cases, internal and external development works in such colonies continue even after notices served to them by the regulatory and field staff of the Authority. GLADA officials had then claimed that notices were served to the developers and in one or two cases, police complaints were also lodged for the registration of cases for the violation of PAPRA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-colonies-cock-a-snook-at-glada-215988
22-02-2021||Ludhiana||PAU inks pact with energy firm||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-inks-pact-with-energy-firm-215989
22-02-2021||Will filing online complaint solve problem of air pollution in Ludhiana?||Inclusive participation needed to curb menace||If the authorities concerned receive any online complaints regarding air pollution in the city, they must consider it seriously. The ignorance of the subject may cause serious damage to the environment. Also, if online complaints can't help as much as offline complaints can, then why was the online arrangement set up in the first place? Either online registered issues must be taken seriously or the society can use the right words through right social media platform to spread awareness for the cause, which would then force the superior officials to take quick action on the complaints.Vandita JainA welcome stepI would like to draw the attention of the general public towards the problem of air pollution and its solution. People from all sections of society from a rickshaw puller to a professor of science, from a 5-year-old to a senior citizen are aware of the importance of clean air. But here comes a question of whether or not we keep this lifeline of ours as clean and safe. Air pollution poses a serious threat to our existence on this planet and potentially deteriorates the AQI of our city resulting in several kinds of health hazards. Causes of air pollution may include the emission of unburnt vapours of fuel from vehicles, industrial wastes, stubble burning, etc. Pollution certificates issued by the pollution checking centres have been reduced to a mere formality. Citizens can complain against those causing pollution. One of the easiest mode of complaints is online complaining. It will bring the defaulters into the notice of the authorities immediately. Online complaints can deliver only if the authorities concerned rise above the ritual of adhering to the mere formalities and honestly spring into action to punish those making mockery of the law. In fact, it is not the law but the fear of the law that rules. CCTV cameras can be used to furnish a proof of doing away with the necessary air safety rules. Technology can really work in making a difference and rendering the world a more worthy place to live and work.Vansh ChaniCelebrate festivals in an eco-friendly wayAs we know that the air pollution is increasing day by day. The latest region which is in the grip of air pollution is Delhi where health emergency-like situations are prevailing. Now, the state has launched an app 'Hawa Badlo' to lodge complaints regarding air pollution and other states are having similar app along with the central government app. But only complaining on apps will not reduce the pollution until and unless we will not take the necessary steps. It is the duty of each and every member of society to celebrate festivals eco-friendly so that the environment may not be polluted. We must avoid putting garbage on fire. We must refrain from using plastic and burn it in the open. Local government must lay floor along both sides of roads in each area so that there may not be any dust. Construction work must be carried out by covering the construction sites with some polythene papers. The speed of vehicles must be limited in the city. There must be underpasses in some busy areas. Maximum plants must be grown alongside roads and in each area. Vehicles running with petrol and diesel must be replaced with batteries or other solar or nuclear energy. We all must co-operate to restore and to protect our environment.Farzana KhanIncrease green coverBeing a hub of industrial and agricultural activities, air pollution in Ludhiana is rising day by day. The first and the foremost solution to the problem is greenery. People should grow more and more trees. Especially, trees grown on the side lanes of the roads also add to the beauty and absorb the air pollution implemented by vehicles. The vacant spaces on the roadside should be filled with grasses. Eco-friendly transportation should be made into use. Authorities concerned should monitor air quality warnings and take action on poor air quality days.Harleen KaurDon’t burn waste in openOnline complaints in a number of cases can help to solve the problem of air pollution in the city and there are a number of such cases here. It has been often observed that people burn old bushes and waste resulting in air pollution. Another situation is that out of the so many industrial units in the city, one unit in or around the city may be using hard coke during the day and by producing thick smoke in the atmosphere may be polluting the air. In these conditions, any citizen may pick up courage and send an online complaint to the concerned and designated department who should reach the spot and correct the cause undone. Strict action must be taken against such gardeners and households including fine etc. To make this action work, there is a need to provide a separate telephone number for lodging the complaint and this must be given wide publicity through local newspapers and other social media for the information and necessary action by the public. Also, arrangements must be made to designate the department for lodging such complaints and to remove such debris, if a complaint of piling up is received. At present, no department seems designated for these. This must also be done soon.Gautam DevWork collectively for a solutionOnly complaints will not work in curing the problem of air pollution. Each and every individual will have to step forward to get this problem solved. The most basic solution of the air pollution by industries is to move away from fossil fuels, replacing them with alternative energies like solar, wind, and geothermal. Planting as much plants as possible near the industrial areas and not burning the waste disposals.AMARPREET KAURCreate awareness at grassroots levelLudhiana has innumerable industries and thousands and thousands of cars, scooters and three wheelers. They are largely responsible for the air pollution in the city. Apart from them dust and dirt arising from the construction as well as demolition works, burning of crackers and stubble burning by farmers makes the air further unfit for breathing. Only addition of the facility of filing online complaints is not going to serve any purpose. To tackle the problem, we should educate the residents at the grassroots about the hazardous effects of the menace and how to curb it. Creating awareness about the air pollutants and air quality index is of utmost importance. Those who flout the rules and regulations should get exemplary punishment. Introduction of CNG and electrical vehicles will definitely go a long way in controlling the pollution caused by vehicular emissions in the city. Car-pooling and odd and even system are also worth trying. The new rules introduced by the centre to ban the plying of old vehicles should be implemented in the letter and spirit.Dr Sunil ChopraMake sure complaints are resolved in timeToday is the era of digitalisation, where you can file a complaint sitting at home. It's a very easy mode but the question is whether on the other side your complaints are entertained or not? Air pollution is a very serious matter and there are many causes responsible for this. Just developing online system is not enough. The government must assign duty to responsible persons who check the complaints regularly and bring these complaints in the notice of appropriate authority so that timely actions can be taken. Filing online complaint doesn't mean that complaint will be solved within seconds or minutes unless duty must be assigned.Ritu PriyaEffective public transport system need of hourIt is really pathetic that the air quality in Ludhiana goes on decreasing day by day. Only online complaint filing will not solve the problem. Something concrete must be done for the issue. We cannot blame a single factor for it. A multiple number of factors are at work. First is the increasing traffic in Ludhiana. There has been a manifold increase in the number of vehicles registered in the city. More harm is done to the environment by the diesel vehicles. An effective public transport system is the need of the hour, which will not only decrease the pressure of vehicles on roads, but also help in reducing pollution. Second is the increase of number of factories in the city. Though majority of the factories have been shifted outside the city, but then also still there are many small firms which may be illegally running their businesses from the heart of the city. The increasing population is already a national issue. With increasing population, the use of air conditioners and refrigerators is on the rise. These AC’s and refrigerators emit chloroflourocarbons (CFC) which are very dangerous for the ozone layer. So, all these factors work together to deteriorate the air quality in Ludhiana. It is high time that something concrete should be done to curb this air pollution, otherwise the day is not far when we all may have to carry our own oxygen cylinders to breathe in fresh air.Bir Devinder Singh BediOnline system should be fast enoughThe air pollution grievance redressal system has been started by the Municipal Corporation (MC) and residents can lodge online complaint for air pollution. This is a good step but in the past too the MC had started e-suvidha pages but that online system developed snag and residents cannot know the status of their complaints. If the complaints do not get solved in required time frame it leaves a bad impact on residents and they hesitate to complaint again in future. Online system should be fast enough that the status of complaint should be updated from time to time and the complaint should be resolved in a phased manner.Dr Jasdeep KaurLives at riskComplaining online will not fulfil the purpose as local, state and central governments are least bothered to control air pollution due to their bested and political interests. Firstly, at the domestic level we should segregate our waste and should not dump untreated waste into landfills which may omit copious amounts of methane and other toxic gases. Secondly, we should use carpools instead of using our own vehicles and the government should make it mandatory or one must use public transport at least two or three days in a week. Third, the government should clean up roads by using vacuum machines. Fourth, there should be strict action for those industrialists who are polluting the environment and industrial pollution should be captured at source. Industrialists should invest more on those apparatus which may effectively treat air pollution. Fifth, the local government should put a carbon tax on all private vehicles run on fossil fuels. Sixth, there must be more tax to purchase more than two vehicles per house. Seventh, the government should give incentives for using public transport. The government should promote battery operated vehicles and the public should use gasoline fuel instead of diesel or kerosene oil in their vehicles. Eighth, all vehicle particularly those auto rickshaws which are main threat of air pollution in the city should be banned. Above all, it depends upon the will and wish of the local government and the active participation of public and moral and ethics of each and every one to live a better and pure life not for us but our children as well in a pollution free city.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiOPEN HOUSE COMMENTFix responsibility of PPCB, civic body Shivani BhakooThe online complaint system is an easy platform for the people to file online complaints related to air pollution. But, action is to be taken by the officials concerned.Firstly, the government should fix the responsibility of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the Municipal Corporation and other departments concerned to keep check on air pollution.Once receiving any complaint, officials concerned should take timely action on the complaints. If they fail to act against complaints, the government should act against such officials for failing to perform their duty.As ash emanating from dyeing units and other factories commonly fall on houses in nearby areas, the government should order to seal such erring factories that cause air pollution.Besides, the departments concerned should take action against vehicles causing air pollution. Those who are found burning waste should be dealt strictly for violating the norms.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONCovid-19 cases are still being reported while the life in social circles are back as normal without masks, social distancing. Is it safe not to follow guidelines now? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/inclusive-participation-needed-to-curb-menace-215990
