23-02-2021||---||3 development projects worth Rs 64-crore launched in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 22Three development projects, worth Rs 64.6 crore, under the Smart City and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) programmes, launched here today.The mega projects, which were aimed at ushering in a new era of world-class infrastructure in the industrial hub of the state, are part of the Rs 1,078-crore municipal projects for the state launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through video-conferencing.In Ludhiana, the virtual launch ceremony was presided over by Food, Civil Supplies, and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.The projects included the establishment of Municipal Corporation control centre and the augmentation of Ludhiana Safe City project worth Rs 35.96 crore, beautification and refurbishment of Mini Rose Garden at the cost of Rs 3.48 crore in Ludhiana and 29 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP), worth Rs 25.16 crore, which has already come up in Khanna.Ashu said 1,442 CCTV cameras had already been functioning in the city under the Ludhiana Safe City project, while 300 more such surveillance cameras would be installed at garbage dumping sites, critical and vantage points in the city, STPs and along the Buddha nullah, besides 30 vehicle-mounted camera systems and 600 external IR illuminators with 200-m range for better monitoring during zero visibility would be installed for municipal monitoring of encroachments and garbage dumps in the city. The project would be completed within the next six months.The minister said under the beautification and refurbishment of the Mini Rose Garden project, the work of soft-scaping, plantation, grass, amphitheatre, fountains, badminton court, pergolas, canopy, kids play, open gym and other areas would be carried out in the next 12 months at the cost of Rs 3.48 crore.However, the work on 29 MLD capacity STP had been completed under the AMRUT project in Khanna.Ashu said the Punjab Government was making concerted efforts for the all-round development of Ludhiana and these key projects would pave the way for the transformation of urban living here.He directed the officials to give priority to the timely completion of these projects so that the people could take their benefit.The launch ceremony was held simultaneously in several locations of the district in which a large number of municipal councillors and prominent residents of the several areas took part.MLA Surinder Dawar, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-development-projects-worth-rs-64-crore-launched-in-ludhiana-216411
23-02-2021||Tribune News Servic||3 deaths; 37 cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 22Thirtyseven persons tested positive for Covid today which include five students and two teachers while three patients lost their lives to the virus.Those who tested positive from educational institutes today include two students and a teacher from a private school, two students from Government School, Chatha, a teacher from Multipurpose School and a student from the GSSS, Ludhiana. A staff nurse from the DMCH is also among the positive cases reported today. So far, there are 26,701 confirmed cases and 418 active cases in the district.Those who lost their lives today include a 68-year-old woman and a 52-year-old woman, who belonged to Jawaddi and Deep Nagar, respectively. Both were suffering from diabetes. A 65-year-old man from Milkowal village also lost his life today. He was admitted to the DMCH and had comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hepatitis C. Now, the death toll from the district has reached 1,021. A total of 6,50,525 samples have been taken so far and reports of 1,858 are pending so far.District epidemiologist Ramesh said the department was conducting tests of all teachers. Tests of students of those schools were being done from where teachers have tested positive.“Students are tested after taking the consent of parents and we request the latter to get their wards tested as it is for their safety,” he said.Police to issue challansIn view of the surge in Covid cases, the police will register FIRs and issue challans against the violators for not wearing masks, maintaining social distance and following other norms related to coronavirus. On the Facebook page of the Commissioner of Police Ludhiana, a message has been placed for Ludhiana residents: “You are aware there has been a surge in the number of Covid cases over the past few days at various places, including Ludhiana. It is assessed that the next 15 days are very critical for curbing this spread. Therefore, people are requested to follow the Covid protocol strictly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-deaths-37-cases-in-ludhiana-district-216412
23-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Heaps of garbage bane of Ludhiana residents, MC unmoved||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 22With the passage of years, huge waste heaps that look like hills, are seemingly increasing at the MC’s main garbage dump near Kakka village, Tajpur Road, Ludhiana, as the civic body has failed to take concrete steps to deal with this waste so far.In the absence of proper waste processing, the strong stench emanating from these big heaps has made nearby residents’ life miserable. The harmful smoke that emanates due to the burning of waste has increased their woes.A senior official of the MC claimed that the old waste catches fire itself due to chemical reactions. Questions are being raised as to why the civic body authorities ignored the massive collection of waste for years.The city produces waste of more than 1,100 MT every day. After door-to-door collection, the garbage collectors unload the waste at secondary garbage collection points at different locations in the city from where the waste is shifted to the main garbage dump.After A2Z group, which had signed agreement with the MC in 2011 for 25 years, left the services on February 4, 2021, the waste processing plant at the main garbage dump site is lying closed completely. Thus, big amount of unprocessed fresh waste is also getting collected there.Residents a harried lotThe new and old trash at this dump (also known as landfill site on Tajpur Road) have been creating a big nuisance for the residents in a number of areas inside as well as outside the MC’s jurisdiction for a long time. The residents of Kakka village, Baba Naam Dev Colony, Mahatama Enclave, Tibba Road and other areas located near the dump want the government to provide them relief from this mess.Ex-sarpanch of Kakka, Sukhdeep Singh, said, “Villagers had opposed the setting up of the dump there in the past, but their voice was ignored. When waste catches fire, it causes air pollution due to which people face respiratory problems. The government should take necessary steps to provide relief by resolving the issue.”Instructions ignored by MCIn February last year, a monitoring committee of the NGT had given instructions to the MC to ensure the implementation of the solid waste management rules and start process for remediation of legacy waste (old waste) site on Tajpur Road, Ludhiana. However, the MC is yet to take steps to deal with the legacy waste.It is learnt that the civic body had to ensure the functioning of the waste processing plant by the end of the year 2012, but the project was delayed. Even after the wasteprocessing plant was made functional a few years ago, questions were raised over the working of the firm.In September 2020, a senior official of the PPCB, Ludhiana, had stated that the waste was not being disposed of properly and it was earlier found that the waste processing plant was working at only 14 per cent of its capacity.Notably, the MC had planned to set up two solid waste processing plants near Kakka village and Jainpur, but the work during the first phase was conducted near Kakka. Sources said the MC had not got permission to set up plant at Jainpur where residents had opposed the dumping site.Plans to float fresh tendersMayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “We are going to float tenders for three main tasks door-to-door collection, lifting of garbage from secondary garbage collection points and for waste processing plant and to deal with legacy waste. The final decision would be taken soon.”Senior environmental engineer of the PPCB, Sandeep Bahl, said, “After the termination of the A2Z firm services, the MC has assured to handle the solid waste management at its own level. In case any serious violation is found, the PPCB will take the required action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/heaps-of-garbage-bane-of-ludhiana-residents-mc-unmoved-216413
23-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Corrective steps can ease traffic flow at Jalandhar Bypass Chowk||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 20The Jalandhar Bypass Chowk is the busiest intersection which witnesses heavy traffic due to the flow of inter-district and inter-state traffic. The design of the chowk needs to be changed to manage traffic and prevent road accidents.As many as 13 persons lost their lives at the intersection in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) by getting hit by speeding vehicles. Most of these victims include pedestrians and two-wheeler riders.This black spot on the National Highway-44 has many shortcomings.As per a survey, there are several crossing points at Jalandhar Bypass Chowk and the chowk was not designed in a proper way due to which movement of traffic is affected.At some sections along the chowk, service lanes are not properly constructed and a service lane alongside Sanjeevni Shop has been illegally closed for traffic by residents.During the rainy season, rainwater gets accumulated at the chowk. The bus lane fails to accommodate buses at the chowk.There are no blinkers and rumble strips at the point where the old road connects Jalandhar Bypass Chowk. An auto stand to accommodate three-wheelers is also lacking.Earlier, there were no signboards or other boards at the chowk but these were put up in 2020.Residents staying near the spot were of the opinion that there was a need to redesign Jalandhar Bypass Chowk with technical guidance from experts and there should be an appropriate service lane.Encroachments should be removed from the lane along the highway. It should remain free and connected to other lanes for smooth flow of traffic.Even the drainage system at the chowk needs to be improved.ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh said there was a need to enlarge the bus lane so that buses could be parkedeasily in it. Even blinkers and rumble strips should also be installed at the point where the old road connects the chowk.“We have written to the department concerned to construct an underpass or overpass for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders at every 1 km in populated areas and spots where factories are located. Chaos is also being created by auto-rickshaws in the area and to tackle the same, traffic police personnel were deployed,” ACP Gurdev said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/corrective-steps-can-ease-traffic-flow-at-jalandhar-bypass-chowk-216414
23-02-2021||Ludhiana||Rickshaw-puller hit by car, dies||A rickshaw-puller died after a car rammed into his vehicle on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as 40-year-old Sanjay Yadav. A woman, Mala, who was travelling in the rickshaw, was admitted to a private hospital for getting treatment.In her complaint the woman said: “On February 20, I was travelling in a rickshaw from my home to Aggar Nagar. When the rickshaw-puller was reversing the rickshaw near Sunet Bridge, a speeding car hit us. The rickshaw puller died on spot.”The car driver escaped from the spot. A case under Sections 279, 337, 338, 487 and 304-A of the IPC has been registered on Sunday in this regard.27-year-old man killed in accidentA 27-year-old man lost his life after a speedy vehicle hit him on Oswal Road here on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Sunil Kumar. Soni Devi, wife of the victim, said: “I along with my husband were going towards Dholewal Bridge on Sunday when the incident took place. After reaching near a factory on Oswal Road, we stopped to buy something. My husband was standing there after parking his motorcycle on the roadside when a speedy vehicle hit him. He died on the spot.”A case under Sections 279 and 304 (A) of the IPC has been registered at the Division No. 2 police station against the accused identified as Ganesh of Uttar Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rickshaw-puller-hit-by-car-dies-216416
23-02-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC recovers Rs 28L from two properties||The Municipal Corporation recovered Rs 28 lakh from two properties as part of the balance payment of property tax.MC Superintendent Rajeev Bhardwaj said: “A private school at Sarabha Nagar had earlier deposited property tax with wrong assessment. After finding violations, the school was directed to deposit the balance amount of Rs 1.15 crore. Our team had gone to seal the school building today but the school authorities paid Rs 18 lakh and assured to pay the remaining amount at the earliest.” He said: “We had also gone to seal a bank branch at Kochar Market, here. However, the bank deposited Rs 10 lakh property tax and promised to pay the remaining amount within the next few days.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-recovers-rs-28l-from-two-properties-216418
23-02-2021||---||3 booked for fraud||Ludhiana, February 22Three persons have been booked for allegedly committing a travel fraud of Rs 14 lakh. The accused have been identified as Watan Arora, his wife Priya Arora and his son, Sagar Arora. In his complaint to police, Jaspreet Singh of New Punjab, Mata Nagar, Ludhiana, stated that the accused had taken Rs 14 lakh for sending him to the USA, but failed to do so. A case under Sections 420, 120-B of the IPC and 24 under the Immigration Act had been registered against the accused at the Division No. 3 police station.Illegal mining: Case registered against threeThe police have booked three persons in a case of illegal mining. The accused have been identified as Sarabjit Singh of Bhukhri Kalan, Sandeep Singh of Dhanansu and Sukkhwinder Singh. Inspector Gursewak Singh said the accused were arrested with a JCB machine and tractor from panchayti land at Dhanansu for conducting the illegal activity. A case under Section 379 of the IPC and 21 of the Mining Act has been registered against them at the Meharban police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-booked-for-fraud-216419
23-02-2021||Ludhiana||Panel members discuss recovery of sharing charges||Days after the Punjab Colonisers and Property Dealers’ Association raised questions over the MC’s drive for recovery of sharing charges and snapping “irregular” sewer connections of some colonies, a committee of the MC conducted a meeting to discuss the matter today. The committee members have recommended that sharing/connectivity charges should be collected from the GLADA for the colonies that are located outside MC’s jurisdiction. The committee is headed by councillor Jai Prakash and councillors including Mamta Ashu, Sarabjit Sigh Laddi, Om Prakash Ratra, Sunny Bhalla among others are members of the committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panel-members-discuss-recovery-of-sharing-charges-216421
23-02-2021||---||Achieve target of recoveries in current fiscal, officials told||Ludhiana, February 22The district administration on Monday directed the revenue officers to achieve the targets of collection fixed for various recoveries before the end of current fiscal.Chairing a review meeting at the district administrative complex here, the Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) (General) Amarjit Bains, accompanied by Khanna ADC Sakatar Singh, warned that any sort of laxity in achieving the collection targets was totally unwarranted and undesirable.‘Perform duty with integrity’n Chairing a review meeting at the district administrative complex here, the Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) (General) Amarjit Bains said officers must perform their duty diligently and any callousness in this regard would not be tolerated at any cost. He asked all the officers to perform their duty well and serve the people with full integrity.He said that the desired targets must be achieved within the stipulated time period for which no stone should be left unturned.Bains categorically said the strict action would be taken against the officers who fail to perform their duty well.The Additional Deputy Commissioner said the progress of the collection work by the revenue officers was being constantly monitored by the higher ups and strict action would be taken against erring officers.He further said that the revenue officers were duty-bound to ensure the recovery of pending arrears from the wilful defaulters at the earliest.Bains said that wilful defaulters should not be allowed to take the law for granted and every effort must be made to recover the pending arrears from them at the earliest.The Additional Deputy Commissioner also asked the officers to maximise field inspections in their respective jurisdictions to resolve the issues faced by the people.Bains said the officers must perform their duty diligently and any callousness in this regard would not be tolerated at any cost. He asked all the officers to perform their duty well and serve the people with full integrity.SDMs Amarinder Malhi, Baljinder Dhillon, Narinder Singh Dhaliwal, Mankanwal Singh Chahal, RTA Sandeep Garha, and IAS (under training) Aakash Bansal were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/achieve-target-of-recoveries-in-current-fiscal-officials-told-216424
23-02-2021||---||AAP protests fuel price hike||Ludhiana, February 22In view of the rising fuel prices, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday staged a protest in Ludhiana against the central government and state government. During the protest, AAP volunteers raised slogans against state as well as central governments. The protesting members were demanding reduction in in fuel and LPG rates.Amandeep Singh Mohi, state joint secretary, said the pandemic had devastated businesses around the world. He said while people were suffering financially, the state government was imposing additional taxes on petrol and diesel to fill its coffers and imposing more financial burden on the people. He said the rising fuel prices were affecting everyone’s daily lives.“Compared to the northern states, petrol is Rs4.1 more expensive in Punjab and diesel is Rs3.1 more expensive. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is not attention to the problems of the people,” he added.Suresh Goyal, district president, AAP, was also present during the protest. He said the government must immediately reduce the taxes and reduce fuel prices.LIP slams CentreSlamming the Central Government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for hiking prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, members of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) staged a protest near Clock Tower here.They also carried out a protest rally from Jagraon Bridge to Clock Tower to mark their protest against the increased fuel prices.During the protest, the members had kept a two-wheeler and an LPG cylinder on a cart to highlight the issue. LIP leaders Randhir Singh Sibia and Baldev Singh said: “Despite the fall in prices of crude oil in the international market, the Centre has increased the fuel prices. People are forced to suffer due to the increase in fuel prices by the Centre.”Sibia said: “The increased prices of fuel had also led to rise in prices of essential items.”LIP leader Baldev Singh said: “We urge the Central Government to reduce taxes on petroleum products and also commissions of oil companies so that the common man can get a sigh of relief.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-protests-fuel-price-hike-216426
23-02-2021||---||90 challaned for underage driving by Ludhiana traffic police||Ludhiana, February 22Taking strict note on underage driving, the Ludhiana traffic police on Monday issued challans to 90 violators. The Ludhiana police have launched a special drive to curb the menace of underage driving.A total 37 of vehicles were impounded during the drive that was conducted under the guidance of Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Deepak Pareek. During the drive, a number of minors were found without driving license, helmet and also violating other traffic rules.ACP Traffic Gurdev Singh said they make an appeal to the parents to do not allow their underage children to drive vehicles. “The parents should follow the rules and do not handover vehicles to their minor children. The parents should obey the rules and encourage their children to the do the same. If they allow their minor children to drive a vehicle, they are not only breaking the rules but also putting life of their children at risk. Moreover, parents can also face action for violating the law.”He further said that the people should avoid purchasing and fixing modified silencers which create sound pollution by removing original silencer fitted in vehicle by firm concerned.He said they have issued challans against the violators who were found using faulty silencers that cause sound pollution. He further said that they also conducted awareness about the ill effects of using such silencers that cause sound pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/90-challaned-for-underage-driving-by-ludhiana-traffic-police-216427
23-02-2021||---||Punjab Agricultural University VC releases book||Ludhiana, February 22The Vice-Chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, released a book titled “Main Bailaspuron Boldan” penned by Dr Nirmal Jaura, Director Students’ Welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh.Dr KS Aulakh, former Vice-Chancellor, PAU; Dr NS Malhi, former Director of Extension Education, PAU and Satish Gulati, publisher of the book was also present on the occasion.Dr Dhillon said that Dr Jaura’s book highlights his connection with the roots. To be a successful agricultural scientist, it is important to realise the pain of the earth, he added.Dr Jaura’s books are written in simple language and reflect the feelings of rural Punjab.Dr Aulakh lauded Dr Jaura’s efforts in presenting a deep insight into people’s sufferings and sensibilities.Dr Malhi said this book exhibits the creativity of Dr Jaura in expressing the indebtedness to the earth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-agricultural-university-vc-releases-book-216429
23-02-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Protesters seek release of farmers, activists||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 22 Demanding quashing of FIRs and immediate release of the farmers and activists arrested during the ongoing farmers’ stir, Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Sewa Society and Sikh Youth Power of Punjab held a massive protest in Ludhiana today. The protesters were carrying placards and posters in support of arrested environment activist Disha Ravi, labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, Ranjit Singh and other persons who are in jail. The protesting members were also demanding cancellation of FIRs against actor cum activist Deep Sidhu and activist Lakha Sidhana.  The kin of 27-year-old Iqbal Singh, who was arrested from Singhu border, also participated in the protest.  Tejinder Singh, a 51-year-old man from Tussa village in the district, said, “My son Iqbal Singh was arrested from Singhu Border on January 29. We learned about his arrest on morning of January 30. He had been performing langar service at Singhu Border but he was arrested by the police in false case. My son is innocent and should be released immediately.” Meanwhile, police force was deployed at the protest site. Taranjit Singh Nimana, of Bhai Ghanaiya Mission Sewa Society, who was leading the protest, said, “We have demanded that the FIRs registered against all innocent farmers, activists, writers, journalists and others should be quashed. All these innocent persons should be immediately released from jail.” Pardeep Singh Ayali of Sikh Youth Power of Punjab, who along with a convoy carried out a vehicle rally from Mullanpur to Ludhiana, participated in the protest outside Gulmor Hotel here today, said, “We demand quashing of false cases and immediate release of all those, who were arrested during the ongoing stir against farm laws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesters-seek-release-of-farmers-activists-216431
23-02-2021||Ludhiana||Embrace tech for better livestock management: Experts||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, organised a one day workshop on “Recent Trends in Livestock Nutrition to optimise their Productivity”. Dr PS Brar, Director of Extension Education, GADVASU, briefed that the workshop was part of Livestock Nutritional Awareness Week being organised by the university to enlighten the farmers regarding the importance of balanced nutrition for livestock.Dr US Chahal, Head, Department of Animal Nutrition, enumerated various facilities being provided by the department for the benefit of farmers. Dr JPS Gill, Director of Research, highlighted the research achievements of the university in the field of animal nutrition.Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, remarked that promoting balanced nutrition is critical to boost productivity of livestock in the country. Dr NN Pathak spoke on the benefits of fortification of dry fodder for dairy animals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/embrace-tech-for-better-livestock-management-experts-216432
23-02-2021||Ludhiana||‘Form self-help groups for empowerment’||A five-day training course on “Food Preservation,” jointly organised by the Department of Extension Education and the Skill Development Centre, concluded at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).The course was held at Beela village in Pakhowal block, Ludhiana, under the entrepreneurship programme for scheduled castes. As many as 30 farm women attended the training course which aimed at imparting entrepreneurial skills needed for running a particular venture.Dr Dharminder Singh, Senior Extension Scientist, urged the farm women to unite and form self-help groups for empowerment. He also encouraged them to read farm literature and reap benefits from various training programmes of the PAU.Dr Parkash Singh, Agriculture Officer, explained different schemes, being offered by the department to the farmers and farm women.Dr Lakhwinder Kaur, Extension Scientist, while proposing a vote of thanks, advised the women to utilise the surplus vegetables and fruits through processing for enhancing family income for empowerment so that role of women is not restricted in four walls of home and their work is not underestimated and underscored.For entrepreneurial development of rural community, especially, women in the field of food processing and value addition, the experts from the Department of Food Science and Technology gave hands-on-training in the making of milk products such as chenna murki, flavoured milk, spiced paneer and kulfi. Experts also demonstrated the preparation of kinnow squash, carrot murabba and amla murabba. They elaborated the importance of growing potato and use of surplus potato in making of aloo pujia and chips and emphasised on utilisation of whey food products and nutritious value of these products. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/form-self-help-groups-for-empowerment-216435
