24-02-2021||Ludhiana||100 rural youth clubs receive sports kits||To promote sports in rural areas and make the state a sporting powerhouse, sports kits were distributed among 100 youth clubs under the mission ‘Youth of Punjab’ in Ludhiana today. Lt Gen TS Shergill, senior advisor to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, launched the first phase of the mission. The aim of this mission is to engage the youths of the rural areas in the sports by channelizing the unbounded energy in the right direction. Addressing the representatives of youth clubs in Guru Nanak Bhawan, Shergill said these kits would play a pivotal role in the promotion of sports and other social activities in the rural areas. Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board said that the sports would keep the youth away from the drugs and they would be able to contribute for the society. He said sports kits would be provided to all 13,000 registered youths’ clubs in the coming phases.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/100-rural-youth-clubs-receive-sports-kits-216846
24-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Parents wary of sending kids to school as cases shoot up||Tribune News Service  Ludhiana, February 23 The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases being reported from not just government schools but also from leading, reputed private schools of city has created panic among all teachers, students and their parents. As the infection has started catching up teachers and students in schools, parents once again, have become reluctant to send their wards to schools. Even the school managements have started thinking of conducting online exams for various classes looking at present scenario.  The students and parents of two leading schools in the city were relieved as their managements decided to conduct exams online instead of offline as announced earlier. From both these schools, few teachers and students are reported to be Covid positive. Principal of one of these two schools said the study and exams will be continued online. At the same time, she added that it was not necessary that they caught infected from school only. “Life has resumed to normal. Students and teachers move freely and you never know how you get an infection. Since parents raised apprehension, we decided to continue with online studies and exams”, she added. Harmit Kaur, Principal, Nankana Public School, said at her school, no case has been reported and there were just two exams left for classes IX and XI students. “We will continue with offline exams. For Class III onwards, offline exams will start from March 1 and just two classes will be having exam per day. Proper social distancing will be made while students take the exams,” said Harmit Kaur. Seeing an increase in the number of cases in schools, the state government has given fresh instructions to schools to appoint nodal officers (teachers), who will ensure that guidelines are properly followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-wary-of-sending-kids-to-school-as-cases-shoot-up-216847
24-02-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Man duped of Rs 6L on promise of MBBS seat in Russian varsity||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Feb 23 The Ahmedgarh Sadar Police have registered an FIR against unknown persons under Section 420 of the IPC and 66(D) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, for allegedly duping a resident of Rasulpur of Rs6,10,970 on the pretext of getting his son admission in MBBS at a medical college in Russia. Though the police have collected details of at least 11 bank accounts of separate persons to which the amount was transferred on different occasions, the account holders had not been named in the FIR, fearing that the accused might have used fake IDs to open these accounts. Strangely enough, the victim family has never met any of the accused personally and all transactions were made after receiving online instructions or telephonic messages. Aslam Khan, a resident of Rasulpur village, alleged that the accused, at least 11 in number, had phished his son Feroze Khan. The Cyber Crime wing of the Sangrur district police were verifying the details. Kingpin of the gang, a woman purportedly living in Amritsar had assured the victim family that she would manage MBSS admission for Feroze as she had links in a university in Russia. She had instigated the family to transfer money in various accounts being run under different names at different branches in Punjab and Rajasthan. Having received the complaint, Sangrur SSP Viveksheel Soni had deployed the incharge of the human trafficking unit and incharge cyber cell, Sangrur, to submit a report after investigating the case.  The investigations revealed that the victim’s family had transferred various amounts from the joint account of the complaint and his wife being run a nationalised bank at Ahmedgarh. Amandeep Kaur, SHO, Sadar, said the case had been registered against unknown persons as genuineness of ID proofs used for opening the related bank accounts, was yet to be verified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-duped-of-rs-6l-on-promise-of-mbbs-seat-in-russian-varsity-216848
24-02-2021||Ludhiana||Documentary on Guru Tegh Bahadur||The Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, launched a documentary on the spiritual journey of Guru Tegh Bahadur, dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Guru, here today. The documentary, prepared by a local lawyer Harpreet Sandhu, was a combination of high quality colourful pictures of the gurdwaras in various parts of the region, depicting the journey of Guru Teg Bahadur, from his birth till martyrdom.   The Deputy Commissioner appreciated the initiative, which he said will definitely help to spread preaching of the Sikh guru besides the message of peace and universal brotherhood.   Punjab Arts Council Chairman Surjit Patar also lauded the creativity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/documentary-on-guru-tegh-bahadur-216850
24-02-2021||Anil Datt---||Ludhiana loses to Mohali in thriller||Ludhiana, February 23 In a nail-biting contest, Mohali registered a thrilling one wicket win on Ludhiana at the Punjab State Inter-District One- Day Cricket Tournament (U-19) played at the GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here on Tuesday. Ludhiana skipper, Viraj Singh won the toss and elected to bat first. However, they could muster 168 runs in 44 overs. Tikshan Tangri top scored with 57 runs and was followed by Viraj Singh, Lovepreet, Chintan Randhan and Gurmehar Singh who contributed 24, 18, 18 and 13 runs, respectively. For the visitors, Rushil Srivastva and Jashanpreet Singh took three wickets each while Ayush Goel and Harshdeep Singh grabbed a brace each. Mohali, after a solid start, survived many anxious moments before romping home victorious in 47 overs. They scored 169 runs with the last pair on crease to wrap up the cliff hanger. The main scorers were Rajinder Singh (45), Aryan Bhatia (28), Anshul Negi (18) and Ayush Goel who remained unbeaten on 18. For the hosts, Aardhya Shukla got three wickets for 37 runs in nine overs and Kanishak secured three for 34 in 10 overs while Gurmehar Singh scalped two victims for 23 runs and Harshit Takkar got rid of one batsman after giving away 39 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-loses-to-mohali-in-thriller-216851
24-02-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Residents divided over speed humps in Lal Bagh Colony||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 23 A number odf residents seemed to be divided over an issue of speed-breakers on a road at Lal Bagh Colony (New Rajguru Nagar) in Ludhiana.  A group of residents have complained about the issue to the police. However, another group claimed that these were set up for controlling the speed of vehicles and avert mishaps. Col RS Sohi (82), a resident of Lal Bagh and president of Ex-Servicemen Welfare Society, Ludhiana, had filed a complaint to the police against the speed-breakers. He claimed to have made a verbal complaint to PWD official demanding removal of the speed humps. Following his complaint, PWD team had visited the area to dismantle the speed breakers on Monday. However, a group of residents then requested the staff not to demolish the speed breakers as they claimed these are for the safety of people. Another resident, Nazar Singh (72) also advocated for their removal.  On the other hand, a group of residents have also submitted a letter to PWD in support of the speed breakers. Paramjeet Singh, a resident of Lal Bagh, said, “It is a busy road. There is no provision of traffic lights and other arrangement to control the speed of vehicles on this stretch. Even mishaps had taken place due to speedy vehicles on the stretch. Thus, speed breakers were constructed with an objective to control the speed of vehicles to avert mishaps. These speed breakers are not illegal as these were constructed as per the norms.” In their letter to PWD executive engineer, a group of residents have demanded that more speed breakers should be constructed in the area. PWD Executive Engineer Rakesh Garg said, “I have received a letter signed by around 20 residents and they requested for not removing these speed-breakers. The residents said that the speed breakers were constructed to avert accidents on this link road as speedy vehicles used to pass through the stretch.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-divided-over-speed-humps-in-lal-bagh-colony-216852
24-02-2021||---||Two fatalities; 81 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 23 Two persons lost their lives to Covid, while 81 tested positive for the virus which also included five school and college students and seven school teachers in the district today. With this, the total positive cases in Ludhiana district have reached 26,782 and the death toll in the district has reached 1,023.  Today, five students who tested positive belong to GMT College Girls Kitchlu Nagar, Government School Chauta, Government School Kailpur, Punjab Public School Samrala and ITI College Samrala.  Seven teachers who tested positive today included one teacher from Government School Model Town, one teacher from Government School Dhandari Khurd, two teachers from Government School Chauta, one teacher from Punjab Public School Samrala, one teacher from Government High School Kot Mangal Singh and one teacher from GHG Khalsa School Ahmedgarh. In addition, two staff of the Police Department, two staff nurses from the DMCH tested positive today. Two patients who lost their lives today were both 57-year-old males and belonged to Dhandra Road and Bajurg village. One patient had the co-morbidity of hypertension and diabetes. The total samples collected till date are 6,52,551, while the reports of 1,226 are pending.  Now, there are 442 active cases and 70 were sent to home quarantine today. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said people had started adopting careless attitude towards Covid which should not be done.  “Both teachers and students need to be careful and adopt all necessary precautions while attending the school. They should cover their faces with masks and wash their hands frequently. Parents wary of sending kids to school p2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-fatalities-81-ve-in-ludhiana-district-216853
24-02-2021||---||Khanna man shot dead by robbers in USA||Ludhiana, February 23 A 31-year-old man, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Chakohi village near Khanna, was shot dead by armed robbers in the USA’s Sacramento city. Robbers rained several bullets on him in a loot attempt at a store. Gurpreet was working in the store named 7- Eleven located in the city. Gurdarshan Singh, sarpanch, Chakohi village, said Gurpreet had gone to the USA about two years ago on work permit and was working in the store as a clerk. He had married six years ago and had a five-year-old son. Singh said last night, Gurpreet had a scuffle with the robbers at the store and they shot him dead on the spot. He was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital but in vain. As per the sarpanch, a few minutes before the incident, Gurpreet was talking to his wife Sukhpreet Kaur and he suddenly hung up the phone, saying he would call her back soon, but unfortunately that call turned out to be his last one. The family has, meanwhile, initiated talks with the authorities to bring back Gurpreet’s body to his native village in Khanna. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-man-shot-dead-by-robbers-in-usa-216854
24-02-2021||---||Major power theft detected in Focal Point colony||Ludhiana, February 23 Acting swiftly on a tip-off, the enforcement team of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) detected a major power theft by an industrial consumer in the Mahavir Jain Colony of Focal Point here today. Besides imposing a penalty of Rs27 lakh, a case has been lodged against the garment manufacturer. Sources said the consumer had connected heavy load of 45 kw through a power cable of 20-m length direct from the distribution transformer. The consumer, who was running a garment manufacturing unit, has been penalised Rs27 lakh on account of power theft, and an FIR under Section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003, has been registered against the consumer. “The involvement of the local PSPCL staff in the power theft was also being probed,” said PSPCL Chief Engineer, Enforcement, Jasbir Singh. He added that any official found involved would face strict disciplinary proceedings. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad had already given clear direction to the enforcement wing for adopting zero tolerance towards power theft and corruption cases in the corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/major-power-theft-detected-in-focal-point-colony-216855
24-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Traffic chaos rules Basti Jodhewal Chowk||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 23Basti Jodhewal Chowk located on the 5National Highway-44 is also one of the deadly black spots declared by the Ludhiana police.As per a study conducted by the police, as many as nine persons have lost their lives at the spot in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) after they were hit by speeding vehicles. Most of these victims include pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders.The construction work of Rahon Road at Basti Jodhewal is on for the past few years, which is causing traffic congestion near Jodhewal Chowk.Service lanes are not constructed in a proper way on both sides of the road. Encroachments and wrong parking of vehicles on the road are also adding to traffic woes.There is only one crossing point under the bridge to pass through Basti Jodhewal Chowk and on both sides of the point, there is a 12X12 sq ft area, which is left unpaved and restricted for traffic movement due to which the width of road is not sufficient for vehicles to pass. The Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, has encroached the service lanes on both sides of the road for dumping garbage.Road leading towards Shivpuri or the Rahon side, where a large number of industries exist, hardly remain free from traffic hurdles. Many times, fire tenders get stuck in traffic at the chowk.Residents of the area alleged that there were no proper facilities of blinkers, speed breakers, zebra crossing markings and signboards. Speed-limit board and speed radar are also missing.During rainy days, rainwater gets accumulated on the stretch near the chowk.ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh said there was a need to construct four crossing points for movement of traffic under the bridge (two for U-turn on both ends and two for movement of traffic between link roads). Moreover, the width of unpaved section was required to be reduced by 7X7 sq ft from both sides.There was a need to construct an underpass or overpass for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders at every 1 km in populated areas as well as those spots where factories were located, the ACP said, adding that they had already written to the Municipal Corporation and the National Highways Authority of India in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-chaos-rules-basti-jodhewal-chowk-216856
24-02-2021||---||Completion of projects: Weekly targets fixed||Ludhiana, February 23 In a bid to ensure the timely completion of the development projects initiated by the state government, the Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma today fixed the weekly targets of various departments which he would review on a regular basis. Chairing a review meeting with officials of different departments at Bachat Bhawan here, the DC directed the officials to complete the ongoing development projects within a month and submit utilisation certificates (UCs) for the funds they had received for the works. He said the projects being undertaken with the help of funds from the village panchayats, Finance Commission and the Rural Development kitty should be completed within the stipulated timeline while announcing that he would hold a weekly review on the progress of the works. The DC also fixed the weekly targets of the departments concerned so that pending works could be completed in a time-bound manner. He further asked the officials to expedite the pace of the ongoing works to alleviate rural and urban distress. He said scaling up performance would foster the development of the rural and urban areas. Sharma asked the officials to leave no stone unturned to achieve the set targets. He made it clear that any type of laxity in these works was unwarranted and undesirable, adding that the constant monitoring of target achievements would be done regularly. The DC asked the officials to adopt a multi-pronged strategy to ensure that people were benefited from these policies and programmes of the state government. Sharma also reviewed the progress of various schemes, including Smart Village Campaign, Urban Environment Improvement Programme, Basera, Jal Jiwan Mission and Rural Transformation. ADC (Development) Sandeep Kumar, Additional MC Commissioner Rishipal Singh and DDLG Amit Bamby were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/completion-of-projects-weekly-targets-fixed-216857
24-02-2021||---||Principal Secy visits village over plan to shift dairies||Ludhiana, February 23 Principal Secretary, Department of Local Government, Punjab, AK Sinha, along with MC chief Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and officials from different departments visited Gorsian Kadar Baksh village wherein the civic body has planned to shift dairies from city areas. Sinha also talked to residents of the village regarding the MC’s proposal of shifting of dairies to Gorsian Kadar Baksh, which is located at a distance of around 33 km from Ludhiana. According to information, panchayat members have decided to hold a session on Thursday to conduct a discussion on the MC’s proposal. MC Chief Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said everything was positive regarding the proposal for shifting of the dairies. Officials of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority, PPCB, Irrigation Department and other departments were present. MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said there was a plan to shift the dairies on around 374 acres of land at the village. “The residents said they would hold a mahapanchayat in the village to take a decision on the proposal,” he said. The Superintending Engineer said: “The Principal Secretary told the village residents about benefits of the project under which dairies from the city would be shifted to the village. He said the project was in public interest and a veterinary hospital would also be set up after shifting of the dairies. Employment opportunities will be generated. A plant will also be set up for handling cow dung.” According to a report prepared by the MC, there are two dairy complexes in the city — Haibowal Dairy complex, which is spread on around 179 acres, and the other located on around 45 acres on Tajpur Road in Ludhiana. The MC has planned to shift around 44,000 cattle from two dairy complexes and thousands of cattle from other sites. Earlier, a high-powered committee under the chairmanship of Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu was formed to take a decision on the dairies. In December 2020, members of the committee had taken a decision for shifting the dairies from the city to Gorsian Kadar Baksh and a report in this regard was sent to the Principal Secretary of the Department of Local Government, Punjab. A resolution regarding the shifting of the dairies is likely to be presented before the MC House soon. Inspect ongoing work at Jamalpur STP Principal Secretary AK Sinha and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal also inspected the ongoing work at the Jamalpur sewerage treatment plant under the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project. Meanwhile, they also planted a sapling along nullah near Chand Cinema here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/principal-secy-visits-village-over-plan-to-shift-dairies-216858
24-02-2021||---||Regularise contract staff, demand unions||Ludhiana, February 23Members of various unions met AK Sinha, Principal Secretary, Department of Local Government, Punjab, and raised issues related to employees. Members of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee, Ludhiana, submitted a memorandum in this regard to the Principal Secretary.Committee chairman Ashwani Sahota and president Jasdev Singh Sekhon said they had sought regularisation of services of contractual employees.They demanded that the rank of ‘safai sainik’ should be awarded to all safai karamcharis and sewer men in the state and they be given facilities like ‘sainiks’.They said amended pay scales should be implemented for chief sanitary inspectors and sanitary inspectors of all municipal corporations of the state. They also demanded that the job of three suspended sanitary inspectors should be resumed.Meanwhile, a delegation of the Municipal Karamchari Dal, led by chairman Vijay Danav and president Chaudhry Yashpal, also met the Principal Secretary. Danav said they demanded to regularise the services of contractual employees at the earliest.He said many of the contractual employees had been working for a long time but they were yet to be regularised. They also raised other issues being faced by safai karamcharis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/regularise-contract-staff-demand-unions-216859
24-02-2021||---||Protest against overflowing sewage||Ludhiana, February 23Members of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) staged a protest against the Punjab Government, Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, and the MLA concerned for allegedly not paying attention to address the problem of overflowing sewers on Jassian Road in Ludhiana.They demanded that the problem should be resolved at the earliest, otherwise they would be forced to intensify their agitation. Residents said the matter regarding the overflowing sewage was under the notice of the MC officials concerned, but nothing had been done to provide them relief. The LIP leader Randhir Singh Sibia said several mishaps had taken place as sewage was getting collected under the railway bridge. "Many vendors from the Haibowal side use this stretch to reach Sabji Mandi and they face a lot of inconvenience in routine. Moreover, there is no check on snatching incidents on this stretch. If the overflowing sewer problem is not solved, we will be forced to intensify our agitation", he said. Balwant Singh of the LIP said, “People are suffering a lot. Bike riders and cyclists, generally, lose balance here and fall while passing through the stretch due to the accumulated water. Even some children had been injured in mishaps in the past. The authorities concerned should act fast in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protest-against-overflowing-sewage-216862
24-02-2021||Ludhiana||FDP on quality research||Malwa Central CollegeMalwa Central College of Education for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, celebrated International Mother Language Day on February 22 with great fervour and enthusiasm. On the occasion a programme was presented by B.Ed and M.Ed students. The function started with ‘shabad gayan’ followed by poem recitation and speeches by the students. Students highlighted importance of language in the social and intellectual life of the human beings. Dr Naginder Kaur, principal of the college, appreciated the efforts of students and faculty members for the successful event and said these types of activities are very important for overall development of the students.Int’l Mother Tongue Day observedLudhiana: To promote the preservation and protection of mother tongue, BVM Kitchlu Nagar, observed three days celebration of International Mother Tongue Day. Disseminating the significance of mother tongue in virtual mode by attending webinars planned by Ministry of Education and Ministry of Culture for improving access to heritage and cultural expressions all saluted the incredibility of hte mother tongue. “Mother tongue is underlying component of one’s identity. No education is complete without understanding and practising mother tongue,” said Principal Neelam MittarSewing machines distributedWith the noble vision of creating significant and substantial awareness and self-reliance among the masses, Arya Samaj, Model Town, Ludhiana, has been working with great devotion, determination, vigour and vivacity since last 72 years. Continuing this journey of philanthropy, it distributed sewing machines to the residents as well as the students of Goodwill School, Sopore, run by Army Headquarter, Sector 5 Baramula, Jammu and Kashmir. These sewing machines were in order to ensure the expansion of human empowerment. Capt Vijay Sayal highlighted that while following the teachings of Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati, Arya Samaj has always been distributing the required articles in society to the needy people in order to make people self-dependent and empower each aspect of society.BCM School, basant cityInternational Mother Language Day, which aims to to promote awareness of linguistic and cultural diversity and to promote multilingualism, was celebrated at BCM School, Basant City. Students wrote slogans and paragraphs on ‘Significance of Mother Language’ in our lives. Principal JP Singh emphasised the importance of speaking mother tongue and not to feel shy about it. Learning to speak in the mother tongue is must for a child’s overall development, she added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fdp-on-quality-research-216866
