25-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man attacked over old enmity, 14 booked||The Ludhiana rural police registered an attempt-to-murder case against 14 persons who attacked a man over old enmity near Behal Patti village in Hathur.The booked accused have been identified as Gurmanjot Singh, Harjit Singh, Charna, Ramna, alias Gurtej, Guggi, alias Ekam, Gora, Goggi, Harvinder Singh, Bindri, Har and four unknown persons.Complainant Raminderjit Singh of Chakkar village told the police that on February 22, he was heading towards the clinic of doctor Dilbag Singh on his Royal Enfield motorcycle. When he reached Behal Patti, a speedy Maruti Alto car hit his bike from the rear side. When he fell on the road, several persons, travelling in a Hyundai Verna car, also reached the spot.All assailants cornered him and started beating him up with iron rods and other weapons. When passers-by gathered at the spot, the accused escaped. While fleeing, they took away his coat and T-shirt, the complainant alleged.Two of the assailants were also carrying guns.The complainant said Rs 4,100 in cash was kept in a pocket of his coat which was taken away by them. He said he had an old enmity with Gurmanjot and others and recently, he had arguments with them in a village due to which they threatened him of dire consequences.Investigating officer ASI Tarsem Lal said a case had been registered against the accused and raids were on to nab them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-attacked-over-old-enmity-14-booked-217089
25-02-2021||---||Gang of vehicle thieves busted in Ludhiana, three nabbed||Ludhiana, February 24The CIA wing of the Ludhiana police busted a gang of vehicle thieves and arrested three of its members. The police recovered nine stolen motorcycles from them.The arrested members have been identified as Sukhdeep Singh Sukha (25) of Jatrpura village, Jagraon, Arshdeep (29) of Lamma village, Jagraon, and Manpreet Singh Manna (20) of Nathuwal village, Raikot.A statement in this regard was issued by DCP (investigation) SPS Dhindsa, ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and ACP (Crime) Mandeep Singh.The DCP said a tip-off was received that the members of the gang were roaming near the New Court Complex and accordingly, the police party conducted a raid and nabbed the accused.Later during the investigation, nine motorcycles were recovered from them. They had stolen the vehicles from various places in the city and its surrounding areas.Dhindsa said the police remand of the accused would be sought from court for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-in-ludhiana-three-nabbed-217090
25-02-2021||---||79 fresh cases reported in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 24As many as 79 fresh cases of Covid were reported here on Wednesday. These include, nine students and four teachers.As per the Health Department, 95 persons, including 79 from Ludhiana and 16 from other districts or states, tested positive.In Ludhiana district, a student of PCTE College, two students of Government School, Chaunta, one student of Sukhmani Public School, Chaunta, one student of Punjab Public School, Samrala, one student of Satpaul Mittal School here, a student of DPS, one student of the DMC and a student of Multipurpose School, Ludhiana, have tested positive for the virus. Besides, two teachers of GHS, Kot Mangal, a teacher from the DPS and another teacher from Government School, Gurma village, tested positive.Don’t stop wearing mask, says DocAs Covid cases are reported to be on the rise, Dr Bishav Mohan, a medical superintendent from the DMCH, said people should not stop taking precautionary measures. “It is advisable to wear mask when you go out and keep social distancing. If the cases are on the rise again, it is due to our laxity in adopting the precautionary measures,” he said.Besides, 31 patients visited the OPD, 17 with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner, two police personnel and two healthcare workers have also tested positive for the virus. At present, there are 495 active patients in the district.A total of 6,55,347 samples have been taken, of which 6,23,310 samples were found negative while reports of 1,024 were pending. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 26,861, while 4,152 patients belong to other districts or states. The total number of persons who lost their lives to Covid include 1,023 persons from Ludhiana and 500 from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/79-fresh-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-district-217092
25-02-2021||---||Project to rehabilitate drug dependents into mainstream launched in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 24To help drug dependents to lead a normal life by bringing them back into the mainstream, the district administration launched ‘Mission Red Sky’, here on Wednesday.While launching the project, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma directed 50 officials of various departments to identify 500 drug dependents (10 each), to provide them job opportunities through skill development or training programmes.State govt’s flagship programmeWhile launching the ‘Mission Red Sky’ project, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said it is the state government’s flagship programme which is aimed at rehabilitating drug abuse victims through skilling and employment. Under the mission, each official will identify 10 drug dependents, who were getting treatment from OOAT centres, and will provide job opportunities to them by enhancing their capabilities through skill development or training programmes at the DBEE so that they become self-reliant.He said the state government’s flagship programme ‘Mission Red Sky’ was aimed at rehabilitating drug abuse victims through skilling and employment. He said under the mission, each official would identify 10 drug dependents, who were getting treatment from OOAT centres and would provide job opportunities to them by enhancing their capabilities through skill development or training programmes at the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) so that they could earn a livelihood like others and become self-reliant.He said each of the deputed officials had been tasked for the cause so that the drug dependents did not face any problem in getting employment along with their treatment.The DC asked them to achieve the target and help the drug dependants to become active partners in the socio-economic growth of the state. He also formed a committee to hold meetings with industry associations for preparing details of jobs.The Deputy Commissioner said the massive crackdown on drug peddlers by the state government and large-scale awareness programmes, including DAPO, Buddy, and others, have yielded positive results as these movements had created awareness among the public against drug abuse. Sharma said the district administration would continue its efforts till the entire Ludhiana district was freed of drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/project-to-rehabilitate-drug-dependents-into-mainstream-launched-in-ludhiana-217093
25-02-2021||---||NHAI to build foot overbridges, cycle tracks along highways||Ludhiana, February 24The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will construct foot overbridges with ramps and cycle tracks along highways passing through Ludhiana district.NHAI Chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu gave this assurance late last evening while asking the district administration to provide requisite land for the purpose to benefit pedestrians and cyclists, besides checking fatal road accidents on busy highways.In Ludhiana for dedicating completed projects to the public and reviewing the progress of ongoing highway construction works, the NHAI chief said the foot overbridges with ramps would be constructed so that the pedestrians could easily cross highways while dedicated cycle tracks would provide exclusive way to the cyclists and rickshaws.He dedicated the flyover on Cheema Chowk, which was part of the Ferozepur Road-Samrala Chowk elevated road project.Accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, Dr Sandhu took a round of several ongoing projects on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road, National Highway 44 (GT Road), Ladhowal bypass, besides other projects.Chairing a review meeting, the NHAI chairman was apprised by the police of traffic-related issues on the national highways passing through the district.During the visit on the Ladhowal bypass project, he directed the NHAI officials to instal traffic lights near the F2 raceway intersection on a temporary basis to ease traffic congestion. He also assured that a permanent solution would be provided for this intersection keeping in mind the needs of future generations.The National Highways Authority of India officials also informed the Chairman that permanent exit and entry points would be developed near Greenland School on the Jalandhar bypass, near the Focal Point in Transport Nagar and other points along the NH-44.The NHAI Chairman directed officials to ensure proper care in finalising the location of these points so that it did not lead to any road accidents in the future. He also assured that all illegal cuts on the highways would be closed to avoid road accidents. For the help of people visiting the city, proper signboards would also be installed before entry points.Dr Sandhu categorically mentioned that Ludhiana was close to his heart and special care should be taken while implementing and planning any project in the city. He assured residents that the NHAI would ensure that best-quality highways were constructed for their benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nhai-to-build-foot-overbridges-cycle-tracks-along-highways-217095
25-02-2021||Harshraj Singh||Stretch linking Tajpur Road, Kakka village in a shambles||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 24Commuters are a harried lot due to the dilapidated condition of a stretch of the link road that connects Tajpur Road with Kakka village. The Municipal Corporation had constructed a portion of road in its jurisdiction but a remaining part of the stretch has not been constructed for a long time.Residents are waiting for government’s attention for construction of remaining portion of the road. As the stretch leads to Kakka, Tibba Road and other areas, they demand from the government to get the road constructed at the earliest. The road also leads to a number of factories.A resident of Kakka village said, “The poor condition of the road is being ignored for the past years. A portion of road was earlier constructed near MC’s sewerage treatment plant. The remaining portion, which further leads to Kakka village, and other areas was not constructed.During the rainy season, the stretch turns into a slush and it is difficult to drive vehicles on the non-constructed portion of the road. We don’t know which authority is responsible for construction of the road. The government should take necessary steps to provide relief to the people.”Surinder Singh, a commuter, said, “I have been witnessing the poor condition of the road for past some years. When any heavy vehicle passes through the road, the dust creates more trouble to the commuters. The condition turns bad to worse during the rainy season. Even surface of stretch is not levelled due to which the commuters are forced to face more inconvenience. The government fix the responsibility of department concerned to construct the remaining portion of the road. If the road portion is constructed at the earliest, it would be big relief for many.”MC’s Superintending Engineer (B&R) Parveen Singla said the MC had constructed this road’s portion that falls under the jurisdiction of the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stretch-linking-tajpur-road-kakka-village-in-a-shambles-217097
25-02-2021||---||SAD (Democratic) protests fuel price hike in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 24 Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) staged a protest against the Centre as well as state government for hiking the fuel and LPG prices. The protest was led by former MLAs Ranjit Singh Talwandi and Jagdish Singh Garcha. Talwandi said they have written to PM Narendra Modi and CM Capt Amarinder Singh to reduce the fuel and LPG prices. He said, “When the crude oil prices are low at international level, the fuel prices are being increased in the country. Moreover, the people are forced to suffer due to high price of LPG. Both, central and state governments hiked the rates by imposing taxes.”  He further said, “The people should be provided relief at the earliest. The economically-weaker sections and the middle-class families are the worst hit. Moreover, increased prices of diesel will hit the agricultural and transport sectors.” He added, “The rising petrol prices will put extra burden on the people. The people are already suffering due to inflation amid Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of providing any relief to the people, the central and state governments increased woes of people by increasing the fuel and LPG prices.” The protesting members threatened to intensify the agitation if fuel and LPG prices are not reduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-democratic-protests-fuel-price-hike-in-ludhiana-217099
25-02-2021||Ludhiana||Bring petrol, diesel under GST regime, says YAD||Members of the Youth Akali Dal today staged a protest against hike in fuel prices in a unique manner. Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president, YAD, Ludhiana, and party workers distributed the small containers filled with petrol to highlight the issue.  Gosha said, “As the fuel prices have been increased, it seems that petrol will be available in small containers. Apart from distributing containers of petrol, we also made the people aware about the taxes collected by Centre and state governments. The petrol price is near to Rs100 per litre because the center and state governments are collecting around seventy per cent tax on fuel prices.”  He said the central government has added burden on people with demonetisation, GST and high fuel prices. “The government should bring the fuel prices under GST to provide relief to people,” he said. In other states the petrol prices are below Rs90 but the taxes by Punjab government is too high and the petrol prices are above Rs92 in the state, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bring-petrol-diesel-under-gst-regime-says-yad-217101
25-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Cheema Chowk overbridge to end traffic woes: Industry||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 24 After a gap of over two years, the Cheema Chowk overbridge was opened to the public, giving much respite to the industrialists.  Industry heaves a sigh of relief as the overbridge will divide the traffic and commuters will get relief from regular traffic jams. Talking to The Tribune, Balbir Singh, who has a shawl manufacturing unit in Industrial Area A, said during the entire construction of the overbridge, he used to reach his workplace in 45-55 minutes from the Civil Lines area. “Early morning when you are struck in a traffic jam, you get exhausted and reach the factory in a tired manner after driving the vehicle. Again in the evening, you get stuck in a traffic jam,” he said. “We were praying for the early opening of the bridge so that traffic gets diverted and driving becomes easy. It was so very difficult to commute but today, it was an easy and smooth drive from near Cheema Chowk as half of the traffic moved ahead from the bridge towards Samrala Chowk,” Balbir Singh. The overbridge is constructed to avoid the traffic congestion as commuters turn towards different destinations through under and overbridge towards Cheema Chowk, RK Road, Janakpuri, Transport Nagar, Sufian Chown etc. The overbridge is part of the Ferozepur Road-Samrala Chowk elevated road project. Thousands of commuters and vehicles pass through this stretch and it had become too difficult for residents as the construction process was on for long. Because of traffic snarls and serpentine lines, vehicles banged into one another and residents were seen arguing with each other on roads. But since it opened for the public yesterday, the traffic got diverted and there was relief to all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cheema-chowk-overbridge-to-end-traffic-woes-industry-217104
25-02-2021||Sports Correspondent---||KVM Lions register five-wicket win||Ludhiana, February 24 KVM Lions defeated Crease Masters by five wickets on the fourth day of the 4th Kundanite Premier League (KPL) being organised by the Kundan Vidya Mandir Alumni Association at KVM, Civil Lines, ground here today. Crease Masters scored 100 runs for the loss of nine wickets in the allotted ten overs in which the main contributions were made by Rameez and Dipin Chitkara who chipped in with 15 and 14 runs, respectively while Devesh and Vansh claimed three and two wickets, respectively for KVM Lions. KVM Lions made the required runs after losing five wickets. Bhavik scored 26 runs and Vansh made 18 whereas Rajat and Ankur captured two wickets each for the losing side. In another match, Smashers XI beat KKR XI by eight wickets. In reply to KKR XI’s 110 for 6, Smashers XI scored 111 runs for the loss of two wickets to win it easily. In other matches, Cric Ninjas XI outplayed Blazing Dragons XI by 41 runs. Stadium Shockers crushed KVM Rhinos by 55 runs, Back Benchers XI beat Royal Warriors by nine wickets and KVM Super Kings defeated 88 Batch Rockers by five wickets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kvm-lions-register-five-wicket-win-217105
25-02-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Women councillors demand active role in decision making||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Feb 24 Newly-elected women councillors have urged authorities concerned in the municipal council and civil administration to facilitate them in watching interests of members of the fairer gender in the region. Snubbing the normal tendency of proxy governance through male family members, the councillors asserted that they would themselves participate in decision making processes which are concerned with women and girls. Appreciating the gesture shown by the women councillors’ legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman, who is also associate member of the municipal council, said he had advised rank and file in the local administration to ensure that women empowerment is implemented in letter and spirit. “Now, when CM Capt Amarinder Singh has kept his promise to provide equality to women in urban local bodies, as promised by the Congress before assembly elections, we should all respect the democracy by helping elected women members participate actively in decision making processes during their tenure,” said the MLA.  Alleging that a little had been done for welfare of women and girls by the local civic body during past decades, newly-elected women councillors said they would focus attention on strengthening services and facilities for members of fairer gender, besides working for overall development of the town. “Unfortunately nobody has ever tried to analyse the challenges faced by women councillors in the decision making processes. We will first try to identify factors that hinder true participation of elected women in proceedings of the municipal council,” said Jaswinder Kaur Sharma and Geeta Shahi, councillors from Ward No. 5 and 17 respectively.  Both claimed that local bodies facilitating active participation of women councillors had witnessed substantial sustainable development in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-councillors-demand-active-role-in-decision-making-217107
25-02-2021||---||4 notorious smugglers held with poppy husk||Ludhiana, February 24 The Kotwali police claimed to have arrested four notorious smugglers and recovered 51 kg of poppy husk from their possession. They have been identified as Mandeep Singh Kali, Harpreet Singh Jagga, Jaspreet Singh, a native of Ferozepur at present staying in Lakshmi Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, and Hamesh Charan of Vijay Nagar, Haibowal. Kotwali SHO SI Harjit Singh said a tip-off was received that the accused were on the way to deliver huge quantity of poppy husk to someone and they were heading towards the Jalandhar bypass from the Sherpur chowk. The SHO said a naka was laid and their Maruti Alto car bearing a Haryana registration number was stopped at Clock Tower. During checking, two bags containing poppy husk were recovered. He said the accused used to bring narcotics from big smugglers of Madhya Pradesh, which they used to sell to their clients. All smugglers have a notorious past. A smuggling case was registered against Mandeep by the GRP police station in MP when he was caught with 9 kg of poppy husk. Jaspreet also faced a smuggling case registered by the Dharamkot police when 70 kg of poppy husk was recovered from him and he was also nabbed by the MP police with 39 kg of poppy husk. Harpreet was once caught with 3 kg of poppy husk while Hamesh was facing Arms Act case registered at Rajpura. Meanwhile, ADCP Pragya Jain said people should also help the police for tackling the drug menace and anyone could send her a WhatsApp message regarding drug smuggling or any other matter related with it  on her official phone number and name of the informer would be kept secret.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-notorious-smugglers-held-with-poppy-husk-217109
25-02-2021||---||19 food samples sent for testing in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 24 A team of Health Department officials collected 11 samples of milk and eight samples of food articles for testing. The team comprising Dr Rajesh Garg, Designated Officer, along with Food Safety Officers Rashu Mahajan and Tarun Bansal, conducted an early morning inspection of various milk vendors. Dr Garg said, “A total 11 samples of milk were taken during the drive. During the inspection of various food establishments on Ferozpur Road, health team collected eight samples of food articles for analysis. A total of 19 samples were taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-food-samples-sent-for-testing-in-ludhiana-217111
25-02-2021||Ludhiana||e-symposium on immunology at GADVASU||The College of Animal Biotechnology, GADVASU organised two days International e-symposium sponsored by Society of Immunology and Immunopathology (SIIP).The subject was “Emerging Focus on Immunology in Augmenting Animal and Human Health”. Dr YPS Malik, Secretary, SIIP and Dean, College of Animal Biotechnology, GADVASU said that SIIP is an amalgamation of veterinary and medical immunologists to work together with a common goal of good health and well-being of animals and humans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/e-symposium-on-immunology-at-gadvasu-217112
25-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Hit by SUV, cyclist dies||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 24In a shocking incident, a man rashly driving Fortuner (SUV) allegedly hit Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Isrru village in Khanna, who died on the spot. Later, to make it a natural death, the suspect along with his friends threw victim’s body at the Ghungrali bus stand.After recovering the body the police initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174, CrPc. As there were no visible injuries the police presumed that the victim had died due to natural causes like cold or excessive consumption of liquor.Now, the Sadar police have registered a case of culpable homicide under Section 304 (culpable homicide) and under Section 201(causing disappearance of evidence of the offence), IPC, against the suspect, identified as Gagandeep Singh of Dhandari Kalan, Ludhiana, Harpreet Singh, Rohit Kumar and Gurman Singh, all from Payal, and two unknown persons.Complainant Pardeep Singh, a farmer, said Gurmeet was his employee. On the intervening night of February 17-18, when Gurmeet was going home on his bicycle, he was hit by a Fortuner bearing the Chandigarh registration number, he added.Later to avoid police action, key suspect Gagandeep called his relatives and friends, who took Gurmeet’s body and dumped it at the Ghungrali bus stand.When the postmortem report of the deceased arrived, it hinted that the victim had not died due to natural causes, said Pardeep. Rather, he died due to serious injuries, he added.Later, on checking the CCTV footage of the area shocking details emerged. The CCTV footage showed Fortuner going towards bus stand, which confirmed that the suspect killed Gurmeet.“Although the police say Gurmeet was killed after Fortuner hit him, we suspect that he was first murdered and then his body dumped at the bus stand. We met the Khanna SSP today and urged him to register a murder case under Section 302, IPC, against suspect,” alleged Pardeep.“If Gurmeet died after Fortuner hit him then he must have been crushed under the SUV or his body parts should have visible injuries,” he added.The Kot police post in-charge, sub-inspector Sukhwinder Singh, said Gagandeep was arrested and raids were on to nab remaining suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hit-by-suv-cyclist-dies-217322
