26-02-2021||---||Rs 8 lakh looted from employees of cash service company||Ludhiana, February 25 Six bike-borne persons looted two employees of the SIS Cash Service company of Rs8 lakh at Phullanwal Chowk near Pink Flats here this evening. The employees, on an Activa scooter, were on their way to the Ferozepur road to deposit the cash in a bank. Sources said Gurvinder Singh Goldy and Pardeep were the employees of the SIS Cash Service company. The company manage cash of banks’ ATMs and also collects cash from private companies for depositing the same in banks. This afternoon, the employees after collecting cash from some company in Alamgir, were going to deposit the same in HDFC Bank on the Ferozepur road. The moment they reached Phullawan Chowk, the six persons suddenly cornered the employees and threw chilly powder in their eyes. The moment the employees fell, the accused snatched the victims’ Activa scooter. One of the employees fought with the robbers during which the robbers had to abandon their two motorcycles and fled on a bike and the Activa scooter. The robbers were not wearing maks and were wearing hoodies. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said two bikes of robbers were recovered and efforts were on to trace the owners of the bikes. He claimed that soon, the case would be solved as the police had already got some clues. The Dugri police have started probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-8-lakh-looted-from-employees-of-cash-service-company-217624
26-02-2021||---||‘Ghumshuda’ app to trace missing persons||Ludhiana, February 25The Ludhiana Commissionerate today launched “Ghumshuda” app by putting to use technology to match missing persons with the recovered persons.The app can be operated by any person by downloading it and the report about a missing person can be filed by just a click on a mobile.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, DCP (Crime) SPS Dhindsa, ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and officials of the Anti-Human Trafficking unit of the city police were present on the occasion.Agrawal said in this app, the police had updated the records of more than 10 years of missing persons of all police stations of Ludhiana and so far, more than 3,000 missing persons’ details had been uploaded in the app.He said Ludhiana, being of metropolitan dimensions, a lot of people are reported missing here. To streamline the process of matching the missing persons, with recovered persons, the app has been developed. The app also has a feature to enter details of the traced persons kept in orphanage homes.The public can make use of the search feature by putting various filters according to age, sex, date of missing etc.The app also uses facial recognition to trace missing children. It can be used by parents to report missing children and by vigilant residents to report any vulnerable children found on the streets.By using facial recognition, the app will connect to databases of missing children to find a potential match.“We will update all data of missing persons and kidnapped persons after receiving a complaint at the police station level. A special control room to operate this app and to deal with the missing persons has been set up for this purpose,” said Agrawal.With this app, all police stations of the city police will be connected and if any missing person is found, the SHO of the thana concerned can upload the photo of the missing person. The app server has the photo search feature, which can match the found person’s details with missing person’s data in the app at just one click.The CP said the app was presently limited to the Ludhiana police and if it turned out to be successful, its usage could be made available to all other police districts by uploading the data of all missing persons of the state.The Commissioner of Police said his team worked hard for three months to complete the app.Can have data of unknown bodiesADCP (Crime) Rupinder Bhatti said in this app, photos of unidentified bodies would also be uploaded. This would help the police across the state or country to identify bodies, as sometimes a missing person report is lodged at one police station and the body of such person can be recovered by another police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ghumshuda-app-to-trace-missing-persons-217625
26-02-2021||---||4 students, 7 teachers +ve in Ludhiana district; no death||Ludhiana, February 25Fiftyfive persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district today.The total positive cases have gone up to 26,916, while the people who have lost their lives due to the virus are 1,023.The 55 positive cases today include four students and seven teachers. One student from RIMT College, one student Government School Maachiwara, one student from Government School Humbran and one student from the DMCH tested positive.The teachers who tested positive today included three from GSSS Boys Jawahar Nagar, one from GSSS Engine Shed, one from GDS Convent School, one from GSSS village Gurma and one from Guru Gobind Khalsa Senior Secondary School Bahadurgarh.In January, there were 60 cases from educational institutes, while today the number reached 144.The total number of samples collected till date are 6,58,372, while the reports of 1,839 are awaited. At present, there are 504 active cases and 86 people were home quarantined today.Meanwhile, to halt the resurgence of the Covid cases by ensuring effective testing, the Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma directed the officials to conduct 4500 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) tests daily in Ludhiana and ensure aggressive contact tracing by re-structuring the teams.He asked the Health Department to test 4500 RT-PCR tests in the district only which will help identify the accurate potential of Covid cases and break the transmission chain of the virus.During the meet, the Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate had already started issuing challans against those who were not wearing masks and from March 1, restrictions on gatherings would be strictly enforced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-students-7-teachers-ve-in-ludhiana-district-no-death-217626
26-02-2021||---||Police set to attach smugglers properties’ worth Rs 87 lakh||Ludhiana, February 25The Ludhiana police are set to attach the properties of eight notorious smugglers who have been facing several cases of drug smuggling.The step has been taken by Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to curb the menace of drug smuggling.CP Agrawal said the eight smugglers were those who had been into the notorious trade for a long time and they had amassed huge property from the illegal acts.“The smugglers have garnered huge property from the receipts of illegal money. As per our records, these eight smugglers have made property of Rs87 lakh in a short span of time. We have already initiated the process to attach their properties and soon the process will be completed,” added Agrawal.To prevent habitual offenders from doing this illegal trade, the police have identified 25 such smugglers and special teams have been formed to watch their activities. If required, they will also be behind bars by following the due legal procedure under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Commissioner of Police said.Meanwhile, the anti-narcotics cell arrested a drug smuggler, identified as Kulwinder Singh, of Dhola village and recovered 275 gm of heroin from his possession. He was nabbed by the in charge of the cell Rajesh Sharma.Cops to adopt strict measures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-set-to-attach-smugglers-properties-worth-rs-87-lakh-217627
26-02-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Villagers say no to land for dairies||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 25 After holding a gram sabha to conduct a discussion on a high-powered committee’s proposal about the shifting of dairies from Ludhiana city to Gorsian Kadar Baksh village, the village sarpanch has said that the villagers have decided not to give any land for setting up dairies in the village.  Earlier, a high-powered committee, formed by the Department of Local Government under the chairmanship of Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, had taken the decision to shift dairies from the city to Gorsian Kadar Baksh village. The Principal Secretary of Local Government AK Sinha had visited the village on Tuesday, and shared information with the villagers about the plan for shifting dairies to the village. The panchayat members had then said that they would take a decision on Thursday in this regard. Sarpanch Jagdev Singh Deol said they held the gram sabha today in which around 300 villagers and panchayat members participated. “The villagers decided not to give any land for the shifting of dairies in our village,” he said. He said, “There are many villagers belonging to economically weaker sections. Around 100 families are dependent on the panchayat land as they do farming on this land. If the land is given for setting up dairies, these villagers will become homeless and landless. Moreover, if dairies are set up in our village, it will lead to unsanitary conditions in the area and the villagers will be forced to suffer.” Unsanitary conditions are a common scene at the dairy complexes in the city. The MC has planned to shift dairies outside its jurisdiction as the untreated waste from these dairies is being dumped into Buddha Nullah and sewer lines. According to a report prepared by the MC, there are two dairy complexes in the city, one in the Haibowal Dairy complex spread in 179 acres of land and the second located in around 45 acres of land on the Tajpur road in Ludhiana. The MC has planned to shift around 44,000 cattle from the two dairy complexes and thousands of cattle from other sites.  Mayor Balkar S Sandhu could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/villagers-say-no-to-land-for-dairies-217628
26-02-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Need to streamline traffic at Tajpur Chowk||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 25The Tajpur chowk here witnesses huge traffic and the uncontrolled movement of pedestrians and cyclists crossing the road from one side to the other endangers their lives at this black spot on the national highway.A police survey says 11 persons have lost their lives at this spot in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) by getting hit by high-speed vehicles. Most of the victims included pedestrians, cyclists and scooter/motorcycle riders.During the survey, it was found that many people drive on the wrong side while moving from the Tajpur cut towards the Tibba cut as there is no service lane available for the movement of this traffic. Also, there are no fences on both sides of this road.A large number of factories/mills are located on both sides of the road where a large number of labourers work in shifts. Their movement on the busy road always poses a grave risk to them. There is no provision of under-pass/over-pass for crossing the road.There are dairy farms located in this area. The dairy farms owners abandon unproductive cattle and set them free on the roads, leading to stray cattle menace.There are no proper blinker lights, speed breakers, zebra crossing marks and signboards at this point.Shopkeepers/ workshop owners have encroached upon service lanes along with the part of highway (from Samrala Chowk to Tajpur Chowk) as they park their vehicles and keep their products on the service lane outside the shops.The drains constructed for the drainage of rainwater are broken/blocked at many spots due to which this water does not get drained properly.A resident demanded that for the smooth movement of the traffic between Tajpur Chowk and Tibba Road, there is a need to construct a service lane or a flyover along with fences.“The stray cattle should be sent to gaushalas. There is a need to construct speed breakers and slipway at the point where the commuters take the national highway via the link road so that this traffic does not affect the movement of the vehicles on the highway,” said residents.Residents said due to the location of factories along the road, there was a need to construct a footpath-cum-cycle track alongside the service lane for pedestrians and cyclists.Grey areas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/need-to-streamline-traffic-at-tajpur-chowk-217629
26-02-2021||Nitin Jain||Parents, dist admn tense as cases spike in schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 25The sudden spurt in Covid cases in the schools has become a major cause of concern for parents and managements of the educational institutions besides the district administration.Ludhiana, which had earlier assumed the dubious distinction of Covid capital of Punjab, has topped the state with highest virus positivity in the schools.Against the state’s average positivity rate of 1.1 per cent, Ludhiana has recorded a whopping 4 per cent Covid positive students and school staffers, the official figures compiled by the Health Department have revealed.Ludhiana is one of the seven districts in the state which were showing high positivity of Covid cases, according to the current pandemic situation in the state since January 4, compiled by the government and presented before CM Capt Amarinder Singh recently.The presentation, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that 149 Covid positive cases, including 98 students and 51 teachers, were reported from around 3,700 samples taken in 26 schools of Ludhiana.The second highest positivity rate of 2.9 per cent was reported in Bathinda where 59 of the total 2,061 samples collected from 48 schools had tested positive.Nawanshahr stood third with 2.7 per cent positivity rate in schools.In the state, 723 of the total 64,574 samples taken from 1,392 schools had tested positive. These included 452 students and 271 teachers.While 8 districts in the state had reported less than 1 per cent Covid positive rate in schools, four districts had recorded between 1 and 2 per cent positivity rate.With the cumulative positivity rate of 3.69 per cent as on February 21, the state’s positivity rate rose from 1.25 per cent between January 4 and 10 to 1.72 per cent between February 15 and 21.While the active cases shot up from 2,933 between January 4 and 10 to 3,019 on February 21, the number of positive cases piled up from 1,845 between January 4 and 10 to 2,182 between February 15 and 21, taking the cumulative count to 1,78,459.The sampling came down from 1,47,161 of which 1,845 tested positive between January 4 and 10 to 1,26,875 of which 2,182 turned positive between February 15 and 21.The fatalities also kept going up and down from 45 between January 4-10 to 60 between January 25-31 to again falling down to 57 between February 5-21.The number of discharged patients came down from 1,683 between January 4-10 to 1,447 between February 15-21.The contact/ case ratio rose from 12.3 between January 3-9 to 16.6 between February 15-21.OfficialspeakThe Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, said, "The state government is fully equipped and prepared to combat the possible fresh wave but the citizens should also follow appropriate Covid behaviour to protect themselves and others from the pandemic. Besides re-enforcing the restrictions on gatherings and strict enforcement of mask wearing and social distancing, testing has also been ramped up in the state."Health Secretary Hussan Lal said, “The recent spike in positivity rate, especially in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali and Nawanshahr in recent days, has triggered concerns over a possible fresh wave in the state, following which we are on a high alert and proactively taking all requisite steps to contain the further spread of the pandemic in the state.”Ludhiana among dists with high positivity rate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-dist-admn-tense-as-cases-spike-in-schools-217630
26-02-2021||Ludhiana||Sarabjit, Parveen shine in athletics meet||Sarabjit Kaur, student of BA I and Parveen Kaur, student of MA I, stole the limelight by winning three and two titles, respectively in the one-day 78th edition of the Annual Athletics Meet of Government College for Girls held here today.Sarabjit Kaur came out victorious in 200m, 400m and 1,500m races while Parveen Kaur emerged winner in shot put and sack race.Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Commissioner, MC, Ludhiana, inaugurated the meet. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, senior vice president, Basketball Federation of India and Dr Dharam Singh Sandhu, Principal, SCD Government College, Ludhiana were the guests of honour at the event.Principal Dr Sukhwinder Kaur welcomed the guests. Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer, gave away prizes to the position holders. Sarita, head of physical education department, read out the annual sports report highlighting the achievements by college students and proposed vote of thanks.Results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sarabjit-parveen-shine-in-athletics-meet-217631
26-02-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Panchsheel Vihar residents up in arms against ‘encroachment’ in public park||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 25 A group of residents of Panchsheel Vihar, located in Ward No. 74, blamed some persons for allegedly making attempts to raise “forcible encroachment” on a “public park” land in the area. They also alleged that a portion of the park land has been sold in a “fraudulent” manner.  The residents have written a complaint to CM Capt Amarinder Singh requesting him to order probe and action into the matter. The CM office today forwarded the complaint to the Local Government Secretary to take necessary action as per government rules/policy in the matter. The claimed that the land was shown as a public park in the layout plan when they had purchased plots in Panchsheel Vihar that falls under the MC at present. They further claimed that the same park was also shown as a park in the layout plan of an adjoining PUDA-approved colony. Prof Jaipal Singh, a resident of Panchsheel Vihar, said, “The plots in Panchsheel Vihar were numbered from 1 to 144 in such a way that a park with water tank was shown in the middle of the colony. Many of us purchased the plots when we saw the site map which showed this land as park. An owner of residential plot in the area had got building map approved by the MC in 2006 in which this park has been clearly shown.” Professor Jaipal said, “Prior to this, the developer had also got a colony named Royal Homes approved by PUDA (now GLADA). Now, we have also obtained a layout plan of that colony under RTI from GLADA. As per site plan of Royal Homes, three parks are shown, out of which park number 1 is the same park which the developer concerned had shown us as park area for selling plots in Panchsheel Vihar, Ludhiana. Now, we are worried as some persons have made attempts for constructing houses on this park land.” He further said, “The developer concerned had started constructing an office in the park in November 2006 and at that time only 4-5 residents were living in this colony. The developer had told them that when all the plots are sold he will vacate the office which can be used by the residents. Unfortunately, a sale deed was later registered in name of a firm and a portion of park was marked as plot number 145 as we learned. Then, this portion of the park land was secretly sold through fraudulent means.” The residents also alleged, “In 2019 some persons, mostly property dealers, with claiming to have a registry of the park land, had tried to construct houses in this park area and they were resisted by the residents. We then filed a complaint before the Commissioner of Police Ludhiana on in November 2019 and the police had stopped them.” A resident said, “Now, some other persons who claimed to have purchased the park land are trying to start construction of houses there.  Meanwhile, Pankaj Kaka said, Councillor, Ward 74, “The residents have brought the matter into my notice. I will take up the matter with the MC authorities if they provide me required documents.” Municipal Town Planner SS Bindra said they will look into the matter and take necessary action if any violation is found.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panchsheel-vihar-residents-up-in-arms-against-encroachment-in-public-park-217632
26-02-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Not following Covid guidelines may prove costly||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, February 25 While the state government has expressed concern over the increasing number of Covid cases in Punjab in recent days, the guidelines – wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, making use of sanitisers etc. — are flouted blatantly by the public in the city. Be it the malls, markets, restaurants or other social gatherings, everything is being taken in a “normal” manner by the residents, which can certainly prove costly. One of the restaurant owners in the city, wishing not to be named, said, “We cannot ask the kitty members to keep on wearing masks. Secondly, the menu was ordered online by swapping the card, which on the demand of visitors is again replaced with menu booklets. Unless and until there are strict orders issued by the police or administration, we cannot impose strictness on our guests in the restaurant”, said the owner. At the same time, amidst surge in Covid cases in the district also, administration is planning to hold NGO Expo at Rose Garden on February 27. The decision of administration is being criticised by the residents who feel that the gathering will be exposed to the infection. The kitty parties, religious functions, rallies, exhibitions etc are back to normal with residents taking everything in a lighter manner. The markets, shops, religious places remain abuzz with huge rush but hardly anyone is seen wearing the mask. The Covid cases, which had come down to 5-6 on a daily basis, have again gone up to over 80-90 cases per day (those which are reported). Kitty Garg, a resident, said, “For how long will we sit at home by cutting off with the world? This is no solution. We should lead a normal life while taking necessary precautions at the same time”, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/not-following-covid-guidelines-may-prove-costly-217633
26-02-2021||---||‘Adopt recommended straw mgmt methods’||Ludhiana, February 25 The Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a field day on “Paddy Straw Management” in the Sangatpura village under the project “Diffusion and assessment of paddy straw management technologies: A farmer’s participatory approach” funded by NABARD. The project is aimed at sensitising farmers about ill effects of paddy straw burning and adoption of recommended straw management technologies. Addressing the gathering of farmers, Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education ,discussed the effects of paddy straw burning on human health, soil health and environment. He advised the farmers to purchase agricultural machinery for paddy straw management on cooperative basis to share expenses. Dr Dharminder Singh, Senior Extension Scientist, motivated the farmers to adopt short duration varieties of paddy for efficient straw management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/adopt-recommended-straw-mgmt-methods-217634
26-02-2021||Ludhiana||Another easy win for Smashers||Smashers XI scripted another easy win, defeating Mitron XI by six wickets in the ongoing 4th Kundanite Premier League (KPL) being organised by the Kundan Vidya Mandir Alumni Association at KVM, Civil Lines ground here today. Yesterday, they had thrashed KKR XI by eight wickets.Mitron XI scored 85 runs after losing six wickets and Smashers XI achieved the target losing four wickets. The architects of their win were Rachit who scored 44 runs off 22 balls and Ravish who contributed 16 runs, facing 12 balls.In other matches, Black Panthers XI demolished KVM Lions 53 runs, Sukhmani XI outperformed Super Kings XI by seven wickets, Ludhiana Warriors outclassed KVM Rhinos by nine wickets. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/another-easy-win-for-smashers-217635
26-02-2021||Ludhiana||Science quiz competition||College holds webinarThe IQAC of GHG Harparkash College of Education for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, organised two days National Webinar (under UGC PARAMARSH Scheme) on ‘Nuances of Academic Writing and Research Publication’ under the patronage of SGHGU Hari Trust, Sidhwan Khurd. The resource persons for the webinar were Dr Neeraj Kumar Singh, Deputy Librarian, AC Joshi Library, Panjab University, Chandigarh and Dr Sarika Sawant, Asstt. Professor SHPT School of Library Science, SNDT University, Mumbai. Dr Amandeep Kaur, Principal congratulated the convener Dr Kiran Duggal and Dr Shally for the successful conduct of the webinar.‘Smart India Hackathon 2020’The ‘Smart India Hackathon-2020’ declared students of the PCTE Group of Institutes’ as joint winners for their start up known as Nap-Pads under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affair. Prof Naresh Sachdev, Dean of Corporate Relations, said it is a big achievement for PCTE E-Cell, not even a pandemic could hamper the entrepreneurial spirit of these students. Dr KNS Kang, director general, congratulated the team by saying that they have set an example for everyone else out there.Health awareness, check-up camp heldA health awareness and check-up camp was organized under the recently opened clinical camp at CT University in association with a private firm. The university authorities said that the visitors were free tested for osteoporosis, osteopenia, glucose level and eye check-up. Dr Surinder Singh from Civil Hospital Jagraon (MBBS, MD Pathologist) guided patients about the common illness and discussed the natural remedies for their cure. Ravinder Pal Chawla, Director, School of Healthcare and Paramedical Sciences said, “The people were closely checked by the experts and given advice for a better health.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/science-quiz-competition-217637
