27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Lukewarm response to Bharat bandh call in Ludhiana||The one-day nationwide Bharat bandh call given by traders evoked a lukewarm in the city today.A majority of the big and small markets, shopping Malls and other business establishments in the city remained open and there was no strike-like situation.The bandh call was given by the Confederation of All India Traders against the rising fuel prices and provisions of the GST.Harkesh Mittal, president, Confederation of All India Traders, Punjab, submitted a memorandum to the authorities in the Sales Tax Department in this regard. Though the president claimed to have got a good response by traders in the district, barring a few traders, none of the shopkeepers in bazaars, including Ghumar Mandi, Bhadaur House, Chaura Bazar and BRS Nagar, downed their shutters to support the call. A few shops in Books Market and the Kesar Ganj complex were shut for some time, but later many of these were opened too.Mohinder Aggarwal, president, Punjab Pradesh Vyopar Mandal, here said that the Vyopar Mandal had nothing to do with the bandh call and most of the shops remained open.At the same time, Aggarwal said a memorandum was submitted in this regard to the authorities alongwith the Confederation of All India Traders. He said the “cumbersome” GST process and rising fuel prices were a cause of concern to the common man and the government should resolve these issues.A detailed memorandum was submitted to invoke immediate attention of the authorities towards the “most dismal, deteriorating and dilapidated condition” of the GST taxation system, which had emerged as one of the most complicated tax systems in the country much against the vision of the BJP to make it a good and simple tax.Gauri Shankar, a salesman at a shop in Ghumar Mandi, said the market was open throughout the day and nobody even came for getting the shops closed. “Most of us do not know that it was a call for Bharat Bandh,” said the salesman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lukewarm-response-to-bharat-bandh-call-in-ludhiana-218006
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Tenant beaten to death over Rs 1,000||A man beat his tenant to death over the allegations of Rs1,000 theft at Gagan Nagar in Daba last night.The tenant was badly beaten up and suffered serious injuries and died later.The deceased was identified as Vijay Morya 30. After registering a murder case against the landlord, Gabber Singh, he was arrested by the police today.The police said the accused had given a room on rent to Vijay, who was working in some factory as a labourer.On Thursday night, Rs1,000 was reportedly stolen from the house of Gabber and he suspected his tenant to be behind the theft and levelled allegations against him. Last night, the landlord and the tenant had arguments over the issue and the area people calmed down both of them.Late last night, Gabber barged into the room of Vijay and started beating him up with a stick. Due to severe injuries, the man died on the spot.It was only when a friend of the deceased went to meet him, he was shocked to see him lying dead. He then raised an alarm and informed the police about the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tenant-beaten-to-death-over-rs-1-000-218007
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||3 fatalities, 75 +ve in Ludhiana||The graph of the people testing positive for Covid continued to rise, with 75 persons testing positive and three patients losing their lives in the district today.Those who tested positive included four students and two teachers.The total positive cases from Ludhiana have now gone to 26,991 and the death toll has mounted to 1,026. There were 528 active cases in the district and 47 people were home quarantined today.Today, two students of BCM School Shastri Nagar, one of Kindergarten School Samrala and one of Oswal Nursing College tested positive. The teachers who tested positive were from DPS School and one from GSSS Halwara.In addition, a nurse of the DMCH and two from the Police Department also tested positive.As Covid cases are reported to be on the rise, Dr Bishav Mohan, medical superintendent, HDHI, emphasised that people should not stop taking precautionary measures. “It is strongly advised to wear masks while moving out and maintaing adequate social distance. The rising number of cases could be due to laxity in adopting precautionary measures,” said Dr Mohan.Ludhiana Police Commissionerate have already started issuing challans against those who are not wearing masks and from March 1, restrictions on gatherings would also be strictly enforced.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to ward off Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-fatalities-75-ve-in-ludhiana-218010
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Gangsters planning major robbery in factory nabbed||The CIA 2 wing of the Ludhiana police busted a gang of robbers and arrested five of its members. All accused have a notorious past as several cases of loot and robberies were registered against them in the past.The arrested members were identified as Deepak Kumar, alias Ravi, 30, of Balmik mohalla, Satwinder Singh, 25, of Jamalpur, Mohd Asif, alias Sagar, 25, of Punjabi Bagh, Rohit Verma, 27, of Vijay Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, and Vicky Verma of Puneet Nagar, Tibba.ACP (Crime) Surinder Mohan addressed a press conference regarding the matter.He said information was received that these persons were sitting in GLADA ground on the Chandigarh road where they were planning to commit a major loot in some factory.Accordingly, the police party conducted a raid and nabbed the accused. The police also recovered three motorcycles, 18 mobile phones and some sharp-edged weapons from them.ACP Surinder said accused Deepak was facing eight cases of loot registered and had come out on bail in June last year. Satwinder faced six cases of robberies and he came out on bail in September last year. Mohd is facing four cases and he came out on bail in January this year, while Rohit and Vicky are facing four and one case of loot, respectively, and started committing robberies after coming out on bail.The ACP said police remand of the accused would be sought from court so that in further probe, more members of their gang could be arrested and more recovery of looted valuables could be made from them. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gangsters-planning-major-robbery-in-factory-nabbed-218011
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Flesh trade racket busted, five arrested||The Tibba police claimed to have busted a flesh trade racket and arrested five persons, including four women, in this regard.The accused were identified as Sukhvinder Kaur Sukhi of Karamsar Colony, Simmi of Officer Colony, Sangrur, Muslima of Adarsh Nagar, Chandigarh Road, Hanufa of Sahnewal and Amandeep Bawa of Rishi Nagar, Tibba Road.Station house officer, Model Town police station, Mohd Jamil, said information was received that Sukhvinder ran a flesh trade racket and had kept girls at her home for this purpose.Accordingly, a police party conducted a raid at the house of the woman in Karamsar Colony from where these persons were caught red handed by the police.A case under Sections 3,4,5 of the Immoral Traffic Act was registered against the accused and probe was launched to nab the other members involved in the racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/flesh-trade-racket-busted-five-arrested-218013
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Modern slaughter house gets functional||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has started operations of its modernised slaughter house at Haibowal Dairy Complex. Stating this, senior veterinary officer of the MC, Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla, said the slaughter house had been modernised with latest machineries.He said the Veterinary Service Health Branch of the civic body had geared up to provide disease-free, hygienic and safe mutton, poultry and pig meat to the public.Dr Dhalla said the Modernised Slaughter House had separate “halal” and “jhatka” mutton halls. He said in-house mechanised poultry dressing line was the first of its kind in the state in government sector.He said, “The the civic body has provided five modern air conditioned Bolero jeeps (Reefer Vans) to the service providers of the modern slaughter house so that they can supply meat to the shop owners if the shop owners opted for the transportation of meat from slaughterhouse to their meat shop. Online services have been provided by the company through website – www.slaughterhouse.biz. Hence, meat sellers should book their slots in advance for their own convenience.”He said, “Five shops have been set up for the retailing of meat to the public at highest hygienic standards. These are located at the dairy complex on Hambraan Road, Gill Road and Fire Brigade Complex near the bus stand, Metro Road Jamalpur and Middha Chowk. Four shops have been handed over to the service provider, while the fifth is under process.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu appealed to all meat shops owners to bring sheep, goat and poultry for safe and hygiene slaughtering at the modern slaughter house of the civic body. Meanwhile, it is learnt that the MC is yet to set up a required rendering plant. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/modern-slaughter-house-gets-functional-218014
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Residents await MC action against commercial activities||Even a month after filing a complaint, a group of residents are waiting for the attention of the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities towards commercial activities in the Block C of Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar here.The residents had submitted the complaint at the MC’s Zone D office against the alleged unlawful activities. They blamed the civic body for not stopping the violations near their houses even after filing the complaint.The complainants alleged that the unauthorised activities were going on in the street due to which they were forced to face inconvenience. Commercial vehicles were usually parked in the street for loading and unloading of goods. Moreover, workers park their vehicles outside buildings where the activities were taking place.Amarpal Singh of Block C, BRS Nagar, said: “We had filed a complaint against commercial activities in our residential area around a month ago but to no aavail. The area is purely residential and no commercial activities should be allowed there. The civic body should take necessary steps to stop the violations.”“We have been staying here for a long time. Earlier, the area was peaceful. But, we have been facing inconvenience for the past few years due to commercial activities. Such activities in residential areas must be stopped. We appeal to the MC authorities to take immediate steps to stop the same in our street,” said another complainant.However, Municipal Town Planner SS Bindra said: “We have sent notices to those running commercial activities in the area. If such activities are not stopped, we will conduct a sealing drive against the violations.”Notably, commercial activities are common in various residential areas of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-await-mc-action-against-commercial-activities-218019
27-02-2021||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana||Anshul stars in Kundan Knight Riders’ win||A fine batting performance by Anshul Jain (40 runs off 18 balls) steered Kundan Knight Riders to six-wicket victory against Mavericks XI in the ongoing 4th Kundanite Premier League (KPL) being organised by the Kundan Vidya Mandir Alumni Association at the KVM, Civil Lines ground, here today.Batting first, Mavericks XI scored 95 runs. The main scorer was Ritesh who made 58 runs off 39 deliveries. Chasing the target, Kundan Knight Riders made 97 runs for the loss of four wickets with three balls to spare. Anshul was the top scorer while Neeraj chipped in with 21 runs off 15 balls.In the second match, Back Benchers scored a comfortable seven-wicket win over Avengers XI. In reply to Avengers XI’s score of 86 for 5, Back Benchers made nine runs after losing three wickets. Sumit Jain contributed 64 runs which came off 26 balls that turned the tide in Back Benchers’ favour.In other matches, Sukhmani XI beat Kundanite Strikers by seven wickets and Master Class 96 defeated Royal Warriors by 36 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anshul-stars-in-kundan-knight-riders-win-218021
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Capt-led state govt failed to fulfil promises: Cheema||Leader of the Opposition in Punjab Assembly and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday blamed the Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government for failing to fulfil promises that the Congress had made with people of the state before the 2017 Assembly poll. Cheema visited the city on Friday to welcome new members to the party.He said they would raise various questions during the upcoming Budget Session scheduled to be started from March 1. The Budget Session should be held at least for 20 days and its live telecast should be ensured so that people could learn about happenings in the session.The government should allow media to cover the session from press gallery in the Assembly instead of banning the media’s entry by making excuses in view of Covid-19, Cheema said.He said the Congress government failed to waive of loans of the farmers.“Jobs are not being provided to unemployed. The government did nothing to eliminate mafias from the state in the past four years. We will raise various issues and gherao the Captain government during the upcoming Budget session,” he said.Meanwhile, the AAP leader has demanded action against police officials who had allegedly tortured labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur.“I congratulate Nodeep Kaur as she got bail today. She has been raising her voice for the rights of labourers. The police officials who had tortured her should be booked and arrested at the earliest,” he said.Three join AAPCheema said former president of the All India Vikas Party Jasvir Singh Thethi, leader of Lok Insaaf Party Abdul Qadir and a RSS worker, Manoj Kumar, joined AAP today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/capt-led-state-govt-failed-to-fulfil-promises-cheema-218022
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||ISRS holds special online lecture to mark National Science Day||The Indian Society of Remote Sensing (ISRS), Ludhiana, celebrated National Science Day to commemorate the discovery of the Raman effect by Nobel Laureate physicist CV Raman on this day in 1928.A special online lecture was organised by the ISRS, Ludhiana chapter, at the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre. It was addressed by Dr Shailesh Nayak, Director of National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru.He explained the vision of Dr Vikram Sarabhai, father of the Indian Space Programme for societal benefits in developing countries. He also gave an overview of the research being conducted in the country in remote sensing as well as scientists and engineers who are involved in the development of sensors and systems as pioneers. He also elucidated the importance of geospatial awareness systems in solving problems which were faced by the nation.Dr Brijendra Pateriya, Director, PRSC, and vice-president-II of the ISRS Executive Committee, during his opening remarks said this day was the best time to realise the importance of scientific acumen and temperament for benefits of all, particularly students and young scientists. In fact, it should not be a formal celebration, but the real motive should be to inculcate ideas of great personalities in science and imbibe them to nurture future generations.The welcome address was given by Dr P K Kingra, chairman, who said basically every process occurring around people was science. Every aspect of daily life was connected with science.“We need to strengthen this connection for better understanding of processes around us, particularly in Covid times,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/isrs-holds-special-online-lecture-to-mark-national-science-day-218024
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||NMC’s onsite training at Christian Medical College||Hospital launches robotic tech for knee replacementLudhiana: Hunjan Hospital has launched ‘Mako Robotic Arm-Assisted Technology’ for knee replacement in the city. It was jointly announced by Stryker India, a global medical device company headquartered in the US, and the hospital recently in the city. Mako Robotic Arm-Assisted Surgery System enables surgeons to deliver more predictable surgical outcomes with increased accuracy. Dr BS Hunjan, director and joint replacement surgeon at Hunjan Hospital, while talking about the difference between conventional and Mako Robotic Arm-Assisted Surgery during a press meet, said one of the challenges with traditional surgery was that surgical accuracy depends on the surgeon’s experience and technique.Awareness programme on fatty lever diseaseLudhiana: Fortis Hospital Ludhiana organised an awareness programme on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Dr Nitin Behl, additional director of gastro science department, talked on the topic. He said earlier, liver diseases were commonly caused by Hepatitis B and C viruses. The most common causes of liver disease can now be called non-alcoholic and obesity-related disorders. It’s a deadly disease that strikes without warning and contributes to permanent liver damage or cirrhosis. Mention liver disease to most people and the word which comes to mind is alcohol. And there is no denying the fact that excess drinking is a major cause of liver-related ill health. But there is another, much more insidious and far-less obvious liver condition that is fast becoming an epidemic with almost one in three Punjabis developing its early stage. This hidden illness, combined with other causes of liver ailments, is affecting patients’ life span and quality of life. The need of the hour is to spread awareness regarding the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nmcs-onsite-training-at-christian-medical-college-218034
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||SAD leaders flayed for ‘defaming’ LIP chief||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Gagandeep Singh (Sunny Kainth) condemned some Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders for allegedly defaming LIP chief Simarjeet Singh Bains.He alleged that false allegations of rape were being levelled against MLA Bains by some Akali leaders.Kainth alleged that a woman, who levelled rape allegations against Bains was associated with the SAD.The LIP leader advised Akali leaders to stop defaming the MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-leaders-flayed-for-defaming-lip-chief-218043
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||DPRs approved for sports works||A number of detailed project reports (DPRs) for different projects were approved during a meeting of a city-level technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited on Friday.The meeting was chaired by MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of the LSCL Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. According to information, the project reports about setting up of a table tennis court, establishment of an indoor basketball court and renovation of the Shastri Hall for badminton and the MC’s swimming pool near Rakh Bagh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dprs-approved-for-sports-works-218048
27-02-2021||Ludhiana||Vaccination: Ludhiana among good performing districts||Ludhiana has ranked among good performing districts in the state in the Covid vaccination. After 51 per cent of the registered healthcare workers (HCWs) were given the first dose of the vaccine, the first phase of the inoculation drive concluded here on Thursday.According to the official data compiled by the state Health Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Ludhiana stood fourth in vaccinating the HCWs after Gurdaspur, Faridkot, and Hoshiarpur. While Gurdaspur topped the state with 58 per cent coverage, Faridkot and Hoshiarpur finished second and third with 54 and 53 per cent achievement, respectively.With no other district managing to cross the 50 per cent target, Jalandhar and Tarn Taran bagged fifth and sixth position with 48 and 47 per cent coverage, respectively.While Ferozepur remained the laggard with just 17 per cent coverage, Sangrur, Fazilka, and Mansa managed 19 per cent vaccination each. Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala inoculated 24 and 23 per cent registered HCWs, respectively. Patiala achieved 32, Mohali 34, Nawanshahr 40, Amritsar 42, and Jalandhar 48 per cent coverage.Ludhiana stood third in the state in giving first jab to the frontline workers (FLWs). With 29.8 per cent vaccination of registered FLWs, Ludhiana remained behind Hoshiarpur, which achieved the highest coverage of 36.3 per cent, and Jalandhar remained second with 35.1 per cent vaccination. Amritsar remained fourth with 30.2 per cent achievement.However, no other district in the state has so far touched even 30 per cent mark. While Nawanshahr remained laggard with 15.3 per cent coverage, Patiala was second last with 20.2 per cent and Mohali third last with 26.1 per cent vaccination.In the state, 80,951 of the registered 2,06,246 HCWs (39 per cent) and 46,579 of the total 1,83,160 FLWs (25 per cent) have been inoculated so far.Till now, the state has received 10.14 lakh doses of Covishield and 1,34,080 jabs of Covaxin. With 8 per cent wastage of the vaccine, as many as 1,28,519 beneficiaries have been given the jab against the effective net utilization of vaccinating 1,39,260.The state has reported 61 minor, 14 severe, and six serious cases of adverse effect following immunization but all of them have since recovered well.“Vaccine hesitancy in HCWs, especially among paramedical staff, spurt in number of cases in the past couple of weeks, increasing positive cases in schools, and non-adherence to Covid appropriate behavior, are among the major challenges, which we are trying our level best to overcome,” said Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.The state government has finalised a plan to contain the further spread of the possible fresh wave of Covid. It entails strict implementation of containment guidelines, complete testing in containment zones, testing each traced contact, 30,000 testing daily, strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behavior, restrictions on night movement, social gatherings, prior permission for social gatherings, enhanced penalties for violators, and roping in more departments for enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-ludhiana-among-good-performing-districts-218052
27-02-2021||Anil DattLudhiana||At 46, Gurminder bags 3 medals in his maiden competition||Gurminder Singh Ubhi (46) gave a stunning performance in his maiden competition when he secured three medals in the state-level athletics meet. He won one gold, a silver and a bronze medal in track events in the 45-50 years category in the 41st Punjab State Masters Athletics Meet held at Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur district recently.Gurminder, a resident of Jassowal village in Ludhiana district, had been a regular visitor to the Jathedar Santokh Singh Margind Stadium at Duley village, about 3 km from Jassowal, for the past many years where he used to do some physical exercises, besides running and push-ups.Noticing his passion, he was advised by somebody to join the coaching centre at Guru Nanak Stadium, Ludhiana, wherein senior athletics coach, Punjab Sports Department, Sanjiv Sharma imparts training.Gurminder accompanied his son, Ranvir Singh Ubhi, a student of Class XI at Nankana Sahib Public School, Kila Raipur, to get enrolled the latter in the coaching centre in Ludhiana. Gurminder also started getting coaching from the centre.Under the guidance of the coach, Gurminder improved his skills a lot. He participated in the meet at Mastuana Sahib and proved his mettle. He won a gold medal in 200-m race, a silver in 800-m race in addition to a bronze in 400-m race.Gurminder owes his success to his wife Ravinder Kaur and cousin Devinder Singh Ubhi without whose cooperation, he would have not done so well. He also mentioned coach Sanjiv Sharma under whose stewardship he succeeded in a short period.His son Ranvir has also been selected for trials for the school sports wing which were organised by the state Sports Department on February 11 and 12 here.Gurminder has been practising hard for the upcoming National Masters Athletics Meet, scheduled to be held in Chhattisgarh from March 20.An elated coach, Sanjiv Sharma, praised Gurminder for his dedication, discipline and zeal to excel.“He is a quick learner. I am confident that he will bring laurels in the nationals slated for the next month,” Sharma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/at-46-gurminder-bags-3-medals-in-his-maiden-competition-218055
27-02-2021||Manav Mander||On duty for10 months, no vaccine yet for Ludhiana rural health officers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 26Even as the first round of Covid vaccination was completed in Ludhiana district on Thursday, some rural medical officers (RMO) have been left without a shot.Till now, 19,502 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in Ludhiana. In Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, most of the RMOs, pharmacists and Class IV staff have not even been registered for vaccination.Details not sentWhile the first phase of vaccination was completed on Thursday, the letter reached the block centre late. The registration of healthcare workers was closed on February 17Rural medical officers of Koom Kalan block on Wednesday received a letter, asking for the details of the staff to be vaccinated. While the first phase of vaccination was completed on Thursday, the letter reached the block centre late. The registration on the portal for the first phase of vaccination has been completed. The portal was closed for registration of healthcare workers on February 17.There are 17 dispensaries in Koom Kalan block with 14 RMOs, besides pharmacists and other staff.“We never stepped back from our duty and served throughout the pandemic, but it is sad to know that the department forgot us. Asking for the details now when the portal is closed makes no sense,” said an RMO.In Ludhiana district, there are 62 RMOs posted against 109 posts and since the outbreak of Covid, all rural dispensaries were shut for nearly 10 months. There are 1,186 dispensaries in the state that cater to a population of 10,000.Dr JP Narula, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association, Punjab, said RMOs had been given step-motherly treatment by the government. “During the Covid spread, they worked in isolation centres and flu corners but when it came to vaccination, the department cared little about them,” he said.The Health Department registered its staff but ignored rural medical officers, who work under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat.“The Health Department had the data of the RMOs as they were assigned Covid duties, but still they were ignored. Appreciation letters were given to the staff of the Health Department but not to RMOs,” he said.Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, Ludhiana Civil Surgeon, said many health workers did not register for inoculation earlier but wanted to get vaccinated now.“The community health centre in the block is responsible for collecting the data of health workers and send us. As soon as the portal is opened, we will upload their data, so that vaccination can be done,” said Dr Kakkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/on-duty-for10-months-no-vaccine-yet-for-ludhiana-rural-health-officers-217935
