28-02-2021||---||CVO seeks status report of 15,000 city buildings||Ludhiana, February 27The Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of the Department of Local Government has ordered the Municipal Corporation (MC) to take required action regarding a complaint about the status of thousands of buildings in the city.Local Bodies Minister, in June 2020, had written to the MC and sought a comparative report about the building maps approved by the MC and the new electricity connections issued by the PSPCL from 2016 to 2019.Following the orders, the MC officials had prepared a report that there were around 15,000-16,000 constructions that had not been issued notices. However, no proper survey was conducted to check the actual number of illegal constructions in the city as per sources.Now, the CVO has given directions to the MC to submit a detailed and clear report regarding these 15,000-16,000 buildings. The CVO wrote to the MC Commissioner to take action that the assessment of compounding fee of these buildings be done and it should be deposited in the MC’s account. He also gave directions for the removal of the non-compoundable violations in the buildings as per the law.The CVO also told the Municipal Corporation to submit a report about the building inspectors, assistant town planners and the municipal town planner concerned, who were responsible to keep a check when these 15,000-16,000 buildings were constructed in all four zones. The CVO also sought action taken report on these buildings till date.City-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had earlier complained that there could be a huge difference between the number of new electricity connections and the approved building plans in the city. ‘No proper survey done’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cvo-seeks-status-report-of-15-000-city-buildings-218515
28-02-2021||---||2 students, 4 teachers +ve; 3 deaths in district||Ludhiana, February 27Three patients lost their lives to Covid, while 62 persons tested positive for the virus in the district today.The total positive patients have gone to 27,053, while the death toll now is 1,029.Today’s positive cases included two students and four teachers. The students belong to Government Senior Secondary School, Mullanpur. The teachers who tested positive are from Government School, Pakhowal, GADVASU College, Government School Bhamudi and BCM School, Shastri Nagar.A staff nurse of the Dayanad Medical College and Hospital also tested positive.The three persons who lost their lives today were all males and in the age group 60-80. The patients had been admitted to the Dayanad Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College & Hospital and Khanna Nursing Home.The active patients from the district have now gone to 553 and today, 64 people were home quarantined.Today three patients were on ventilator support, out of which one belonged to Ludhiana district and two to other districts.The total number of samples collected till date are 6,64,000, while the reports of 1,860 are awaited.Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents of the district to follow all Covid safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to ward off this disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-students-4-teachers-ve-3-deaths-in-district-218517
28-02-2021||---||2 held for drug ‘overdose’ death||Ludhiana, February 27 A 26-year-old man reportedly died here due to drug overdose. The Daba police have registered a case of culpable homicide against a woman-son duo and another woman in this regard. The deceased was identified as Parkash Singh (Nannu). The accused have been identified as Reeta Rani, his son Ajay Kumar of Azad Nagar and a woman Poonam of the Jassian road. Reeta and Poonam were arrested in the case today. As per Lakhvir Singh, a resident of Sahnewal and the father of the deceased, his son had been living in the house of the accused woman for the past over two years. The woman was working as a financier and his son was assisting her in the business. The father of the deceased said the accused woman Reeta used to torture his son due to which his son wanted to quit the job. After his son informed him about the torture, on Thursday he sent his other son Rajvir to go and meet Parkash. “When my son visited the office of the accused woman, Parkash alleged about his physical torture. Later in the evening, we got to know that my son was lying unconscious at Reeta’s house and he was immediately taken to hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” alleged the victim’s father. Investigation officer ASI Meet Ram said it could be a case of drug overdose, but the exact cause would be known once the viscera report came from the forensic science laboratory. He added that raids were being conducted to nab the remaining accused in the case. The victim’s kin alleged that the accused had administrated some drugs through injection in his body due to which he died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-held-for-drug-overdose-death-218518
28-02-2021||---||Civic body to hire private firm for dues’ recovery||Ludhiana, February 27 The Municipal Corporation (MC) has floated tenders to invite a private firm for the recovery of the pending user charges/taxes from the defaulters. According to sources, the civic body has to recover around Rs200 crore as water supply and sewer charges from the consumers who have not paid their dues. An official said the the O&M branch was supposed to recover Rs90 crore from the users, but it could recover around Rs50-55 crore till date during the current financial year. MC’s executive engineer Ranbir Singh confirmed that they had floated tenders to invite the private firm to conduct the recovery drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-to-hire-private-firm-for-dues-recovery-218519
28-02-2021||---||Gang looting liquor vends busted||Ludhiana, February 27 The police division No. 6 police busted a gang looting liquor vends in Punjab and neighbouring states. Cops arrested four members of a gang in this regard. The accused were identified as Kulwant Kumar, 35, native of Patiala, presently living at Jaspal Bangar here, Sukhdev Goga of Payal, Mithu Singh of Patiala and Arjun Kumar of Sahnewal.  The police recovered 78 gm of intoxicant powder and 42 cases of illegal liquor from the gang members. A Swift car, used by the gang to loot liquor vends, was also recovered by the police.  ACP Sandeep Wadehra and SHO Amandeep Singh Brar conducted press conference regarding the matter. Brar said during questioning, the gang confessed to having committed nine loot cases in which they also injured some liquor vend employees. The SHO said this year, the gang looted 45 cases of liquor from a vend in Amloh. They had also looted eight cases from a liquor vend in Rajpura last year. They committed five liquor vend robberies in Haryana in which they had looted 115 cases of liquor last year. The gang looted 25 cases of liquor from a vend in Faggu Majra last year, besides 25 cases of liquor from a vend near the Shambu border in 2020. Gang members also looted 40 cases each from vends located in Shahbad and Dhuri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-looting-liquor-vends-busted-218520
28-02-2021||---||Notorious vehicle thief held||Ludhiana, February 27 The Haibowal police claimed to have nabbed a notorious thief who had been committing vehicle thefts in Punjab and Haryana. The accused was identified as Sandeep Singh (22), alias Sonu, a native of Lambra, Jalandhar. Cops recovered two motorcycles, a TVS Jupiter, an LED TV, five mobile phones and some other stolen goods from him. Additional DCP 3 Sameer Verma and SHO Haibowal Neeraj Chowdhary conducted a press conference in this regard. The accused was nabbed with a stolen bullet motorcycle from a specific spot. The motorcycle had been stolen by him from Nakodar. A Splendor bike recovered was stolen from Ambala, Haryana, and a TVS Jupiter was stolen from Phillaur. During questioning, the accused said a few months ago, he was nabbed by the city police along with 15 stolen two-wheelers and now on bail, he again started stealing two-wheelers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/notorious-vehicle-thief-held-218521
28-02-2021||---||Exhibition displays works, aim of NGOs||Ludhiana, February 27To celebrate World NGO Day, a NGO expo was held at Nehru Rose Garden here on Saturday.Over 55 stalls of different organisations and also some government departments, including the MC, Ludhiana, and the police were set up during the exhibition. The organisations displayed their works and objectives.The NGO expo was inaugurated by Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Joint CP Deepak Pareek and other officials were present during the exhibition.While speaking to mediapersons, Bharat Bhushan Ashu said it was the first NGO exhibition in the state and was being organised to celebrate World NGO Day, wherein over 40 local NGOs, the district administration and social entrepreneurs participated to showcase their projects and initiatives.He said the main aim of the exhibition was to ensure that residents come to know which NGOs were working in which field so that maximum number of people could be benefited from it.Maneet Dewan of CityNeeds, an NGO, along with other members, have started an online platform for NGOs. A website namely www.cityneeds.info has already been launched to connect local NGOs with prospective volunteers, donors, organisations and the district administration.Congratulating developers of the website, the Deputy Commissioner said the main objective of the website was to facilitate credible NGOs of the city and mobilise adequate resources for them to continue doing their good work. He also thanked MC councillor Mamta Ashu for the idea of organising the exhibition.The MC set up stalls to create awareness on the Swachh Bharat Mission, segregation of waste and Rejuvenation of the Buddha Nullah project. Besides, the traffic police also created awareness about road safety. Meanwhile, a drawing competition was also held for students of different schools on the occasion.Many came without masksDespite a surge in Covid-19 cases, several people were seen without masks at the exhibition. However, the organisers were making repeated requests to the visitors to wear masks, otherwise they could be fined. The visitors were also being asked to enter the venue after sanitising their hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/exhibition-displays-works-aim-of-ngos-218522
28-02-2021||Nitin Jain||Weekly positivity rate of Covid cases touched peak in January this year||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 27The weekly positivity rate of Covid cases in the district had touched a peak in the last week of January this year before coming down till the third week of February. However, the current week again started showing an upward trend.According to official figures compiled by the state Health Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the district had touched this year’s highest weekly positivity rate of 2.28 per cent in the last week of January.The first week of February recorded 1.93 per cent virus positivity rate and further came down to 1.8 per cent in the second week. The third week again showed a slight increase with 1.91 per cent positivity rate before the spike registered in the last week of this month.From February 22 to 27, the district reported 487 positive cases and 15 Covid deaths. The last week from February 15 to 21 had registered 391 infections and 14 virus fatalities in the district.In January, the district had recorded a 1.49 per cent positivity rate in the first week, 1.19 per cent in the second week and 1.62 per cent in the third week.The situation in Ludhiana, which was among seven districts showing high positivity of Covid cases in the state, this year, was better than Mohali, Nawanshahr, Patiala, and Hoshiarpur districts.Mohali recorded the highest weekly positivity rate of 8.71 per cent in the first week of January, Nawanshahr 6.44 per cent in third week of February, Patiala 2.65 per cent in third week this month, and Hoshiarpur touched 2.45 per cent last week.Among the worst-affected districts, Amritsar and Jalandhar reported the lowest 1.57 and 1.75 per cent weekly positivity rate last week.With no sample of genome sequencing testing positive in any part of the state so far, the reports of as many as 419 of the total 441 samples taken from four districts were still awaited. However, all 22 samples, the reports of which had been received so far, had tested negative, disclosed Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal.While the maximum 329 samples for genome sequencing were collected from the Patiala Government Medical College (GMC), 69 were taken from the Amritsar GMC, 38 from the Faridkot GMC and five from GADVASU, Ludhiana.The samples had been sent for testing at the Centre’s three testing facilities NCDC, IGIB, and NIV, which were flooded with samples from across the country, leading to delay in reports.No new mutant strain caseWith no sample of genome sequencing testing positive in any part of the state so far, the reports of as many as 419 of the total 441 samples taken from four districts were still awaited. However, all 22 samples, the reports of which had been received so far, had tested negative, said Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/weekly-positivity-rate-of-covid-cases-touched-peak-in-january-this-year-218523
28-02-2021||Ludhiana||Minor abducted, raped in Dakha||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped and raped in Dakha. The police registered a case of kidnapping, rape and criminal conspiracy against seven persons.The accused booked in the case have been identified as Gurmukh Singh, his father Balvinder Singh, mother Harmeet Kaur, brother Pargat Singh, Pargat’s wife Jaspreet Kaur, all residents of Bilaspur, Ludhiana, Gurbax Singh and his wife Veerpal Kaur, residents of Dhola village in Barnala.The complainant, a resident of Jagraon, told the police that his granddaughter was kidnapped by Gurmukh in connivance with his family members and she was taken to several places by the accused where she was raped.The victim was raped on the pretext of marriage. When the girl become pregnant, the accused gave her some medicine to abort pregnancy. The complainant alleged despite sexually harassing the minor girl, the accused and his family issued life threats to the victim and warned her of dire consequences if she reveals anything to the police.The case was registered after the women police station in Jagraon conducted a probe and submitted a report to the SSP, Jagraon, who ordered to register a case.Investigating officer Inspector Prem Singh said raids were being conducted to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-abducted-raped-in-dakha-218524
28-02-2021||Sports Correspondent---||KPL: Smashers, Sukhmani XI set up title clash||Ludhiana, February 27 Smashers and Sukhmani XI set up the title clash in the senior section on the penultimate day of the 4th Kundanite Premier League (KPL) being organised by the Kundan Vidya Mandir Alumni Association (KVMAA) at the KVM, Civil Lines ground, here, today. On Saturday, both outfits wrapped up their respective semi-finals to secure berths in the summit clash. In the first semi-final, Smashers had an easy 54-run win over Back Benchers to book a place in the final. Batting first, Smashers posted a big total of 157 runs after losing three wickets in the stipulated 12 overs. The highlight of their innings was a hurricane batting display by Nitin, who faced 38 balls and scored 96 runs. Nishant contributed 38 runs. In reply, Back Benchers could muster 103 runs as their innings folded in 11.2 overs. Ankur and Nitin scored 25 and 23 runs, respectively. For the winning side, Nitin scalped four victims for 24 runs while Raghav claimed two wickets after conceding just six runs. The second semi-final was played between Sukhmani XI and Mitron XI in which the former romped home victorious by eight wickets. Mitron XI made 94 runs for the loss of five wickets and Sukhmani XI surpassed the total with eight wickets in hand. For the winners, Vineet top scored with 49 runs and was followed by Sumit who chipped in with 27 runs to help his side achieve the target. In the junior section, Rising Stars XI along with Cric Ninjas, Black Panthers and Stadium Shockers qualified for the semi-finals. Munish Kaura, a member of the executive committee of the KVMAA and media coordinator, said the final match of the senior section will be played at 1 pm tomorrow and in the junior section, final is scheduled for 3 pm. Former international cricketer Bhupinder Singh Sr. will be the chief guest during the prize distribution ceremony on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kpl-smashers-sukhmani-xi-set-up-title-clash-218525
28-02-2021||---||Now, a woman gives birth ‘on floor’ at Civil Hospital||Ludhiana, February 27Last week, a woman had delivered twins in the park of the Civil Hospital here and today, a woman reportedly delivered a baby on the floor of the hospital.Kiran from Dhandari came to the Mother and Child Hospital (located on the premises of the Civil Hospital) She was nine months’ pregnant and in advanced stage of her pregnancy.Shanu Yadav, husband of Kiran, alleged that he came to the hospital with her wife for her delivery.“The doctor checked her and asked to get a slip of the Emergency. I went to took the slip and when I returned, my wife was going to the washroom. I asked her not to go but she insisted on going and when she returned, she delivered the child on the floor, outside the labour room,” he said.He added that after she delivered the child, the staff of the hospital came running and quickly took her and the baby on a stretcher to the labour room.“Earlier, nobody was present. Staff were busy doing their work and when the baby was delivered on the floor, everyone came running to the spot,” he said.Dr Hatinder Kaur, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), MCH, said the woman was in her advanced stage of pregnancy and came to the hospital without any investigation report. Still, she was admitted and taken to the labour room. Nobody was accompanying her and when asked, she said her husband had gone home to get her reports.“It was the third pregnancy of the woman and the prior two were normal deliveries. She had delivered the child inside the labour room. The staff of the hospital took the patient inside the labour room for delivery by taking all risk as they were not aware about her history. Her husband, who is making allegations, was not even present when the woman was taken inside the labour room,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-a-woman-gives-birth-on-floor-at-civil-hospital-218526
28-02-2021||Ludhiana||Coffee-table book on poems released||A book titled ‘Pauna di Sargam’ by Jas Preet Kaur was released here today. Containing both pictures and poems by Jas Preet, it has also been translated into English by Dr Jagtar Dhiman. Jas Preet, a resident of Civil Lines, here, and an ardent nature lover said she was in close association with nature. “I have a huge garden at my home and even vegetables are grown by me at home. Besides, I daily go for walk at the PAU which further made me fall in love with the nature. Being a lover of both nature and literature, I came up with a unique idea of a coffee table book which has photographs and poems by me,” she said. Most of the pictures that have been featured in the book belong to my garden. “Plants are my children and I love to see them grow and flourish. Nothing gives me more pleasure than seeing them thrive,” she says. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/coffee-table-book-on-poems-released-218527
