02-02-2021||Other||Farm leaders meet Kejriwal, submit list of protesters gone ‘missing’ since tractor rally||New Delhi: Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farmers unions which is spearheading the protest against the three farm laws, on Tuesday said they met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday and submitted a list of the names of 29 protesters who have gone missing since the tractor rally on Republic Day. At a press conference on Tuesday, they said during the meeting they also demanded that all “humanitarian facilities” be given to the 115 agitators currently lodged in jail. They added that a medical board should be set up to investigate the injuries to the farmers during clashes with the police. Thousands of farmers broke police barriers and entered Delhi on Republic Day during a tractor rally and clashed with the police at several locations before several groups barged into the Red Fort. The SKM delegation comprising of Prem Singh Bhangu, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, Inderjit Singh and Harpal Singh Mundal also demanded a judicial inquiry into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-leaders-meet-kejriwal-submit-list-of-protesters-gone-missing-since-tractor-rally-101612289686130.html
02-02-2021||Noida||Will ensure Dhanauri and Jewar conservation, says state environment minister||Noida: With the Gautam Budh Nagar district’s wetlands in shambles, Uttar Pradesh minister of forest and environment Dara Singh Chauhan on Tuesday said that he will ensure the speedy and proper conservation of key habitats -- Dhanauri and Jewar. The minister said this on the sidelines of the bird festival held at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, where the district forest department dedicated a control room and some new facilities to visitors, including a 360-degree high resolution camera to monitor its avifauna. The bird festival was held to mark the International Wetlands Day. The state environment ministry will ensure that eco-tourism gets boost through recreational activities in sanctuaries and national parks as allowed under the Forest Conservation Act, Chauhan asserted. “We will ensure that the state’s wetlands and natural habitats are saved. For Dhanauri wetland and the natural habitat around upcoming Jewar airport, we will ensure its conservation and protection. I will hold a meeting with the officials concerned and speed up the conservation process,” said the minister. Yet to be recognised and protected by the forest department as the land is largely privately owned, the 101-hectare Dhanauri wetland is currently in poor shape, revealed a recent census. According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) - 2021 held by Wetlands International South Asia and the district forest department in January this year, only 1,344 waterbirds of 48 species were spotted against 6,227 waterbirds belonging to 59 species last year. “It’s high time that we need proper conservation management plan for Dhanauri wetland or else it will be lost in a few months, especially with upcoming dry season,” said TK Roy, conservationist and ecologist at Wetlands International.Meanwhile, a conservation plan by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is pending on individual species — mainly on sarus crane, blackbucks and nilgai, due to their abundance — that exist in and around the proposed 5,000 acres site for the upcoming Noida International Airport. These species rely on a number of wetlands around the proposed site for food and water for their survival and the plan will aim at mitigating the impact, WII scientists had stated. While the clearance for the airport project has already been granted, WII has been tasked to chalk out a mitigation plan to reduce impact on wildlife and the ecology, especially in a 10-km radius or the area of influence of the project site. Meanwhile, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary received some major infrastructure boost, with the minister inaugurating a board room, cafeteria, camp office, high-resolution camera feed and cart service. “The high resolution camera feed was being tested and finally inaugurated by the minster today. It will enhance the vigilance and active monitoring, and will also be used for educational and awareness purpose. The live feed covers over 25% of the lake area where the bird concentration is generally high and is slightly less accessible. We will also soon get the live feed on the internet as well,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar. He added that one golf cart had also been bought in the sanctuary while five more will arrive within a week. The bird festival was attended by a number of birders, conservationists, and students, along with several wildlife organisations displaying their work in small stalls. “Such event should happen more often to boost the local birding community. It was hearty to see such encouragement from the forest department,” said Narendra Kohli, a city-based birder and photographer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/will-ensure-dhanauri-and-jewar-conservation-says-state-environment-minister-101612289565605.html
02-02-2021||Noida||Builder directed to refund ₹5.54 lakh to Greater Noida resident for delay in delivery of flat||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a builder to refund the deposited amount of ₹5.54 lakh to the buyer for delay in giving possession of a flat. The complainant had booked a flat in 2013 and till date he was not given its possession.According to the consumer forum’s order, Lt Colonel Pushpdharan, a resident of Greater Noida, had invested in a residential project and booked a two-bedroom flat having an area of 1,050 square feet. On April 4, 2013, he had paid first instalment of ₹2.77 lakh through cheque for the flat for which he got a receipt on April 26. The complainant paid second instalment of ₹2.77 lakh on July 11, 2013 and got receipt on August 6,2013. An allotment letter cum buyers agreement was executed on January 6, 2014, and as per agreement, the builder was to give possession in 30 months, with a delay of six months. As the developer could not give possession of the flat and neither refunded the amount, Pushpdharan had lodged a complaint with the district consumer forum on May 30, 2019. He stated he had invested in the flat for marriage of his daughter. The district consumer court had given notices and sent reminders to the builder, but the builder neither submitted a written reply nor sent his representative to appear .“The district consumer commission headed by president Anil Kumar Pundir and member Daya Shankar Pandey has decided the complaint ex-parte and directed the builder to refund the deposited amount of ₹5.54 lakh, along with 9% interest. Besides, the builder has been directed to pay ₹10,000 towards compensation and ₹1,000 towards litigation expenses to the complainant,” Aditya Bhati, representative of district consumer commission advocates’ welfare association, said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/builder-directed-to-refund-5-54-lakh-to-greater-noida-resident-for-delay-in-delivery-of-flat-101612289564424.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Haryana, UP, Rajasthan to submit report on action taken against polluting vehicles every two months, Centre tells SC||To curb air pollution in Delhi, even the state governments of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana will have to submit reports on action taken against polluting diesel vehicles that are over 10 years old and petrol vehicles that are over 15 years old. The reports should be submitted once every two months to the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas, the body set up by the Union government to curb pollution.This was stated by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) in an affidavit submitted before the Supreme Court, which was hearing a clutch of petitions about the air pollution in Delhi.The affidavit highlighted steps taken by the Commission having representatives from states adjoining Delhi, as well as representatives from central ministries, and representatives of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control authorities.The Commission, which was appointed in November 2020, has identified five focus areas to tackle pollution in Delhi-NCR. These are: industrial pollution, agricultural stubble burning, municipal solid waste management and biomass burning, construction and demolition activities, and vehicular pollution.During Interactions with representatives from Delhi and neighbouring states, the Commission noticed a lack of enforcement against old polluting vehicles not just in Delhi but in cities adjoining the capital as well. The neighbouring states also did not have a traffic management plan in place to tackle vehicular pollution.The affidavit said, “It was strongly reiterated that such overaged petrol/diesel vehicles more than 15/10 years of age, must not be allowed to ply in NCR at any cost and if found doing so, shall be taken off the roads immediately.”Accordingly, the subcommittee on “safeguarding and enforcement”, under the Commission, this January 8 prepared a reporting format to be submitted by Delhi and adjoining states every two months. This format has details about over-aged vehicles impounded, traffic congestion spots identified and resolved, new pollution under control (PUC) centres added, existing and proposed parking facilities, and additional CNG fuelling stations.On industrial polluting units, the Commission examined nearly 6,042 units in Delhi-NCR and 3,138 were found to be using clean fuel (CNG/PNG). The Commission set a deadline of January 31 for the remaining 2,904 units (2220 in Haryana, 420 in UP, and 151 in Rajasthan) to convert to clean fuel.On stubble burning, the affidavit said the Commission’s focus was on crop residue management -- the paddy straw that is burnt could be cut and used by other industries as a source of fuel. The affidavit said, “Stubble burning and pollution arising therefrom is a major area of concern, particularly during the months of October-November…The Commission identified Crop Residue Management as one of the priority areas.”To facilitate this, the Department of Agriculture Cooperation and Farmer Welfare under the Central government has developed an app-based aggregator platform for hiring and renting of farm machinery required for stubble cutting. The app called FARMS (Farm Machinery Solutions) has nearly 1.47 lakh individual farmers and over 22,000 custom hiring centres (CHC) across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Nearly 1.58 lakh machines have been supplied to individual farmers and CHCs through the app and other financial incentive schemes, the affidavit stated.The top court had expressed concerns over stubble burning after a public interest litigation (PIL) filed before the court pointed out that the pollution caused by stubble burning can impact even the Covid-19 mortality rate.In 2020, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh reported a decline in stubble burning incidents but Punjab reported a 15% increase. In Haryana, last year 5,000 farm fires were reported as compared to 6,652 in 2019. Punjab reported 76,590 farm fires as against 52,991 in 2019.On Tuesday, the court took up the PILs on stubble burning and air pollution in Delhi but adjourned the matter for two weeks. The Centre’s affidavit will be examined by the court on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/haryana-up-rajasthan-to-submit-report-on-action-taken-against-polluting-vehicles-every-two-months-centre-tells-sc-101612289446324.html
02-02-2021||Noida||UP Gate: Tikait’s grief changed equation on the ground||In the three months since the protest against the Centre’s farm laws began at UP Gate, there has been a marked transformation in the participation. From November to January 26, the site had mostly farmers from Punjab and Uttarakhand and some from western Uttar Pradesh.Soon after the violence on Republic Day, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s tears that went viral two days later changed all that.Now, the farmers are mostly from western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,Karnataka, Haryana, Punjab and Maharasthra as well. What is more, it has revived a protest that seemed to have lost some steam following the violence. From several thousands, the UP Gate site gathering came down to about 800-1000 farmers, encouraging the Ghaziabad district to issue an ultimatum to the protesters to clear the site or be evicted. That was when the video did the trick.“Before Republic Day, there were thousands of farmers here and they marched to Delhi too. After the violence, however, many were on their way back. After the video went viral, more people have started coming in from western UP and other states and still coming in with food supplies and material,” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. “It is not so that farmers from Uttarakhand, Punjab and terai region have gone back permanently. They are on standby and will come within hours if need arises. We are still not calling them as here we can cater to a gathering of about 25000-30000 per day otherwise it becomes difficult to carry out crowd management.”The farmer leaders have also decided to change strategy to keep the momentum of the long drawn out protest going. “Under the new strategy, a group of 10 people from a village will take the place of a group from their village who can go and attend work at home and in fields. Then, they can come back and others from the site can go,” said Tejinder Singh Virk, a farmer leader from the terai region. “Seeing Rakesh Tikait in tears got people emotionally connected to the protest and now this agitation has also become a fight for honour. The pagri (a headgear) is a considered a mark of honour among villagers and also for members of the Sikh community. People from villages honour Tikait with a pagri almost every day now,” sad Rajbir Singh, BKU’s UP state vice-president. “Even the panchayats in western UP areas have galvanised people in support of farmers.”“People are coming and even offering their pagris to me but I politely decline. It is their mark of honour and no one can take their pagri. With support flowing in, our fight is gaining strength. We will not allow our ‘morcha’ (protest site) to break down. People who are coming are common man and villagers,” Tikait, said. On Tuesday morning Tikat sat alone on the footpath close to the Delhi Police’s heavy barricading and had lunch. The farmers say that such a gesture will connect more with the common man.“The agitation has now transformed into jan andolan (fight of the common man),” he said. Tractor-trolleys from UP bring groundnuts, laddus, fruit, kheer and also fresh supplies of vegetables to the protest site. Social activist Medha Patkar, who has been a regular visitor to the UP Gate site, said that the movement has transformed beyond the communities. “This protest has also removed the gender bias as many women are also coming forward and participating actively in protests. This has now transformed into a ‘jan andolan’ and it is an answer to the government that this country cannot be run by corporate,” Patkar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-gate-tikait-s-grief-changed-equation-on-the-ground-101612289324462.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records season's highest temperature at 36.3 degrees Celsius||By Priyanka SahooMumbai recorded the season’s highest temperature on Tuesday. The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the city’s temperature, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, which was 4.9 degrees above normal.While this was lower than the 36.4 degrees Celsius recorded on December 10, 2020, it was still the highest recorded temperature of the winter season. Prior to this, Santacruz had recorded a maximum temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius on January 12.“Since the IMD considers January and February as the winter months, this is the highest temperature recorded in the ongoing winter season. November and December are months when the transition in temperatures happens,” said an official from IMD.At Colaba, too, the maximum temperature on Tuesday was high at 33.8 degrees Celsius, which was 3.5 degrees above normal. Minimum temperatures, too, were higher than normal.At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was 19.2 degrees Celsius, which was 1.6 degrees above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature was 22 degrees Celsius, which was 2.4 degrees above normal. The rise in temperatures comes after a week-long spell of cold conditions last week and is in line with the forecast by the IMD.Also read: No intention to bring central anti-conversion law - MHA tells Parliament“The delayed setting in of sea breeze led to higher temperatures in Mumbai and around. In the morning, there was a land breeze with an easterly component that continued to dominate almost till 3.30 pm. This delayed the setting of sea breeze which normally happens before 1 pm. However, the gradual reduction in both day and night temperatures are expected in the coming four-five days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD, on Twitter.Meanwhile, the city's air quality, which had improved slightly on Monday, became worse but remained in the 'poor' category. An overall Air Quality Index (AQI) — an air quality indicator — of 283 was measured on Tuesday, as opposed to Monday’s 221.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and the suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as 'good'; 51-100 as 'satisfactory'; 101-200 as 'moderate'; 201-300 as 'poor'; 301-400 as 'very poor' and above 400 as 'severe'.Of the 10 locations, Navi Mumbai has the worst air quality with an AQI of 359 (very poor). The AQI at Mazagaon was 325. Andheri and Malad recorded an AQI of 303.“The air quality of Mumbai is in the 'poor' category. With the current calm wind conditions, local emission with continental pollution to keep the AQI 'poor' for Mumbai in the next two days,” stated a short-range forecast by SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-season-s-highest-temperature-at-36-3-degrees-celsius-101612288732096.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram Police prepares list of personnel for second round of Covid-19 vaccination||The police on Tuesday finalised the list the personnel deployed at borders and those above 50 years of age, who will be the first in the force to get the Covid-19 vaccine in the second phase of the vaccination drive that starts on Thursday. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they have selected five locations for vaccination drives and arrangements have been made for the same. “We have prepared a list of 1,500 personnel, including 824 personnel aged above 50 years. It has been shared with the health department and we have informed our force to get vaccinated as per their turn,” he said. The vaccination sites include the commissioner’s office, traffic tower, police lines, Manesar police station, and City Sohna police station. Rao said the personnel will not have to travel far on the day of vaccination. “We have kept points at such locations that no one will have to travel for more than five kilometres to get vaccinated. It is mandatory for all personnel to get inoculated to win the war against Covid-19,” he said. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram, Civil Hospital, said that the health department has received a list of 5,500 police personnel, 900 home guards, 1,200 special police officers (SPOs), 6,500 Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) front-line workers, 2,000 workers from Panchayati Raj and 500 from the revenue department of the district administration. The department has so far vaccinated 22,372 healthcare workers in the first phase of the drive. “We will set up camps at the given location by the police and will try to vaccinate all the personnel within 10 days provided that we get sufficient vaccines during this period,” he said, adding the camps will be held simultaneously with the ongoing inoculation of health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-police-prepares-list-of-personnel-for-second-round-of-covid-19-vaccination-101612289146697.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination to resume in city||After a three-day hiatus, the health department will resume its Covid-19 vaccine drive on Wednesday at 20 private facilities, and just one public site at Civil Hospital in Sector 10. The targeted coverage for the vaccine is 500 healthcare workers, which is the lowest planned in a single day since the drive began on January 16. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, also confirmed that front-line workers from other departments, such as the municipal corporation and the police, will start receiving doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from February 4, but said that specific details about targeted coverage, and beneficiaries were still being worked out. “We are still planning it out,” he said. As of February 2, a total of 22,372 healthcare workers have been inoculated against Covid-19 — as against a target of over 36,000 in the first phase of the roll-out. The health department has also acquired the details of more than 1,500 police personnel, about 6,500 front-line workers with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, and another 2,500 odd beneficiaries from the Panchayati Raj and revenue departments. Vaccination in HaryanaMeanwhile in Haryana, 1,16,481 doses have been administered till January 29 against the actual dose consumption of 1,28,660. This also meant that more than 90% of the doses have been successfully utilised for inoculation, thereby recording an average vaccine wastage of 9.43% as opposed to the programmatic wastage of 10% allowed by the Union ministry of health. Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that better vaccination session planning which led to inoculation of more health care workers was a major reason the wastage was within the permissible limits. Out of about 1.9 lakh healthcare workers registered on the CoWin software for prioritizing beneficiaries of vaccination, about 1.28 lakh, about 67% were inoculated by Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-to-resume-in-city-101612289144388.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Developers welcome Budget announcements on affordable housing||The affordable housing segment, which has witnessed robust sales during the last two years, is likely to get a further boost in the city due to the announcements made in the Union Budget 2021-22 regarding the extension of tax holiday for affordable housing and relief on home loans for buyers, said city-based developers. The state government has already increased the area available for development of affordable housing in residential sectors and to make it more feasible. The area norms for projects have also been tweaked. There are around 80 affordable housing projects on the ground in city alone, which account for around 40,000 apartments in various stages of construction. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, on Monday extended the period for extra deduction of ₹1.5 lakh available for loans up to March 31, 2022. The government has also extended the time limit for availing tax holiday on affordable projects up to March 31, 2022. She has also announced tax holiday for affordable rental housing projects. Santosh Agarwal, executive director, AlphaCorp, said that the measures announced by government will provide impetus to housing demand and encourage buyers to invest in real estate. “Emphasis on infrastructure is good but the long-standing demand for a single-window clearance and industry status are still to see the light of the day,” he said.Realty experts said that almost half of the property bookings witnessed in the city were of affordable housing projects and plots sales under Deen Dayal Antodaya Yojana(DDAY) scheme. “The government by announcing tax sops has made its intentions clear that it wants to push affordable housing further. The state government has also eased norms and this will help in boosting demand,” said Pankaj Singh, a real estate dealer. Pradeep Aggarwal, chairman, Signature Global, a city-based affordable housing developer, expects the demand to increase in the city in the coming months. “The response to affordable projects was good even after the lockdown. The sops announced by government will help all the stakeholders,” he said. While developers and dealers were upbeat about future prospects, the buyers want the builders to stick to the timelines for completing projects. “ I have bought a property in Sector 70 and the builder has completed only 10 percent work despite repeated directions from authorities. This should not happen,” said a buyer, who wished anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/developers-welcome-budget-announcements-on-affordable-housing-101612289145256.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Court dismisses plea to make graft accused undergo lie detector test||A local court on Tuesday dismissed a plea to conduct a lie detector test on suspended police officer Vishal Kumar, who is accused in a ₹57-lakh graft case and for illegally detaining a call centre owner. A polygraph test — popularly referred to as a lie-detector test — measures and records several physiological indices such as pulse, respiration, blood pressure and skin conductivity while the subject is asked to answer a series of questions. The State Vigilance Bureau had sought the court’s permission on January 25 to conduct a lie detector test on Kumar and narco analysis of suspended head constable Amit Kumar. The officials had also asked for the permission to take the voice samples of Kumar and one of their aides, a farm house owner that has been granted on Tuesday. SS Chauhan, counsel for Vishal Kumar, said the application for permission for polygraph test was dismissed by the court as Kumar did not give his consent and it is mandatory to take the consent from a victim or an accused in the court. “Vishal denied undergoing the lie-detector test. He has been booked solely on the basis of the statement by the call centre owner and there is no circumstantial evidence against him. Kumar has consistently denied any role in the kidnapping and bribery case. Hence, the probe agency wants to use the lie detector test to verify his claims. This, the agency hopes, will give direction to the ongoing probe,” he said. The case will come up in court on February 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/court-dismisses-plea-to-make-graft-accused-undergo-lie-detector-test-101612289086702.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP carries out demolition drive in Dhumaspur||The enforcement wing of department of town and country (DTCP) on Tuesday carried out a demolition drive in village Dhumaspur, around 12km from Gurugram, in which 15 under-construction houses, several plinths, boundary walls and a road network spread over 40 acres were demolished. Earlier on Monday, the department removed encroachments from Arcadia Market in DLF where kiosks, vends and illegal eateries were removed. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that an illegal colony being developed in Dhumaspur, on around 40 acres, was demolished during the drive with the support from a team of Gurugram Police. “There was initial resistance from the plot owners but it was made clear to them that the unauthorised construction was illegal. Around 100 plinths, boundary walls and a road network over 40 acres were demolished along with 15 under-construction houses,” said Bhath. A team of around eight DTCP officials and over 100 police personnel carried out the demolition. Earlier on Monday, the enforcement team of DTCP carried out a similar demolition drive in Arcadia Market. Bhath said that after clearing the market of the encroachments, the team removed unauthorised structures from residential plots such as mechanic shops, fruit vends, grocer shops and dhabas, which were operating without permission. The enforcement team also demolished rooms and similar other structures, which have been constructed in stilt parkings, in violation of building plans. “Action was also taken at around 10 plots, where violations were carried out after obtaining occupation certificates,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner. Markets in and around private colonies like Palam Vihar, Nirvana Country, Suncity, Sushant Lok, Uppal Southend, Malibu Towne and other areas are also on the radar of the DTCP as a number of complaints have been received from residents in these areas regarding encroachments and illegal occupation of corridors. Officials said that they would coordinate with other civic agencies such as Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG) and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to check these issues in the markets that fall under their jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-carries-out-demolition-drive-in-dhumaspur-101612289086091.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||State to seek Ramsar certification for Sultanpur National Park||The state forest department plans to recommend the Sultanpur National Park in Gurugram and the Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary in Jhajjar district for declaration as Ramsar sites. Both are popular birding destinations, providing habitat for a large variety of resident and migratory species, and happen to be the only two such water bodies in Haryana with legal protection under the MoEFCC’s Wetland Rules (2017). Department officials confirmed that two separate proposals have been drawn up in the format required by the Ramsar Convention, and will be sent by the state government to the Centre for further consideration. Ramsar sites — as per UNESCO’s 1971 Convention on Wetlands held in Ramsar, Iran — are wetlands of international significance. Experts and officials explained that having a Ramsar certification brings international visibility to ecologically sensitive wetlands and provides an impetus for their conservation. Officials said on Tuesday that this proposal was first floated in 2015. “It did not go through at the time, for some reason. In 2019, we revisited the proposal, but again, it fell through. We were told last year told to start work on the proposal again. District-level teams finished their fieldwork and submitted the information to us a few months ago. Our final proposal is presently with the state government and we expect it to reach the Centre next week. From there, it will be sent to the Convention,” said ML Rajvanshi, chief conservator of forests, Haryana, on Tuesday, which was also the World Wetlands Day. Experts lauded this as a positive step in protecting important birding areas in Sultanpur and Bhindawas, but also viewed the development with caution. “Getting a Ramsar tag is very good optically, and it does create accountability for governments to protect the wetland. But the challenge will be to maintain the area up to the required standard. This may not be very easy in Sultanpur, for example, from where we keep hearing reports of encroachments and such. It’s a good step that Haryana is taking, but we will have to see if the Ramsar Convention honours the proposal. The rules are quite strict,” said Bikram Grewal, a veteran ornithologist and a Delhi-based author. This view was echoed by other experts, including TK Roy, state co-ordinator for Netherlands-based Wetlands International (one of the six international organisation partners that work with the Convention). “The quality of the habitat in both Bhindawas and Sultanpur has been declining, as have the number of birds that visit there every year. While it is fine to seek Ramsar certification, what is really needed in Haryana is to notify newer birding destinations, like Basai and Najafgarh, as wetlands. But the merits of doing that are still being debated in courts, while existing wetlands are in poor shape.” Roy also referenced the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s zonal master plan for Sultanpur National Park, drafted in 2019 and cleared in October 2020, in which the buffer around the park has been kept at three kilometres, despite the National Green Tribunal instating an area of five kilometres as a no-construction zone. “The anthropogenic stress on Sultanpur is significant, and it would certainly be considered by the Convention. It is common knowledge that the catchment area has seen rampant unauthorised construction,” Roy said. Similarly in Jhajjar, experts called attention to the Mandothi wetland, located about 40 kilometres from Bhindawas, which has emerged as a popular birding destination in recent years. “Despite being an incredible wetland, Mandothi does not have the same protection as Bhindawas. Even the Dighal wetland in Jhajjar is a similar example,” said Pankaj Gupta of the Delhi Bird Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/state-to-seek-ramsar-certification-for-sultanpur-national-park-101612289085557.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Case against Amazon for selling counterfeit goods||The police on Monday filed a case against e-commerce seller Amazon for allegedly allowing the sale of counterfeit products on its website.A private company based in Udyog Vihar has alleged that counterfeit versions of their ayurvedic products were being sold on the portal and despite repeated requests, the product continued to remain on the website. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Section 63 of Copyright Act was registered against the company at the Udyog Vihar police station on Monday, said police.Police commissioner KK Rao said that the complainant, Devender Singh, had ordered two ayurvedic products made by his company from Amazon on November 13, 2020. When he received the order five days later, he found that both the products were duplicate. “The products were a copy of his registered products and were sold openly on the Amazon site. The complainant has given us a copy of emails written to Amazon. But even after repeated reminders, neither did they remove the products nor assured him of the needful,” he said.A spokesperson for Amazon India said, “Our customers expect that when they make a purchase through Amazon’s marketplace they will receive authentic products. Amazon strictly prohibits the sale of counterfeit products and we invest heavily in both funds and company energy to ensure our policy is followed by third party sellers selling on Amazon.in. We investigate any claim of counterfeit thoroughly, including removing the item, permanently removing the bad actor, pursuing legal action as appropriate.”Singh said that his company sells at least 5,000 units of the two products in question — a de-addiction remedy and a balm — online every month. “I was surfing the internet in November when I found that our registered products were being sold with the same name by another company,” he said.The police said the complainant tried to contact the toll-free number provided by the company and when he could not get through, he emailed the seller asking for a copy of the invoice, but did not get one.“When I approached Amazon in January, on its toll-free number to seek clarification, instead of receiving a resolution, the customer care representative abused me. So I reported the matter to the police,” said Singh.Rao said they have identified the alleged counterfeiter of the products as a resident of Bhopal. A team from Udyog Vihar police station had raided the office in Bhopal on Monday, but could not find the suspect.A notice has been issued to the suspect to join the investigation, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/case-against-amazon-for-selling-counterfeit-goods-101612289085037.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||HSVP to take action against institutional plot owners for violating norms||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to take action against institutional plot holders for violating regulations. As per HSVP officials, these plot holders have either not made payments for allotment of plots, or have delayed construction or failed to adhere to the required timeline. The authority has sought a detailed list of such allottees from zonal administrators.In a letter issued on January 25, the chief administrator, HSVP, asked the zonal administrators of Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar, Panchkula and Rohtak to identify institutional plot holders who have not deposited the 15 percent margin money, those who have deposited only 15 percent margin money and not the rest, and those who have only made a partial payment. The letter further stated that the timeline for the construction of plots was between two and five years. Although this was later extended up to eight years but several plot holders have failed to adhere even to the extended timeline. “It has been observed that there are several such allottees who have not made complete payment for plots. There are also others who have not carried out construction as per the norms but no action has been taken against them,” stated the letter, adding that a complete list of such plots should be prepared and submitted to the headquarters by February 8. The institutional plots are allotted to different categories of institutions, including social, charitable, religious and philanthropic ones. These are also allotted to educational institutions, businesses and government organisations. In Gurugram, the authority has developed sectors 18, 32 and 44 for institutional allotment, said officials. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, said that they will prepare a detailed list of such plots and also ask the allottees to make payments and meet all other requirements for the allotment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-to-take-action-against-institutional-plot-owners-for-violating-norms-101612289084388.html
02-02-2021||Noida||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut extends support to farmers at UP Gate||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut on Tuesday was the latest politician to criticise the heavy barricading at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border at UP Gate to prevent entry of large numbers of farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws into the national capital.Raut, who visited the UP Gate protest site on the day, said that the government should speak to farmers and resolve the issue. “After January 26 (referring to the Republic Day clash between farmers and police in Delhi) an attempt was made to crush the protest. We thought that the people of Maharasthra should stand by them (farmers). I am not here for a political visit, but I have come here to lend support to Tikait ji (Bharatiya Kisan Union [BKU] leader Rakesh Tikait)... If such heavy roadblocks had been put at the China border, then they would not have been able to make inroads into Ladakh referring to the ongoing standoff against China that started after 20 Indian soldiers were killed at the border),” Raut told reporters. He said that his party opposed the new farm laws. “We have opposed the new farm laws from day one. We extended support to farmers of the entire country and Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief, Uddhav Thackeray, has especially sent me here to meet Tikait ji and to say to him that we stand with him strongly. It is likely that the Uddhav sahab will also talk to him in a day or two. Ye rajnitik andolan nahi hai, ye andolan sadak ka hai aur sadak pe rahega (This is not a political agitation. It is a protest on road and will stay on roads),” he said.Tikait was shot into limelight soon after the January 26 clashes when a video of him in tears and saying that he would rather kill himself than give up on the movement went viral. Tikait is the son of late farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait who had famously rought Delhi to a standstill in 1988. The moment reinvigorated the farmers’ protest that had shown signs of losing some steam in the wake of the clashes. Soon, thousands of protesters arrived at the Ghaziabad border necessitating the move by the Delhi Police to barricade the border with concertina wires, concrete blocks and iron nails to puncture tractor tyres.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi while tweeting the pictures said, “Build bridges, not walls!” Even the farmers protesting on the Ghaziabad side of the border seemed infuriated with the heavy barricading. “It seems that we are standing in a different country. Generally, we see such arrangements at India-Pakistan border but this one here is unprecedented,” said Khan Chand Yadav, a farmer who had come from Dariyapur in Bulandshahr district. “If police thinks that they can control us, they are wrong. If our leaders direct us, we will demolish such barricading within minutes. But we are carrying on peaceful protest,” said Yoginder Singh, a farmer who arrived from Chapprauli in Baghpat district. “More so, we are now protesting to remove the ‘Kalank’ (blot) when some unruly elements put up a flag at the Red Fort on the Republic Day. Our protest is also to demand an inquiry and action against the culprits. Otherwise, our families have told us that we come home only when we get the blot completely removed,” he, added. Meanwhile, the Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday dismissed criticism on the multi-level barricading at various borders. “I am surprised when tractors were used on January 26 and police were attacked and barricading was broken, no on raised questions. What we did? We have just strengthened the barricades so that they should not be broken time and again,” Srivastava told reporters in Delhi. Further, with many opposition leaders visiting UP Gate and meeting Tikait after events unfolded on January 28, Rakesh Tikait has maintained that visit by politicians from opposition parties is not “political.” “They are our guest, and we welcome any guest who comes here. We are not allowing any political persons to share dais at our protest site,” he added. After the developments on January 28, many politicians have visited UP Gate site. Prominent among those were Delhi’s deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Manish Sisodia, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, UP Congress committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, while many others have already spoken to Tikait over the phone and extended help and support. The site also saw visits by Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-extends-support-to-farmers-at-up-gate-101612289026688.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram school murder: CBI court raps govt, police over delay in prosecuting four cops||Rapping the state government and the state police, the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court of Haryana on Tuesday said “they are sleeping like a Khumbhakarna” instead of discharging their statutory duties, over the delay in granting prosecution sanction for four Gurugram police personnel in the school murder case. The court directed that the requisite action be taken within 10 days. Aman Inder Singh, special judicial magistrate of the CBI court in Panchkula on Tuesday, observed, “What makes the situation more pathetic is the fact of sleeping over the request of CBI like a Kumbhakarna instead of discharging its statutory duties without delay.” The court observed that the authorities are not taking action to protect their colleagues and at the same time, they are not rejecting the request for sanction, fearing judicial scrutiny. The CBI had written to the home principal secretary of the Haryana government, seeking a request sanction to prosecute assistant commissioner of police, Birem Singh, on August 19, 2020. On September 30, the CBI had written to the director general of Haryana Police for obtaining requisite sanction to prosecute inspector Narender Singh Khatana and sub-inspector Subhash Chand, but the permission is still pending. On January 6, the CBI filed a supplementary chargesheet against four Gurugram police officers for falsely implicating a school bus conductor and for fabricating documents against him in the 2017 school murder case. The probe agency, which had named a juvenile as the main accused and filed a chargesheet in February 2018, said in the supplementary chargesheet that “there is sufficient evidence for prosecution” against four police officials who allegedly implicated the bus conductor and accused him of murder and sexual assault. Birem Singh, then ACP, Narender Khatana, then station house officer of Bhondsi police station, Shamsher Singh, sub-inspector and the investigating officer for two days, and Subhash Chand, ASI, are the four officials named. “The accused four police officials virtually made life hell for Ashok Kumar and put his entire family on the brink of starvation. The incident gave a bad name to him in society and put a blot on his career, which will take time to vanish. The best solace for this person in the scenario will be that accused person who were responsible for his plight should face prosecution and the law should take its course, but to my utter surprise, the concerned sanctioning authorities are sitting upon the request of sanction,” the court observed in its order. “More than five months have elapsed and the sanctioning authority is yet to wake up from its deep slumber,” the court observed. Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for the victim, said, “The government is obliged to provide sanction to the suspects. The law has to take its own course. The constitutional duty conferred on the state warrants that the accused not be spared and be brought to the subject of law. The delay in providing sanction is akin to denying justice.”The case is now listed for February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-school-murder-cbi-court-raps-govt-police-over-delay-in-prosecuting-four-cops-101612289026157.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG to take over Maruti Vihar within two weeks||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is set to take over Maruti Vihar, a gated colony on the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, within the next two weeks. An internal order in this regard was issued last week by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, directing the agency’s engineering wing to assess civic deficiencies in the colony, and accordingly, issue tenders to rectify or build new infrastructure. Singh further directed the officials to complete the tendering process within two weeks and take over the colony immediately. “The assessment will help the MCG identify areas where civic upgrades are required on priority. Directions have been issued to the officials concerned to take over the colony at the earliest and a maximum deadline of two weeks has been set, so that the MCG can start providing optimum civic services to residents of Maruti Vihar on an immediate basis,” said Singh.Spread across 23 acres, Maruti Vihar is sandwiched between DLF Phase-4 and MG Road, due to which the colony has a high real estate value. It was set up in 1988, when the Haryana Housing Board had allotted developed land to the Maruti Employees Cooperative Housing Building Society for setting up a colony. Allotment of properties commenced in 1991. Over time, the original owners have moved out of the colony, which currently houses residents from varying backgrounds. As per the Maruti Vihar residents’ welfare association (RWA), there are 1,118 houses in the colony that house at least 6,000 people.Last year, the RWA of the colony had approached RS Rathee, the MCG councillor of Ward 34, requesting that the MCG take over the colony due to insufficient funds for upkeep, leading to degradation of civic infrastructure.“Over the past decade, the MCG has been assisting us by providing several civic facilities within the colony. They have provided us with water supply, looked after the parks, and also constructed tube wells at their own cost. We realised that the resources of the MCG have been heavily beneficial for the society, which the RWA couldn’t have been able to provide. Hence, we wanted MCG to take over all the services,” said JK Sharma, president, Maruti Vihar RWA. Sharma cited several civic deficiencies in the colony, with streetlights being the worst affected. “The RWA is spending around ₹3 lakh per month for running existing streetlights. It is already proving to be expensive for us, and we are in not in a financial position to add new streetlights. Thus, there is a great need among residents for MCG to take over the colony and fix such issues,” said Sharma.According to RS Rathee, the entire takeover process took just six months. “Unlike other colonies taken over by the MCG, Maruti Vihar was not set up by a private developer. So, when I took up the matter, only public departments such as the MCG, Haryana Housing Board and the Department of Town and Country Planning were involved. Since all the requisite formalities were done at an internal government level, the entire process was completed in quick time,” said Rathee.Maruti Vihar is located next to Saraswati Vihar, which was also developed by the Haryana Housing Board on 61 acres in the late 1980s and taken over by the MCG in early 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-take-over-maruti-vihar-within-two-weeks-101612289025556.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||Decomposed carcasses of leopard, hyenas found in Sohna||The district forest department on Tuesday recovered decomposed carcasses of one adult leopard and two adult hyenas from the forest area near the Aravalli village of Saanp ki Nangli in Sohna tehsil. Officials said that a post-mortem examination conducted during the afternoon was inconclusive at determining the cause of death, and that viscera samples from all three animals have been dispatched to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, to be tested for poisoning. However, it has been confirmed that the leopard is not the same animal which was spotted last week in south-west Delhi’s Ghumanhera neighbourhood. “They cannot be the same animal because the carcasses we found were extremely decomposed. The deaths occurred at least a week ago. In any case, it would have been extremely hard for a leopard to make its way from Najafgarh to Sohna in just a few days without being noticed,” said Rajesh Chahal, district wildlife inspector. The carcasses were reported to the police by villagers from Saanp ki Nangli early on Tuesday, who then informed the wildlife department. Officials said they are not yet able to confidently attribute the deaths of the three animals. The hyenas were both males, and around 10 years old. They would have been approaching the end of their life, making them easy targets for leopards on the hunt. Officials said that the leopard, meanwhile, was a female of around two to three years old. According to the post-mortem examination, the animal was not pregnant. “We have not really seen such a situation before. The carcasses were all found in the same spot, barely 200 or 300 metres apart from one another. They did not show any signs of grievous injury. If the animals were poisoned, either purposely or inadvertently, we will know only once the reports come later in the week. But this does not seem like the work of poachers at all. If that was the case, the bodies would not have been left in the forest like that,” said MS Malik, chief conservator of forests, south Haryana. In another incident, the wildlife department on Tuesday was unable to find any presence of a leopard in villages lying upstream of the Najafgarh basin in south-west Delhi. A leopard had been spotted in the area multiple times late last week, with officials speculating on Sunday that it may have crossed over into Haryana, upstream of the Najafgarh drain, toward the Aravalli mountain ridge between Manesar and Tauru. Officials also confirmed that they will no longer be actively surveying the area, starting Wednesday. “We sent out teams yesterday and today, but there were no pug marks, droppings or any signs of hunting in the area. Locals have not seen anything either,” said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/decomposed-carcasses-of-leopard-hyenas-found-in-sohna-101612289024988.html
02-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG to start civic services in DLF 1, 2 and 3 next month||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will start providing some civic amenities to DLF Phases 1, 2, and 3 from next month, ahead of an impending total takeover, officials said on Tuesday. These services would include cleaning of roads and drains, pruning of trees, installing of sewage treatment plant (STP), open-air gyms and compost plants, and laying pavement tiles. A decision in this regard was taken in a review meeting between the officials of MCG and DLF last month. The approved proceedings of this meeting were documented on Saturday, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times. During the meeting, MCG officials decided that the civic body will start with the services for which there are no deficiencies or pending infrastructure, as per the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the three colonies. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh directed the civic body’s engineering wing to prepare estimates for such services, float tenders and start work on the ground. “We realised that instead of waiting for the handover process to be completed, there are certain civic amenities that the MCG can start providing on an immediate basis, and subsequently, take charge of other amenities, such as roads, drains and streetlights, when the colony is taken over. Directions have been issued to the engineering wing officials to provide such amenities within a short time,” said Singh. In 2017, the MCG had carried out a civic infrastructure survey of the three colonies to determine the estimated cost of repairs and new infrastructure in the three DLF Phases. The assessment, done as per the building plans for the three colonies approved by the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) in the 1980s, pegged the cost at ₹192.91 crore in the three colonies. This was revised to ₹35.44 crore after the developer raised issues regarding the estimate. It is only after the developer, DLF, completes the works — road repairs, water supply, sewerage, parks, open spaces and streetlights — that the colonies be taken over by the MCG. “We will complete all the civic works mentioned in the DPR at the earliest timeline. In the interim, any additional development works in the three colonies can be carried out by the MCG. We have also requested the DTCP to provide the completion certificate for the three colonies,” said David Amalraj, senior vice president, DLF Limited. In the meeting, the MCG directed DLF to give them the “shortest possible” deadline by when they can hand over the three colonies. “The speed of work got slowed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and DLF Ltd is committed to completing the balance work at the earliest possible,” a representative of DLF Ltd had stated in the meeting. In February 2016, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed the MCG to take over the three colonies. The approved proceedings of the meeting further mention that a review meeting regarding the takeover of DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3 will be held on February 10. “Another key decision taken during the meeting was that the MCG’s engineering wing and the ward councillors will together survey the three colonies for civic infrastructure augmentation. Once the survey is over, tenders would be floated for carrying out the work,” said RS Rathee, MCG councillor of Ward 34. “We have been eagerly waiting for the takeover for the past five years. The fact that the MCG has decided to provide us with some share of civic services is extremely important as we view it as a precursor to the final handing over of the colonies. We now can approach the MCG for such services,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-start-civic-services-in-dlf-1-2-and-3-next-month-101612289024348.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra expects phase 2 to boost Covid-19 vaccination turnout||After a two-day delay owing to technical glitches in CoWIN app, the second phase of inoculation, including frontline workers, will begin at some centres in Maharashtra from Wednesday. Acting on the Centre’s instructions, phase 2 covering frontline workers has begun, even as the first phase for healthcare workers (HCW) is still on. The state authorities have inoculated 309,446 healthcare workers in 10 sessions from January 16 till Monday. Along with about 786,000 HCWs, the state has enrolled more than 600,000 frontline workers. “We have completed dry and trial runs to begin inoculation at some centres from Wednesday. The app went live for frontline workers from Tuesday morning after the initial glitches,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, state health services. The technical glitches in the centralised CoWIN app delayed the rollout of the second phase, scheduled on February 1. The authorities were facing difficulties sending out messages to the beneficiaries and also in transfer of data from the state to districts. The state authorities expect the percentage of vaccination to improve after the frontline workers are added to the daily sessions. “Against say a target of 100 people per centre, we have been able to inoculate 75-80 HCWs daily. With the addition of frontline workers, the percentage is expected to improve further. The centres have been flexible in admitting beneficiaries,” said an official from the health department. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the pace of vaccination will pick up. “After initial technical issues, the vaccination percentage has improved and more beneficiaries are turning up. There would not be any issue during the second phase of the vaccination,” he said. Although it was a break for the inoculation drive in rest of the state, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) vaccinated 6,387 healthcare workers, out of the 8,000 expected beneficiaries, with a turnout of 80% on Tuesday. Of these, eight people reported minor side effects of dizziness, called Adverse Event following immunization (AEFI), and were kept under observation for 30 minutes and discharged. So far, BMC has vaccinated 53,784 healthcare workers. It presently has 12 vaccination centres in the city, at four major hospitals – King Edward Memorial, BYL Nair, Cooper and Sion Hospitals; four peripheral hospitals – Bhabha at Bandra, VN Desai at Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, Kandivli; the Covid facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex; and the state-run JJ Hospital in south Mumbai, NESCO in Goregaon, and SevenHills hospital. Another health department officer said they have started sending out messages to the frontline workers who are expected to turn up from Wednesday. “The centres are expected to inoculate more and also save the wastage of doses,” the official said. Meanwhile, the state reported 1,927 new cases and 30 deaths on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,030,274 and toll to 51,139. Mumbai’s tally touched 309,637 and toll 11,368, after the addition of 334 fresh cases and 7 deaths. The state’s case fatality rate stands at 2.52%. Pune and Nagpur clocked 188 and 161 cases, respectively. After 4,011 patients recovered on Tuesday, the recovery rate of the state was 95.37%. Maharashtra has 41,586 active patients, the highest (13,487) in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-expects-phase-2-to-boost-covid-19-vaccination-turnout-101612288485176.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Physical classes for PG first-year students begin at PEC||The first-year students of postgraduate (PG) courses at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, will be allowed to attend physical classes on campus from Wednesday.The second-year students of PG courses and PhD scholars, involved in research, have already been allowed on campus. Classes at PEC were suspended last year in March after the outbreak of Covid-19.There are around 150 students of PG first-year at PEC.No decision on allowing UG studentsThe institute is, however, yet to take any decision on allowing undergraduate students to attend physical classes. A review of the situation is expected before they are allowed onto campus.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We will keep looking at the prevailing situation and take the decision accordingly regarding the undergraduate students.”Last year, PEC had decided to conduct the classes online from July 27 for the first semester of 2020-21 academic session. At present, PEC offers eight BTech courses and 14 MTech courses to over 3,000 students.SOPs already notifiedThe first-year students of PG courses will have to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs), which have already been notified by the institution. Wearing a face mask and carrying a personal hand sanitizer are mandatory.It has been advised that anybody with symptoms of Covid-19 should immediately take medical assistance. As per the SOPs, all students and faculty members should sanitise their hands and personal items regularly.Meeting about convocation heldA meeting was held at PEC last week with students to discuss the possibility of holding a physical conovocation, which was not held last year due to the pandemic. In October last year, a majority of PEC graduates had expressed willingness to have a physical event, whenever the situation normalised, rather than a virtual one this year. Nothing has been finalised yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/physical-classes-for-pg-first-year-students-begin-at-pec-101612288426417.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Get high-security number plates or pay ₹5,000 fine in Chandigarh||The Registration and Licensing Authority, Chandigarh, is going for stricter implementation of mandatory high security registration plate (HSRPs) and third registration mark (colour-coded sticker) on all old and new vehicles registered in the city.From March, the RLA will ask police to impose a fine of ₹3,000 and ₹5,000 on two- and four-wheelers, respectively, found in violation. As of now, the deadline of February 28 has been set only for CH01BK and BL series. To prevent any rush, staggered enforcement will be followed for other series.“For vehicles registered after the introduction of dealer-point vehicle registration in 2019, the RC was not issued without an HSRP. But, for vehicles registered earlier, there was a lack of uniformity in number plates. To ensure uniformity, as per the latest directions of the ministry of road transport and highways, all Chandigarh-registered vehicles must have only the stipulated HSRP and third registration mark plates. Failure to comply can invite challan,” said Virat, RLA. Owners of vehicles with numbers in CH01BK and CH01BL series can apply for affixing HSRP and third registration mark at the RLA office in Sector 17 by February 28 as per the procedure available on the website chdtransport.gov.in, said Virat.For vehicles in CH01BM to BT series, too, owners can apply at the RLA office, though no deadline has been set. Similarly, owners of vehicles in other old or existing series can apply at the RLA office or the SDM (south) office at the Sports Complex in Sector 42 or the SDM (east) office at the CTU Workshop in Industrial Area, Phase 1.The transport department has also authorised dealers of the original equipment manufacturers to affix colour coded stickers and HSRPs on old and new vehicles. The replacement of an existing registration plate can be done only after ensuring that the old plate has been surrendered and destroyed on the office premises.The vehicles owners who fail to get the number plates affixed are liable for prosecution under the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/get-high-security-number-plates-or-pay-5-000-fine-in-chandigarh-101612288365072.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 3 pose as NIA officers to extort ₹2 crore from businessman, arrested||The Kalachowki police have arrested three persons for allegedly trying to extort ₹2 crore from a Lower Parel-based bullion merchant by posing as National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers. Police said one of them posed as deputy commissioner of police (DCP), posted with NIA. The accused managed to extort the amount of ₹25 lakh from the trader by threatening to book him in a false case.The arrested accused have been identified as Rajesh Bansi Pawar, Vijay Singh alias Mahesh Panchvaktra and Iqbal Khan. According to police, the complainant is a bullion merchant from Lower Parel, and has a wholesale and retail gold business and is a resident of Central Mumbai.A police officer said in November 2020, the complainant’s car was intercepted by three people at Bharatmata junction near Lalbaug. One of accused identified himself as DCP, NIA, whereas the two others posed as his subordinates. They took his car keys and showed their (fake) identity cards to the trader.“The trio told the businessman that they had received a criminal complaint against him, they would register an offence and raid his house and office if he failed to pay them ₹2 crore. The businessman then bargained with the three and paid them ₹25 lakh,” said a police officer from the Kalachowki police station. The complainant later enquired about the “NIA officials” and found that no such officers were working with the anti-terrorism agency. Later, the complainant also learnt that the trio who extorted money from him was arrested by the Kalachowki police red-handed while accepting ₹16 lakh extorted in a similar manner from another businessman in December 2020. After waiting for a month, the businessman lodged a complaint and a case was registered against the fake NIA officers. “We took custody of the three accused from jail and after their role was found in the case they were placed under arrest. They have been remanded to police custody up to February 6,” said Vijay Patil, DCP zone-4.During the investigation, the accused revealed that they had seen the news on TV channels about NIA cracking down on gold merchants in smuggling cases. They got an idea of extorting money from bullion merchants by posing as NIA officials, DCP Patil added.Police sources said that the accused Panchavaktra is a key member of the group who had his own business but had to shut down after income tax raids. Thereafter he ventured into cheating businessmen, said the officer.The three have been booked for impersonating a public servant, cheating, extortion, forgery, robbery and criminal conspiracy under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-3-pose-as-nia-officers-to-extort-2-crore-from-businessman-arrested-101612288304945.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 50% decline in Covid cases in January||The Covid-19 trajectory is showing a downward trend with the number of fresh cases in January seeing 50% decline as compared to December while the fatalities also dropping by nearly 60%. Chandigarh has reported 1,177 cases and 17 deaths in January, lowest since August when the virus started spreading rapidly with easing of lockdown restrictions. The trend is similar to that seen in the neighbouring districts of Mohali and Panchkula.However, experts caution that we should not lower our guard, and testing and precautions should continue as usual.“In the West, the pandemic has broken previous records with new waves, after a significant drop. Thus, the strategy of testing, isolation, and treatment should continue, and should remain a priority. Lowering our guard can be harmful,” said Dr KK Talwar, an adviser to the Punjab government and former director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.With the dip in cases, the pressure on healthcare facilities has also started to ease, said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-cum-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, while adding that testing and treatment of patients remains a priority. “Preventive measures have to be taken even if the cases are dropping and there should be no complacency. As the vaccination drive has started, it instils a sense of confidence among workers for providing services related to Covid-19,” she said.Dr Yogesh Chawla, former PGIMER director, said vaccination of other groups should also begin at the earliest. “It will bring confidence among the population to avail themselves of healthcare services and bring the pandemic under control,” he said. Given the drop in numbers, the facilities and workers earmarked for Covid-19 should be substantially decreased and non-Covid services should be put back on track, said Dr RS Bedi, former president, Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh Chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-50-decline-in-covid-cases-in-january-101612288245428.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC nod to resolve standoff between Maharashtra government, private hospitals||The Bombay high court (HC) has agreed to resolve the standoff between the state government and private hospitals regarding reserving beds for Covid patients in private hospitals.The private hospitals and doctors approached the HC objecting to high-handedness of the government while fixing the charges the hospitals could recover from Covid patients and refusal to give compensation to private doctors who succumbed to Covid while treating patients privately.The court was informed that the state had proposed to de-notify private hospitals or reduce the bed reservation to 50% and the grievance of the private hospitals could be resolved amicably, hence the court should allow the resolution to happen before it. The court accepted the same, and allowed two state government officials and two representatives of the petitioners to be present for the resolution process and posted it for Wednesday. A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi, while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by private hospitals and privately practising doctors, who were represented by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), was informed by advocate SU Kamdar for IMA that private hospitals should be allowed to recover charges from Covid patients admitted to the beds that did not fall under the government reservation beds and the government should have no say in the same. However, additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan for the state informed the bench, that on January 29 a meeting was held by the officials of the state health ministry, wherein, it was proposed that in light of the number of Covid cases going down and beds in government hospitals in every district sufficient to take care of Covid patients, it would be left to the district collectors and municipal commissioners to decide on whether to denotify private hospitals requisitioned for treating Covid patients during the height of the pandemic. The minutes of the meeting, however, stated that as there was a shortage of intensive care units (ICU) in government hospitals, it would be better to reduce the reservation of beds in private hospitals to 50%.However, Kamdar objected saying that there was no clarity on how to segregate patients between private and reserved beds and also the charges that could be recovered from the patients.Chavan assured the court that the health department did not intend to fight with the private hospitals or private doctors and hence wanted to resolve the issue by clarifying all doubts, hence requested the court to hold a hearing between the officials and IMA representatives in the chamber. The court accepted the same and posted the hearing in the chamber on Wednesday at 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-nod-to-resolve-standoff-between-maharashtra-government-private-hospitals-101612288185052.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drug dealer Parvez Khan arrested by ATS||The Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Monday arrested Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, a relative of former underworld don late Karim Lala, in a drug case. Pathan was earlier arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from Ghansoli area, at Navi Mumbai in a drug-related case. The agency had also recovered one 9mm blank pistol from Khan’s residence.In October 2020, Thane unit of the ATS had arrested two persons -Sohail Sayyad, 34, a resident of Nallasopara and Zishan Memon, 32, from south Mumbai, in a drug case and had allegedly seized a small quantity of mephedrone (MD) from them. After the interrogation, Khan’s name cropped up in the drug case, said an officer. Khan was externed from Mumbai for his involvement in various criminal activities. He stayed in Navi Mumbai and allegedly supplied MD to small peddlers in Bhiwandi and other areas. Pathan was lodged in Thane central prison following arrest by the NCB. The ATS later took his custody to investigate his connections with the Dawood gang, said an ATS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidrug-dealer-parvez-khan-arrested-by-ats-101612288064848.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders action against hostile witnesses in all appropriate cases||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has recently directed all sessions courts across Maharashtra to initiate action against hostile witnesses in all appropriate cases, observing that respect for law cannot be ensured by threat of legal action, but time has come to send out a loud and clear message that witnesses turning hostile cannot be ignored or pardoned anymore.“We cannot turn a blind eye to the menace of hostile witnesses, and we cannot find ourselves helpless as against the conduct of the hostile witnesses,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Gauge and justice BU Debadwar after noticing that five of seven important witnesses in a murder case before it had turned hostile.The judges said they were finding hostile witnesses in every other case and it was a matter of serious concern if it was happening for extraneous considerations. “This would not only be a serious ailment/disease to the justice dispensation system but could as well be cancerous to the rule of law,” said the bench while reversing the conviction of Saraswati Landge, a resident of Ambejogai in Beed district.An additional sessions judge at Ambejogai had on September 14, 2014, convicted the 73-year-old for murdering her husband, Ganpat. She was held guilty for having crushed his head by a heavy stone when he was fast asleep and also forcefully twisting his genitals, causing considerable damage to his private parts in October 2013.The woman had moved in an appeal against her conviction and life imprisonment handed down to her by the trial court on several grounds. HC found force in the argument advanced by advocate Aniket Vagal on her behalf that five important witnesses had not supported the prosecution case, apart from the fact that there were several discrepancies in the evidence, creating severe doubt about the prosecution case. “We have serious doubts as to whether a 65-years-old lady could have picked up a large stone weighing about 8 kg, carried it to his room and dropped on the face of the sleeping deceased. We also doubt whether this lady could have caused all the injuries to the genitals of the deceased,” said the bench giving her benefit of the doubt.While reversing the conviction of the elderly woman, HC also directed the trial court to initiate the action against all hostile witnesses in this case.Taking serious note of the issue, HC also issued directions to all principal district and sessions judges to circulate the order to all additional district and sessions judges and other judicial officers “to apprise them as regards action to be initiated against hostile witnesses in appropriate cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-action-against-hostile-witnesses-in-all-appropriate-cases-101612287885055.html
02-02-2021||Noida||Inmate serving life sentence found dead in Luksar jail||A 44-year-old man serving a life sentence for murder in Luskar jail was found dead in his cell on Tuesday morning. While the police suspect that he may have taken his own life as the body was found hanging from a hook, his family suspected foul play.The body was discovered at around 8 am.“The inmate was transferred from Muzaffarnagar jail in December 2018 and was serving a life sentence for murder he committed 17 years ago. Some of his family members too were serving sentences in the Luksar jail. They are the ones who found him hanging today morning. He was brought to the jail infirmary and was immediately taken to the district hospital where he was declared brought dead. His body was sent for an autopsy,” said jail superintendent Bhim Sen Mukund. His wife, however, said he was killed “We had spoken on the phone yesterday itself and he seemed fine. When they brought him to the hospital we found injuries on his back. He was targeted and killed,” she said.The family shared videos of the body on social media and demanded a probe.“We have spoken to the family and shown them the area where the body was found and answered all their questions. There was no foul play,” said the superintendent.Officials said that they are awaiting the autopsy report to ascertain the cause of death. Meanwhile, Noida police officials said that they had not received any complaint from the family in the matter.“There is only a ligature mark on the neck apart from which there are no injuries on the body. Appropriate action will be taken following the autopsy,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/inmate-serving-life-sentence-found-dead-in-luksar-jail-101612287824279.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||No multi-speciality infectious hospital in Mumbai, focus on peripheral hospital: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shelved its decision to construct a 5,000-bed multi-speciality hospital for infectious diseases in Mumbai. Instead, the civic body has decided to turn its focus on developing infrastructure at peripheral hospitals.At present, civic-run Kasturba Hospital has 125 beds dedicated for treatment of infectious diseases. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, BMC in July last year had taken a decision to develop a hospital on a 22-acre plot in either Mulund (East) or Dahisar, so as to make it accessible for patients from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).Six months on, the civic body has decided to concentrate on developing 16 peripheral hospitals, and add 100 dedicated infectious beds at Kasturba Hospital, for which financial allocation will be set aside in the budget.“Huge amount of funds are needed to establish such a (multi-speciality) hospital. At present, due to the pandemic, we are already facing a fund crunch. Therefore, we have decided to develop and better existing infrastructure at peripheral hospitals,” said a senior officer from BMC.Additional municipal commissioner, P Velrasu said, “There hasn’t been any development in acquiring land for the hospital.”The decision to develop a multi-speciality hospital was taken as a preparatory measure if the city faces another outbreak of a Covid-19 like pandemic in the future.During the initial months following the outbreak of the pandemic in March, Mumbai had faced severe shortages of beds for treatment of infected patients.Health activists have suggested the civic body allocate more money in the health sector. “Mumbai has a population of around 2 crore. The civic body should take a lesson from this pandemic and be ready to handle similar health emergencies in the future. Peripheral hospitals constitute the most essential point of health service. These hospitals should have their own units for infectious diseases,” said Dr Abhijit More, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-multi-speciality-infectious-hospital-in-mumbai-focus-on-peripheral-hospital-bmc-101612287764995.html
02-02-2021||Noida||Four held for molesting woman who objected to loud music||Four men were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly molesting a 30-year-old woman who had asked them to stop playing loud music in their Greater Noida West high rise apartment.According to the woman’s complaint, the incident happened early Monday morning. According to police, the five persons named in the FIR were visiting the woman’s neighbour who lived a floor below her.“We tried to ignore it but the music at first. Eventually we asked them (who lived a floor below their’s) to stop but they refused and started misbehaving with us. They came to our flat and despite our objections, they forced their way inside. They misbehaved with me and my husband and even went so far as to hit us. They held my hand and molested me,” said the woman.Based on her complaint, a case was registered at the Bisrakh police station against five suspects under sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 452(house trespass), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code. The suspects, however, had fled by then.Police said that the woman had suffered minor injuries to her wrist.“The four suspects were nabbed today from near Labour Chowk following inputs from an informant,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station.Police said that the four suspects were visiting the apartment resident for a party and the fifth person named in the FIR was absconding. The suspects were identified as Sachin Goyal, Sachin Kapoor and Vaibhav, residents of Delhi and Faizal, a Ghaziabad resident. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-for-molesting-woman-who-objected-to-loud-music-101612287704258.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Three separate fires reported in Mumbai, one fireman injured||Three separate incidents of small fires were reported in Mumbai on Tuesday. The sixth floor of a residential building in Andheri, Laxmi Industrial estate in Lower Parel, and an open-air film set on a ground in Goregaon caught fire. No civilian was reported injured in any of the incidents.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department, a fireman Akshay Tarte, 23, suffered minor injuries and was rushed to a nearby private hospital. He was discharged after receiving primary medical aid. A level two fire was reported at an open ground on a film set, behind Inorbit Mall in Goregaon, at 4.13pm. The fire brigade pressed eight fire engines, and five jumbo tankers to the spot. The fire was extinguished at 7.50pm on Tuesday.According to Mumbai Police the fire at the open ground in Goregaon was reported on the set of ‘Adipurush’, film starring actors Prabhas and Saif Ali Khan. Neither of the actors were present on the set at the time of the fire. The fire at Laxmi Industrial Estate in Lower Parel was reported as a level 1 fire at 11.10am on Tuesday. Four engines and five jumbo tankers were rushed to the spot and he blaze was doused in around two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-separate-fires-reported-in-mumbai-one-fireman-injured-101612287525525.html
02-02-2021||Noida||Man held for cloning ATM cards in Noida||Noida: A 24-year-old man was arrested during a routine check in Noida sector 62 on Monday night after police discovered 36 cloned ATM cards from him.The suspect was identified by a single name as Nazim, a resident of Behlolpur, sector 63. According to police, the sector 58 police stopped his car for checking near the sector 62 roundabout at 10.25 pm.“We found 36 ATM cards hidden under the mat of his vehicle and apprehended him,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.When questioned, he allegedly told police that he was involved with a gang that cloned ATM cards. They would allegedly place an electronic reader and camera at ATM machine slots to capture details of card being used and use the information to clone the cards and use it to withdraw cash.Police also found ₹58,000 found in the car. Noida Police also arrested four mobile snatchers from near sector 56 on Monday evening and recovered 18 stolen phones.“They would target crowds leaving from work in industrial areas in Delhi NCR. Last week there had been six snatchings in one day under sector 58 and Phase 2 police jurisdiction. The suspects were responsible for those and all the stolen mobiles were recovered from them along with 12 others,” said the DCP.Police is now looking for their fifth accomplice who would sell these stolen phones in wholesale markets.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-cloning-atm-cards-in-noida-101612287524237.html
02-02-2021||Noida||NCLT appointee misusing funds, allege Lotus Panache buyers||People who bought flats in Noida sector 110’s Lotus Panache housing project have accused the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) appointed resolution professional of misusing their money and giving preferential treatment to certain homebuyers. Last week, they had approached Noida Authority with their grievance.While the resolution professional denied any wrongdoing, the authority said they would look into the matter.Granite Gate Properties Limited had launched the project in 2010 along with another project, Lotus Boulevard in the sector 100. While Panache was planned to have 30 residential towers with around 3,000 total flats, Boulevard was supposed to have 29 towers with around 3,100 total flats. The builders had promised delivery by 2014 but till date on nine towers in Panache and 26 towers in Boulevard were delivered.In 2019, the homebuyers filed a case with the national company law tribunal after the company failed to deliver. The tribunal appointed a resolution professional to take control of the housing project, and proceeded with corporate insolvency proceedings as per the Indian bankruptcy code-2016 (IBC).“As per the IBC, no new developer could take over the projects. The resolution professional is misusing the funds collected from us and not delivering the units. He using funds to finish units of buyers who are yet to pay total dues. Those who paid 95% of the cost are still waiting for work to start,” said Sanjay Kumar who had booked a 3BHK flat in the project in 2013 for ₹95 lakh. “There has no justice from the NCLT. Therefore, we requested the Noida Authority to step in.”“If the Noida Authority fails to get us a solution, then we will approach the Allahabad high court,” said Satish Verma, another buyer.The resolution professional Chandra Prakash denied any wrongdoing and said that they require homebuyers’ funds and consent to complete the projects.“We working to complete seven towers in Panache where 70% homebuyers had given their consent. We are using the funds democratically and doing our job. At least 100 units (of Panache) will be delivered by February-end and the remaining units in seven towers will be delivered as per schedule and availability of funds. In Boulevard only a few flats are to be finished,” said Prakash.Noida authority officer on special duty Rajesh Kumar said, “We will not let the registry to be executed in these two projects until the matter is settled by the NCLT. The authority will look into the matter as per the rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nclt-appointee-misusing-funds-allege-lotus-panache-buyers-101612287404246.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Irregularities at Khar home: Interim relief to Kangana Ranaut against coercive action extended||In a relief for actor Kangana Ranaut, the Bombay high court (HC) has extended the interim protection against coercive steps by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) pertaining to the alleged irregularities at her residence in Khar till February 5. The actor had approached HC after the Dindoshi civil court dismissed her plea against a 2018 BMC notice, which asked her to apply for regularising the irregularities or face demolition proceedings. On Tuesday, the actor’s counsel sought time to seek instructions from the actor as to whether she wanted to apply for regularisation of the structure individually.A bench of justice Prithviraj Chavan, while hearing the interim application filed by Ranaut, in the appeal filed by her against the Dindoshi court order, was informed by senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf that the act of the BMC was a vendetta against the actor, and even if she wanted to apply for regularisation she would need the consent of all other members of the building.Ranaut had been issued a notice by the BMC in 2018, asking her to demolish the illegal alterations she had made in the three flats she owned in the building on the junction of 16th and 18th road at Khar (West). The actor had allegedly altered the flats to make them into one unit which was not as per the sanctioned plans with the civic corporation.Ranaut had moved the Dindoshi court in January 2019, challenging the notice wherein the court had asked both the actor and the BMC to maintain a status quo. In December 2020, the civil court had dismissed the plea but allowed the actor six weeks to approach the HC and also granted her interim protection against coercive action till she applied in the HC.When the plea came up for hearing on Tuesday, senior counsel Aspi Chinoy for BMC submitted that Ranaut had approached the court three years after being issued the demolition notice and only if the court condoned the delay her application could be heard. He further opposed the time being sought by Ranaut to apply for regularisation in the current application stating that the plea was only seeking a restraint on the BMC from taking coercive action pursuant to the notice.After hearing the submissions the bench said, “In the interest of justice, liberty granted to Saraf to seek instructions from Ranaut as to whether a single applicant will apply for regularisation of the structure” and continued the operation of the civil court order till February 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/irregularities-at-khar-home-interim-relief-to-kangana-ranaut-against-coercive-action-extended-101612287164845.html
02-02-2021||Bhopal||Bhopal man booked for holding fake collection drive for Ram temple construction||Madhya Pradesh Police booked a 30-year-old man in Bhopal on Tuesday for allegedly holding a fake collection drive for the construction of Ram’s temple in Ayodhya, said police.The FIR has been registered against Manish Rajput, 30, a resident of Ashoka Garden, under sections 420 (cheating) and 120 b (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, said Rajesh Bhadoria, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Bhopal. The police are trying to nab the accused.Also read: Personal jibes get sharper at BJP, TMC rallies; ex-ministers shown black flagThe ASP said, “Yatendra Pal Singh, a local leader with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), lodged a complaint with the police two days ago stating that Rajput, who works in a private company, formed a fake organisation by the name of 'Ram JanmaBhoomi Sankalp Society' for collecting funds. Rajput was collecting funds in Ashok Garden area for the past few days and was also providing slips to donors.”“In the complaint, Yatendra Pal Singh said Rajput was holding a collection drive, siphoning off people’s money for his personal use,” he added.The police investigated the matter and found that Rajput was holding a fake collection drive and duping people, said the police officer.Now, the police are investigating the matter to know whether he was working alone or had some organised group for duping people in the pretext of collecting donation for the construction of the temple, said Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bhopal-man-booked-for-holding-fake-collection-drive-for-ram-temple-construction-101612283540826.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||CHB rehab flats: Rent defaulters given 15 days to avoid eviction||Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has told the allottees of Small Flats and Affordable Rental Housing Scheme to deposit their outstanding rents within 15 days or face cancellation proceedings.After waiting for several years for over 10,000 allottees of eight rehabilitation colonies to clear their rent arrears totalling over ₹20 crore, CHB in November last year had started sending them recovery notices.“Many allottees have not been paying the stipulated rent for many years now. We had started a drive last year and recovered ₹18 crore. But, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, arrears piled up to nearly ₹20 crore again,” a CHB official said.In 2019, CHB had cancelled the allotment of around 250 allottees for the violation.“Interest at 12% per annum is being levied in case of delayed payment. For the time being proceedings against rent defaulters were kept on hold, but in case of any further delay, the cancellation proceedings will be initiated,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.The flats in question were allotted under the slum rehabilitation scheme in different parts of the city. Allottees of the one-room EWS flats are charged ₹800 to ₹1,000 per month as ground rent, which is increased by 20% after five years of allotment.Under the Chandigarh Small Flat (Amendment) Scheme 2020, if allottees do not pay the rent, they are liable to pay a penalty of 12% per annum. If paid on time, the yearly collection of rent will be around ₹20 crore. While, CHB keeps 5% of the recoveries as administrative costs, the rest is deposited with the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chbrehab-flats-rent-defaulters-given-15-days-to-avoid-eviction-101612283384738.html
02-02-2021||Kolkata||'BJP did nothing for tea garden workers despite MPs from north Bengal': CM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) did nothing for the tea garden workers despite having many MPs from the north Bengal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Tuesday.“So many BJP MPs had won from north Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. But they did nothing. Many tea estates are lying closed. Before the Lok Sabha polls, they promised to reopen a few of them. Did they do anything? We have reopened nine tea gardens. We would try to reopen more,” Banerjee said.This comes a day after the Centre, in its Union budget, announced a package of ₹1,000 crore for the welfare of tea garden workers in West Bengal and Assam.“Every time an election approaches, Delhi (the Union government) will promise to reopen closed tea gardens. Once the elections are over, they would flee. They would forget the tea gardens. Sometimes they talk and don’t do any work,” she said.Also read: Personal jibes get sharper at BJP, TMC rallies; ex-ministers shown black flagThe BJP had made an impressive gain in north Bengal, winning seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The party now poses a major challenge to the ruling party. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, the BJP was ahead of the TMC in 35."If the Mamata Banerjee administration was sincere about the tea garden workers she should have met their demand of giving land rights. The workers never demanded houses because they would have got houses anyway under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna. The old discriminatory Plantation Labour Act has been scrapped after we pushed it. New labour laws have been passed by the Centre and this would ensure minimum wages for the workers which was their primary demand," said Raju Bista, BJP MP from Darjeeling and a BJP spokesperson.The TMC supremo was seen dancing with tribals at a mass wedding ceremony in Alipurduar district of the state. The mass wedding ceremony was organised by the state police. At least 450 tribal couples got married.Banerjee also went on a public relations overdrive, paying a surprise visit at a local wedding. She also went to a gurudwara.In the crosshairs of the BJP in the run-up to the West Bengal assembly polls due in two months, TMC MP and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in January went on a five-day tour of the north Bengal districts.With an eye on the polls, the chief minister also handed over allotment letters for houses to around 4,600 tea garden workers under a government scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-did-nothing-for-tea-garden-workers-despite-many-mps-from-north-bengal-mam-101612282880311.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana suspends mobile internet in 7 districts till Wednesday evening||The Haryana government on Tuesday further extended the suspension of mobile Internet services till 5 pm on February 3 in seven districts of the state amid a protest by farmers against the Centre’s three farm laws.“The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in seven districts--Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar--till 5 pm on February 3,” an official statement said here.It said the order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect.Any person found guilty of violation of the aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, it said.The government's move to suspend mobile Internet services in 17 districts earlier and later on keeping these suspended at a few places saw protests by farmers in the state.Farmers on Tuesday blocked the national highway near the Khatkar toll plaza near Narwana in Jind to protest against the curbs.Azad Singh Palwa, a Khap leader, alleged that the suspension of Internet services is adversely affecting various sections, particularly students.“The final examinations of students are approaching. Many students are preparing for entrance exams, but their studies are being hit due to Internet suspension,” he said.INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala told reporters in Jind that the suspension of the mobile internet services in some parts had affected office work and the studies of the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-suspends-mobile-internet-in-7-districts-till-wednesday-evening-101612281586645.html
02-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal to reopen schools from Feb 12. All you need to know||West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee announced on Tuesday that schools in the state will be reopening for Classes 9 to 12 from February 12, after being shut since March of last year. Chatterjee had previously stated that schools will be reopened once it’s safe for them to do so, citing a resurgence of infections after schools reopened in other states."There have been instances of people getting infected after the resumption of classes in another state, where schools had to shut again. We don't want to have the same experience in Bengal. We will take the decision of reopening school campuses at the appropriate time," Chatterjee had said in January.West Bengal till February 1 has reported 570,177 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with 179 new cases being reported on Monday. The recovery rate in the state currently stands at 97.26%.Here is how the state plans to open schools for Classes 9 to 12:1. Arrangements have to be made for thorough cleaning and disinfecting of all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, storage places, water tanks, kitchens, canteen, washrooms, laboratories, libraries, etc. on the school campus and ensure proper ventilation in indoor spaces.2. Proper working hand washing facilities in the school have to be maintained. School authorities have to ensure availability of key supplies like thermometers, disinfectants, soaps, etc.3. The Union health ministry has asked school authorities to maintain a six feet distance between students. Similar rules should be followed by the staff and students in all the common areas.4. Students, parents, and staff should be properly sensitised on the dos and don’ts of Covid-19 preventative behaviour.5. Schools will be subjected to regular checks to ensure standard operating procedures (SOPs) are being duly followed.6. Students and staff from containment zones should not be attending physical classes. They should also refrain from visiting containment zones if they are coming to school.7. Attendance should not be mandatory. The state government has said that students will only be allowed to attend offline classes with parental consent.8. Teachers have been demanding that classes should be resumed in a proper phased out manner, the state government has kept their demand under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-to-reopen-schools-from-feb-12-all-you-need-to-know-101612280806358.html
02-02-2021||Kolkata||Personal jibes get sharper at BJP, TMC rallies; ex-ministers shown black flag||Personal attacks that have marked campaign speeches in poll-bound West Bengal got sharper on Tuesday at back-to-back rallies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC).While the BJP singled out Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, TMC leader Ratna Chatterjee targeted her estranged husband and BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee, former Kolkata mayor and cabinet minister.Addressing a rally at South 24 Parganas district’s Baruipur, which is located close to TMC youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee’s Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency, BJP’s new star campaigner Suvendu Adhikari targeted the young MP, saying he can prove that money from coal smuggling in the state was transferred to a bank in Thailand.Showing the audience an enlarged copy of what he claimed to be a bank document, Adhikari said, “I said I had proof. This shows that money from coal smuggling was deposited in a bank account in Bangkok. The money went to a person named Madam Narula. Who is Madam Narula? It is the same person who was once caught at the Kolkata airport with a lot of gold. The truth will be out when Lala, the man who ran the coal smuggling operation, is nabbed.”Incidentally, the family of Abhishek Banerjee’s wife live in Thailand.Adhikari neither named the chief minister nor Abhishek Banerjee and referred to the latter as “tolabaaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew). Former minister Rajib Banerjee also addressed the rally. TMC workers waved black flags at the two leaders when they were on their way to the rally. BJP flags were removed in many areas and discarded shoes hung on posters that had photographs of the two former ministers.Also read: No intention to bring central anti-conversion law - MHA tells ParliamentAt the rally, Adhikari also accused the TMC of indulging in rampant corruption during the distribution of relief for victims of cyclone Amphan in 2020 and stealing ration meant for the poor during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Now they are stealing vaccines sent for health workers,” said Adhikari who claimed that the BJP will do its best in South 24 Parganas by winning all 31 assembly seats in the district.“A large number of Muslims live in Bhangar, Sonarpur and other areas. Do you think all Muslims will vote for the TMC? Didn’t our Muslim brothers receive free ration and cooking gas sent by Prime Minister Narendra Modi? You, (the chief minister) on the other hand, branded the trains carrying migrant workers as ‘corona express.’ People have not forgotten that,” Adhikari said.Reacting to Adhikari’s allegation at Abhishek Banerjee, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “If he has any proof he should give it to the Central Bureau of Investigation instead of making speeches. Abhishek will give his reply. And, Adhikari should talk about his own involvement in the Saradha chit fund scam in which he is an accused.”Sovan Chatterjee, who is now the BJP’s election observer for the Kolkata zone, came under sharp attack from his estranged wife Ratna Chatterjee for leading a roadshow with Baisakhi Banerjee, his friend and BJP leader, at Behala in the southern fringe of Kolkata where he earlier lived with his family. This was the first time the former mayor entered Behala after his family dispute prompted him to shift to Golpark in the heart of south Kolkata.“The more rallies the two lead, the better it is for the TMC. Bengal’s culture has no place for a man who leaves his wife and child and lives with another woman,” said Ratna Chatterjee who attended a TMC roadshow that education minister Partha Chatterjee led in another part of Behala.BJP leaders did not want to comment on her statement. However, Chatterjee reacted to his estranged wife's statement and told the media during the roadshow that his marriage ran into rough weather."My marriage ran into rough weather. I was betrayed and wounded. Baisakhi Banerjee saved me from the crisis," he said.At the Baruipur rally, Rajib Banerjee sharpened his attack on the chief minister without naming her and focused on unemployment in Bengal. “If the BJP comes to power, our effort will be to provide permanent jobs. It is impossible without industries. Union home minister Amit Shah has promised me that a special package will be offered to Bengal. This government started projects without planning. Being a topper in providing 100 day’s work (under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act or MGNREGA) is a proof of the state’s failure in generating real jobs,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/personal-jibes-get-sharper-at-bjp-tmc-rallies-ex-ministers-shown-black-flag-101612280325359.html
02-02-2021||City||Woman elected head of tribal clan in Nagaland is creating ripples||In a landmark move, the district unit of a Naga tribal clan elected a female member as its president on January 29.The traditional Naga society is largely patriarchal and a traditional civil society in Nagaland headed by a woman is highly exceptional. Hence, the ‘Metha Thinuo Krotho, Dimapur’, a traditional body of the Metha clan in the commercial district of the state, electing its first female president is sending out a strong message on the cultural thought process in a male-dominated society.The newly elected head of the clan unit, Khrienuo Metha, in her own right, is no stranger to leadership - she is a retired bureaucrat who headed various departments in Nagaland in the past. But the fact that a tribal clan decided to make a woman their leader is the real deal in a society that still believes such positions belong to men.“It’s really a big deal and it sends out such a strong message. We cannot undermine the fact that this decision directly challenges traditional attitudes. But if we are to progress, it is stories like these that need to challenge and change our thought process and archival attitudes,” said fellow clansman Abu Metha, who is also the advisor to Nagaland chief minister.Also read: No intention to bring central anti-conversion law - MHA tells ParliamentHe feels that people must accept the fact that change is universal. “While preserving the positive aspects of our rich culture and heritage is crucial, we must also take progressive steps to do away with the negative aspects of the tradition that are perhaps irrelevant to present realities. We must embrace positive change,” he added.Dr Rosemary Dzüvichü, advisor of Naga Mothers Association and head of women studies in Nagaland University, also voiced similar sentiments.“The Metha clan indeed is progressive. Khrienuo has proved herself as a successful bureaucrat and a leader. We wish her all the best. She will be the best among equals,” she stated.When contacted, Khrienuo said she was grateful to her clansmen who took such a magnanimous and broadminded decision to hand over the position to a woman. She candidly admitted that she is still in the process of grasping the importance of her new position.Besides the traditional aspect, this development also reminds one of the stark realities - Nagaland is yet to elect a woman representative in its 56-years-old Legislative Assembly. The only time the state saw an elected woman representative was in 1977 when Rano M Shaiza was elected to become a Member of Parliament to the Lok Sabha.The state had also witnessed a dark phase in 2017 when a strong opposition against reservation of 33 per cent seats in urban local bodies took a violent turn, leaving the state capital Kohima burning for days. Two people were killed then while several were injured, shops and office buildings were gutted by the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-elected-head-of-tribal-clan-is-creating-ripples-in-nagaland-101612279917780.html
02-02-2021||Other||Fugitive gangster arrested from near park on Outer Ring Road||New Delhi: An alleged gangster involved in 10 criminal cases and carrying a total reward of ₹5.25 lakh for his arrest has been arrested along with his associate seven years after he jumped parole, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday. Manishi Chandra, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said Ashok Pradhan, 36, was looking for an opportunity to kill his rivals, jailed gangsters Neeraj Bawana and Naveen Bali. “He wanted to kill Bawana and Bali during their court appearances, but his plan was delayed due to the Covid-19 protocols prohibiting the physical appearances of accused men in court,” said Chandra. The DCP said Pradhan was arrested along with his associate, Arun Baba. The duo was arrested from near Millennium Park on the Outer Ring Road on Sunday night after the police received a tip-off. “The car they were driving was robbed from someone and they were carrying two guns,” the officer said. The police said Pradhan, who belongs to Jhajjar in Haryana, was an associate of another gangster Neetu Dabodia, but took over the gang after Dabodia was killed in a police encounter in October 2013. “In the last 10 years, Pradhan and his men have been involved in gang wars in which at least 12 people have been killed,” the DCP said. Pradhan began as an associate of Dabodia in 2001 and quickly rose in the ranks of the gang by killing a village chief and a doctor in Bahadurgarh, the DCP said. Police said that he was convicted in a murder case and jailed for life. But once he received parole in 2014, he didn’t return to jail and ran his own gang that was notorious as the ‘Pradhan gang’, the officer said. Pradhan carried a reward of ₹5 lakh on his arrest announced by the the Haryana Police and R25,000 by the Delhi Police. “His was the mastermind behind the murders of a man last October and December, both in Bawana,” the officer said. His associate, Baba, worked as a shooter for him, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fugitive-gangster-arrested-from-near-park-on-outer-ring-road-101612279903560.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis says AMU alumnus Usmani hurt Hindu sentiments at Elgar Parishad event||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday alleged that Sharjeel Usmani, an alumnus of the Aligarh Muslim University, had insulted sentiments of Hindus during his speech at the Elgar Parishad conclave held recently in Pune, and demanded strict action against him.Fadnavis, who is the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, also said the state government, which is headed by the Shiv Sena and comprises the NCP and Congress, didn't register an FIR against Usmani despite the demands made by the BJP.Speaking to reporters, Fadnavis said, "In a video, Sharjeel Usmani is speaking at the Elgar Parishad. Usmani allegedly insulted sentiments of the Hindu community. A person comes in Maharashtra, insults sentiments, and returns to his home state without facing any legal action. If the state government fails to take any action against him, then we will assume that the government is behind Usmani".The conclave was organised on Saturday and among those who participated in it included eminent novelist Arundhati Roy, former IPS officer S M Mushrif, former Bombay High Court judge B G Kolse-Patil, and Usmani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-says-amu-alumnus-usmani-hurt-hindu-sentiments-at-elgar-parishad-event-101612278046793.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||No questions raised when policemen are attacked: Delhi Police commissioner||Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday defended his department’s decision to install barricades at various borders of the national capital, where farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for more than two months now. Shrivastava said he was "surprised" that there no one raised any question when personnel of the Delhi Police were attacked during the Republic Day violence.“I'm surprised that when tractors were used, police were attacked, barricades were broken on January 26, no questions were raised. What did we do now? We've just strengthened barricading so that it's not broken again,” Shrivastava said, according to news agency ANI.Also Watch | Farmers’ protest: Why the additional barricades at Delhi border? Police answersDelhi Police have installed heavy barricades at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Sharp spikes made of iron have been placed on the road leading to the main protest site at Tikri and a wall at Singhu and Ghazipur has been erected by pouring concrete between two rows of cement barricades. The five layers of barricades have come up after the clashes that erupted on January 26 after the tractor rally by protesting farmers turned violent.The Delhi Police commissioner also refused to comment on the pictures of tall, shiny baton-like objects, which were seen in the hands of policemen. Shrivastava said, “I can't tell you what that is. Steel batons are not a part of police weaponry.”Shrivastava made the comment after visiting police personnel who were injured in the clashes which erupted on January 26. He praised the Delhi Police personnel and said that the officials showed patience and control amid chaos and disorder. He also said that 501 police personnel were injured due to the protests.A planned tractor rally on January 26 turned violent leading to the death of a protesting farmer. More than 390 policemen and 10 farmers also suffered injuries due to the chaos that ensued on Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-questions-raised-when-policemen-are-attacked-delhi-police-commissioner-101612278481233.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Yodha Singh, two others let off in 2017 kidnapping, robbery case||Gangster Yodha Singh and two others have been acquitted by a local court in a kidnapping, robbery and Arms Act case from 2017.The court of additional sessions judge let off Yodha Singh, alias Jodha, Amrik Singh and Balraj on the grounds of “benefit of doubt” as the prosecution failed to prove its case.The trio was booked under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 397 (robbery), 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and the Arms Act at the Sector-39 police station on December 24, 2017.The complainant, Jai Ram, a caterer and resident of Sector 56, Chandigarh, had told the police that on the night of December 23, 2018, he had left for home from Zirakpur around 11.45pm.As he reached the Sector 45/55 dividing road, a white car intercepted him. While one of the car occupants took away his Honda Activa, another pushed him into the car and drove him to Morinda in Punjab. Holding a pistol to his head, the kidnappers forced him to reveal his ATM PIN and withdrew ₹10,000 from his bank account. Meanwhile, he managed to flee from the scene and informed the police. Advocate Vaneet Kumar, counsel of Amrik Singh, contended that the investigating officer didn’t take into possession the CCTV footage from the Morinda ATM.The complainant’s scooter was not recovered and the prosecution could not even prove that the recovered car was the vehicle used by the accused, he argued.He also claimed that false recovery of a wallet and gun, recovered after many days from an open area, was planted by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-yodha-singh-two-others-let-off-in-2017-kidnapping-robbery-case-101612278164832.html
02-02-2021||Pune||13-year-old boy apprehended for murder of 11-year-old in Pune||PUNE: A 13-year-old boy was apprehended by Pune police on Tuesday for the murder of a 11-year-old boy in Kothrud area on January 29.“It is a minor boy. We have apprehended him. Since the accused is also a minor, we cannot discuss it,” said Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3 of Pune police. The child will be produced in the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB ) on Wednesday.The body of the child was found in an open ground located along Paud road. The child’s mother filed a complaint in the case. She had approached the police on the evening of January 29 when her son did not return home. The body of the child was found on January 31. “We had gone to their house that night to ask if they knew anything. His parents did not even bother to open the door. They spoke through a phone call saying they did not have anything to say. Next day, they left the house and went away from Pune. They only returned after the police called them back. Our child was killed brutally. If this boy is not punished, he will go on to do many such crimes,” said the maternal uncle of the deceased child. The 13-year-old got enraged as the game he was playing with the now deceased child did not go his way, said an official who spoke to the teenage boy but chose to remain anonymous. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 302 (murder), and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/13yearold-boy-apprehended-for-murder-of-11-year-old-in-pune-101612278163290.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges to reopen on February 10||UT’s higher education department has decided to reopen city colleges on February 10 after a hiatus of 10 months in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Higher education director communicated this to college principals on Tuesday. The decision is in line with the new unlock guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on January 27.However, attendance will not be mandatory for students, who can continue to attend online classes. Earlier on November 23, the higher education department had allowed colleges to reopen for only final-year students.Colleges have also been permitted to open hostels and canteens while adhering to Covid protocols.At hostels, only one student should occupy a room wherever possible and preference should be given to final-year students at the time of room allotment.College heads will be responsible for ensuring the compliance of instructions given by the ministry of home affairs, ministry of education, University Grants Commission (UGC) and Chandigarh administration from time to time.They have also been directed to develop detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of campuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-colleges-to-reopen-on-february-10-101612277803976.html
02-02-2021||Dehradun||Amid Covid-19, Uttarakhand mulling to notify Mahakumbh dates from April 10-27||To comply with the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Centre for the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh, the state government is mulling to notify the Mahakumbh period from April 10-27.The proposal was discussed during the state cabinet meeting led by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday in Dehradun. If approved, the Mahakumbh Mela would be officially organised for only 18 days against the present proposed period of about two months from February 27-April 30 comprising six Shahi Snaans or auspicious baths during the mega-event. The government is expecting about eight lakh people on normal days while ten lakh on the auspicious baths.The move has come after the Centre's SOP on the Mahakumbh few weeks ago in which it urged the state to shorten its period citing the ongoing pandemic.A senior government official privy to the matter, on condition of anonymity, said, "The government is serious on the proposal as it has to adhere to the Centre's SOP which includes measures like carrying mandatory negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report with a validity of 72 hours along with a medical certificate from a competent health authority for all the devotees coming to attend the event."Also read: Delhi’s 5th sero survey - Over 56% people have antibodies against Covid-19"However, if implemented, officially the Mahakumbh would be from April 10-27, but nobody would be stopped from coming to the Mahakumbh from February 27 from which it would start based on the religious calendar, but in adherence to all the Covid-19 precautions," said the officer.He also informed that there were several important measures discussed under the proposal to ensure the health safety of the devotees in the Mahakumbh."Under that, the state chief secretary (CS) had written to the Railway Board in Delhi a few days ago, requesting it not to run any special trains for Haridwar on the two Shahi Snaans on April 13 and 14 and also one day before them. However, the request was made to run enough outbound trains on those dates for easy exit of devotees. This is to curb a large number of people coming to the event on those two occasions," he said."Apart from this, the CS had also written to the other states to not run special buses to carry devotees from their states to Haridwar during Mahakumbh while ensuring that they carry the mandatory negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report and medical certificate for attending Mahakumbh," he said.State urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, however, didn't reveal many details about the discussion on the SOP for the Mahakumbh but said, "The cabinet discussed many significant proposed measures to ensure that it's organised in compliance to the Centre's SOP to ensure health safety of all amid pandemic.""The state government would finalise the SOP for Haridwar Mahakumbh after the CM speaks to the Akhada Parishad on the measures being discussed. As the authorised person from the government for it, the SOP will be then issued by him after the talks," said Kaushik.The Centre had issued the SOP few weeks ago after the state government approached it for the same on the order of Uttarakhand High Court while hearing a PIL on conducting Mahakumbh amid Covid-19 pandemic.Under the SOP, the Centre had asked the state government to make it mandatory for all the devotees to carry an RT-PCR negative test report of Covid-19 with a 72 hours validity. It also asked all the devotees to get a medical report from a competent medical authority near their house on the lines of Amaranth Yatra before coming to attend the mega-event in Haridwar. It has asked the state government to ensure that the aforementioned reports are checked by the Mela authorities and not allow anyone to attend the event without them.Similarly, it had also asked the state government to discourage devotees aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children less than 10 years from attending the event. To ensure safety of the health and frontline workers to be deployed in the Mahakumbh, it asked the state to deploy only the vaccinated ones.Budget session to be held from March 1-10 in GairsainEarlier while addressing the media persons on the other decisions taken in the cabinet meeting, Kaushik informed that the upcoming budget session of state assembly would be held from March 1-10 in the state summer capital of Gairsain in Chamoli district."The budget would be tabled in the House on March 4 followed by a debate on it on March 5. There would be no House proceedings on March 6 and 7 after which it would resume from March 8," said Kaushik.Among the other decisions taken he informed that "the cabinet while approving the structure for Jal Jivan Mission to provide piped water connection to households, 97 positions have been approved by the government."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/amid-covid-19-uttarakhand-mulling-to-notify-mahakumbh-dates-from-april-1027-101612272760034.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain likely for two days in Chandigarh||Light rain is likely in Chandigarh under the influence of western disturbances on Wednesday and Thursday. While the system will peak on Thursday, it is expected to start drizzling from Wednesday evening, said Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh. “The system is not very strong and 10-20 mm rain can be expected on Thursday, and rain is likely to stop on Friday,” he said.Paul said if it rains during the day on Thursday, then cold day conditions can also be expected with maximum temperature falling more than 4.5 degrees below normal.Maximum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 24.2°C, up from Monday’s 21.9°C and three notches above normal. Minimum temperature went down from 6.8°C to 6.2°C, a notch below normal. In the next three days, the mercury is expected to remain between 8°C and 24°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/light-rain-likely-for-two-days-in-chandigarh-101612275043764.html
02-02-2021||Other||204 cartons of smuggled liquor seized in Mohali||Less than two weeks before the municipal elections in Punjab, the local police on Tuesday seized 204 cartons of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from two trucks in separate cases. A total of 150 boxes of Royal General Whiskey, for sale in Chandigarh only, were recovered from a truck at a checkpost set up near the new bus stand in Mohali.Phase 1 SHO sub-inspector Shivdeep Singh Brar said the truck driver, Santokh Singh, claimed that he was taking the stock to Amritsar, but failed to produce supporting documents. In the second incident, Zirakpur police seized 54 boxes of IMFL from a canter headed to Patiala. According to Zirakpur SHO inspector Omkar Singh Brar, on spotting a police team on the Patiala road, the canter driver, Pushpinder Singh Yadav, attempted to flee by reversing the vehicle, but was stopped. A total of 18 cartons of Royal Challenge Premium Whiskey and 36 cartons of Royal Stag Premium Whiskey were found loaded in the canter. Separate cases under Section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act and Section 78 of the Punjab Excise Second Amended Act 2017 have been registered against the two drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/204-cartons-of-smuggled-liquor-seized-in-mohali-101612274083042.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of Ambala man killed in crash get ₹51-lakh relief||The family of an Ambala man, who died in an accident in December 2018, has been awarded ₹51.17 lakh as compensation by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh.The petition was filed by Ritu Sandhu, 22, widow of Satinder Kalar; her two-year-old son, Pariyan; parents of the deceased, Satbir Singh and Saroj Bala; and grandmother Mahinder Kaur, all residents of Chotti Khori village, Ambala.They stated that on December 18, 2018, Satinder’s motorcycle was hit by a speeding car near Pathreri village in Ambala.Satinder, 26, suffered serious injuries in the mishap and died at GMCH, Sector 32, on December 22.Alleging that the accident took place due to the negligent driving of car driver Rajeev Sharma of Sector 7, Panchkula, the family moved court.Sharma claimed that no accident took place with Satinder’s motorcycle and his car was damaged due to collision with stray cattle.The car’s insurer, New India Assurance Company Limited, stated that the driver did not have a valid driving licence and that the claimant had filed a false claim petition.Disposing of the case, the tribunal awarded compensation of ₹51.17 lakh to the petitioners with 6% interest per annum from the date of filing of petition.While the wife will get 40%, the other three members will get 20% each from the compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-of-ambala-man-killed-in-crash-get-51-lakh-relief-101612272763464.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||A look at serological surveys conducted in Delhi||The fifth serological survey has found as many as 56.13 per cent of the 28,000 people sampled in Delhi developed antibodies against coronavirus and indicated that the national capital, which has a population of 20 million, is fast moving towards herd immunity. "In the fifth sero survey done in the national Capital, antibodies have been detected in 56.13% of the population. This was the largest survey conducted by the Delhi government so far. Delhi has largely won over Covid-19, but we should continue to practise Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said after the report was published.Delhi’s first serological survey was done in the city in June-July and it had shown that 23.4% of people surveyed had developed antibodies against the virus. Similar surveys in August showed that 29.1% of people had antibodies and 25.1% in September.What did the fifth serological survey find?The survey was conducted between January 15 and January 23 and at least 100 samples were collected from each of the 272 municipal wards of Delhi. CLIA technology was used for the survey and all the samples were tested at the ILBS hospital to ensure uniformity. The highest seroprevalence was recorded in the southeast district with 62.18% of the sampled people having antibodies against the virus. Data showed that except the north district, all the other 10 districts in Delhi had a seroprevalence of more than 50%. Of these 10, six had a seroprevalence of more than 55%.What did the fourth serological survey say?The fourth survey showed that around one in four of the 15,000 people had acquired antibodies against coronavirus. The report also showed that a large proportion (43.5%) of people who had previously been diagnosed with Covid-19 did not have antibodies. Authors of the report, however, said that this was because antibodies take time to develop after contracting the infection.Delhi on Monday recorded 3 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the national capital's lowest fatality count in 10 months. The positivity rate in the city stood at 0.28 per cent. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in Delhi stood at 121 on Monday, according to health bulletin released by the authorities. With this, the national capital's tally reached 6,35,217, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-look-at-serological-surveys-conducted-in-delhi-101612270983224.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||15-yr-old Chandigarh girl raped repeatedly in Zirakpur hotel||Two men have been booked, one of whom has been arrested, for kidnapping and repeatedly raping a 15-year-old Chandigarh girl at a hotel in Zirakpur. The suspects have been identified as Randeep Singh, alias Deep, of Adda Jhungia in Mohali and his friend Sunny, who works at the hotel reception.A zero FIR has been registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (procuration of minor girl) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at the Zirakpur police station, and forwarded to Chandigarh Police for further action. Investigating officer Hardeep Singh said according to the victim’s mother, Randeep kidnapped the girl on the pretext of marriage and took her to a hotel on January 24. The next day, he fled, and Sunny continued to rape the girl for several days. Following investigations, Randeep was arrested and police rescued the girl from the hotel. However, Sunny is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15yrold-chandigarh-girl-raped-repeatedly-in-zirakpur-hotel-101612270544004.html
02-02-2021||Jaipur||Vasundhara Raje's hour-long meeting with Shah surprises many||Close to an hour-long meeting between former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje and Union home Minister Amit Shah on Monday late evening came as a surprise for many and stirred political talks.Raje’s frequent meetings with senior BJP leaders in the last one week have become the point of discussion among the state and central leaders.National BJP vice-president, Raje, in last one week, has met BJP chief JP Nadda, Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Dharmendra Pradhan and Rajasthan in charge Arun Singh.Also read: Delhi’s 5th sero survey - Over 56% people have antibodies against Covid-19A senior leader familiar with the developments said normally a meeting with Shah lasts over 10-15 minutes, because of his busy schedule, but with Raje, it went for close to an hour. This probably is Raje's first in-person meeting after long.He said the disagreement between Raje and Shah has been talked about in the past but this time it is learnt to have been smoothened.Raje’s distance from the party, especially from the political activities in Rajasthan, is visible and would have been discussed with Shah. She, as the national vice president, also be given an important responsibility, said the leader.However, people close to Raje called these meetings as a general courtesy. Raje would be visiting Rajasthan before the assembly session beginning from February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/vasundhara-raje-s-hour-long-meeting-with-shah-surprises-many-101612269305325.html
02-02-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to become first state to present paperless budget||Madhya Pradesh finance minister will present a paperless budget during the budget session of the legislative assembly, which is scheduled to be held from February 22 to March 26.The decision of presenting a paperless budget was taken in a cabinet meeting held on Tuesday, said Narottam Mishra, state home minister.Mishra said, “MP state government will be the first state after the Central government which will present the paperless budget. A made-in-India tabloid will be used to read the budget”.Also read: CBSE class 10 and 12 date sheet 2021 released, exams to begin from May 4MP finance department minister Jagdish Devda will present the budget. The cabinet also approved the scheme of providing farm loans to farmers at zero per cent rate, said Mishra.The state government has also decided to merge Madhya Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation Department (MPSEDC) with Madhya Pradesh Agency for Promotion of Information Technology (MAP IT), said Mishra. MPSEDC was mired in controversy due to an alleged ₹80,000 crore e-tendering scam two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-become-first-state-to-present-paperless-budget-101612267524473.html
02-02-2021||Indore||Homeless persons' removal drive in Indore leads to reunion of elderly couple||Even though Indore civic body's act of dumping homeless elderly people out of the city has caused widespread outrage, the incident has also led to the reunion of a woman with her husband who had gone missing.When Pushpa Salvi saw photos and videos on social media of some homeless people who were taken out of the city last Friday, she recognised her husband Anil Salvi (50) among them, sitting on Nipania bypass road on Indore's outskirts.The man, who is mentally disturbed, left his home here last month. The woman, after being unable to find him, had subsequently lodged a missing person's complaint with police.Last week, she recognised her husband in the visuals of some homeless people who were dumped out of the city.#Indore DM apologises over 'dumping' of homeless people outside pic.twitter.com/4DAI6tYXPz"I had filed a missing person's report at Chandan Nagar police station after I did not find him. On January 29, I got a call from someone that my husband was found in Nipania area following which I took a taxi to go there," the woman told reporters here on Tuesday.The woman, aged around 48, said she did not know the exact way and the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) employees guided the cab driver following which she reached the spot."My husband was lying down there with five-seven other elderly persons," the woman said, alleging that the IMC staff did not help in bringing her husband back home.The woman said she first took her husband to a mental hospital where doctors gave him medicines, following which she brought him back home on January 29 late evening.A civic official said it is a matter of happiness that a family got back its missing member.Chandan Nagar police station in-charge Yogesh Tomar said the missing person's report was filed on January 15."Now, he has been found and reunited with his family," he said.On Friday, a video on social media showed municipal workers dumping some homeless elderly persons outside the city, drawing a sharp criticism from various quarters.The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) has sought a report from the state's chief secretary, Indore divisional commissioner, district collector and IMC chief.District Magistrate Manish Singh on Sunday said he has apologized to God for the local administration's action.The local administration has now been by providing food and shelter to such people, and has asked officials to treat them with "sensitivity and humanity".On Friday, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan suspended an IMC official in connection with the incident.The civic body has also removed two temporary employees from the job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/homeless-persons-removal-drive-in-indore-leads-to-reunion-of-elderly-couple-101612263823050.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Will bring Bills in Punjab assembly to negate farm laws again: CM||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said his government will bring the amendment Bills to negate the Centre’s three farm laws again in the Vidhan Sabha since the governor failed to send the earlier Bills to President Ram Nath Kovind. “We will bring the Bills again as the Constitution provides that if Bills are passed twice by the Vidhan Sabha they have to be sent by the governor to the President,” he said at an all-party meeting here, adding that the governor should not have sat over the Bills. He said the state was empowered to amend the laws under Article 254 (ii) of the Constitution. Pointing out that the President had refused to meet Punjab leaders following the passage of the Bills in the Vidhan Sabha on the ground that he had not received the Bills, Amarinder said that he will seek time again from the President. He said he was in touch with Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue of the farm laws and the farmer protests, as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Says threat from Pakistan can’t be undermined Underlining the need for early resolution of the crisis, the chief minister said the threat from Pakistan could not be undermined. “We have to work to resolve this issue before things go out of hand,” he said. Recalling how, soon after the prolonged two-month negotiations on an earlier Punjab crisis, relating to a list of 42 demands, Operation Bluestar happened, the chief minister warned, “If anger builds here, it will be exploited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-bring-bills-in-punjab-assembly-to-negate-farm-laws-again-cm-101612265915347.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in a building in Mumbai’s Goregaon, 8 fire tenders rushed to the spot||A fire broke out at a film studio in Mumbai's Goregaon on Tuesday afternoon, a fire brigade official said. There were no reports of any injury in the blaze, which erupted behind Inorbit Mall in Bangur Nagar area, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Commission’s (BMC’s) Disaster Control Room said.Eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot after the fire, classified a ‘Level 2’, was reported around 4:13pm.A fire was reported at a six-storey commercial building in the Andheri area of the city earlier in the day. The blaze erupted on the top floor of Laxmi Plaza building located in Andheri’s industrial area. The fire was brought under control and no injuries were reported.(with inputs from Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-in-a-building-in-mumbai-s-goregaon-8-fire-tenders-rushed-to-the-101612265410873.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘Join them in their camps’: AAP’s Bhagwant Mann lashes out at Punjab CM over farm laws protests||The Aam Aadmi Party’s Bhagwant Mann has alleged that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s response to the plight of the protesting farmers at Delhi borders has been tepid and demanded that he should act as a negotiator between the Centre and the farmers’ unions representatives over the issue.Mann, the AAP's Lok Sabha leader, said that the chief minister is obligated to join the farmers at Delhi’s borders and should set up a helpdesk for them. He also attacked the Delhi Police over the construction of heavy barriers at Tikri border, one of the protest sites on the outskirts of Delhi, and said the preparations were akin to how one would prepare while facing a rival army.“Police have put nail barricades as if it was some rival army that they have to stop. Captain Amarinder Singh, you are the chief minister, you should be at Delhi borders with the farmers. Why don't you arrange a helpdesk for them and join them at the camps?” Mann was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mann also hinted that the Punjab chief minister has been silent over the newly passed farm laws and the subsequent protests. He said, “When your family is in trouble, you write to the Home Minister. Why don't you meet him now? When will you fulfil your promise of meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi? Why don't you act as a negotiator? All of us should rise above politics and support the farmers.”Singh had met Union home minister Amit Shah in December last year to apprise him regarding the issues which could arise if the agitation staged by farmers’ unions' representatives carried on for a longer period of time. He had also intimated Shah that there was a slight possibility of anti-national elements hijacking the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws.Soon after the meeting concluded, AAP leader Raghav Chadha had alleged that the chief minister of Punjab had abandoned the farmers’ of the state and accused Singh of being an ‘agent of the BJP.’ Chadha said that the chief minister was in cahoots with the BJP against the agitation against the farm laws.“Captain Amarinder Singh is working as an agent of the BJP and trying to finish this agitation while trying to save his family from ED. In 2019, Captain Amrinder Singh gave his consent on these three laws and he is asking time from the President to withdraw these black laws but did not ask his friend, Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Chadha was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Captain has not left his fort to stand with the farmers, earlier he met with Amit Shah but he never met with Congress president or farmers,” he further added.Mann, Chadha and Saurabh Chaudhary have earlier alleged that Singh is trying to save his family from the Enforcement Directorate after the Punjab chief minister’s son, Raninder Singh, was summoned by the central agency for alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) earlier in November. A case was filed against Raninder Singh after the income tax department received information that he was allegedly holding an offshore account in the Alpine nations, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/join-them-in-their-camps-aap-s-bhagwant-mann-lashes-out-at-punjab-cm-101612264545407.html
02-02-2021||Other||Two PAC jawans killed, two others injured in road accident in UP’s Bulandshahr||Two jawans of 38 battalion of PAC were killed and two others were injured after a dumper ran over them at their roadside camp in Sikandrabad industrial area of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday morning. The accident occurred when a truck collided with the dumper and the impact saw the latter roll into a roadside camp of PAC and police in Sikandrabad area. Also Read | Uttar Pradesh: Minor girl raped by shopkeeper and his son in BalliaState chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed his grief over the incident and directed officials to provide every possible help to injured jawans. Bulandshahr SP (city) SN Tiwari confirmed that two jawans lost their lives on the spot and two other sustained injuries and were sent home after medical treatment. He said that the driver of one of the vehicles also got injured in the accident while that of the other fled. Bodies of the deceased have been sent for post-mortem and search is on for absconding driver, he said. The police hadn’t revealed details about the deceased or the injured at the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-pac-jawans-killed-two-others-injured-in-road-accident-in-up-s-bulandshahr-101612265073781.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||After snow forecast in HP, Atal Tunnel closed for traffic for 3 days||A fresh spell of snowfall is forecast in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, prompting the Kullu police to restrict the movement of tourist vehicles through Atal Tunnel across Rohtang Pass for three days. The meteorological department has forecast snowfall in the middle and high hills from February 3 to 5. “We have requested tourists and locals not to venture out in the high-altitude areas for the next three days as the weather department has warned of snow and thunderstorm,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh. “Snow results in slippery road conditions. There is danger of avalanches and landslides,” he said. The maximum temperature in the state increased by 1 degree during the past 24 hours with Shimla recording a low of 6.8 degrees and high of 16.1 degrees Celsius. Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti, recorded a minimum temperature of -9.7 degrees and a maximum of 2.1 degrees. Kalpa, the district headquarters of Kinnaur district, remained the second coldest place in the state as it recorded a minimum of -1.4 degrees. The minimum temperature in Manali dipped to 0.6 and Kufri recorded 4 degrees Celsius. Dalhousie recorded a maximum of 4.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-snow-forecast-in-hp-atal-tunnel-closed-for-traffic-for-3-days-101612264593657.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s 5th sero survey: Over 56% people have antibodies against Covid-19||As many as 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled during Delhi’s fifth serological survey were found to have developed antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. Addressing a press briefing, Jain said of the 11 districts in Delhi, the lowest sero prevalence was found in the north district where an average of 40.09% of the people sampled were found to have been exposed to Covid-19 so far. The highest sero prevalence was recorded in the southeast district with 62.18% of the sampled people having antibodies against the virus. Delhi’s southeast district was also one of the first districts which turned into a Covid-19 hot spot as early as March last year with several people who visited the Nizamuddin Markaz testing positive for the virus. Data shared by the Delhi government showed that except the north district, all the other 10 districts in Delhi had a sero prevalence of more than 50%. Of these 10, six had a sero prevalence of more than 55%. Also Read | Hospitals relieved as Delhi govt reduces number of reserved Covid-19 ICU beds“In the fifth sero survey done in the national Capital, antibodies have been detected in 56.13% of the population. This was the largest survey conducted by the Delhi government so far. Delhi has largely won over Covid-19, but we should continue to practise Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Jain said. The minister said the full report of the latest serological survey will be released in a day or two after further examination of the findings. The survey was conducted between January 15 and January 23 and at least 100 samples were collected from each of the 272 municipal wards of Delhi. “Like the results in the previous surveys, this time too the number of females having antibodies was more than that of males. There means that all these people had Covid at some point and now have fully recovered. In total, the sero prevalence in Delhi is ranging from 49%-62% with an average of 56.13%,” Jain said. He stated that over the past 10-12 days, Delhi has been reporting less than 200 Covid-19 cases every day and the positivity rate, which at one point had touched 15%, is now stable at lower than 1% for the past one month. “Still, I want to urge everyone to continue wearing masks for a few more months. In the past two months, the compliance has improved substantially, the result of which is in front of everyone - Covid cases have drastically come down. If people continue to wear masks this way, we will be able to totally control the virus in the next few months,” the minister said. Dr Nutan Mundeja, director general of health services (Delhi state health mission) said this time, the sero survey was not just bigger in scale, but also a better technology was used. “We used CLIA technology this time. These kits have higher sensitivity as a result of which results come out more accurate. All the samples were tested at the ILBS hospital to ensure uniformity. The survey was conducted in association with Maulana Azad Medical College. The samples were collected from people of all socio-economic strata and from across all kinds of population and age groups,” said Mundeja. On herd immunity, minister Jain said there is no clear yardstick as of now to define the term. “Some say herd immunity is achieved at 50%, others say it should be 60%. I don’t think we should get into the debate of herd immunity now. This is a new form of virus or disease, we should not get lax with our precautionary measures because in October, we had thought the virus was brought under control, but then we got the third wave,” said Jain.Also Read | Is wearing one mask enough?Herd immunity is when enough people have immunity – estimated to be 60-80% of the population in case of Sars-CoV-2 – to a disease that it leaves very few vulnerable people for it to spread to, slowing an outbreak.Delhi’s first serological survey was done in the city in June-July and it had shown that 23.4% of people surveyed had developed antibodies against the virus. Similar surveys in August showed that 29.1% of people had antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October. A positive result implies that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point and developed immunity against it.Jain said that earlier, the Delhi government was conducting sero survey every month. “But, now we are doing it after 1.5-2 months. The next survey will also be done after about 2 months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-5th-sero-survey-over-56-people-have-antibodies-against-covid19-101612264534349.html
02-02-2021||Bhopal||Budgetary allocations will boost development in MP: Scindia||BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said allocations made in the Union Budget 2021-22 for various schemes in the Gwalior-Chambal region and Ujjain's famous Mahakaleshwar temple will boost development in these areas in Madhya Pradesh.The annual financial plan was presented in Parliament on Monday by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.In a statement, Scindia said he had written a letter to 15th Finance Commission chairman NK Singh seeking funds for the water supply scheme from the Chambal river to Gwalior and Morena, for weavers of Chanderi sarees, and for the maintenance of the Mahakaleshwar temple."It is a matter of happiness that in the Union budget, ₹250 crore is allocated for the water supply scheme from Chambal river to Gwalior and Morena, ₹75 crore for the the development of the famous Chanderi (sari) weavers and for the tourism of Gwalior-Shivpuri-Chanderi area, and ₹75 crore for the maintenance of the Mahakaleshwar temple," Scindia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/budgetary-allocations-will-boost-development-in-mp-scindia-101612259060120.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Hospitals relieved as Delhi govt reduces number of reserved Covid-19 ICU beds||A healthcare providers' association told the Delhi high Court on Tuesday that various private hospitals, which were earlier asked to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for COVID-19 patients, were satisfied with the Delhi government's recent decision to reduce the number to 25 per cent.Justice Navin Chawla was informed by the counsel for the Association of Healthcare Providers that he has instructions to withdraw the petition seeking quashing of the government's September 12, 2020 order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals which are its members.The high court allowed the prayer for withdrawing the petition and disposed of the plea.Advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, representing the petitioner association, said the hospitals were satisfied with the government's January 15 order by which the reservation of COVID-19 ICU beds in private hospitals here was reduced from 40 per cent to 25 per cent which have over 100 beds.The reservation percentage has been gradually reduced by the government after reviewing the pandemic situation. With the COVID-19 infection number reaching its peak of over 8,000 in a day in November, 2020 in Delhi, the numbers are now declining and 121 fresh cases were recorded on February 1, that is, Monday.The high court said, “In view of the January 15 order of Respondent no. 1 (Delhi government), the petitioner's counsel has instructions to withdraw the petition. The petition is disposed of as withdrawn.”The court added that this would not preclude the association to make further representation to the government in view of the change in circumstances.As per the government's order, a review meeting was held by the competent authority on January 15, in which the data with respect to pattern of COVID-19 beds and COVID-19 ICU beds occupancy on that date in 115 private hospitals providing coronavirus treatment was analysed.Keeping in view the low occupancy of COVID-19 beds/ ICU beds in the private hospitals, it was decided in the review meeting to further lower reservation of the total bed capacity from 30 per cent to 15 per cent, and of ICU beds from 40 per cent to 25 per cent of the total bed capacity in 45 hospitals having more than 100 beds and providing coronavirus related treatment, the government order said.It was also decided in the meeting that other 70 hospitals which have up to 100 beds shall have the option of reserving COVID-19 beds/ ICU beds there.Earlier, the Delhi government counsel had said not a single non-COVID-19 patient has come to the court that he was denied treatment in the hospital due to 80 per cent of ICU beds reserved for COVID-19 patients.He had stated that not even a single private hospital has approached the high court claiming that they suffered financial loss due to this reservation order.The petitioner organisation's counsel had contended that ICU beds were kept vacant and even no payment was made by the government to the hospitals which were facing financial losses.He had further argued that there was no validity or permissibility to continue with the September 12, 2020 order.The Delhi government had told the high court that it has decided to de-escalate to 60 per cent the number of ICU beds reserved for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here as was recommended by a De-escalation Committee.The September 12, 2020 order of the Delhi government was earlier stayed by the high court on September 22 last year. However, a division of the high court on November 12, 2020 vacated the stay order taking into account the change in circumstances since the time the stay order was passed.The petitioner association had told the high court that the 33 private hospitals are its members and the Delhi government's order shall be quashed as it was passed in an irrational manner and is ex-facie perverse.The government, however, had contended that the situation of COVID-19 infection in Delhi has become critical recently and the -19 cases are spiralling and it was critical that 80 per cent of ICU/ HDU beds be reserved for COVID-19 patients in the 33 private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-relieved-as-delhi-govt-reduces-number-of-reserved-covid-19-icu-beds-101612255979097.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal escapes unhurt as Akalis, Congress workers clash||Four people suffered bullet injuries after workers of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress clashed during nomination filing for the Jalalabad municipal council elections in Fazilka district on Tuesday. SAD president and former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal had a narrow escape when his SUV got caught in the clash at the Jalalabad tehsil office. “Though Sukhbir Singh Badal escaped unhurt, his vehicle was damaged in the stone-pelting,” his media adviser, Jangveer Singh, said. Mob led by Congress MLA: SAD media adviser The SAD chief was at his political bastion to oversee the filing of nominations by his party leaders. “It was a blatant attack on Sukhbir, a Z+ protectee, who represents Ferozepur in the Lok Sabha. His vehicle was targeted by the mob led by Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Singh Awala,” he said. He said at least three Akali workers were hit by bullets and several others injured in the stone-pelting. Sukhbir could not be contacted as his personal team said the leader was busy briefing the Lok Sabha Speaker. Sukhbir instigated supporters: Awala When contacted, Awala charged Sukhbir with creating a ruckus and inciting his supporters to attack the Congress workers. He said at least one Congress activist suffered bullet injuries and more than six got head injuries in the stone-pelting. “Nominations by SAD and others for the nearby Arniwala local body elections went on peacefully on Monday. But today, Sukhbir brought workers from other places as a show of strength at Jalalabad. He had lost the last byelection to me from Jalalabad. Akali workers opened fire at our team and they resorted to violence,” Awala said. Leaders of both parties blamed each other for carrying firearms during electioneering that triggered the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-escapes-unhurt-as-akalis-congress-workers-clash-in-punjab-s-jalalabad-101612256013117.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal ramps up testing after 60 teachers test positive for Covid-19 in three days||The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases among schoolteachers in Himachal Pradesh has put the state health department on the alert. The department made the coronavirus test mandatory for all government schoolteachers before schools reopened on February 1 and found at least 60 teachers tested positive in Mandi district alone in three days. As many as 34 teachers tested positive in Sarkaghat sub division of Mandi district. A majority of the teachers were deputed on poll duty for the recent panchayat elections In its notification, the health department said that it would act against teachers who are reluctant to conduct the test under the Disaster Management Act. “We have set up 174 centres for testing and action will be taken against teachers reporting to school without getting tested,” said Dinesh Sharma, the chief medical officer of Mandi. Schools reopen to thin attendance Ten months after the Covid-19 induced lockdown, government schools reopened on Monday even as the attendance was low. Teachers and the school managements tried to ensure that the standard operating procedure to contain the pandemic was followed. Students were put through thermal scanning on entering the campus and those with fever were sent back. Classes were held following social distancing. Schools have a staggered lunch timing and students have been told not to shake hands Schools in Himachal Pradesh had been closed since March 2020 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Schools were reopened in November but had to be closed after a spike in Covid-19 infections among teachers and students. Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 25 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the state’s tally to 57,561, while no death was reported. Of the new cases, eight were reported in Kangra, four each in Mandi and Solan, three in Shimla, two each in Kinnaur and Una and one each in Chamba and Sirmaur. State recovery rate 97.7% Recoveries reached 56,200 after 37 more people were discharged. There are now 378 active cases. The recovery rate remains 97.7% and the case fatality ratio is 1.6%. Shimla remains the worst hit district with 10,381 cases reported so far, followed by Mandi with 9,995 cases, and Kangra with 8,201 cases. Solan has 6,723 Covid-19 cases, Kullu 4,416, Sirmaur 3,434, Hamirpur 3,040, Chamba 2,954, Bilaspur 2,917, Una 2,882, Kinnaur 1,361, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,258 cases. The state has conducted a total of 9,35,674 tests during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-ramps-up-testing-after-60-teachers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-three-days-101612254033176.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: On Day 1, 512 commuters booked for not wearing masks on local trains||As many as 512 commuters were booked for not wearing face masks and 2,592 for travelling without tickets on Monday when Mumbai suburban trains resumed services for general public. The Government Railway Police caught and fined 512 passengers for travelling without wearing face masks on Monday, and a little over ₹1 lakh was collected from them.The state government has made wearing face masks mandatory for travel by local trains and each defaulter has to pay ₹200 as fine. From the 2,592 ticketless commuters who were booked by the Central and Western Railway, a fine of ₹8.17 lakh was recovered.On the Central Railway, 1,600 passengers were caught travelling without tickets and a fine of ₹5 lakh was recovered from them. On the Western Railway, 992 passengers were caught travelling without a ticket and ₹3.17 lakh was recovered from them as fine. Nearly 3.4 million passengers travelled by local trains on the first day of resumption of the service on Monday. Passengers are allowed to travel during three time slots as of now: from the first service till 7am; between 12pm and 4pm; and after 9pm till the last service of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaion-day-1-512-commuters-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-on-local-trains-101612248513024.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana ex-MLA Relu Ram Punia’s son-in-law held in Meerut two years after jumping parole||Former Haryana legislator Relu Ram Punia’s son-in-law Sanjeev Kumar, who was serving life sentence in prison for killing the politician and seven others but jumped parole two years ago, was arrested on Monday, police said. Sanjeev, who was out on parole in May 2018, never returned and had been absconding ever since, police said. They said Sanjeev was arrested by a team of Haryana Police special task force from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. In June 2018, police had filed a case on the complaint of the Kurukshetra jail deputy superintendent. Inspector Nirmal Singh said in Yamunanagar on Monday that the STF team carried out a raid after inputs that he was hiding in Meerut. Earlier, police said that Sanjeev was on a two-week parole from Kurukshetra jail and was to report back on May 31, 2018. The convict had given his address as Changnouli village in Bilaspur area of Yamunanagar, police said. However, Sanjeev neither reached the address nor returned to Kurukshetra jail after which a case was registered against him. Relu Ram Punia’s daughter, Sonia, and her husband, Sanjeev Kumar, were sentenced to death for killing the former MLA and seven other members of his family in 2001 at their farmhouse at Litani village in Hisar while they were asleep. Their death sentence was later commuted to life. Punia had been elected to the state assembly in 1996 from Barwala constituency in Hisar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-ex-mla-relu-ram-punia-s-son-in-law-held-in-meerut-two-years-after-jumping-parole-101612248212915.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Barricaded roads lead to massive snarls in Delhi||Commuters in Delhi continued to have a harrowing time on Tuesday as the police kept several roads heavily barricaded and diverted traffic from many points even as the closure of several border points due to the farmers’ protest led to massive snarls on roads around those points. Senior police officers who spoke on condition of anonymity said security was further enhanced in the city in anticipation of trouble by thousands of protesters who are camping on Delhi borders against the three contentious farm laws. On Republic Day, farmers took out a tractor rally, clashed with the police at several points and barged into Red Fort.Also read | Farmers announce ‘chakka jam’ on Feb 6Massive traffic jams were reported from the eastern, southern and central parts of Delhi which were worsened by the closure of the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border, Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-9, and NH-24. The closure of almost all the lanes of NH-24 resulted in bumper-to-bumper traffic on roads in the eastern parts of the city. “Ghazipur border is closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli,Paper Market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham and Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is heavy on Vikas Marg, IP extention, NH 24. Please commute from other borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police said on Twitter. The alternative routes on account of the closure of the Ghazipur border included Anand Vihar, Chilla, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders. “Singhu, Saboli, Piau Maniyari borders are closed. Auchandi, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open. Please take alternate routes. Traffic is heavy and diverted from NH44. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH 44,” the traffic police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-barricaded-roads-lead-to-massive-snarls-in-delhi-101612245452860.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||May have identified cop who shot video of assault during riots: Police to Delhi HC||The Delhi Police on Monday told the Delhi high court that they may have identified the police officer who shot a viral video in which police officers are seen assaulting a few men and forcing them to sing the national anthem during the northeast Delhi riots in the national capital in February last year.The police, in response to a plea by the man’s mother seeking an SIT investigation into the death of her son Faizan due to the alleged assault, have said that they have not been able to identify the police officers in the various videos and CCTV camera footage because they were wearing helmets and did not have nameplates.The police said that in one of the videos, a person in uniform is seen holding a tear gas gun and recording a video of the five men being beaten by policemen on his mobile phone.However, they contended that while the person who was recording the incident was not wearing a helmet, his face was not clear as the footage was distantly shot.“Policemen who were carrying tear gas guns are being questioned and one has been pinpointed on probable basis. His mobile phone has been seized and referred to the Forensic Science Laboratory, to get an opinion as to whether the said video was shot from this mobile . The opinion is still awaited. Lie Detector Test, Face Recognition and Voice Sampling of this probable policeman is being conducted through FSL expert,” the police said.In an affidavit filed through the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Mahajan, the Delhi Police informed the court that they have examined 170 police officers and their mobile phones.“Their mobile phone numbers have also been taken on record for technical analysis,” the police said.The police also said that efforts were made to obtain CCTV camera footage from the Public Works Department (PWD) but no CCTV camera was found installed near the scene of crime.“Furthermore, the CCTV cameras installed by individuals in the area of Kardampuri were either found broken much prior to the incident or their directions were changed. However, CCTV camera footage/video clips available on different social media and other sources as collected by the Cyber Cell of Crime Branch have been taken on record,” the probe agency said.Justice Anu Malhotra asked the police to file an affidavit with information about the lack of CCTV camera functioning along with documents. The matter wll be now heard on March 15.In her plea, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, Faizan’s mother, Kismatun, told the court that he died on February 26 after he was allegedly brutally assaulted by police officers and detained from February 24 to February 25.The petition sought the constitution of a court-monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT) to conduct a fair and impartial investigation into the alleged custodial death of Faizan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/may-have-identified-cop-who-shot-video-of-assault-during-riots-police-to-delhi-hc-101612245272807.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to start phase 2 of Covid vaccination drive from today||Maharashtra is likely to kickstart phase 2 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive from Tuesday. It has planned to inoculate frontline workers along with healthcare workers. It has completed the mock drill on Monday for the frontline workers. It has also directed the district administrations to increase the vaccination centres. Frontline workers include the police, sanitation workers and revenue department officials.The state health department officials, however, said that they are ready to start phase 2 of the immunisation programme, but it all depends upon the Centre as they have to activate the system for phase 2 on Co-WIN app.Around 580,000 frontline workers have registered themselves on the Co-WIN app for the vaccination till date.The Co-WIN app assists programme managers in the state during vaccination sessions. Data of the beneficiaries is populated onto Co-WIN and the session allocation, details of vaccination to the beneficiary, information about the next dose are captured and communicated digitally.Also Read: India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop to 8,635; 94 deaths in 24 hours“We carried out mock drills for frontline workers on Monday as part of our preparations to start phase 2 of the vaccination drive. Results are encouraging and we ready to go ahead with the inoculation of frontline workers in the state,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.But the Centre is yet to activate the “session live” option for frontline workers on the Co-WIN app, which could delay the state’s plan. “The union health ministry is yet to make the session live on Co-WIN app. They have assured us that it will be done by late Monday night. If they do it then, we can start vaccination for frontline workers,” he added.Maharashtra’s vaccination figures have crossed the 300,000-mark after 40,331 (77%) of the 52,100 registered healthcare workers (HCWs) were immunised against Covid-19 on Monday across 531 centres. So far, the state has inoculated 309,846 of the around 800,000 healthcare workers registered on the Co-WIN app. Mumbai too improved its turnout to 93.4% on Monday after 7,707 healthcare workers were inoculated. Of these, 5,746 vaccines were administered in the suburban district – which is 61% above its daily target – while the island city recorded 65% of its target after vaccinating 1,961 healthcare workers, data provided by the state health department revealed.Mumbai ranks first in Maharashtra in terms of the highest number of vaccinations, with 46,359 healthcare workers receiving the shot. In Pune and Nagpur, 27,555 and 14,434 have received the jab so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-start-phase-2-of-covid-vaccination-drive-from-today-101612243172554.html
02-02-2021||Bangalore||Interim report on Akshaya Patra submitted, more details sought from EY, KPMG||A two-member committee headed by former Central Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) of India KV Chowdary has submitted its interim report on allegations made by former trustees of the Akshaya Patra Foundation. However, the committee has sought a report from statutory auditors—EY and KPMG—for additional details, according to the foundation. “The interim report has been submitted by the committee but the committee has sought (a) report from the statutory auditors EY and KPMG. This report is expected in the month of march,” according to a spokesperson of the foundation. Also Read: Union budget a catalyst that can revive economy: Karnataka CM YediyurappaA two-member committee was formed on November 20 last year to look into alleged irregularities in the foundation’s workings, including the non-maintenance of records of related parties using the kitchens of the foundation for uses other than the government-sponsored midday meal programme. A letter by Suresh Senapaty, former Wipro chief financial officer and a former member of the audit committee at Akshaya Patra Foundation, last year alleged, among other issues, that costs per meal are far higher than any other organisation for a similar offering. “Any amount of questioning/review didn’t yield any result because the individual kitchens are run by missionary unit presidents who never demonstrated their accountability to the Akshaya Patra organisation,” according to the letter. Akshaya Patra Foundation, which gets grants from multiple state governments and the union government to provide midday meals for school children, serves over 1.8 million meals a day through 52 kitchens across 12 States and two Union Territories of India. The allegations have been largely directed at Madhu Pandit Dasa, the chairman of the Akshaya Patra Foundation and Chanchalapathi Dasa, the vice-chairman, and people associated with them that raised several questions against the very workings of the Akshaya Patra.“After due investigation, in almost all cases, it has been established that there has been wrongdoing on the part of Unit Presidents and / or other missionaries,” the letter states. People aware of the developments had stated that only a transparent audit would reveal the true extent of irregularities. The total income of Akshaya Patra Foundation in 2018-19 (most recent published report) was ₹52,118.33 lakh and the organisation incurred an expenditure of ₹51,627.02 lakh. The public trust has total assets worth ₹43,967.74 lakh, according to details in the 2018-19 annual report.The organisation is reported to have received over ₹247 crore from the government and over ₹352 crore from donations in the previous fiscal. “Some (statements) are suggestions made, implemented that the previous board did not know, some might be baseless and some have merits that the new audit committee has said,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting not to be named. The final report is expected in March||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/interim-report-on-akshaya-patra-submitted-more-details-sought-from-ey-kpmg-101612242513062.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Several borders remain closed; traffic diverted||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws, several borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Tuesday.For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the Ghazipur border is closed. Traffic police advised people to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take the Chilla border. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. The traffic police have advised the public to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters can choose other border routes, such as, the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. Protesting farmers have announced a “chakka jam” by blocking all states and national highways for three hours on February 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-several-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101612239392424.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI very poor; temperature likely to rise over next 3 days||Delhi air quality on Tuesday was recorded in the very poor category with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 353.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall AQI of Delhi on Monday was a notch better at 352, also in the very poor zone.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the temperatures are expected to increase in the coming three days. The forecast said that the minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to be around 6 degrees Celsius. Also read | Union Budget: ₹2,217-cr fund to aid pollution fight in citiesThe National Capital Region didn’t fare any better and air quality deteriorated to reach severe levels in Ghaziabad, very poor in Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad, and poor in Gurgaon, according to data issued by the CPCB on Monday.The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Monday was 412 in Ghaziabad, 369 in Noida, 384 in Greater Noida, 352 in Faridabad and 271 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB’s Sameer app. The CPCB states that an AQI in poor category causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure, while very poor may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. AQI in severe category affects healthy people and badly impacts those with existing diseases.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-very-poor-temperature-likely-to-rise-over-next-3-days-101612234952095.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 3 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 10 months||Delhi on Monday recorded three deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the national capital's lowest fatality count in 10 months.According to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, only 32 Covid-19 patients needed hospitalisation, which again was the lowest number in the last 10 months.He, however, cautioned people to be careful. "Corona severity is going down still we should be careful. Wear Mask and follow social distancing to keep yourself and your family safe," Jain said on Twitter.In last 10 months *Lowest 3 deaths *Lowest 32 hospital admissions including 4 persons of outside Delhi.Corona severity is going down still we should be careful.Wear Mask and follow social distancing to keep yourself and your family safe. pic.twitter.com/uFgS26WpgVThe positivity rate in Delhi stood at 0.28 per cent.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in Delhi stood at 121 on Monday, according to health bulletin released by the authorities. With this, the national capital's tally reached 6,35,217, the health department said.The tally of active cases has dropped to 12,265 from 1,361 on Sunday, the health department's bulletin said, adding that 6,23,096 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.The number of people in home isolation dropped to 504 from 548 on Sunday.The health department also conducted 43,712 tests to detect Covid-19, including 29,730 RT-PCR and 14,342 rapid antigen ones.India logged 11,427 new coronavirus disease cases and 118 deaths on Monday taking the country’s tally to over 10.75 million, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. The recovery rate is at 97 per cent with the ministry adding that it is one of the highest globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-3-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-10-months-101612231459340.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||AAP govt criticises ‘meagre’ allocation for Delhi in Union budget 2021||The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi on Monday criticised the Union Budget for poor fiscal devolution as it claimed that Delhi got a “megre” ₹957 crore, adding that the Central government’s policies will only benefit “big companies” and cause inflation.Comparing the Central grant to Delhi with other Union Territories that have an assembly, Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia said that the Centre did not grant any funds to the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi to help them tide over a financial crisis.“The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is constitutionally on similar a footing with the NCT of Delhi, has been provided a grant of ₹30,757 crore compared to ₹957 crore to Delhi. There are three UTs with a legislature in India, and of them Delhi gets the least grant in absolute terms and ridiculously low amount in terms of per capita grant from the government of India,” Sisodia said in a statement.Last year, Delhi was provided the same amount of ₹325 crore as it share in central taxes.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the budget will lead to price rise across the country. “This budget will benefit to a few big companies. It will lead to price rise and more problems to the people,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi hours after the budget was announced.Also read: Allocation for Delhi Police up by over ₹487 croreSisodia criticised the BJP-led central government for not helping Delhi’s municipal corporations. “The BJP government at the Centre did not even give a single penny to the BJP-ruled MCDs, while it has given ₹2 lakh crore to other municipal corporations across the country. During the last MCD election in Delhi, BJP had said they will bring the money directly from the Centre to the MCD,” Sisodia said.Slamming the Budget proposals and allocations, the deputy chief minister said the budget “completely bypasses” the education and health sectors, and “spells only doom” for the poor, middle class and farmers. At a time when there is farmer agitation happening all over the country, the agriculture budget has also been reduced, he said.“The Union Budget has shockingly reduced the spending on education by 6% compared to last fiscal. It seems no lesson has been learnt from the coronavirus pandemic. History tells us that be it a family or the country, only those who invest in the education of their children become ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). Reducing expenditure on education by ₹6,000 crore shows that the call for Atmanirbhar Bharat was merely a joke,” Sisodia said.The Central government has decreased the allocation for the ministry of education by 6.13%. According to the finance minister’s speech, for 2021-22 a total amount of ₹93,224 crore will be allocated to the education ministry. In 2020-21, the budget estimate for the ministry was ₹99,312 crore, which was revised to ₹85,089 crore.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Union budget will help in making India self-reliant in every field.“Special care has been taken in the budget about the health of the common man. Apart from this, soon people will start getting benefits of one nation, one ration card in the country. The expansion of rail and road corridors will boot the country’s infrastructure,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-govt-criticises-meagre-allocation-for-delhi-in-union-budget-2021-101612224241765.html
02-02-2021||Kolkata||TMC suffers another blow as two-time MLA Dipak Haldar calls it quits||Dipak Haldar, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Diamond Harbour, which is the part of the Lok Sabha constituency having the same name and represented by TMC’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee, on Monday resigned from the party. He is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday.Haldar won the Diamond Harbour seat in 2011 and 2016 but was suspended from the TMC for a few months in 2015 on disciplinary ground.The constituency is located in South 24 Parganas district. Diamond Habour made headlines on December 10 when BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy was stoned by some people during his visit to a party meeting.Haldar, who sent his resignation letter to the party by registered post, said, “I was never allowed to work freely. I was not even allowed to supervise projects that were carried out using the MLA’s area development fund. I decided to leave instead of taking the insult.”Also read: Twitter restores 250 accounts blocked in India for a controversial hashtagKunal Ghosh, the TMC spokesperson, said, “Why did he feel this urge to leave after serving as an MLA for 10 years? Like the other defectors, he, too, was blessed by wisdom just before the polls. We are neither surprised nor bothered. Haldar knew that the TMC would not field him again.”That Haldar might leave the TMC became apparent when he met Mamata Banerjee’s aide-turned-opponent Suvendu Adhikari and another turncoat and former Kolkata mayor Sovon Chatterjee in December. Haldar is known to be close to Chatterjee.Haldar is likely to join the BJP at Adhikari’s rally in South 24 Parganas on Tuesday.On Saturday, former forest minister Rajib Banerjee and a group of rebels were inducted into the BJP at Union home minister Amit Shah’s Delhi residence.Those who joined the BJP alongside Banerjee are Vaishali Dalmiya, the MLA from Bally in Howrah who was expelled by the TMC recently; Prabir Ghosal, the MLA from Uttarpara in Hooghly district; Rathin Chakraborty, former mayor of Howrah town; Partha Sarathi Chatterjee, former MLA from Ranaghat in Nadia district and actor Rudranil Ghosh, who recently started speaking against the TMC.Banerjee, who was Bengal’s forest minister, resigned from the Domjur assembly seat in Howrah on Friday. He won the seat twice.Vaishali Dalmiya, the daughter of former BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya, joined politics in 2016. So did Ghosal, a senior journalist. Ghosh, a known face on screen, used to be a CPI(M) supporter during the Left era and switched over to the TMC after Mamata Banerjee came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-suffers-another-blow-as-another-mla-calls-it-quits-101612208827095.html
02-02-2021||Other||Plan reopening of colleges and universities: Maharashtra minister to V-Cs||Following their demand to restart physical classes, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Monday asked vice-chancellors (V-Cs) across Maharashtra to come up with a plan on reopening universities and colleges. He also asked them to discuss the issues over the difficulties in resuming physical classes with all the teaching and non-teaching staff.The directives were issued on Monday in a meeting with the V-Cs of all the universities. The meeting called after the V-Cs had last week called for the immediate resumption of colleges and universities after they met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is also the chancellor of all the universities in the state.“There are many issues that need to be addressed before resuming physical classed in colleges and universities. Hence, the higher and technical education minister asked the V-Cs to come up with plans, which will be discussed before a decision is taken by the state disaster management authority, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said a senior state official.The state feels that as all the students may be unable to attend physical classes, the institutes will have to conduct both offline and online lectures and teach the same subject twice in both the modes, which will add to the teaching staff’s work load, officials said.The V-Cs, however, were of the view that the government should allow both the modes for conducting lectures, but Samant directed them to discuss the matter with the staff first, said the official.The other concern is the lack of hostels to accommodate all the students if Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is to be followed. “Before Covid-19, four students used to be accommodated in one hostel room. However, now that is not possible as Covid-19 appropriate behaviour needs to be followed. We’ll have to allot one room per student to ensure social distancing is practised. But in that case, what will happen to students who are left out? We don’t have that many hostels to accommodate one student per room,” said another senior official.The state is also contemplating the problem of Covid-19 testing for students and staff. “We have over 200,000 teaching and non-teaching staff and over four million students, and testing all of them would be a major task, but allowing physical classes without conducting Covid-19 tests would be a big risk. All these issues were discussed in detail and the vice-chancellors were asked to come up with their solutions in the plans,” said the senior official.On Sunday, Samant had said it was time to reopen colleges. He also met the governor the same evening to apprise the latter on the state’s plan to reopen colleges and universities.On Friday, after meeting with the V-Cs, Koshyari said allowing physical classes for schools and not allowing them for colleges and universities seemed contradictory. Schools across the state, except in Mumbai, have been reopened for students from Class 5 to 12. “Universities have already started their academic year with online lectures. As the pandemic is under control, the universities should consider resuming physical classes at colleges. They can conduct classes in shifts,” the governor had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plan-reopening-of-colleges-and-universities-maharashtra-minister-to-vcs-101612209089929.html
02-02-2021||Other||Next 15 days crucial to understand Covid spread: Mumbai civic body as trains start for all||With the local train services resuming for all the citizens after 10 months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that the next 15 days will be crucial to understand the spread of Covid-19 following the development. “We feel that the next 15 days will be crucial and after that we will be in a position to comment whether the cases are going up due to local trains or not. We are keeping a tight watch on the daily cases and are also making preparations for the ongoing vaccination drive,” BMC’s additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said. Said to be the lifeline of residents living in Mumbai and the surrounding satellite towns, the services were suspended following the Covid-19 outbreak last March and then restarted for essential service staffers, women and lawyers in different time slots. Now, all citizens will be able to travel by local trains during three slots –from the start of the day’s services to 7 am; noon to 4 pm; and 9pm till the last service. The timings have been restricted to avoid crowding amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to BMC officials, it will not deactivate any Covid-19 infrastructure such as quarantine centres, dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, jumbo Covid-19 centres, for the next two months to ensure that the situation does not goes out of control, in case of a spike. However, few of the centres have been temporarily deactivated after the cases declined in the city. But BMC said these centres can be activated within 24 hours, in case of an emergency situation. “We are constantly monitoring the situation and until March 31, none of the Covid-19 infrastructure will be deactivated permanently,” said Kakani. From Tuesday, BMC expects to kick off the second phase of the vaccination drive for around 200,000 frontline workers, including the police, civic officials, waste collectors, BEST staff etc. On Monday, the highest number (7,707) of healthcare workers (HCW) were vaccinated, against the target of 8,250 HCWs, at a turnout rate of 93%. A total of 47,397 HCW’s have been vaccinated so far in the city.Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally rose to 309,303, with 328 new cases. Nine deaths took the toll to 11,361. The mortality rate is 3.67% and recovery rate is 94%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/next-15-days-crucial-to-understand-covid-spread-mumbai-civic-body-as-trains-start-for-all-101612208792282.html
02-02-2021||City||Maharashtra: At least 12 children given sanitiser instead of polio drops||In an act of abject carelessness by the health department staff, at least 12 kids were administered hand sanitiser drops instead of oral polio vaccine drops at a Primary Health Centre at Kapsi-Kopari, an interior village, under Ghatanji tehsil of Maharashtra's Yavatmal district on Sunday afternoon.According to the available information, over 2,000 children, ageing 1-5 years, had gathered along with their parents for the polio vaccination programme. After being administered sanitiser drops, the children started vomiting and showed symptoms of uneasiness. All were immediately brought to the paediatric ward of the Government Medical College and Hospital at Yavatmal.“The condition of the children is stable and they continue to be under observation,” informed Dr Milind Kamble, dean, Yavatmal Medical College. On the possible repercussions of the oral intake of hand sanitizing liquids, he said that though it is not fatal, it contains around 70 per cent alcohol which may potentially create health complications, especially among children, as in the present instance. “All children are now out of danger,” Dr Kamble said.Parents of the children alleged that the health workers at the booth were reluctant to shift them to the government-run medical college and hospital and tried to cover up the issue. But they had to inform their seniors after three kids started vomiting.Also read: Twitter restores 250 accounts blocked in India for a controversial hashtagOne P Meshram, a villager from Kapsi-Kopari, whose two sons were among the 12 affected kids, said, initially, the health workers were casual about the incident. “They called us back from home after some time and administered the polio dose to my children. But they did not reveal the reason behind giving it again. We realized their mistake only when our children started vomiting,” Meshram said.When four of the twelve children started showing symptoms like vomiting and dizziness, the on-duty officials admitted them to the local public health centre. But, following some pressure by sarpanch Yuvraj Marape and other villagers, they started the process to shift the children aged between 1-5 years to the government-run medical college and hospital at Yavatmal. The kids were finally shifted after Sunday midnight.Yavatmal district collector M Devender Singh spoke to the parents of the affected children at the medical college on Monday and ordered an inquiry headed by the Yavatmal Zilla Parishad CEO Shrikrishna Panchal.Panchal said that he has received a preliminary inquiry report from the district health officer in which he has held that a community health officer, an ASHA worker and an Anganwadi sevika guilty of negligence. They will be suspended immediately and further action will be taken after the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-least-12-kids-in-hospital-after-getting-hand-sanitisers-instead-of-polio-dose-101612207633427.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||309K get Covid-19 vax shots in Maharashtra; phase 2 starts today||Maharashtra’s vaccination figures have crossed the 300,000-mark after 40,331 (77%) of the 52,100 registered healthcare workers (HCWs) were immunised against Covid-19 on Monday across 531 centres. So far, the state has inoculated 309,846 of the around 800,000 HCWs registered on the centralised CoWIN app. The state will start vaccinating frontline workers, including the police, sanitation workers and revenue department officials, from Tuesday, senior health department officials said. Mumbai too improved its turnout to 93.4% on Monday after 7,707 HCWs were inoculated. Of these, 5,746 vaccines were administered in the suburban district – which is 61% above its daily target – while the island city recorded 65% of its target after vaccinating 1,961 HCWs, data provided by the state health department revealed. Mumbai ranks first in Maharashtra in terms of the highest number of vaccinations, with 46,359 HCWs receiving the shot. In Pune and Nagpur, 27,555 and 14,434 received the jab so far. Phase 2 of the vaccination drive will be carried out simultaneously by the state health department from Tuesday. The department has also directed the district administrations to increase the vaccination centres. Around 580,000 frontline workers have enrolled themselves on CoWIN app for the vaccine shots till date. “We carried out mock drills on Monday. The vaccination for frontline workers will start from Tuesday. We expect to increase our figures with simultaneous vaccination of two categories [HCWs and frontline workers],”said a state official, adding that the app is working better now. Around 90% of the entire process, including intimating the beneficiaries about the vaccine timing, is being carried out through the app. However another official said that the Centre is yet to activate the ‘session live’ option for frontline workers on the app which could delay the phase 2 of vaccination drive. “The Union health ministry is yet to make the session live on CoWIN app. If they do it on late Monday night, we may start vaccination for frontline workers as well,” said a senior official. Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 1,948 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 2,028,347. The active caseload stood at 43,701. With 27 fatalities, the death toll reached 51,109 (with 2.52% case fatality rate ). Of the 27 deaths reported, 15 occurred in the past 48 hours, while six are from last week. The remaining six deaths are from the period before last week. On Monday, 3,289 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,932,294 in the state, after which the recovery rate has improved to 95.26%. Maharashtra has tested 14,656,223 samples for the virus so far since the pandemic began. The overall positivity rate stood at 13.84%. In the past 24 hours, 39,055 samples were tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/309k-get-covid-19-vax-shots-in-maharashtra-phase-2-starts-today-101612208130755.html
02-02-2021||Other||33-year-old security guard killed, 7 hurt in godown collapse near Mumbai||A 33-year-old security guard died, while seven workers were injured after a portion of a ground-plus-one storey godown collapsed at Harihar compound in Dapode village, located on Bhiwandi’s Mankoli Road, on Monday around 10am. The 15-year-old godown belonged to an online goods delivery firm. There were 31 workers present at the godown when the incident took place. As soon as the portion of the first floor collapsed, 23 workers managed to escape, while eight others were trapped under the debris. The security guard, Saurabh Tripathi, died on the spot, as the slab fell on his head, while seven others who were rescued from under the debris are undergoing treatment.Soon after the collapse, Bhiwandi police, Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) fire brigade team, ambulances, Thane civic body fire brigade, Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) and National Disaster Management personnel reached the spot. The rescue operations were called off around 5pm. Canine search was also conducted at the collapse site to ensure no one was trapped under the debris. One of the workers – 20-year-old Hrutik Patil – who was rescued around 4.30pm has suffered severe injuries on both his legs as he was trapped under the debris for six hours. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. “He was stuck under the debris in a way that there was no space to rescue him. The NDRF team took over the rescue operations and created a cavity in the area where he was stuck. After this, they managed to pull him out, but both his legs are severely injured,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell (RDMC), Thane. According to Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF, the personnel were unable to cut the pillar that collapsed over Patil. “It would have led to further collapse of the structure. So we decided to make space below and he was rescued,” said Kumar. Patil’s mother Jaimala waited outside the godown all through the rescue operations till her son was found. Patil had left home around 7am on Monday. His brother Ajay, 24, who also works in the same godown, stayed at home. “I had asked Hrutik to wait and go with Ajay in the afternoon, but he wanted to add extra work hours, and thus left in the morning,” said Jaimala. For 20-year-old Kayum Khan, the cleaner of the container, this was a narrow escape. Khan was about to enter the godown to take his phone which he had kept for charging. As he walked towards the godown, it collapsed before his eyes, leaving him in a state of shock. “I can never forget the incident. I would have also been trapped if I had entered the godown to get the mobile phone. Our parked container actually helped many survive the collapse,” said Khan.Some workers claimed that construction was being carried out recently on top of the existing godown, exactly at the portion which had collapsed. According to them, the new construction led to the collapse. Nitesh Marathe, 30, who works at the dispatch section of the godown, said, “There is a construction happening exactly above the portion of the godown which collapsed.” “The godown was built in 2006 and the permission for its construction was acquired from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). We will ask the MMRDA to carry out an audit of all the structures nearby as this godown is not very old,” said Aadik Patil, tahsildar, Bhiwandi.An MMRDA official said,” The godown was built before the MMRDA was appointed as the planning authority of the village. We’ll check the details and accordingly act further.” Meanwhile, the Narpoli police are awaiting a report from MMRDA to take further action. “We will wait for the authority to send the report so that the exact cause of the collapse is known, following which legal action will be taken,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/33yearold-security-guard-killed-7-hurt-in-godown-collapse-near-mumbai-101612207890606.html
02-02-2021||Other||Nothing for us in budget, say Ludhiana’s industrialists||City-based industrialists gave a thumbs down to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget on Monday, stating that there was nothing in it for them and that they were highly disappointed as they were expecting some relief package in view of the Covid losses they suffered in 2020. Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) chairman KK Seth said the bicycle industry has again been completely ignored. “We (India) are the second largest bicycle manufacturers in the world, coming only after China. But the government is not focusing on this industry even in these testing times. The government should have announced a special package to help us upgrade and overtake China,” said Seth.Sewing machine development club general secretary Kulwant Singh said, “We were expecting a special package from the government but we have been left empty-handed. The industry is struggling to stand on its feet but the government doesn’t seem to care.”Exporters too have said that they are dejected with the budget. “We have been demanding freight equalisation scheme and relief in terms of income tax for exporters but the government has not paid heed to any of these demands,” said Jaspal Singh Shahpuri, vice-president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU). Ludhiana woollen manufacturers association and knitwear club president Darshan Dawar said, “The government has announced that seven mega industrial parks will be established across the country in the next three years. The number of such parks should have been higher. The government should also have provided some special relief package for the industry.”The reduction of customs duty on import of gold from 12.5% to 7.5% has failed to please the jewelers, who say that as the government has also imposed 2.5% agri cress on gold, there won’t be much profit for them. Thapar jewellers owner Tribhuvan Thapar said, “The government should have given some major relief as the gold (24 carat) rates have increased from around ₹34, 000/10gram to around 50, 000/10gram amid the pandemic.” FICO vice-president Manjinder Singh Sachdeva Senior said that the Credit Link Capital Subsidy Scheme has not been reintroduced, even when the industry was seeking increase in its limit. “The scheme should have been made permanent as it is the only scheme for the technological upgrade of the MSME industry,” he said.A few see ray of hopeA few announcements have, however, been applauded by some sections of the industry. Among those are the reduction in customs duty on imports of semi-flat and long products of non-alloy, alloy and stainless steel and duty-free import of steel scrap. The industrialists said that this will reduce the steel prices in the country and to some extent end cartelisation. Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) general secretary Pankaj Sharma said, “Reduction in custom duty or scrap and increase in customs duty of several manufactured items is a welcome step. Encouragement to start-ups and low-cost housing projects will boost investment and double the budget for MSME sector, which is also a good sign.” He added that the voluntary vehicle scrappage policy will also boost the automobile sector. Knitwear and textile club president Vinod Thapar stated that announcement of a mega textile park in Punjab is a major relief for the textile and hosiery sector. He added that the reduction of the basic customs duty on caprolactam, nylon chips and nylon fiber and yarn to 5% will encourage the growth of the Man Made Fibre (MMF) sector, especially the MSMEs.Former president of the federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO) SC Ralhan and Chartered accountant MK Gupta said the government has simplified taxation through faceless dispute resolution committee among other steps. Also income tax assessment time-limit has been reduced to 3 years from 6 years, which is a major relief.MBD Group’s joint managing director Sonica Malhotra Kandhari said, “Allocation of ₹64,180 crore to healthcare, which also includes Rs.35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccines, is a welcome step. However, we were looking for some measures related to travel and hospitality sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nothing-for-us-in-budget-say-ludhiana-s-industrialists-101612206571318.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Apni mandis reopen in Chandigarh||Apni mandis opened in Chandigarh for the first time since March 2020 on Monday. Although there was a lukewarm response, with people apparently wary of visiting a crowded market, the low prices came as a big respite from that being charged by vendors.Potatoes, which are available for ₹25 per kg from roadside vendors, were being sold for just ₹10 per kg. Tomatoes were also availanle for almost half the price, at ₹20 per kg. Officials said the difference was because locally grown potatoes and tomatoes were being directly brought to the mandis. However, onion was available at the same price, ₹40 per kg. Residents, who did make it to the mandi, were happy because of the cheaper prices. Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Sector 44, said he regretted buying vegetables on Sunday as he was now getting better prices at the mandi in Sector 45.However, the mandi had many vacant stalls. Satbir Singh, an auction recorder for Punjab Mandi Board, said: “This is just the beginning, which is why the footfall is less than half of the usual. We expect that within a week or so, the business will improve.”Farmers who came to the mandi were also a relieved lot. Talwara Singh from Mohali said: “Earlier, it was hard for us to find buyers for our vegetables, and we couldn’t sell them by ourselves in Chandigarh. Apni mandis are a free and fair way for us to reach customers.”Lallan Kumar, another vendor, said: “We charge fair prices and people will start coming once they see the quality of vegetables.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apni-mandis-reopen-in-chandigarh-101612206569429.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Union Budget gives fillip to infra projects in Chandigarh||Infrastructure projects in Chandigarh are set to get a fresh impetus with the allocation for capital expenditure increased by 25% in the Union Budget outlay for the UT in the coming fiscal.Capital expenditure is the government spending on infrastructure and development works. However, overall, there is only a marginal increase of 0.93% ( ₹48 crore) in the budget estimates from ₹5138.10 crore in 2020-2021 to ₹5186.12 crore in 2021-2022. In the last year’s budget, the total outlay was increased by 8.1%.On the administration getting nearly ₹500 crore lesser than its own proposal for ₹5,670 crore, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “I was expecting a cut due to overall fund constraints in the Covid-19 scenario. We are grateful to the Union government for enhancing our allotment by ₹48 crore as compared to last year.”From routine spending to productive worksKeeping the UT budget stagnant, the Centre has shifted a major portion of the allocation under the revenue expenditure (government money spent on salaries, wages, subsidies, loan interest, etc) to capital expenditure, which officials said would help in expanding development works and creation of new projects. The UT’s revenue expenditure has been decreased from ₹4,693 crore in 2020-2021 to ₹4,567 crore in 2021-2022. At the same time, capital expenditure allocation stands increased from ₹494 crore to ₹618 crore.Arun Gupta, home and finance secretary, said: “Allocation for salaries, made under revenue expenditure, is generally not used fully, as sometimes provisions for posts that end up remaining vacant are also made. This was the case this year too. So, the outlay for revenue head has been cut and shifted to more constructive capital expenditure head.”Urban development biggest gainerEven as revenue expenditure for urban development has been cut, capital allocation has been increased by nearly 37% from ₹171 crore to ₹238 crore, thus bringing Chandigarh in a better position to take up new infrastructure works, said officials.Capital expenditure outlay for police has been increased from ₹53 crore to ₹87 crore. This includes provision for police housing and allied works, such as development of infrastructure and renovation of existing houses. For public works, the allocation has been increased from ₹19.55 crore to ₹24.91 crore.Similarly, on education, sports, art and culture, capital expenditure allocation has been increased from ₹78.63 crore to ₹93.88 crore. As per the budget document, this includes provision for modernisation and purchase of equipment, development of infrastructure for NCC and modernisation of polytechnic and industrial training institute.“We are better placed if we get more funds under the capital head as this money is to be spent solely on infrastructure development,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/union-budget-gives-fillip-to-infra-projects-in-chandigarh-101612206389554.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||MVA leaders term Budget a maha disappointment; Opposition denies||With no major announcement for Maharashtra in Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s speech on Monday, barring next phases of Metro lines for Nagpur, Pune and a couple of road and railway projects, political parties in the state had mixed reactions to the Union budget. State officials said they would study the details of the budget to see the benefits for Maharashtra. In her speech, Sitharaman announced a provision of ₹2,092 crore for Nashik Metro and ₹5,976 crore for the second phase of Nagpur Metro. An allocation of ₹65,000 crore has been made for the national highway measuring 1,100km, including Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor of 600km.Officials said they were expecting allocations for infrastructure, agriculture and health. They also said the Centre has increased borrowing from ₹5.35 lakh crore to ₹12.5 lakh crore in its revised estimates for FY 20-21 and it will benefit the states. “Maharashtra, being one of the largest states, will definitely get a significant share of these funds, although it is not what would be the share of the state in the provisions for agriculture and irrigation. The state’s borrowing limits have been upped to 4% of the GDP and it will help us in pump in more money into system,” he said. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state expressed its unhappiness over the union budget. “The budget should be for the country and not only for the elections. How can the budget presented with an eye on elections in certain states fulfil the expectations of people,” asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his initial reaction, referring to various announcements made by Sitharaman for poll-bound states such as West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar said that Modi government’s bias towards Maharashtra was visible in the Centre’s budget. “Poll-bound states like West Bengal have been given a major share, but their actual realisation seems to be difficult. Mumbai, Pune or Maharashtra have got nothing in the budget. The provision for Metro in Nashik and Nagpur has been done keeping an eye on civic polls in these cities. The minister uttered no word about Wardha-Yavatmal-Nanded, Nashik-Pune, Karad-Chiplun railway corridors. MPs from Maharashtra should now come together to urge the finance minister for adequate outlay for the state,” he said. According to an official, the allocation for the national highway too will not come to Maharashtra. “The highway is connected to the existing corridor originating in Mumbai, but the spending is fully in Kerala. The outlay for the Metro projects is for the ones already under implementation. No new project has been allocated for the state. There is no announcement for extension of the GST compensation beyond June 2022 or inclusion of more items (from six presently) in cess collection fund as was expected,” said an official from the finance department. Sitharaman announced tax sops for setting up units at the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City in Gujarat. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, lauded the budget. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis described the budget as full of confidence which would lead India on the path of self-reliance. “The proposals for the Nagpur and Nashik Metro lines were sent during our government. We are thankful to the Centre for accepting them. Although only a few projects from Maharashtra have been named in budget, there would be many more projects and sizable allocation for Maharashtra in the actual budget,” Fadnavis said. “Shifting of the IFSC to Gujarat was a sin committed by the then UPA government in 2012, which gave it a nod. The Congress and NCP government should not blame us for it.” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut dismissed the speculations that the Centre gave allocation to the two cities to gain electorally in municipal polls. “I do not think that they have given allocation to Nashik and Nagpur because they are in power there. They may be in power now, but going forward it will not be so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-leaders-term-budget-a-maha-disappointment-opposition-denies-101612206331219.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||PU allows Haryana studentsto take practical exams later||With the internet services suspended in different districts of Haryana, Panjab University on Monday decided to allow students from the state to appear later in the practical exams as a special case.Online practical exams for the odd-semester students are scheduled to start on Tuesday in PU and its affiliated colleges. Many students who hail from different parts of Haryana had expressed concern over taking online practical exams as the internet services remain suspended. On Monday, the internet ban was extended to seven districts of Haryana till 5pm on February 2. Earlier, internet services were snapped in 14 districts of the state.A student of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, who hails from Haryana’s Fatehabad district, said, “If the internet is not restored, it is impossible for me to take the exams. We have to also upload files and our projects are still incomplete.”In an official notice, PU said, “Students belonging to the cities of Haryana where internet facility is affected, those students will be allowed to appear in their practical exams after completion of theory exams as a special case.”However, candidates will appear in practical exams in their respective colleges/centres only after submitting the residence proof of the area where the internet facility is affected. PU said the schedule will be notified later. The semester exams of the ongoing batches are scheduled to start from February 15 while the exams of new batches will be held in March.However, the online practical exams of the undergraduate third and fifth-semester students will start on Tuesday, including the practical exams of postgraduate third-semester students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-allows-haryana-studentsto-take-practical-exams-later-101612206269548.html
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Classes 6-8 begin at schools in Chandigarh||Government schools in Chandigarh on Monday witnessed a good turnout as they opened for classes 6 to 8, a figure which is likely to improve further in the coming days. On the first day, the total attendance went up to 20,000 across the city, as per education department officials. Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We received a very good response on the first day itself. All precautions were taken in every government school.”7,000 students turn up As per sources, up to 7,000 students turned up for classes 6 to 8. While attendance remained around 20% to 30% in some of the schools within the city, those in the periphery logged higher figure, reaching up to 50% in some of the schools in the colonies.One of the school principals, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The attendance of Class 10 has been rising the most with board exams around the corner. Attendance in classes 9 and 11 is comparatively lower.” School went on from 9am to 2pm. Students had to get permission slips signed by their parents to enter the school premises. Their temperature was checked before entry and facilities to sanitise their hands was also provided at all school entrances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/classes-6-8-begin-at-schools-in-chandigarh-101612206210357.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||After six FYJC admission rounds, 40,000 students in Mumbai Metropolitan Region yet to get seats||After six rounds of admissions, more than 40,000 students in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have yet to confirm their seat for first-year junior college (FYJC).Following the first-come, first-served (FCFS) round which concluded on January 30, over 1.02 lakh seats in the MMR are still lying vacant. As per data shared by the education department, nearly 16% of the total eligible students have not been admitted yet.Sandeep Sangave, deputy director of the Mumbai region said that the actual number of students who have not confirmed their admissions might be lower. “There are students who have got admissions in ITI courses or diploma courses, and also those who stay on the border of MMR and other regions, who might have secured admission elsewhere. Names of some such students might have reflected in the portal too,” he said. Officials from the education department said that there were no guidelines from the government yet regarding additional admissions rounds. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. The education department conducted seven phases of FCFS admissions between January 14 and 30. Students could apply depending on the score brackets under which they fell – above 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, all passed students and ATKT students, respectively. Of the 23,798 students who were allotted colleges in the round, 19,753 were admitted in various colleges across MMR.Meanwhile, junior colleges in the city have started their new academic year from January and are now awaiting clarity on examinations from the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-six-fyjc-admission-rounds-40-000-students-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-yet-to-get-seats-101612206149449.html
02-02-2021||Other||Thane civic body to complete vaccination of health, frontline workers by February 15||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) plans to complete the vaccination of over 35,390 health workers and frontline workers till February 15. The corporation has so far vaccinated 7,668 health workers while the vaccination for frontline workers began on Monday. TMC will also increase the number of centres from 10 to 20 after receiving permission from the state government, to target 2,000 vaccinations daily. At present, vaccination of around 27,772 health and frontline workers is still pending while the corporation has a stock of 29,000 vaccine dosages. Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, TMC, said, “We have started the vaccination for frontline workers as well as health workers. We have registered 12,700 frontline workers and 22,690 health workers. Of these, a total of 35,390 registered and we have completed the vaccination of 7,668. The remaining 27,772 vaccinations will be completed by February 15.” Murudkar said that the response to the vaccination is positive as people now have more trust in the vaccine than in the initial days. “Our target per day is 2,000 vaccinations, for which the state has asked us to increase the centres from 10 to 20. We have allowed walk-in vaccinations for those registered so far. People are more willing to take the vaccines now, compared to the initial few days. In Thane, most of us senior doctors first got ourselves vaccinated, which gave confidence to other health workers, as they realised there are no major side effects,” Murudkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-civic-body-to-complete-vaccination-of-health-frontline-workers-by-february-15-101612205910749.html
02-02-2021||Other||Former Mohali mayor has ₹248-crore assets, but no car||Real-estate tycoon Kulwant Singh, who is heading the Azad group for the municipal corporation (MC) elections scheduled for February 14, has assets worth ₹248 crore in his name, but does not own a car. The owner of Janta Land Promoters Limited (JLPL) only has two-wheelers registered in his name. In an affidavit filed for elections, Kulwant declared that his income in 2019-20 was ₹18.47 crore, while his wife Jaswant Kaur’s earning was ₹14.11 lakh. The movable assets of the couple are worth ₹208 crore, while immovable properties have been pegged at ₹21.07 crore. In the nominations filed so far, Kulwant is the richest candidate. Surprisingly, the former mayor drives a red Bentley that costs around ₹5 crore. Kulwant said his car is registered in his company’s name and the two-wheelers he owns are driven by his children. His company has an annual turnover of ₹1,200 crore. In 1988, Kulwant had developed a colony in Janta Nagar, Kharar, the first residential enclave to be approved in Punjab. In 1995, he expanded his business to Ludhiana. Kulwant is not new to politics as his journey started around two decades ago when he contested the municipal committee elections in 1995 and won. He served as the senior vice-president in MC from 1995 to 2000 and remained the president till 2005. In 2014, he unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha elections from Fatehgarh Sahib and later became first mayor of Mohali in 2015. In the MC elections, Azad group is contesting on 35 seats and supporting AAP candidates on 15 seats. Mohali’s civic body is elected for a period of five years, with the last term ending on April 26, 2020. In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group and won 10 seats. With the support of the Congress, he was elected as mayor. Later in 2017, he joined the SAD, but was expelled for ‘anti-party activities’. This time, he decided to contest the civic polls independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-mohali-mayor-has-rs-248-crore-assets-but-no-car-101612205909475.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai convocation ceremony held online, plans for new courses revealed||The University of Mumbai (MU) plans to start a maritime studies centre, school of international relations as well as an integrated centre for research, diagnostic and cure of Covid-19 and other diseases, said vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar in his convocation speech on Monday. The annual convocation ceremony of the varsity was held online this year, keeping Covid-19 restrictions in mind.“With reference to new and innovative programmes, we shall be focusing on starting two certificate courses in aquaculture and aquaponics, a postgraduate (PG) diploma in industrial safety and management at the Ratnagiri sub-campus and a PG diploma in blockchain development and management by the IT department, among others,” said Pednekar. He added that the varsity has received a grant of ₹5 crore from Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) to set up a first-of-its-kind centre for e-learning and computational facility for skill development courses.The online convocation was attended by several dignitaries of the varsity along with the Governor and chancellor of all state universities Bhagat Singh Koshiyari and the minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant, among others. While students will be receiving their certificates from their individual institutes this year, a small ceremony for the 16 meritorious students receiving gold medals from Koshiyari, Samant and Pednekar, was also telecast as part of the convocation ceremony.Around 1.61 lakh undergraduate students and 29,561 postgraduate students will be receiving their certificates this year. Another 140 PhD and MPhil research degrees were also awarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-convocation-ceremony-held-online-plans-for-new-courses-revealed-101612205609427.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Metro-1 sees rise in riders as MMOPL increases daily services||With local trains opening for all in the city, Metro-1 (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) also witnessed a rise in daily commuters. According to Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), close to 80,000 commuters were taking the Metro till last week. On Monday, it saw an addition of 5,000 commuters till 7pm, after railway services started.Sources said that MMOPL expects a steady increase in ridership from here on. The agency also increased the number of services and operating hours from Monday. Now, the first train leaves from Versova at 6.50am and from Ghatkopar at 7.15am. Similarly, the last train from Versova will be at 9.50pm and that from Ghatkopar will be at 10.15pm. The number of services was increased to around 240 trips.Like suburban trains, the Metro was also shut for commuters for almost seven months, before services resumed on October 19, 2020. However, compared to pre-pandemic ridership, when close to 4 lakh commuters travelled via Metro on weekdays, the commuter count continued to be low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-metro-1-sees-rise-in-riders-as-mmopl-increases-daily-services-101612205369640.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Budget fails to cheer up realty sector in Mumbai||The Union budget has failed to bring cheer to the real estate sector, which is reeling under slowdown especially after Covid-19 lockdown, in Mumbai region. Though the sector was awaiting various sops like grant of industry status, waiver of Goods and Service Tax (GST) on under-construction projects, tax breaks, the Budget did not bring any such relief.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman extended additional deduction of interest amounting to ₹1.5 lakh taken for affordable units by another year. Similarly, the tax holiday for builders constructing affordable houses has also been extended by one year. Both these measures were also announced last year.According to the Builders Association of India (BAI), there was hardly anything in the Budget for Mumbai. “There is hardly any apartment within Mumbai limits costing less than ₹45 lakh, which is specified as affordable house. So the buyer as well as builder got no benefit from this Budget,” said Anand Gupta, chairperson (Housing and RERA committee), BAI. He said the sector was expecting waiver in GST on under-construction flats. “People prefer to buy readymade flats rather than invest in under-construction ones; hence builders are chocked of funds,” he said.Real estate experts said it was just status quo from the Central government. “The market needed impetus from the government. They should have allowed the incentive to be passed for houses up to ₹1 crore instead of the present ₹45 lakh. The additional deduction of interest should have been extended to at least ₹8 lakh per annum as ₹1.5 lakh is not very attractive. This would have boosted the sales considerably,” said Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, a real estate research firm.The real estate sector is in slowdown mode as there was very less sales even before the Covid-19 pandemic, and the lockdown only aggravated matters. In the past two months, there has been activity due to various measures taken by the state government such as reduction of stamp duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/budget-fails-to-cheer-up-realty-sector-in-mumbai-101612204949806.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||Day 1 of local trains for all sees the return of ‘rush hour’ in Mumbai||Nearly 3.4 million passengers travelled by local trains on the first day after suburban train services resumed for the general public after 10 months. Nearly 1.9 million passengers had travelled by Central Railway (CR) and 1.5 million had travelled by Western Railway (WR) by late Monday night. Before the lockdown, 8 million people travelled by Mumbai’s local train network daily. Local train services were suspended on March 23, 2020, and had resumed for certain groups, like essential workers and cancer patients, since July 15, 2020. As of Monday, suburban train services are open to the public from the first local train of the day till 7am; between 12pm to 4pm; and post 9pm till the last local train of the day. Face masks are mandatory for those travelling by train. On Monday, there were long queues at booking offices outside Nalasopara, Kurla, Ghatkopar, Diva, Thane and Dadar railway stations. “At Nallasopara station there was a bit of crowd for renewal of season passes. On explaining that time slots beyond 7am till 12am are for nominated categories, they dispersed,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer (PRO), WR. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel at Kurla, Dadar and Ghatkopar railway stations were seen streamlining passengers and directing queues. Ticket-checking staff were deployed on foot overbridges and at platforms. On Monday, Government Railway Police (GRP) collected ₹1,02,400 in fines ( ₹55,000 on CR; ₹47,400 on WR) from passengers travelling without face masks. “There is an excitement to travel by local train after 10 months. However, some people have come to the station only to get their passes renewed,” said Dinesh Trivedi, a Vidyavihar resident who had to wait 20 minutes to get a train ticket at Kurla station. Commuters said there wasn’t much overcrowding inside the trains. “There is no queue inside the local train compartment, but just to reach it took 15 minutes,” said Aditi Thakur, a Dadar resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-of-local-trains-for-all-sees-the-return-of-rush-hour-in-mumbai-101612204889375.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Farm protests: Cops wanted Delhi-bound trains stopped||Delhi Police asked Northern Railways to terminate at least 15 Delhi-bound trains, which passed through Punjab and Haryana, at the edge of the Capital in a bid to stop farmers from entering the city on Monday and joining ongoing protests against three agriculture laws, HT has learnt.But Northern Railways said on Monday it diverted only three trains, for “operational reasons”.Citing intelligence inputs, Delhi Police told Northern Railways on Sunday that farmers from Punjab and Haryana planned to protest in the Capital on Monday – when the Union budget was being presented – and hoist flags on Parliament House, according to two letters written by the force. HT has accessed the letters.The police order came in the backdrop of violent clashes during a tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day, when many protesters broke through barricades, ran riot on streets, stormed the Red Fort and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of Sikhs, from its ramparts.Also read: Allocation for Delhi Police up by over ₹487 crore“There is an input that on 01.02.21 farmers from Haryana and Punjab are coming to New Delhi through train to join the ongoing protests against the three Central Farm Acts & other agrarian issues in Delhi. They are also planning to hoist Flag at Parliament House. In view of recent incident at Red Fort and to maintain law & order in the city, it is become necessary to restrain these farmers from entering Delhi,” the letter said.“Hence, it is requested to terminate the following trains at Narela Railway Station in place of Old Delhi Railway Station to restrain these farmers to enter Delhi in view of law & order situation,” the letter added. Narela lies on the northwestern edge of the Capital.The police communication to top Northern Railway officials asked at least 15 trains from Punjab and Haryana be terminated, including four intercity trains, Jammu-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express, Nanded Express, Amritsar-Mumbai Pashchim Express, Una-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi, Ferozpur-Mumbai Punjab Mail, Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, Pune- Jammu Tawi Jhelam Express and Katra-New Delhi Shri Shakti Express among others.To be sure, Northern Railways said three trains were diverted on Monday citing “operational reasons.” The three trains included Punjab Mail, Ganganagar intercity and Bhatinda-Delhi Kisan Express.“The trains were diverted due to operational reasons,” Northern railways spokesperson said. According to officials aware of the development, the railways is on high-alert and monitoring passengers coming from the aforementioned trains.On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address that the country was saddened by the “insult to the Tricolour” on Republic Day, his first public comments on the violent clashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-protests-cops-wanted-delhi-bound-trains-stopped-101612204768522.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Iron spikes, barbed wire and concrete walls at Delhi farm protest sites||The Delhi police have enhanced barricades at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur where thousands of farmers are protesting against three farm laws for over two months. While the iron spikes have been placed on the road leading to the main protest site at Tikri, besides heavy metal and concrete barriers, the police have created a wall at Singhu and Ghazipur by pouring concrete between two rows of cement barricades.The measures were taken in the aftermath of clashes between the police and the protesters when the farmers during a tractor rally on Republic Day went beyond the routes approved by the police by breaking barriers and barricades placed on the roads.The internet connectivity continued to be disrupted at all the three borders on Monday even as more farmers from Haryana and Punjab joined the protest.At Tikri, on the road towards Delhi, the police have overall set up a five-layer security system which begins right behind the main stage at the protest site. The first obstruction consists of two layers of iron barricades. After that, the police have joined rows of cement barricades by filling the space between them with concrete. Beyond that, the police have dug up the road and installed iron spikes. Then, there are large trailers and dumpers serving as the fourth layer. And finally, a set of iron barricades forms the fifth layer of hurdles.“This is one of the many measures being taken to instil confidence among the Delhiites and to reiterate our commitment to ensure the safety of life and property of citizens,” said A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer), when asked about the iron spikes on the road.The protest site at Singhu border also has five layers of barricades with the first one nearly 1.5 km away from the main protest site. Only police vehicles were allowed beyond this point and locals as well as media personnel were only allowed on foot after stating their purpose of visit. Most of the locals were not allowed to enter unless they had an emergency.Also read: Closure of border points, barricades trigger traffic snarls in DelhiOn Monday, police officials were seen supervising the installation of concrete barricades with a cement mixer pouring concrete between two layers of barricading near the main stage area. The two layers were also joined with iron rods in between them to strengthen the barricading further. Containers at the spot have also been used to store concrete barriers. Several routes leading to the protest site were either barricaded, closed using concertina wires, or dug up restricting movement of farmers between the two stages and cutting off supplies.Protesting farmers at Singhu said the police were trying to “crush their movement” by setting up so many layers of barricading. Major Ram Singh, 65, a member of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee which has set up the first stage at Singhu, said, “These are efforts to break the spirit of our movement by creating hurdles in arranging for our daily needs like water and toilets. But farmers from Punjab and Haryana are reaching the agitation spot using different route and carrying supplies which we may need here.”Buta Singh, president BKU (Ekta), Dakoda, who has been camped at Tikri border said that the government was “terrified” because of which it was resorting to placing several layers of hurdles.“We are peacefully protesting here, so where is the need for such security measures? The police are installing iron spikes, creating concrete barricades and deploying more police and paramilitary forces. All these are efforts to instil fear among us but we are not going to let our movement die. About 1,000 more tractors are coming from Haryana and Punjab to give us strength,” Singh said.Sudesh Goyat, a farmer at Tikri Border, said that the huge “police bandobast” showed that the police were planning some action against farmers. “They have put barricades like as if we are their biggest enemy. We are cautious that the police might use force against us even though we are protesting peacefully. We are only fighting to repel these black laws,” Goyat said.Like Singhu, police have completely blocked the movement of the media and locals anywhere near the Tikri protest site and have also blocked many lanes in the nearby Baba Haridas Nagar colony. This led to inconvenience to a number of locals who had to go towards Haryana.“Our half of the colony falls in Delhi and the rest in Haryana. When the police and the farmers blocked the main highway for commuting between Delhi to Haryana, we used the bylanes in the colonies to reach our destinations. But since Sunday night, the police put barricades in several lanes and blocked them. I have my shop in the Haryana side of the colony but now I further have to take a detour of more than a kilometre to reach my shop,” Pawan Dahiya, a resident of Baba Haridas Nagar colony said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iron-spikes-barbed-wire-and-concrete-walls-at-delhi-farm-protest-sites-101612204708512.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Red Fort vandalism: Police arrest first suspect||The Delhi Police on Monday said they had made the first arrest in one of the two cases registered in connection with the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital on January 26, while six more cases have been registered in the violence and January 29 incident when a group of persons who said they were locals entered the protest site at Singhu border leading to clashes with farmers and police.With the six new cases that have been registered at different police stations in the last four days, the total number of first information reports (FIRs) pertaining to violence during the ongoing farmers’ agitation rose to 44 on Monday. While 120 people have been arrested, two minor boys have been apprehended so far in these cases, the police said.Sharing details of the arrest of the man involved in the Red Fort violence, a senior police officer associated with the investigation said on the condition of anonymity that the suspect, identified as Akash Preet Singh, had allegedly attacked and injured a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawan with a sword.Also read: East Delhi cops get sword-like metal batons, metal arm covers“Singh was also injured in the clash and he had admitted himself at a government hospital in north Delhi from where we caught him. Since he was also tested for Covid-19, we have formally arrested him but is continuing his treatment,” said the officer, adding that the suspect had already been identified through video footage and was wanted for the attack.Like Sunday, farmers on Monday also said that at least 250 persons who were part of the agitation are still missing since the Republic Day violence and 150 farmers from Punjab and Delhi have formed the “Lawyers for Kisan” platform to trace the missing farmers and provide free legal aid to those arrested during the farmers’ agitation. A helpdesk has been set up behind the Samyukta Kisan Morcha stage at Singhu border agitation spot.However, the city police on Monday appealed to people not to believe in rumours about the illegal detention of farmers and asserted that the investigation is being carried out in a fair and transparent manner. They also used their Twitter handle to refute the allegations of illegal detention and to update about the arrests and cases registered.Simranjeet Kaur Gill, 34, a lawyer from Mohali, is one of the volunteers at the help desk coordinating with family members of the missing farmers. “We have a helpline number and volunteers are constantly manning it. Upon getting calls from family members who claim that the protester has been unavailable, or their phone is not reachable, our team checks with hospitals and courts to track the person. We have also made announcements from the stage for protesting farmers to come and share any information they may have on the missing farmers.” Gill added that so far, they have tracked 163 arrested farmers and at least 250 are still missing.The lawyers’ collective, which works under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, will also tie up with security volunteers at the spot to track if the missing farmer has arrived at the tractor-trolley unit of their village or district.Narpinder Singh, 37, a farmer from Rauni village in Ludhiana district, said, “One of the farmers from my village had gone to Narela to withdraw cash on Friday when a mob attacked farmers at the first stage. We couldn’t find him the entire day and later got a call from their family the next day saying he had been arrested. The police officers have been calling families back home as intimidation tactics so that more and more farmers don’t arrive here. But that won’t deter us.”“The information about the cases and arrests has been updated on the official website of the Delhi Police as per guidelines of the Supreme Court to facilitate the public. We appeal to the public to not believe in rumours. Investigation carried out by the Delhi Police is transparent and fair,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal, adding that the kin of those arrested can also seek information from the police stations concerned.According to the police, notices have been sent to nearly 150 people, including farm leaders, farmers and owners of tractors and other vehicles, asking them to join the investigation and record their statements.“None of them turned up till Monday evening. We may issue fresh notices to them,” the officer said.Investigators said that they have received over 4,000 video footage and photographs from the public and other sources after their appeal to assist them in their investigation by sharing videos and pictures of the violence.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/red-fort-vandalism-police-arrest-first-suspect-101612204648556.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||East Delhi cops get sword-like metal batons, metal arm covers||New Delhi: Police personnel in east Delhi’s Shahdara district were given sword-like iron batons and a metal forearm cover on Monday to protect themselves from “rioters armed with swords”.Senior officers who spoke on condition of anonymity said the batons were being used “as an experiment” after several cops were injured during clashes with protesters who carried swords during the Republic Day tractor rally taken out by the farmers who are protesting against the three contentious farm laws.A picture of the policemen holding the improvised metal baton was widely circulated on social media on Monday. Officers aware of the matter, who wished not to be named, said so far only 10-15 policemen have been given the baton.Also read: Closure of border points, barricades trigger traffic snarls in Delhi“It’s a makeshift arrangement to minimize injury in case of a sword attack. It is not an aggressive but defensive mechanism. The baton is 4-5 feet long and has a metallic arm guard that protects the person holding it against the attack by a sword,” the officer said.“This [the metal forearm cover] can be used to stop an attack by a sharp-edged weapon. The guard and the baton are lightweight making it easy to carry,” he added.The station house officer of Alipur police station, who was posted at Singhu Border, was injured after a protester allegedly attacked him with a sword on Friday. The SHO had sustained cuts in his left hand. The man was caught at the spot and arrested for attempting murder.“We are not officially procuring it yet, the batons being used on an experimental basis,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/east-delhi-cops-get-sword-like-metal-batons-metal-arm-covers-101612204589171.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Closure of border points, barricades trigger traffic snarls in Delhi||All roads leading to central Delhi were heavily barricaded with the police checking vehicles at several points on Monday, when the Union Budget was presented in the Parliament, leading to traffic snarls across the Capital.Senior police officers who spoke on condition of anonymity said security was further enhanced in the city in anticipation of trouble by thousands of protesters who are camping on Delhi borders against the three contentious farm laws. On Republic Day, the farmers took out a tractor rally, clashed with the police at several points and barged into the Red Fort.Farm leaders had announced a march to Parliament on February 1, but cancelled it after the violence during the tractor rally. The officers said they enhanced the security anyway as they did not want to take any chances.Besides Delhi police and central paramilitary personnel, traffic police was also deployed in adequate numbers, one of the officers said. Buses had also been parked on the roads as a precautionary measure to prevent any protesters from going towards Parliament.Throughout the day, massive traffic jams were reported from the eastern, southern and central parts of Delhi which were worsened by the closure of the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border, Delhi-Meerut expressway and NH-9, NH-24. The closure of the almost all the lanes of the NH-24 resulted in bumper-to-bumper traffic which went up to three kilometres along the Anand Vihar road.At GT Karnal Road, the carriageway towards Delhi also saw massive traffic throughout the day due to police barricades installed near the Bhalswa landfill. On Monday evening, commuters faced a delay of around 40 minutes to cover the stretch.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said apart from the Delhi-Meerut expressway, all the carriageways of NH-9 and NH-24 were closed since Sunday night due to the farmers’ protest. “But as the closure of the roads caused a massive bottleneck, one carriageway on NH-24 going towards Delhi was opened for traffic. The other roads are still closed. No vehicles are being allowed on these roads for people going towards east Delhi or Ghaziabad,” said DCP Yadav.Also read: Farmers announce ‘chakka jam’ on Feb 6Traffic police officials said vehicles are being diverted on other routes such as Vikas Marg, DND, and those in the south and north Delhi. Among the roads that have been witnessing traffic jams are Road No. 56 between Ghazipur and Dilshad Garden via Anand Vihar ISBT, Vikas Marg (both carriageways), Ring Road (towards south Delhi and central Delhi), DND, and Ashram Chowk.As motorists faced inconvenience and complained about the traffic chaos on social media, the Delhi Traffic Police began posting updates about diversions and suggested alternate routes.Police said there were also rumours and misleading posts on social media that the police are cordoning west Delhi neighbourhoods inhabited by a particular community. Joint commissioner of police (western range) Shalini Singh said because of the call for march to Parliament, as a precautionary measure roads leading to Parliament were heavily barricaded.“Adequate police deployment is being maintained to avoid any law and order situation. There are rumours that police are barricading neighbourhoods dominated by a particular community which are absolutely baseless and false,” Singh said.The joint commissioner said police teams have also been asked to conduct coordination meetings with gurdwaras and aman (peace) committees. All measures are being taken to ensure peace, she said.Delhi Police also tweeted to dispel rumours. “These barricades are installed for routine law and order arrangement and checking of vehicles. We are a secular force with mission to safeguard all religious groups and communities.”“If anybody is having apprehensions, please feel free to call concerned police station SHO.” A list of all SHOs in the west district was attached to the tweet.Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastav also visited Ghazipur border along with other senior officers to take stock of the security arrangements. He also briefed the police personnel deployed at the border and appreciated their hard work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/closure-of-border-points-barricades-trigger-traffic-snarls-in-delhi-101612204588556.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||Union Budget: Allocation for Delhi Police up by over ₹487 crore||The central government has allocated R 8,644.12 crore to the Delhi Police in its budget estimates for fiscal 2021-22 – ₹487.56 crore or 5.97% more than the previous year’s revised estimates (RE) allocation of ₹8,156.56 – aimed at the upgradation and expansion of communication and traffic infrastructure, procurement of vehicles, modernisation of equipment, and capacity building of the police force.Delhi Police’s budget allocation for 2021-22 has increased by R 3,990.93 crore from R 4653.19, that was allocated to them by the Union government in its 2014-15 Union Budget. In percentage, this budget allocation increase is 85.76%.As per the documents accessed from Delhi Police, the total budget estimates allocated (BE) to them for 2020-21 was R 8,608.08. This amount was brought down to ₹8,156.56 – a decrease of Rs451.52 – in the revised estimates (RE). So if the budget estimates of this year is compared with the last BE, there is only an increase of Rs36.04 crore. Police officials are hoping that the amount may be increased in the government in their revised estimates.Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said that of the total budget estimates ( ₹8,644.12 crore) allocated by the Union government, ₹8,100.20 crore is under revenue section (planned expenditure) and it has been earmarked for paying the salary of police personnel and other establishment related expenditures.Also read: East Delhi cops get sword-like metal batons, metal arm covers“ ₹237.92 crore that has been allocated under capital section (non-planned expenditure) shall be incurred for the upgradation and expansion of communication infrastructure, modernisation of equipment, installation of traffic signals, upgradation of training and procurement of vehicles for policing,” said Mittal.The city police are in the process of procuring advanced version of communication system and a file related to inviting tender for its design, supply and installation is pending approval in the home ministry. The artificial intelligence traffic management system (ITMS) project that was initiated almost a decade ago is yet to be launched, police officials said.“There are more than 200 police stations in the city and each police station has two-three inspectors. However, official four-wheeler is only allotted to the station house officer (SHO) while the other inspectors either use police bikes or their personal vehicles while on duty,” a police official who did not want to be named said.According to Mittal, the government has allocated ₹306 crore that shall be spent exclusively for police infrastructure – construction of office buildings, residential buildings, and development of the new Police headquarters building.Police data show that less than 20% police personnel have got been allotted government flats while more than a dozen police stations are still operating from rented buildings.“A total of ₹10.14 crore has been allocated separately under the scheme for Safety of Women (financed from Nirbhaya Fund) in addition to the total allocation for construction of building for special police units for women, children and north-east residents and various other activities for awareness and gender sensitization,” added Mittal.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-budget-allocation-for-delhi-police-up-by-over-rs-487-crore-101612204468567.html
02-02-2021||Delhi||HC rejects PIL that sought action against police for failure to contain violence in R-Day tractor rally||The Delhi high court on Monday rejected a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), imposing a cost of ₹10,000 on the petitioner, who sought action against the police and intelligence officials responsible for the “failure” in “anticipating and controlling” the farmers’ protest on Republic Day.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh declined to entertain the PIL, saying it was too early for the court to interfere in the issue as police have registered FIRs in relation to the incident on January 26, and authorities are looking into the matter.The NGO, Delhi Citizen Forum for Civil Rights, in its petition had claimed that the incident occurred due to major lapses in the security set up and also violated the national honour as instead of the national flag a religious one was hoisted at Red Fort by the farmers on Republic Day.Joginder Tuli, the chairman of the petitioner NGO, confirmed that the court has dismissed the petition with costs of ₹10,000.Also read: Closure of border points, barricades trigger traffic snarls in DelhiThe NGO had contended in its petition that the “violent turn of a peaceful protest/rally especially on Republic Day casts a huge doubt on the security agencies and their preparedness to deal with criminal or even terrorist activities especially in the capital of India”.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three farm laws.The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws devolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort.Meanwhile, a separate plea has been filed in the high court seeking release of all persons who have been “illegally detained” on or January 26. The plea filed by Harman Preet Singh, who identifies himself as a social worker, is likely to be heard this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-rejects-pil-that-sought-action-against-police-for-failure-to-contain-r-day-tractor-rally-101612204349639.html
02-02-2021||Mumbai||After week-long cold spell, mercury rises in Mumbai||After almost a week of a cold spell, temperatures in the city soared on Monday. The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the city’s temperature, recorded a maximum temperature of 34.9 degrees Celsius, 3.5 degrees above normal. At Colaba, maximum temperature was 32 degrees Celsius, 1.7 degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures, too, increased slightly on Monday and were well above normal. At Santacruz, minimum temperature was 19 degrees Celsius, which was 1.4 degrees above normal while Colaba recorded 20.5 degrees Celsius, 0.9 degrees above normal.“It was a good warm morning in Mumbai on Monday with minimum temperature, as expected to be observed, at 19°C. Similar trend is seen in the state with rising trend in both minimum and maximum temperature. As per IMD GFS guidance, by end of this week, minimum temperatures are expected to start falling,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, on Twitter.Meanwhile, air quality improved marginally on Monday but remained in the poor category. An overall air quality index (AQI) — an air quality indicator — of 221 was measured on Monday as opposed to Saturday’s 286.Andheri with an AQI of 301 had the worst air, followed by Mazagaon at 280.“Air quality of Mumbai is in the poor category. With current wind, local emission with continental pollution will keep AQI poor for Mumbai in the next two days,” according to a short range forecast by SAFAR.AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor; and above 400 as severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-week-long-cold-spell-mercury-rises-in-mumbai-101612204349199.html
02-02-2021||Other||AAP govt criticises ‘meagre’ allocation for Delhi||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi on Monday criticised the Union Budget for poor fiscal devolution as it claimed that Delhi got a “megre” ₹957 crore, adding that the Central government’s policies will only benefit “big companies” and cause inflation. Comparing the Central grant to Delhi with other Union Territories that have an assembly, Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia said that the Centre did not grant any funds to the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi to help them tide over a financial crisis. “The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is constitutionally on similar a footing with the NCT of Delhi, has been provided a grant of ₹30,757 crore compared to ₹957 crore to Delhi. There are three UTs with a legislature in India, and of them Delhi gets the least grant in absolute terms and ridiculously low amount in terms of per capita grant from the government of India,” Sisodia said in a statement.Last year, Delhi was provided the same amount of ₹325 crore as it share in central taxes. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the budget will lead to price rise across the country. “This budget will benefit to a few big companies. It will lead to price rise and more problems to the people,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi hours after the budget was announced.Sisodia criticised the BJP-led central government for not helping Delhi’s municipal corporations. “The BJP government at the Centre did not even give a single penny to the BJP-ruled MCDs, while it has given ₹2 lakh crore to other municipal corporations across the country. During the last MCD election in Delhi, BJP had said they will bring the money directly from the Centre to the MCD,” Sisodia said.Slamming the Budget proposals and allocations, the deputy chief minister said the budget “completely bypasses” the education and health sectors, and “spells only doom” for the poor, middle class and farmers. At a time when there is farmer agitation happening all over the country, the agriculture budget has also been reduced, he said.“The Union Budget has shockingly reduced the spending on education by 6% compared to last fiscal. It seems no lesson has been learnt from the coronavirus pandemic. History tells us that be it a family or the country, only those who invest in the education of their children become ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). Reducing expenditure on education by ₹6,000 crore shows that the call for Atmanirbhar Bharat was merely a joke,” Sisodia said.The Central government has decreased the allocation for the ministry of education by 6.13%. According to the finance minister’s speech, for 2021-22 a total amount of ₹93,224 crore will be allocated to the education ministry. In 2020-21, the budget estimate for the ministry was ₹99,312 crore, which was revised to ₹85,089 crore.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Union budget will help in making India self-reliant in every field.“Special care has been taken in the budget about the health of the common man. Apart from this, soon people will start getting benefits of one nation, one ration card in the country. The expansion of rail and road corridors will boot the country’s infrastructure,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-govt-criticises-meagre-allocation-for-delhi-101612204288624.html
