03-02-2021||Other||Police announce cash rewards for info on Deep Sidhu, 7 others in Red Fort violence case||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Wednesday announced cash rewards of ₹6 lakh for information leading to the arrest of eight suspects, including actor Deep Sidhu, allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26. On Wednesday, the police also arrested one suspect, Dharmendra Singh Harman, a resident of Delhi, who was identified from the several video clips of the clashes at the fort, a senior officer said. Police said they have identified more than 260 vehicles, including nearly 100 tractors, which were part of the rally and involved in the violence at the fort and other places in Delhi when protesters clashed with the police after breaking barriers and entering the city from Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri.“We have announced R1 lakh against Sidhu, Jugraj and two others because they appear to be the key conspirators. Raids have been conducted at many places in Punjab and other states, but the suspects are absconding. The family members of some of them are also untraceable,” said a senior officer, requesting anonymity.Investigators who declined to be named explained that the rewards were in two categories – ₹1 lakh and ₹50,000 – for different suspects even as teams of Delhi Police failed to locate these eight suspects despite multiple raids at locations in Delhi-NCR, Punjab and Haryana. A case was registered after the violence at Red Fort at the Kotwali police station and a special investigation team of the crime branch was handling the probe. Officers said the raids to arrest the suspects are still on.Among those who carry a reward of ₹1 lakh are Jugraj Singh from Punjab’s Tarn Taran, who has been identified as the one who hoisted a farmers’ union flag and a religious flag at Red Fort; Deep Sidhu, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh.Police said that ₹50,000 reward each will be given for information leading to the arrest of four other suspects identified as Jajbir Singh, Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, and Iqbal Singh. All the eight men are wanted in the same case registered under sections pertaining to offences such as rioting, attempt to murder, attempt to commit culpable homicide, dacoity and criminal conspiracy, apart from vandalising the historic monument. Two cases were registered in connection with the violence and vandalism at the monument during the rally in which more than 40 police personnel were injured.The announcement of the rewards has been made through separate order issued on Tuesday against each of the eight men by deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Chinmoy Biswal, who has now been transferred to the crime branch and appointed the spokesperson of the city police.Many video clips and photographs showed protesters clashing with the security personnel and hoisting the religious flag on the monument. In the videos, Sidhu was also seen among the protesters.A second police officer associated with the investigation said that of the eight suspects, five belong to Tarn Taran from Punjab and the police have not ruled out the possibility that they “carried out the act of vandalism and violence” at the Red Fort as part of a “pre-planned conspiracy”. The other three suspects are from Haryana’s Karnal (Sukhdev Singh) and Punjab’s Muktsar (Sidhu) and Ludhiana (Iqbal Singh).Investigators said that of the 260 vehicles identified so far, notices have been sent to many of their owners. Also, notices have been sent to nearly 200 people, including farm leaders, who were part of the farmers’ tractor rally. They were asked to record their statement or join the investigation “However, none of them have responded to the notices so far,” the officer added.A total of 44 cases have been registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort and other places in Delhi during the rally and an incident on January 29 when a group of persons, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Police said they have arrested 124 people in connection with the violent incidents that left 510 security personnel injured.On Tuesday, the police said they have seized 14 tractors that were a part of the rally.On January 28, Sidhu denied the charges against him through a Facebook post. “...We all were peaceful and were exercising our democratic rights to protest peacefully, we were under the leadership of our farmer union leaders. We did not damage no property also no personal life was harmed or threaten everything was peaceful nobody disrespected our national flag. Stop portraying this incident in any bad manner or bad light...(sic)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-announce-cash-rewards-for-info-on-deep-sidhu-7-others-in-red-fort-violence-case-101612376935428.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Most North MCD staffers to continue strike till all salary dues are cleared||Employees of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, except for sanitation workers and nursing and paramedic staff, have decided to continue their strike, demanding that they be paid salaries that are pending since October. The move comes after unions of nurses, paramedic staff and sanitation workers called off their strike on Saturday, after their salaries dues were cleared by the civic body. All employees of the civic body have been on an indefinite strike since January 7. Representatives of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union, an umbrella body of civic body staffers said teachers, engineers, horticulture department workers, and clerical staff, among others, will continue their strike indefinitely, since they have only been paid for a month. “The civic body cleared the pending salaries of only sanitation workers and nursing and paramedic staff. However, other employees have only been given a month’s salary. Additionally, only a month’s pension has been cleared for retired employees,” said AP Khan, convener, Confederation of MCD Employees Union, adding that the workers would strike work till all their dues are cleared. There are nearly 55,000 employees in the north corporation and the civic body spends around ₹360 crore per month on salary payments. Deepak Sharma, executive member of the confederation and a representative of the teachers’ union, said that nearly 30,000 employees are still on strike -- they are coming to office but not working. He said these employees have been hit the worst, since they have been paid for just a month, despite being enlisted for non-teaching tasks such as Covid survey related duties and ration distribution, among others. There are nearly 9,000 teachers across 714 primary schools of the north corporation. Schools are closed to students, but teachers have to go to schools to register their attendance. Jai Prakash, mayor north civic body, said, “Salaries of all employees are being released one by one. Agitating employees should understand that the municipality is undergoing a financial crunch, but still arrangements are being made to clear pending salaries. Those protesting should call off the strike and return to work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-north-mcd-staffers-to-continue-strike-till-all-salary-dues-are-cleared-101612376878277.html
03-02-2021||Noida||UP anti-terrorism squad to build second headquarters near Jewar airport||GREATER NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorism squad (UPATS) is set to build its second headquarters near Noida International Airport at Jewar as the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has agreed to allot land for the new building. Officials of UPATS said that the new headquarters will cater to the western UP region.Yeida has decided to allot two acres of land for free in Sector 32, which is located adjacent to the airport site. Yeida and UPATS are likely to sign a memorandum of understanding for the project next week. “UPATS officials are likely to visit our office next week to finish formalities related with the land allotment. We have reserved the land for the purpose in Sector 32. Having the headquarters of ATS near airport will be an added advantage in terms of safety to citizens, investors and other stakeholders,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida. UPATS also wants to build a residential facility near the proposed headquarters. At present, the anti-terror agency has its headquarters in Lucknow.Following the demands from UPATS, senior officials of Yeida on Wednesday conducted an inspection of the plot in Sector 32 and directed the staff to take required steps to ready the land for the anti-terror agency. “We will issue allotment letter to UPATS next week after a discussion with the officials. We will allot the land for free. The building will be developed by ATS with its funds,” said Singh. When asked about the proposed headquarters, UPATS inspector general GK Goswamy said, “We will visit the site next week.” However, he refused to comment further.The work on the airport project is likely to start by June this year. Yeida officials said that UPATS wants to finish the building work soon after the airport work begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/upantiterrorism-squad-to-build-second-headquarters-near-jewar-airport-101612376877772.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Tweets by international celebrities: Farmers welcome support but say it’s our fight||Ghaziabad: Most of the farmers camping at the UP Gate protest site on Wednesday said that they were unaware about the tweets made by American pop singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg in their support. However, they said that the tweets by the two internationally renowned personalities would help their cause. Most of the traditional farmers who remain away from the social media said that it is their fight with the government, and they will continue it. “We don’t know who Rihanna is. But If someone is listening to our voices, it means that our protest has caught attention of many people and we thank them for their support. However, it is our own fight, and we will continue to protest peacefully,” said Rajpal Sharma, national general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The farmers from different states, including UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab, are camping at the site since November 28 to press for their demands for repeal of the Centre’s three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. On Tuesday, Rihanna shared a news article on the farmers’ protest and tweeted, “Why aren’t we talking about this?” Similarly, activist Greta Thunberg too extended her support and wrote, “We stand in solidarity with the #farmersprotest in India.” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee, was busy looking after the dais and activities after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait left for a Mahapanchayat at Jind in Haryana. “We still have internet connectivity issues here and not been able to send our videos and pictures. If international personalities tweet messages, it means that people understand our situation. It also means that the government should leave its hard stance now and support farmers’ demand. This is why people are tweeting and even holding panchayats across many cities. Our movement is gaining popularity,” Bajwa said. Some of the net savvy youngsters like 19-year-old Arshdeep Singh, a native of Kichha in Uttarakhand, were of opinion that the tweets by international celebrities will have no effect. “It is our own fight. We are sticking to it and not going home till the farm laws are taken back. There have been voices raised for the farmers’ movement in the past, but the government did not budge. I feel that the tweets by the two celebrities will have no impact. But we are motivated that people outside the country are raising our issues,” he said. The social media was abuzz with claims and counterclaims over the tweets of the celebrities as Rihanna has about 101 million followers while Thunberg has about 4.7 million followers. “I thank Rihanna for her comments... The farmers’ agitation had already been internationalised since the onset. International celebrities are very sensitive about different issues, including social issues. I would urge celebrities of our country as well to come out and support cause of farmers,” Dr Udit Raj, national chairman of All India Confederation of SC/ST Organizations, said at the UP Gate. Amid the claims and counterclaims, the ministry of external affairs was also quick to react. Its official spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava, issued a statement with two hashtags, #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. “Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible,” the spokesperson said in a statement. “A very small section of farmers in parts of India have some reservations about these reforms. Respecting the sentiments of the protestors, the Government of India has initiated a series of talks with their representatives. Union Ministers have been part of the negotiations and eleven rounds of talks have already been held. The government has even offered to keep the laws on hold, an offer iterated by no less than the Prime Minister of India,” the statement further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tweets-by-international-celebrities-farmers-welcome-support-but-say-it-s-our-fight-101612376876549.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Pedestrians worst hit by heavy barricading at Delhi-UP border||Ghaziabad: Thirty two-year-old Poonam Chaudhary on Wednesday was seen making swift passage through a small jungle area adjacent to the farmers’ protest site at UP Gate. Chaudhary said that she works at a hospital in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali and wanted to go back home before it turns dark. Like her, many other pedestrians made their way through the small area after the Delhi Police put up large barricades and barbed wires in the past two days. The wires have also been extended through the jungle area while heavy fortifications have already come up on adjacent roads and the Delhi-Meerut Expressway after the incidents of violence on the Republic Day in Delhi during the tractor march by the protesting farmers. “I wish to go home as quickly as possible as this area is isolated, and I need to go to my house which is about 8km away. There is no means of transport here and we have been passing through this stretch for the past two months as the expressway remains blocked due to farmers’ protest. It is a fight between the government and the farmers, but people like us are the sufferers,” said Chaudhary, who also has to attend night shifts in the hospital. Like her, many other pedestrians cross the barbed wires as local made a small passage through by pressing the wires with the help of bricks and stones. “This is not all. We also have to further cross a trench which is freshly dug up to keep protesters away. This is about 10 feet and if anyone falls in, they will end up with broken bones. We don’t know when this will end,” said Shanta Devi, a colleague of Chaudhary, who is from nearby Ghazipur. The farmers are camping at the UP Gate protest site since November 28 last year, and have occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the expressway since December 3. After the violence on the Republic Day, the Delhi Police has heavily barricaded the entire UP Gate area with hardly any space left even for pedestrians. The Delhi Police commissioner, SN Shrivastava, on Tuesday had said, “I am surprised when tractors were used on January 26 and police were attacked and barricading was broken, no one raised questions. What we did? We have just strengthened the barricades so that they should not be broken time and again.” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee, said that situation at the border is like an “undeclared emergency.” “There is heavy barricading at the border and even sharp iron nails have been fixed. It is suspected that it is a ploy to turn locals against us. The situation is sort of undeclared emergency. On our part, we have no plans to go to Delhi,” Bajwa said. “We have our volunteers who regularly check and try to spot anti-social and unruly elements,” he added. As a result of blockade of the expressway, majority of commuters are getting diverted to the Kaushambi border near Anand Vihar from where they can enter East Delhi. However, the woes of commuters as well as pedestrians are not likely to end soon. The protesting farmers have already given a call for “Chakka jam” on February 6. Farmer leaders on Monday announced a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ for three hours. They said that it is a call for blockade of state and national highways to protest against the suspension of internet and heavy barricading at agitation sites and also to push their demands for repeal of new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pedestrians-worst-hit-by-heavy-barricading-at-delhi-up-border-101612376877242.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Discom starts works for three new feeders to provide uninterrupted power to industrial units||Taking serious notes of the power interruptions faced by industries in different blocks in sector 63, the power distribution company (discom)– Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – has begun constructing three new feeders. These supply feeders will cater over 2,000 industrial units in the sector from April, the officials said.PVVNL chief engineer (Noida), Virendra Nath Singh, said that while two feeders are almost ready, work on the third is ongoing. “Since we have to complete these feeders latest by March 31, the works are being expedited. These feeders, each with a capacity of 33 kVA, will be in the D, G and J blocks of sector 63. Work for connecting these feeders to the 132 kV power sub-station in sector 69, has also been started,” he said.Feeders are the power lines through which electricity is transmitted in power systems. Feeder transmits power from generating station or substation to the distribution points.The discom will also supply power through two transmission lines in all the eight blocks of the sector, which has the most number of industrial units in Gautam Budh Nagar district in a particular sector. “It is also a vital source of revenue for the discom. It will als benefit 40,000 domestic consumers in the neighbouring areas,” said Singh.Singh also said that to avert power cuts during peak hours, the PVVNL has also begun overhauling the infrastructure in the district. “We have released ₹20 crore for upgrades. The agency, which was awarded the contract, has already started replacing 17,500 poles, 990 air circuit breakers (ACBs) between transformers and low transmission power lines, and 11 kilowatt (kW) vacuum circuit breakers (VCBs),” he said. He said that the agency is also replacing 100 kilometers of 11kV cables, 80km of insulated conductor cables and 200 pillar boxes, besides chemical earthing in different areas and societies of GB Nagar. “The work for replacing 300 poles, 10 kilometers of 11kv wires and five kilometers of insulated conductor wires in Sector 29 and 31 has already been completed. Besides, as many as 25 uncovered pillar boxes have been replaced in both these sectors. The agency has also been asked to use aerial bunched (AB) cable for overhead wiring, for checking stop power theft in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/discom-starts-works-for-three-new-feeders-to-provide-uninterrupted-power-to-industrial-units-101612376636201.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Tax waivers to be sought to make Jewar airport financially viable||Greater Noida: Swiss company Zurich International AG that will build the Noida international airport is likely to demand tax concessions when it will meet Uttar Pradesh government officials on Thursday in Lucknow, officials said on Wednesday. Tax on aviation turbine fuel (ATF), passenger charges, airport taxes, ticket taxes, stamp taxes, and others, will be among the relief measures that the concessionaire is expected to seek. For greenfield airports, the ministry of civil aviation left the decision on offering fiscal incentives to state governments.However, the officials said that the amount of taxes in a year is yet to be estimated.The Swiss company has been given the rights to run the airport for 40 years under its Indian subsidiary Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIALP). The tax exemptions, said the officials, are required to make the project economically viable. “We will put forth YIAPL’s demands before the government with our recommendations during Thursday’s meeting. The final decision will be upto the state government,” said Arun Vir Singh, the chief executive officer of Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), which is a government joint venture that will implement the project, and Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida).Singh will also be attending the meeting with Yeida officer on special duty Shailendra Bhatia and Zurich International officials. Neither YIALP officials nor Zurich International AG officials responded to request for comment.The development comes as YIALP begins to putting the final touches to the plan to develop the airport and officials say it wants to know where the Uttar Pradesh government stood on supporting it via tax reliefs before the stakeholders ink final documents. It is expected that the work on the airport will begin by mid-2021 and will target to open for operations in 2023-’24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tax-waivers-to-be-sought-to-make-jewar-airport-financially-viable-101612376635420.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Man loses ₹30 lakh to web acquaintance in customs clearance scam||Noida: A man has allegedly lost about ₹30 lakh over three months to an ‘American’ woman who befriended him online and cheated him with two other gang members on the pretext of customs clearance for a parcel. A case was registered at Noida’s Cyber police station on Wednesday. The complainant, Sarfaraz Nawaz Saifi, who runs an AC repair shop, is a resident of Masoori in Ghaziabad. In the complaint, he said that on January 17 last year, he received a friend request from a woman named Satlora Pace. “I accepted her request without suspecting a foul play. Pace introduced herself as an officer in US Army presently posted in Afghanistan,” he said. The two persons started talking to each other using messenger app and through emails, police said. Saifi said that one day Pace informed that she had a bag having US $1.5 million and she can’t carry all the money to the US due to legal complications. “Pace said that if she carried the money to the US, the customs department will quiz her and she may lose her job. She said that she would send the money to me,” he said. Pace had shared a bank account number and asked Saifi to pay ₹77,000 as customs clearance fee. “I believed the woman and made the payment. Soon, I received a call from another woman Mona Singh, who identified herself as a customs officer and asked me to deposit ₹1.98 lakh in a bank account to clear the parcel,” he said. The victim discussed the issue with Pace and finally made this payment too, the police said. The complainant said that he then got another call from a person named Krish William, who also identified himself as a customs official, and asked him to get a tax clearance certificate by paying ₹4.95 lakh. Saifi said that he again paid the money. However, the gang members continued calling him and demanding money for different clearances. The complainant said that he lost ₹29.97 lakh in this online fraud to the gang. Recently, Saifi filed a complaint at a local police station, which forwarded it to Noida’s Cyber police station, as it specialises in the investigation of cyber crimes. Triveni Singh, superintendent of police (cyber crime), said that a case has been registered against three suspects under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC and Section 66 of IT Act. “We are investigating the case. The suspects would be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-loses-30-lakh-to-web-acquaintance-in-customs-clearance-scam-101612376575368.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Farmers protest outside Greater Noida authority office for higher land compensation||GREATER NOIDA: A group of farmers demanding higher compensation for land that the Greater Noida Authority will acquire completed their 11th day of protest outside its corporate office in Knowledge Park IV on Wednesday.Police estimate that there were over 500 protesters at the site and 200 personnel were deployed to ensure order. The Greater Noida Authority wants to acquire around 80 hectares from the villages of Palla, Bodaki, Katehda and Chitheda for industrial projects and the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor. “We want four times the prevailing circle rate of ₹1,700 per square metre, while the government is willing to give only two times the amount,” said Dharam Singh, a farmer from Palla village. “Earlier, the authority did not provide residential plots to farmers who gave land for development. Therefore, we want a written assurances that they will give us 20% of total acquired land for residential purposes,” said Manish Bhati, a farmer leader. Farmers demanded that their children get reservation in private jobs too. “Farmers should be made partners in the development process,” said Praveen Bharatiya, a farmer leader. Greater Noida authority Narendra Bhooshan said, “We can give compensation as per rules, which is only two times the circle rate. We are trying to address their concerns.”Ajay Kumar, station house officer, Surajpur police station, said that around 500 farmers protested outside the Greater Noida office. “The police team was deployed at the spot to ensure enforcement of law and order. We have not received any complaint in this regard,” he said.On Wednesday, leaders of various political parties also lent their support to the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-outside-greater-noida-authority-office-for-higher-land-compensation-101612376515338.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Two charged under Gangster Act for double murder in Greater Noida west||Two men were charged under the Gangster Act for the murder of a department store owner and his wife in Greater Noida (West) last year, said police on Wednesday.Police identified the suspects as 19-year-old Aman Hayat Khan and 40-year-old Saurabh Chauhan. They were arrested two days after the murder of Khan’s employer 55-year-old departmental store owner Vinay Kumar Gupta and 50-year-old Neha Gupta in their flat on November 3. They also made away with ₹1 lakh, said police.Manish Pratap Singh, SHO Bisrakh police station, said, “The double murder had created a sense of fear among the local residents. Their presence among the general public is not good and hence they should be booked under the Gangster Act.” Khan, a BCA first-year student, was allegedly in a relationship with Chauhan’s daughter who allegedly demanded money to start a business, else he would file a complaint against him.Under pressure, Khan allegedly murdered his employer and his wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-charged-under-gangster-act-for-double-murder-in-greater-noida-west-101612375855235.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Two held in Noida for duping businessman on pretext of food licence||Noida: Two members of a gang were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly duping a businessman of ₹10 lakh on the pretext of providing him a distribution licence for food products. The suspects were identified as Chaman Singh (35) and Jaipal Singh (55), residents of Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase 3. According to police officials, a complaint was filed with the sector 58 police on October 28 by a Bihar-based businessman who alleged that he was duped of ₹10 lakh by the suspects.Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, said that the suspects were running an office from Sector 62 and have duped other people as well. “The suspects would approach victims on the pretext of providing distribution licence for products like oils and offer profit sharing if they brought in clients. In this manner, they took money from the complainant and refused to pay it back when he asked for it,” said Verma.The police officials said that the suspects have been booked in at least four such cases in Lucknow and one in Meerut. “We are coordinating with police in these districts. At least two members of the gang are absconding and a search is on for them. One of them has also gone to jail on previous occasion for similar offence,” said Verma.The suspects were nabbed from near the Itham tower in Sector 62 after they were tracked through their phones, said the police, adding that the bank accounts of the suspects are also being seized. The officials said that the suspects also ran a property dealing business in Delhi and told clients that they are father and son. They had fake identity cards which they used for business purposes, said police. Verma also said that following the arrests, more complainants are coming forward and respective charges will be added against the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-held-in-noida-for-duping-businessman-on-pretext-of-food-licence-101612375795142.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Air quality improves, yet remains in very poor category in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida: Air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad improved on Wednesday with better ventilation, and pollution monitoring agencies expect further improvement in the next two days. However, it remained within the “very poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB’s) air quality index (AQI).According to the weather department, stronger and warmer easterly and south-easterly winds on Wednesday led to better dispersion of the pollutants. The pattern is expected to remain the same on Thursday. Added to this is a western disturbance in the northern states.A western disturbance is a storm originating from the Mediterranean Sea which brings sudden winter rain to the northwestern parts of the Indian subcontinent. This, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) is likely to bring about rain on Thursday evening.“Due to the western disturbance in Himalayan states, the wind direction in the national capital region (NCR) change from the cold north-westerly to warmer easterly and south-easterly. The wind speed on Wednesday was also good around 18 kmph during afternoon hours that lead to quick dispersion of the particles. The wind speed will remain good for next two days as well,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre,IMD.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, on Wednesday was 339 against 372 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was against 345 against 379 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 388 against 394 on Thursday. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The three cities – Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad - have been suffering either ‘very-poor’ or ‘severe’ levels of air quality since January 13, while the best air quality last realised was under ‘moderate’ category on January 4. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the surface winds will be supportive of further dispersion of the particle pollutants till February 6. “Surface winds have improved as forecasted and is east and north-easterly in direction. Under the approaching western disturbance isolated rain is expected tomorrow. The improved ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively for the next three days. AQI is likely to improve to the lower end of the Very Poor to Poor category for the next two days. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate but in the lower end of the Very Poor category on 6th February,” said the SAFAR statement on Wednesday.According to the weather analyst, certain regions of NCR, including Noida may see light rains to drizzling (too low to measure) towards Thursday afternoon and evening, the temperatures will remain well above the season’s average. The current active western disturbance will have its effect till February 5.“The minimum temperature will be higher than the season’s average which currently is around 9 to 10 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature will drop however from February 6 onwards but there will not be any cold wave and the maximum drop in the mercury will be within season’s average,” said IMD’s Srivastava. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature of Noida soared by 4 degrees Celsius. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 12.1 degrees Celsius, against 8.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 25.2 degrees Celsius against 27.2 degrees a day earlier. For NCR, the average minimum and maximum temperature based on Safdarjung observatory was 10.4 degrees Celsius – two degrees above the season’s average, and 26.1 degrees Celsius, four degrees Celsius above the season’s average respectively. The minimum and maximum on Thursday is expected to hover around 11 and 24 degrees Celsius respectively||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-yet-remains-in-very-poor-category-in-noida-ghaziabad-101612375735813.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Man found injured outside friend’s house succumbs, probe on||Noida: A 30-year-old man, who was found injured outside his friend’s house in Sarfabad village on Monday evening, succumbed to injuries on Wednesday. A probe in the case is underway, police said.The deceased was identified as Pintu Yadav, a resident of the village. Police officials said that he and his friend had travelled to Bulandshahr earlier this week and had come back on Monday itself.“Yadav had spent time at the friend’s house on Monday before he left the place. A few hours later, he was found bleeding from a head injury outside the house after which the locals rushed him to a private hospital,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station.The officials said that they received a memo from the hospital about Yadav after which a team was rushed to the spot. “We have spoken to his family members and friends. The locals in the area don’t recall seeing anything which might provide clues as to what happened to Yadav. A probe in the case is underway,” said Kumar.Yadav’s body was sent for an autopsy, the police said, adding that the autopsy report would confirm the cause of death.The police said that the it can be a case of an accident because the spot where the body was found was below a staircase which did not have any railing. However, all angles are being probed, said the police.“The family has not filed any complaint yet. A case will be registered as soon as they do file a complaint,” said SHO.Yadav’s body was handed over to the family following the autopsy, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-found-injured-outside-friend-s-house-succumbs-probe-on-101612375735176.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Illegal constructions in four colonies razed||Continuing its drive against illegal colonies in the city, the enforcement team of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Wednesday carried out an extensive demolition drive in four illegal colonies in and around Bhondsi. Enforcement officials said that three earthmoving machines were deployed and they were supported by over 100 police personnel. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that 25 under-construction houses in various stages, 15 shops and 150 plinths were demolished in Sneh Vihar, Defence Colony and two more colonies being developed on Damdama Road. “Several complaints in this regard were received by the department and consequently, action was taken. Illegal constructions would not be allowed,” he said. The drive started around 12.30pm and continued till late evening, said officials. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement, said that their team reached Sneh Vihar first and despite the presence of a large crowd, they managed to carry out the work. “The demolitions carried out in Defence Enclave were the maximum, as several shops and houses were getting constructed there,” he said. Around 30 acres were cleared of illegal road networks and similar constructions, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-constructions-in-four-colonies-razed-101612374477364.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination of Gurugram’s front-line workers to start||The district health department will start the second phase of Covid-19 vaccinations with the inoculation of front-line workers — Gurugram police personnel, employees of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), and revenue department staff — on Thursday. At least 1,100 front-line workers are likely to be covered on the first day, including at least 500 sanitation staff from the MCG, 500 police personnel deployed at borders and at least 100 revenue department staffers who have been involved in the Covid-19 management. Health officials said that only Covishield will be given on Thursday to the front-line workers and those above the age of 50 have been given priority in the lists. The vaccination of front-line staff will take place alongside the ongoing vaccination of healthcare workers, at public and private health facilities. The health department has already given vaccine jabs to almost 23,000 healthcare workers in the district. On Thursday, almost 650 health staff have to be covered at 31 session sites. On Wednesday, 627 of the 700 targeted healthcare workers turned up to receive their jabs at 21 sites. Officials said the inoculation of healthcare workers has already reached a saturation point in the district. Therefore, to retain the pace of vaccination, ensuring minimal vaccine wastage, the health department will begin the inoculation of almost 18,000 registered front-line staff. “Vaccination of front-line and healthcare workers will continue simultaneously at 44 identified locations. For front-line workers, office buildings or community centres near their workplace have been chosen to ensure the staff can reach the vaccination site anytime from 9am to 5pm,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. For Gurugram police, session sites have been set up at five spots — the police commissionerate, DCP traffic tower, police lines, police stations at Sohna and Manesar. To facilitate vaccination of MCG workers, five sites have been set up at the MCG’s Sector 34 office, community centres in Sector 27 and Sector 10A, Islampur and Sukhrali. For the employees of revenue department, inoculation will be held at the Mini Secretariat building. “The vaccination sites have been set up based on the facilities suggested by the respective departments,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “The staff can walk in easily at specific vaccination sites allocated to the particular department. Police personnel can walk in at any of the five sites. An MCG worker can do the same. Each of these sites has been provided with the complete list of registered vaccine beneficiaries,” said Singh.According to him, the three departments have been told to circulate messages regarding the inoculation. “Besides messages regarding vaccination being circulated through Co-WIN, the respective departments have been told to inform their employees about vaccination through their WhatsApp groups or text messages,” said Singh.Dr Ashish Singh, chief medical officer, MCG, said that messages have been circulated through sanitation inspectors and supervisors at the MCG level. “Over 6,600 sanitation workers, firefighters and cremation staff, among others, have been registered. They have been encouraged to come forward for the vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-of-gurugram-s-front-line-workers-to-start-101612374476857.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Farmers to block highways, take over tolls||Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border said that they would hold a “chakka jam” (blockades) across both the states on February 6, on the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Farmers from Rajasthan also plan to make toll plazas free in the state, on the lines of Haryana and Punjab, from February 6. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year. They say they fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Sharing plans about the chakka jam, Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said that the National Highway-48 (NH-48) will be blocked along with other roads that are currently being used for traffic movement. “Our plan is to hold the chakka jam on NH-48. Currently, we have kept a service road open for movement of ambulances and other emergency vehicles. Traffic is also moving in the area through local roads. We will be closing off the local roads for three hours on February 6. There will be no traffic movement during the chakka jam,” said Sohlot. Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that chakka jams will take place across villages and towns. “We are reaching out to people in different villages. The blockade will take place at multiple levels. Khaps are organising meetings in different places and coming out to support,” said Madhav. Ranjit Singh Raju, the coordinator of Rajasthan’s Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti — one of the farmers’ bodies under the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — said that blockades will take place for a duration of three hours on February 6. “Chakka jam will take place on both national highways and state highways. Following the chakka jam, people will take over tolls in Rajasthan, like Haryana and Punjab,” said Raju. He said that nearly a month ago, farmers had stopped toll collection at various places — Hanumangarh, Ganganagar and Bikaner in Rajasthan. “We are calling on the residents of Rajasthan to recognise their strength and stop toll collection. They should make the government understand the power of common people,” said Raju. He said that support for the farmers’ agitation was pouring in from states beyond Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, and that people are holding meetings to strengthen the movement. “Haryana has been taking part in the agitation since the beginning. Now, we are getting massive support from Uttar Pradesh as well. The chakka jam and all other future activities will compel the government to pay heed to farmers,” said Raju.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-to-block-highways-take-over-tolls-101612374476311.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||NHAI imposes ₹3-cr penalty on Sohna road contractor for mishap last year||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) imposed a ₹3-crore penalty on the contractor responsible for building the Sohna road elevated project, a section of which crashed near Vipul Green condominium on August 22 last year.The authority withdrew its decision to debar the contractor -- Oriental Infrastructure Ltd -- from participating in future projects after it agreed to pay the penalty and to follow other recommendations, including improving its standard operating procedures (SOPs). The order was passed on January 27 but made public on Wednesday.NHAI project director (Gurugram) Shashi Bhushan confirmed the penalty but did not comment on the decision to revoke the debarment.Another senior NHAI official privy to the matter, however, said that the contractor had submitted that the decision to debar it was too harsh and requested it be withdrawn.“The authority considered its submission in light of the report of the expert committee (that looked into the incident) and decided to withdraw its decision,” said the NHAI official. “The onus of rectification, however, was imposed on the contractor at its own cost.”A senior official from Oriental Structures Pvt Ltd, not authorised to speak to the media, said, “We have taken all corrective measures and included more safety measures to prevent such incidents in future. The SOP has also been revised. We have also paid the penalty.”The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project has two parts — an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk to a point beyond Badshahpur. The second part comprises the expansion of the 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and will involve the construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch.On August 22, 2020, a concrete span between pillars 10 and 11 crashed and work was suspended. No one was injured in the incident.An expert committee formed by the NHAI looked into the incident and submitted its recommendations. In the first week of last September, the company was debarred from participating in NHAI project bids.On Tuesday, the NHAI said that in order to deal with the lapses in highway development, it has issued a strict policy to decide penal action against defaulting firms and personnel .It said that a graded penal action will be taken against the defaulters in cases of minor lapses, major incidents and major failures resulting in loss of human lives. In case of a major lapse leading to loss of human life, fine up to ₹10 crore and debarment of the firm/personnel up to three years along with rectification by the defaulting contractors, concessionaires on their own cost may be imposed.For major lapses where no casualties are reported, rectification by the defaulting contractors, concessionaires on their own cost and /or debarment of firm up to one year with penalty up to ₹5 crore along with debarment of concerned personnel for up to two years from NHAI projects has been provisioned. The authority has made a detailed list for such actions for major and minor lapses, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-imposes-3-cr-penalty-on-sohna-road-contractor-for-mishap-last-year-101612374475685.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG develops app to track toilet facilities in city||After receiving a large number of complaints from residents regarding the state of toilets in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has developed an app for its staff to monitor the facilities. Officials, especially those with the sanitation wing, have been tasked with covering the city’s 122 toilets and inspect each for cleanliness, water and electricity connection, working taps, switches, and availability of toiletries. Subsequently, they will have to upload photos in the app for verification. “People have been lodging complaints with the MCG that the toilets are not clean, locked, or do not have running water or electricity connection. To overcome this, we hence decided to develop a QR-code based internal app where it would be mandatory for sanitary inspectors or assistant sanitary inspectors to upload photos of clean and working public toilets,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), MCG.Kumar said that the objective behind uploading photos of “clean and functioning” toilets is to maintain some level of supervision and ensure that the sanitation inspector or assistant sanitation inspector are getting the toilets cleaned and ensuring that all provisions are present inside the facility regularly. The app developed last week, however, does not have a name.The condition of toilets has been a major concern, especially, over the past three years. In July 2018, the only time a survey of public toilets was carried out, MCG officials had found that 60 of the 99 public toilets in the city did not have continuous water and electricity supply due to which the facilities were of little use to the public. In May 2018, during a surprise inspection, the then MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav had also found many public toilets across the city to be locked, prompting MCG to terminate and penalise several of their contractors.There are 122 MCG toilets in the city, of which 111 are public toilets and 11 are community toilets.The public toilets are open from 6 am-10 pm while the community toilets are open 24x7. Besides the app, Dr Harbhajan Singh, SBM team member, MCG, said that the civic body has also linked itself to two government apps, the SBM toilet locator and Swachh Haryana app.“Toilets of only those cities that have been certified ODF++ by the central government are included in the SBM toilet locator app. From the app, residents can navigate their way to the closest public toilet. Further, the MCG has also linked itself with the Swachh Haryana App, where a dedicated section for public toilets is available. In this section, residents can lodge complaints such as unclean toilets, toilets operating without any water supply or electricity connection, or toilets in need of repair,” said Singh.ODF (open defecation free) ++ certifies that a city is free of open defecation and that all sewage in the city is properly managed and treated, without it being discharged in stormwater drains, water bodies or vacant plots.Gurugram was certified as ODF++ in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-develops-app-to-track-toilet-facilities-in-city-101612374475096.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||One killed, three critical in accident near Bilaspur crossing on NH-48||A 36-year-old woman was killed while three others, including two children, were critically injured after a speeding canter hit the car they were travelling in near the Bilaspur crossing on Tuesday morning. The police said that the driver of the Hyundai i10 lost control of the vehicle due to the impact, following which it collided a stationary truck on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. A family of four was on its way to Jodhpur in Rajasthan, to visit the man’s parents, when the accident took place, around 8.30am. The police said that the spot where the collision took place is among the most dangerous spots in the city, from where 11 such incidents, including three fatal ones, were reported last month. Shesh Kumar Dixit, the woman’s father-in-law, said that an unidentified person called him from his son’s phone and informed him of the accident. He also claimed that the caller told him that passersby were stealing from the injured. “I asked him for details but he was in a hurry, as he was shifting my family members into an ambulance. He asked me to rush to Gurugram and said that some passersby had stolen cash and valuables from the car and my daughter-in-law,” said Dixit, who lives in Jodhpur.The four of them were taken to a private hospital in the vicinity, where doctors declared the woman brought dead. The man and the two children were shifted to a private hospital in Sector 38. The injured are undergoing treatment and are in the intensive care unit of the hospital, the police said on Tuesday evening.The woman has been identified as Nidhi Dixit (36). Her husband, Sharad Dixit (37), works as a manager with a five-star hotel in Sohna, who, along with their children — seven-year-old Aarav and five-year-old Anika — is set to be operated on, Dixit said. Naveen Kumar, the station house officer of Bilaspur police station, said that they received a call from a passerby after which a team and PCR vehicle deployed at the crossing was sent to the spot. “The canter had left from the spot and we could not identify it as there are no CCTV cameras at the spot. Eyewitnesses, in their statement, said a speeding canter had hit the car from behind,” he said. Kumar said he was not aware of the theft as the complaint did not mention anything in this regard, but he would investigate if the family was robbed. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified driver, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/one-killed-three-critical-in-accident-near-bilaspur-crossing-on-nh48-101612374417458.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram records warmest day of the year||The city experienced its warmest day of the year on Wednesday, with the minimum temperature rising to 13 degrees Celsius, up from 9.4 degrees Celsius on the previous day, while the maximum temperature increased marginally to 24.5 degrees — four notches above normal. Warmer conditions are likely to persist till at least February 5, along with thunderstorms and rain. As per official forecasts, there is a 75% probability of 3 to 5 mm rainfall on Thursday. Experts explained that Wednesday’s uptick in mercury was under the influence of easterly winds that are currently sweeping through Delhi-NCR. “There is a fluctuation in the wind direction which typically happens a few days before the passage of a western disturbance. Easterly winds are not as cold as westerly winds, and they have had a warming effect. It will remain warm for two to three days. Formation of rain clouds over Delhi-NCR will also trap heat,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Delhi.Chilly conditions are likely to set in once again from February 6, when the minimum temperature is expected to remain between 8 and 9 degrees Celsius, due to residual moisture in the atmosphere after rain. “This will also result in foggy mornings, which have been the norm in north India over the past couple of months. Shallow to moderate haze, fog and mist will continue for another week, but afternoons will be clearer,” Srivastava said. The maximum temperature is expected to dip to about 21 degrees Celsius over the next two days, but will start rising rapidly after the weather system has passed. The IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram predicts a maximum temperature of 26 degrees Celsius on February 9. However, officials clarified that cold wave conditions — which occur when the minimum temperature falls to 4 degrees Celsius or below — are highly unlikely. “We are past that point of the winter. Cold wave conditions are not going to come back, as they started abating in late January,” Srivastava said.Air quality in the city improved slightly on Wednesday but remained in the very poor category, with an air quality index (AQI) of 304, down from 324 on Tuesday. Further improvement is expected under the influence of rain and fluctuating winds, which are expected to touch speeds of 12 to 16kmph. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to improve further and crossover from lower end of very poor to poor category on 04.02.2021. The air quality is likely to remain in poor to moderate category on 05.02.2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-records-warmest-day-of-the-year-101612374416883.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Bilaspur Chowk remains an unresolved black spot||Each time an accident was reported at the Bilaspur crossing in January, local agencies responded with an intervention in an attempt to make the stretch safer. However, a month and six deaths later, the situation is yet to change.The police, regional transport authority (RTA) and the erstwhile Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ) — a state government programme on road safety — have repeatedly identified Bilaspur crossing as a black spot. Teams from the police and RTA visit the accident spots after each fatality to prepare a spot report and to document the reason for the accident. The police said they had first identified the crossing as a black spot six years ago. Accidents are still regularly reported from this spot due to speeding and absence of a pedestrian bridge, due to which people are forced to walk on the main carriageway. A road stretch is termed as a black spot if more than five fatalities are recorded in a 500-metre stretch over a three-year period.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that they have been asked by the deputy commissioner to submit recommendations and action report on steps taken to reduce accidents. “We have found several reasons for accidents on this stretch and the same has been submitted to the district administration and RTA recently. We can control the traffic movement but cannot make engineering changes or construct the pedestrian bridge. The lack of a pedestrian crossing is leading to accidents as movement of heavy vehicles is high on the stretch due to it being an industrial area,” he said. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner, said they are examining all black spots again and will try to rectify the problem in a specific time. “Before that, we will hold a meeting with all stakeholders of road safety to see how to reduce road fatalities in minimum time,” he said. Rao said they have asked those running eateries to ensure that vehicles are not parked on the expressway and to allot parking spaces for truckers, failing which they would face action. However, the police also admitted that rash driving remains a major concern. On the other hand, RTA officials said they have flagged the concern to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Public Works Department (PWD), which are responsible for maintaining the stretch, but no action has been taken yet. They are also analysing the data to pinpoint reasons for the accidents and suggest solutions. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, said that they are aware of accidents happening at the spot and have discussed the issue in monthly road safety meetings. “Our teams are coordinating with NHAI and PWD and have raised engineering issues. This time, we will ask for a deadline from the authority concerned and will ensure the engineering issues are resolved,” she said. HVZ had stated in a report that stretches at Bilaspur Chowk are not properly fenced, due to which pedestrians as well as two-wheelers continue to cross the highway at any point.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert and a member of HVZ, which stopped functioning last year, said, “NHAI, the road owning agency, is well aware of the road safety hazard at this location. However, nothing has been done to improve the safety of this high-risk location and we continue to observe loss of lives at this spot. All these deaths are preventable, provided we act right.”HVZ had recommended road markings along with signages, stronger enforcement and long-term measures, such as intersection redesign, along with proper pedestrian and cycle crossings, to reduce the fatalities. The volume of traffic is high on the stretch as several factories are located on both sides of the expressway. Ishan Gogoi, programme coordinator, Raahgiri Foundation, who has conducted audits of the spot in the past, said that Bilaspur Chowk remains an unresolved blackspot due to its mixed traffic use, ranging from heavily loaded trucks transporting goods from one city to another, to public and private vehicles, and pedestrians. “The accident victims have mostly been pedestrians and cyclists, due to lack of proper pedestrian crossings and traffic calming measures, which are extremely necessary at intersections such as these. Also, with Bilaspur being a hinterland for Gurugram city, it isn’t paid much attention to infrastructure-wise,” he said. Daily commuters on the stretch said the authorities should install speeding metres and deploy police to monitor the traffic movement. “Arrangements, such as marking crossings with paint, should be made so that pedestrians can cross the junction without much difficulty. There is no pedestrian amenity here and we have to cross the main highway amid traffic, leading to mishaps,” said Ram Kumar, the floor manager of an automobile company located in the vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bilaspur-chowk-remains-an-unresolved-black-spot-101612374415721.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Local cable operator booked for damaging Airtel fibre network||The police on Tuesday registered a case against a local cable operator for allegedly stealing fibre-optic cables of telecom company Bharti Airtel and damaging its broadband infrastructure in the city. Officials of Bharti Airtel, the complainant, alleged that a local cable operator in New Colony area of Old Gurugram is harassing their staff and damaging their infrastructure, inconveniencing customers. The New Colony police have registered an FIR under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.The company officials, in their complaint, alleged that they had started providing broadband services to Sector 7 since last March, following which the local cable operator had allegedly been threatening their staff and damaging the infrastructure. They said that complaints were filed last March and April, over a similar incident, wherein the underground fibre network was allegedly snapped at several points and their staff abused. OP Galhotra, group director (security), Bharti Airtel, said, “We have shared all details with the authorities including CCTV footage and hope that these perpetrators will be brought to task. Sabotaging reliable internet connectivity at a time when it is most needed by customers in times of Covid-19 is most condemnable and also impacts the ease of doing business.” KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they have received several complaints from the company in the last few months. Due to lack of evidence, no case was registered. “In the recent case, residents have recorded videos where some people are seen damaging and stealing cables from different spots. People are more dependent on internet connectivity as they are operating from home and children have online classes. The cable operator was intentionally damaging the cables as he had suffered losses due to the connections provided by the company,” he said. Residents said that the local cable operator had a monopoly till last March. “When Bharti Airtel laid cables, we immediately applied for the connection,” said Ravi Mahajan, a resident of New Colony, adding that the cable operator has threatened many residents of dire consequences as they have collected evidence against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/local-cable-operator-booked-for-damaging-airtel-fibre-network-101612374416310.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||District administration initiates a new road safety programme||Similar to the concept of Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ), city road safety experts, along with the district administration, have initiated a road safety programme specifically for Gurugram district known as Safer Streets for Gurugram (SSFG).As a part of the programme, road safety experts would survey all stretches across the city to identify black spots, accident-prone stretches, reasons behind collisions, types of collisions, and, accordingly, suggest engineering or infrastructural changes to concerned public authorities for implementation during district road safety meetings.HVZ, a collective for road safety experts commissioned by the government and funded by private partners, had seized operations in July last year due to lack of funding. Since then, there has been no road safety programme in Gurugram.“Our operation will be similar to HVZ, except for the fact that it will be carried out at the city level rather than at the level of the state. Micro operations will help us in allocating our resources better and ensure that they are executed swiftly on ground. We have set a target of carrying out engineering changes in at least 10 intersections or junctions across the city annually,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, road safety expert, SSFG.Bhatt further said that the operations for auditing all stretches across Gurugram have commenced, following which a detailed data report would be submitted to the district administration, along with the details of those points from where the highest number of road fatalities are being reported.“In the audit, we will analyse all the FIRs registered across the city over the past three years, where fatal accidents have taken place. Through studying the data, we will identify stretches where the most number of accidents have taken place. Next, we shall undertake on-site visits to determine the reasons behind the road crashes,” said Bhatt.For example, an analysis of the three-year FIR data between 2016 and 2019 revealed that the Khandsa Chowk had the highest number of road fatalities anywhere in the city, during this time period. Upon site visits and auditing the stretch, it was identified that lack of pedestrian fatalities at the junction on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway was the main cause behind road fatalities. Subsequently, on recommendation, a foot-over-bridge (FOB) was built at the junction.Bhatt further said that the only addition or difference in operations between HVZ and SSFG is that in the latter, focus on making intersections or junctions safer for the crossing of pedestrians and cyclists through engineering changes would also be prioritised.Bhatt added that SSFG has started working with Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority GMDA) for redesigning four key crossings — Sector 44 intersection, Bristol Chowk, Kanhai Chowk, and Ambedkar Chowk.As per HVZ data, the total number of road fatalities in Gurugram was 484 in 2017, 469 in 2018, and 401 in 2019 Last year, 375 fatalities were reported from Gurugram roads, as per Gurugram police data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/district-administration-initiates-a-new-road-safety-programme-101612374415170.html
03-02-2021||Other||Father grieving the loss of infant girl ends life in Ludhiana||Depressed over the death of his newborn daughter, a 23-year-old labourer hanged himself to death at the LIG Flats in Daba on Tuesday night. At the time of the incident the man was alone present at home.“After his marriage in February 2020, he and his wife had a baby girl in December. However, the infant died on January 8 following an ailment. This pushed him into depression,” said inspector Mehma Singh, station house officer, Daba police station.His wife was away at her parents’ house for the past few days. She was going to return on Monday, but she decided to stay with her parents for a couple of days more. On Tuesday night, the youth hanged himself. The matter came to fore when neighbours saw his body hanging through the window.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of his wife. An autopsy was conducted at the civil hospital on Wednesday and the body was handed over to the deceased’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/father-grieving-the-loss-of-infant-girl-ends-life-in-ludhiana-101612373094918.html
03-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana youth booked for impregnating, marrying 15-year-old cousin||Minor girl gave birth to a boy in 2019; matter came to fore on panchayat member’s complaintPolice are on the trail of a 20-year-old man, who raped and impregnated the minor daughter of his maternal uncle and later married her.Following her sexual exploitation while living in the care of her paternal aunt, the 15-year-old girl had delivered a boy in 2019.A case was registered against the accused, a resident of Navi Abadi of Akalgarh, on Tuesday, over a year after a panchayat member filed a police complaint against him and his parents.According to the complainant, Rajinder Singh, the minor girl was living with her maternal aunt, her husband and their 20-year-old son when he raped and impregnated her. When her pregnancy came to light, his parents had him marry his cousin. Singh alleged a Congress panchayat member also played a role in the minor girl’s marriage.After the marriage, the girl gave birth to a baby boy.Singh said when he came to know about the matter, he lodged a complaint with the Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) on November 23, 2019. After investigation, the police had forwarded the complaint to the child welfare department for further action.When no action was taken, he filed a complaint with social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary and director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta. After the minister intervened, the police lodged an FIR against the accused on Tuesday.Inspector Jasvir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sudhar police station, said they had booked the girl’s cousin under Sections 10 (solemnising a child marriage) and 11 (promoting or permitting solemnisation of child marriages) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, and Section 12 (sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act.He said more names and sections could be added to the FIR after recording the girl’s statement, adding that efforts were on arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-youth-booked-for-impregnating-marrying-15-year-old-cousin-101612373034967.html
03-02-2021||Other||Chandigarh to have direct flights to Dehradun, Indore, Jodhpur, Jammu||Chandigarh International Airport is set to have direct flights to Dehradun, Indore, Jodhpur and Jammu from March 28, when the summer schedule comes into force this year. Though the schedule is yet to be officially released, it is learnt that 20 new flights will be added on various routes.IndiGo will be operating the Dehradun flight six days a week and Indore one on all days. It has not finalised the timings for the Jodhpur flight. GoAir, which will operate the Jammu flight, is also yet to finalise the timings.Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of the airport, said the summer schedule will be released by the month’s end with four new destinations on it. “We are expecting that 20 new domestic flights will be added in the schedule on various routes,” he said, adding that even Nanded and Leh flights are being resumed in the summer schedule.However, even as 24x7 operations became a reality at the airport on April 10, 2019, no new international flight has been added.Only weekly international flights to Dubai and Sharjah are operating.At present, various domestic destinations covered are Goa, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Srinagar, Dharamshala, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/direct-flights-to-dehradun-indore-jodhpur-and-jammu-from-march-28-101612359472565.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Road Safety Month: One for the road, and safety of denizens||Don’t be surprised if you are in the Millennium City and spot someone dressed as a panda, holding a placard that reads: Follow Traffic Rules. Isn’t this a cool way to educate one about road safety? As part of 32nd National Road Safety Month (January 18 to February 17) this panda is stationed at Gurugram. Several volunteers are also stationed at various spots, to spread the message of road safety rules. They hold placards with messages such as ‘Don’t Drink and Drive’. In the Capital, Delhi Police is observing Road Safety Month on the theme of Sadak Suraksha – Jivan Raksha. In association with Indian Head Injury Foundation, they recently distributed helmets to two-wheeler riders. Mandeep Randhawa, Additional CP (Road Safety), Delhi Police, says, “There are 119 accident prone zones in Delhi. During the month, awareness programmes are being organised at all accident-prone zones to spread the message of road safety and importance of traffic rules. Virtual sessions for awareness of school children are also being conducted. Apart from this, an online seminar on road safety was also conducted by students; they performed various activities such as plays, poems etc.”Several such programmes are being organised to sensitise the public. “Past few decades, we’ve been trying to educate people on road safety rules. But it’s not creating the right impact. And, we see the road traffic fatalities increasing every year in India,” says Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder, Raahgiri Foundation, adding, “Though police challans defaulters the whole year, during this month, they are doing it more aggressively. We pick three intersections every week and follow zero tolerance on speed, red light jumping and wrong side.” In another fun activity, denizens recently witnessed a fun flash mob in Gurugram’s Galleria Market, organised by Teens of Gods, to highlight road rules. Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/road-safety-month-one-for-the-road-and-safety-of-denizens-101612358875103.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR groups resume hiking, cycling, in the new normal||The pandemic, made everyone miss working out outdoors, and cycling, walking, running in groups. But as soon as phases of Unlock began, groups were formed to exercise together albeit with safety precautions; and those groups that existed even in the pre-pandemic times, became more active. Some of the groups in Delhi-NCR share how they are working out in smaller groups with precautions in the new normal. Treasure hunt in forestsHiking every Sunday to Aravalli forests is a group, Moon Walkers of Gurgaon, which sprouted during the pandemic. “The group was formed by a few hardcore walking enthusiasts, to be away from city’s hustle bustle and to indulge in some forest bathing. We’ve explored some beautiful trails in the forests of Bhondsi, Rithoj, Damdama, Mangar, Sehjawas, Khor, Panikot, and Asola Bhatti,” says Prabhat Verma, founder of the group. Long hikes every alternate weekCycling Musketeers is another Gurugram-based group that mushroomed during the lockdown. Sarika Panda Bhatt, one of the group members, says, “We generally have bigger group walks and rides on weekends for about 50km. On weekdays, three-four of us either walk or cycle in and around the city; sometimes we do about 25-30km, or a 5km run at Aravallis. But we try to cycle at least three days a week and go for a long hike every alternate week.” No hugs or handshakes!Rajiva Lochan Singh, founder of Noida-based Joggers and Walkers Club, says, “The most important learning for us in the pandemic has been to better our immune system, which needs exercising. But the main problem is social distancing! We took to cycling in the unlock days wearing masks, and gradually returned to walking and running. Now four-five of us ride three times a week. On Sundays we opt for long-distance rides, and rest of the days we do mid segment rides, for 30 to 40kms. We’ve still not resumed group runs, and as soon we come back home, we sanitise our shoes, wash hands, and put clothes for washing in one corner. Missing how we could earlier hug or shake hands!” Kms after many monthsThe group Noida Expressway Walker had stopped group walks in the third week of March last year. Pradeep Panda, founder of the group, says, “In September 2020 we restarted walks maintaining social distancing. Many members have joined back now as they know the importance of group walking. A 10km walk is common for most. Occasionally we do 15km, 18km and 21km walks. Due to fog, we shifted our walks to afternoon two months back, and encourage all age categories to adopt walking as their regular fitness activity. We hope to motivate others to restart walking.” Author tweets @NainaArora8Follow more on Facebookand Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-groups-resume-hiking-cycling-in-the-new-normal-101612356833467.html
03-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal govt asks BJP to seek nod from local authorities for Rath Yatras||West Bengal Chief Secretary's office has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to approach local authorities for getting permission for Rath Yatras.It stated "you may instead approach the appropriate authorities at local levels entrusted with maintenance of law and order including assemblies and processions etc., under relevant Laws and Regulations," in a letter to Pratap Banerjee, State Vice President Election Office-in-Charge BJP, West Bengal dated February 2.Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda are expected to flag off five yatras this month in the poll- bound West Bengal.JP Nadda is scheduled to flag off Rath Yatra on February 6 and February 9, while Amit Shah is expected to do so on February 11.The West Bengal Assembly Elections for 294 seats are scheduled to take place this year. However, the dates of the polls have not yet been announced by the Election Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-govt-asks-bjp-to-seek-nod-from-local-authorities-for-rath-yatras-101612341316017.html
03-02-2021||Other||Congress releases list of contestants for Ahmedabad civic polls||The Congress in Gujarat has released the second list of 38 candidates for ten wards of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) which will go to polls along with other local bodies later this month.With the latest list, the Congress has declared the names of 180 candidates for various wards in the poll-bound six municipal corporations.The list, which was released on Tuesday night, mentions the names of the contestants for Gota, Chandlodia, Ranip, Nava Wadaj, Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Naranpura, Naroda, Navrangpura, and Vasna wards- all under the AMC.On February 1, the Congress declared candidates for some wards in the municipal corporations of Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar, and Bhavnagar.Elections to six municipal corporations will be held on February 21 and results will be declared on February 28. For other local bodies, polling is scheduled on February 28, and counting of votes will be taken up on March 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-releases-list-of-contestants-for-ahmedabad-civic-polls-101612356026814.html
03-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s 68-year-old begins second innings during Covid-19 pandemic||Punjabi Pinni, Panjeeri, Coconut Bombs – do these names make your mouth water, too? During the 2020 lockdown, most denizens turned home chefs. And some, like Arora aunty, used the time to start their second inningings! Gurugrammer Anita Arora, an ex lecturer in the Haryana Education Services, is one such inspirational example who revived her passion for cooking, and turned it into a business venture. That too at a time when the pandemic confined most of us indoors, feeling dejected. But, this 68-year-old didn’t let the virus douse her spirits, and recently went viral on social media. “For me, cooking was always a passion,” she says, adding, “My father used to cook, too! Gajar Ka Halwa, Urad Dal Pinni, Moong Daal Pinni... thodi thodi cheeze bana liya karti thi sath mein. Aajkal bachhe bahar rehte hain, toh thoda time nahin hota unke paas. They then eat fast food and not nutritious food. Savere savere cornflakes doodh liya aur chal diye kaam pe. But have a Pinni, which is not just healthy but also filling. Itna ki dhoodh ke sath ek khane ke baad dopahar tak bhook na lage!” Since she became an inspiration for many, through social media, her efforts to provide home cooked and healthy Indian food options have been in much demand. She is happy to receive the love and adulation coming her way, but says, “I’m not looking to expand my venture to a large scale enterprise. My kids had motivated me to start this. They said ‘Aap ghar mein rehte ho akele saara din, toh kuch nah kuch busy rakhne ke liye karo...’ And I started making pinnis that they took to their office, and then asked me to make some more. Soon orders started coming in. Jaise hi order aata hai, I start preparing. It takes me one hour to roast atta or any other material. Uske baad garama garam mein hi banani bhi hoti hai... One lady asked me to make Bhunne Channe ki Pinni, that was new to me as well, but I loved to try my hand at it.” She asserts that she’s able to make only 5 kgs of pinnis every day. “I’m not able to do more because of my age. But the regard and love that people have showered on me, woh bahut acha lagta hai mujhe,” she concludes.Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-68-year-old-begins-second-innings-during-covid-19-pandemic-101612355756144.html
03-02-2021||Noida||Can’t deliver your food, it got snatched: Is this for real?||In a screengrab that recently went viral, the text reads: ‘Sorry that we couldn’t deliver your order as the order was snatched by some others’. This message, by a food delivery app to a customer, stated a bizarre incident where some unknown miscreants allegedly snatched the food order from a delivery boy in Noida. And as soon as this incident was shared on social media, by a Twitter user Chayanika Das, it invited a host of hilarious comments such as: ‘Just another day in Noida’, ‘Gurugram mein aisa hua hai mere saath’, etc. Das, who had reportedly placed an order with the food delivery app for the first time in a Noida-based location, had to face a cancellation due to the alleged snatching. But, her sharing of the incident has led to many denizens across Delhi-NCR voice their ever-so-memorable and hysterical food ordering experiences! ‘Tyre puncture ho gaya hai’Vishesh Pahwa, a Gurugram-based corporate, recalls, “Delivery guy pauna ghanta ghumata raha saying ‘Tyre puncture ho gaya hai mera. Jahan woh bol raha tha ki tyre puncture hua hain, app pe it should have shown that the bike has stopped on the way from the restaurant to my home. But the bike kept moving in the opposite direction. It was annoying at that time, but now when I look back, I find it hilarious. And later, when I complained on the app chat, I got a call citing not one but too many reasons! I did get a refund, but the incident spoilt my dinner that day.” Replacement dish took a day to get delivered“In one incident, the rider refused to enter my society saying that I need to be the gate to collect the order as it’s Covid time. I kept wondering how entering the society will get him Covid as long as we are maintaining safe distance and wearing masks, and meanwhile the order got cancelled,” says Pawan Soni, a food and travel writer, adding how he can recall many episodes of delivery boys not turning up in time for varied reasons. Sharing a funny experience, he says, “In another incident, my daughter had ordered a taco along with a pizza. When we received the order, we found that the taco was half eaten! After complaining about this to the eatery, we were sent another taco, but that was delivered the next day!” ‘Delivery guy asked ₹200 for petrol’In another bizzare incident, a Delhi-based professional, who wishes to stay anonymous, says, “Once a delivery guy reached my place and said ‘Please give me ₹200 urgently as I’ve refill petrol in my bike’. When I clarified to him that my order was prepaid online, his tone suddenly changed and he said: ‘Theek hai toh main aapko khaana de deta hoon par main company mein main bol raha hun ki meri bike se khana gir gaya hai; then you’ll get the entire bill of ₹600 refunded aur refund aate hi aap mujhe ₹300 de dena.’ He didn’t budge and in fact waited for 20-25 minutes till the money came back to my account. And when I finally gave him cash, he said ‘Next time apko khana order karna ho toh apka order main hi pick karunga!” ‘Rider didn’t have money to pick the food’Citing another strange incident of food delivery, Smriti Chhabra from Gurgaon Community Circle, says, “We had an order for a sandwich once at around 9pm. But it didn’t get delivered even after 10pm. When we checked the tracker, we saw that the delivery guy did go to pick the sub, but then went in a way opposite to our location! We immediately called up the restaurant and enquired why the food hasn’t been delivered yet, and the person on the other side of the phone said ‘Madam the delivery boy came to up, but he didn’t have money to pay for the order so he left without collecting it.’ I was puzzled when they said that the delivery guy had to pay to be able to pick up the order, and then he would take payment from us, but he couldn’t because he didn’t have any money.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cant-deliver-your-food-it-got-snatched-is-this-for-real-101612355097451.html
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||J&K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream, govt tells RS||The Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been fully integrated into the mainstream of the nation after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy told Parliament on Wednesday. He told Rajya Sabha that 613 separatists, overground workers and stone pelters were detained in Jammu and Kashmir since August 2019 and 430 of them have been released so far. Replying to another question, Reddy said after the constitutional changes and reorganisation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been fully integrated into the mainstream of the nation. “As a result, all the rights enshrined in the Constitution of India and benefits of all the central laws that were being enjoyed by other citizens of the country are now available to the people of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh,” he said. Reddy said the change has brought about socio-economic development in both union territories, empowerment of people, removal of unjust laws, bringing in equity and fairness to those discriminated since ages who are now getting their due. These, along with comprehensive development, are a few of the important changes that are ushering both the new UTs towards peace and progress. With the conduct of elections of panchayati raj institutions such as panches and sarpanches, block development councils and district development councils, the three-tier system of grassroots level democracy has now been established in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. The minister also said that the Jammu and Kashmir administration has reported that no person is under house arrest in the UT. Reddy said the J&K administration approved a business revival package of ₹1,352.99 crore on September 25, 2020. An amount of ₹434.08 crore was released up to December 31, 2020, out of which ₹250 crore was as economic package and ₹184.08 crore as Covid-19 relief. The amount of ₹434.08 crore has been fully utilised by December 31, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-ladakh-fully-integrated-into-mainstream-govt-tells-rs-101612353892535.html
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Armed forces preparatory institute to come up in Hoshiarpur||To facilitate more youths from the state to take up defence services as a career, a new armed forces preparatory institute will come up in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday virtually laid the foundation stone of Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute at Hoshirapur’s Bajwara village, according to a government statement.The project will be executed at a cost of ₹27 crore over an area of 12.75 acres and will be completed by the year-end. The institute will impart training to 270 candidates per year.The CM said the institute will be instrumental in realising the dreams of Punjab's young sons and daughters to join the armed forces.At a time when women pilot officers are flying the Rafale and helicopters and are actively involved in every field of the armed forces, the day will soon come when girls in India will be part of the fighting force like their counterparts in other countries, he said.The CM thanked Member of Parliament Ambika Soni, the president of Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Education Trust and Society, for providing land as a gift for employment generation, skill development and training department to establish the institute.Ambika Soni thanked the state government for its help in setting up the institution.Amarinder Singh lauded the role played by Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) at Mohali in providing defence training to youth, enabling them secure permanent commission in the armed forces through the National Defence Academy or equivalent academy.The CM mentioned that of 144 cadets trained at the Mohali academy, 97 joined the NDA and 65 were commissioned as officers from April 1, 2017 to December 31, 2020.Since its inception, 156 out of 384 cadets trained at the AFPI had joined the NDA and 69 were commissioned as officers, he said, adding that from two per cent initially, the number of trainees going into the armed forces from this institution has gone up to 45%.Amarinder also referred to the performance of Mai Bhago Armed Forces Preparatory Institute for Girls at Mohali, which imparts training to young girls after Class 12 for a career as commissioned officers in the defence services.The institute has so far trained 75 cadets, of whom seven were selected for the Combined Defence Services Examination (CDSE)/Air Force Central Admission Test (AFCAT) and three were commissioned as officers from April 1, 2017 to December 31, 2020.The upcoming institute will impart training to the aspirants for induction into armed forces, keeping the entry at graduate level for CDSE/AFCAT.The institute will run three courses of three months duration with intake capacity of 40 candidates, thus imparting training to 120 candidates in a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/armed-forces-preparatory-institute-to-come-up-in-hoshiarpur-101612352217070.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Maha govt allows colleges to resume classes with 50% attendance from Feb 15||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday allowed colleges to resume classes with 50% attendance starting from February 15. Uday Samant, Maharashtra’s higher and technical education minister also announced that the government has decided to relax the 75% compulsory attendance criteria for the current academic year.The colleges have reopened in Maharashtra after a period of ten months after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic forced colleges and schools to shut down due to nationwide lockdowns. Samant said that the curb in physical attendance and relaxation in compulsory attendance has been placed due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the state. Samant said, "We have decided to restart colleges and universities in the state from February 15. The colleges can conduct physical classes with 50% students in a class."Earlier in January, vice-chancellors of all public universities in Maharashtra demanded resumption of actual classroom teaching in colleges. The vice-chancellors of the universities had demanded the restarting of normal classes in a meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The virtual meeting was also attended by state higher and technical education secretary Om Prakash Gupta, news agency PTI reported. Maharashtra governor Koshyari called the Maharashtra government's stand on reopening of colleges 'ironical' and said that if schools can reopen for children studying in classes V-VIII, universities and colleges too should resume classroom teaching. Maharashtra's state higher and technical education minister has instructed colleges authorities to strictly ensure Covid-19 preventative measures. Maharashtra has vaccinated more than 3 lakh healthcare and frontline workers so far and has more than 42,000 active Covid-19 cases in the state. (with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-govt-allows-colleges-to-resume-classes-with-50-attendance-from-feb-15-101612353181239.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Shubh Muhurat, Savdhan: Feb 16 to have too many weddings in Delhi-NCR||Expect February 16 to be buzzing with the sound of dhol and shehnai. Ask why? It’s an auspicious day for weddings, and denizens are making the most of it! “The date is auspicious because it’s an ‘ansud saya’. I’ve to myself solemnise two-three weddings, all lined up for the same day,” says Delhi-based pandit Ram Meher Sharma, adding, “February 16 is Basant Panchami, and yeh din apne aap mein ek bada parv hai. That’s why maximum people are preferring to get married on this day. Yeh ek bahut bada aur mehatvapoorn din hai. After this March 15 is Phulera Dooj, and that’s the next auspicious date for weddings.”Wedding planners in the Capital assert heavy bookings for this date. Sakshi Mehra, from the Design Room, says, “As per the charts, the star alignment on February 16 makes it auspicious day for Hindu weddings. Many believe that such a date leads to a strong possibility of a successful union... The Covid situation has been extremely challenging since most weddings are no longer being organised at the same scale anymore as earlier, but they are happening in full swing within government guidelines.” “Most of the hotels and banquet halls are booked for Feb 16,” says Salil Chaudhry from Dew Events, Khan Market, adding, “Now that our business is finally reviving, we are happy that because of Saraswati puja on Basant Panchami, it’s being considered as a very auspicious day by many couples, who had plans to get married.”Raghubir Singh, from Delhi-based BMP Weddings, adds that no matter how much the delay, people still mostly prefer an auspicious date to get married. “A wedding is a lifetime commitment, so there are many a things involved. And at the top of the list is the choice of an auspicious date. February 16, Basant Panchami, ek acha din hone ke karan zyada se zyada log iss date ko shaadiyan plan kar rahe hain. The best part is ki is din koi saaya (auspicious time for saat pheras) nikalwane ki zarurat bhi nahin hoti. Iske baad humare paas March 15 ki kaafi bookings hain,” says Singh.Even make-up artists in Delhi-NCR are elated with finally getting back to tight schedule and good business, thanks to numerous bookings for this date. Supriti Batra, a make-up artist says, “I have committed to be at a big fat Indian wedding in Agra on February 16. I’ll be taking a team of 10 artists along with me. And my second team will work tirelessly at the studio for the other bookings. The number of requests have been so many for this date that now we are either routing the clients to other artists or refusing to take in any more bridal make-up bookings!”  Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shubh-muhurat-savdhan-feb-16-to-have-too-many-weddings-in-delhincr-101612351796251.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of Mumbai civic polls, Shiv Sena to hold event for Gujaratis on Feb 7||As part of its efforts to woo the Gujarati vote bank ahead of the 2022 civic polls in Mumbai, the Shiv Sena will hold a convention on February 7, where 21 businessmen will join the party, a party official said.This will be the second meeting with members of the Gujarati community, after the first one was held on January 10, Shiv Sena's national organiser Hemraj Shah said.As many as 21 businessmen from the Gujarati community will join the party on the day of the convention, he said."The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls are a matter of prestige for the Shiv Sena," Shah said.Polls to the BMC, nine other civic bodies, 27 zilla parishads and gram panchayats are slated to be held in February 2022.The Sena has been in power in the BMC, the richest civic body, consistently since 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-mumbai-civic-polls-shiv-sena-to-hold-event-for-gujaratis-on-feb-7-101612349653249.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Cops signed up to dating app to trap woman||The police had to set up an elaborate trap to arrest the woman who is found to have duped at least 16 men, according to the officials of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch. Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said that the police investigating the case had to sign up for the dating application to find the woman. “Multiple people signed up for the dating site to look for her. Initially, it was all men including two private individuals who were not policemen. She matched with some but did not initiate a conversation. We then decided to sign up with a woman’s profile. Some female officials signed up and we were tracking their account as she identified as a homosexual but had also mentioned interest in men. She matched with a female official and shared her number by afternoon,” said assistant police inspector Ambrish Deshmukh of Unit 4 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. Once the woman shared her phone number, the police could find the address it was registered to. The police could also find the multiple places she was at. She was arrested in the presence of female officials. The police found her house near the general post office in Pune and followed her for a couple of days before confirming her identity as the woman in the received complaints. During her police custody, she was found to have spent the money she stole on luxuries like clothes, marijuana, and parties, according to the police. She also provided money to her mother who was under the impression that she held a job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-signed-up-to-dating-app-to-trap-woman-101612350714766.html
03-02-2021||Pune||1,096 electricity theft cases lodged in Pune district||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) Pune region has come down aggressively on electricity thefts in Pune district, as special squads have been formed to catch culprits around the district.In the last 45 days, 1,096 cases of electricity theft were caught by these squads which were electricity supply of worth ₹3.99 crore. These squads found out the illegal theft of electricity majorly in Bhosari, Pimpri, Kothrud, Parvati, Kedgaon, Nagar road, Padmavati and Rasta peth areas. The MSEDCL Pune region has started a special drive to search, identify and then act against the electricity theft in the district since December 2020. In this drive three types of electricity supply thefts are checked residential, commercial, and industrial. Those found guilty under this drive have acted under section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003. “We are giving required electricity supply for all the three types residential, commercial and industrial units. However, people are stealing the electricity in illegal ways, so this drive was started by us with special squads formed. Of the total 1,096 theft cases found in the Pune district till now, in 194 cases a fine of ₹59 lakh is recovered by the squad members. While in the past one week, a total of 240 engineers and our staff continued the special drive in Pune district at various areas – Wagholi, Tathwade highway, Pimple Nilakh, Hinjewadi, Bhekrainagar, Manjari, Undri Pisoli, Warje, Katraj and other areas,” said Ankush Nale, MSEDCL Pune regional director. “The squads found out the illegal theft of electricity majorly in Bhosari, Pimpri, Kothrud, Parvati, Kedgaon, Nagar Road, Padmavati and Rasta Peth areas. In this last week’s drive, we have found 142 theft cases worth ₹53 lakhs. We are taking action against the people found stealing the electricity under section 135 of Indian Electricity Act, 2003. Also, we are lodging police complaints against some of them who are not paying full payment of electricity theft done by them. It is dangerous to do electricity supply theft and could harm someone’s life, people should legally apply for an electric meter and get their own electricity supply. We will continue with our drive across the Pune district.” added Nale. Talking about this issue Atul Namekar secretary of Sinhagad road - Warje residents association said, “In our area there are many illegal electricity supply connections taken by the public, I have personally complained about some of them. Few months during the lockdown period, a person was electrified while connecting an illegal electricity supply, but he luckily survived from the shock. It is very risky to play with the electricity supply, so I appeal to citizens not to do such unlawful activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1096-electricity-theft-cases-lodged-in-pune-district-101612350714084.html
03-02-2021||Pune||PMC to install online system to check treated sewage quality||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will install an online system to check sewage water meter on sewage treatment plants (STPs) to check quality of treated water which is released to Mula-Mutha rivers. It will also help to know how much water is treated and released in rivers. The Mula-Mutha river is one of the 302 polluted river stretches of the country identified by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A total of 744 MLD of sewage is generated in the PMC limit. Of the 744 MLD, the civic body treats around 460 MLD sewage through nine STPs and discharges into Mula Mutha rivers. Pune City covered 92 per cent of sewerage network of 2,200 km. Normally, sewage water calculates 80 percent of daily supply of drinking water. At present, the corporation supplies around 1,100 million litre per day (MLD) in the city. So, the city generates 880 MLD sewage water. According to corporation data, PMC does not have 100 per cent collection efficiency of sewage networks and adequate sewage treatment capacity as per service benchmark. The PMC has mentioned 64 per cent capacity in the Environment Status Report (ESR-2018-19). However, the PMC drainage department has claimed 100 per cent quality of sewage treatment in the ESR-2018-19 report. The new online system will help to prove the claim of PMC. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Maharashtra state pollution control board directives, the PMC has decided to install an online system which will display inlet and outlet water samples of sewage. Online display of sewage treatment Shriniwas Kandul, additional city engineer of electrical department said, “It is an online testing system. We will place a metre inlet and outlet of sewage plant which will show characteristics of water such as the Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen Demand level (COD) of sewage and treated water, pH (acidity or basicity of water).” “The BOD and COD level is one of the major parameters to check the quality of sewage water. Both should be below 30 Milligram per litre water. Normally, sewage water BOD and COD level is more than 150 Milligram per litre water. After treatment, it comes down to 20 milligrams per litre water. The system will also show people how much water PMC treats in each STP,” he added. According to Kandul, the PMC is not treating 100 per cent sewage. However, the corporation has planned to construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in future. “It will result in a creation of an additional treatment capacity of 396 million litre per day (MLD) over the existing treatment capacity of 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 kms of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations,” Kandul said. How sewerage system works? The sewage system consists of a collection network, conveyance lines, pumping stations and sewage treatment plants. The collection network collects sewage from houses, apartments, commercial complexes or from the source. This collected sewage is further carried to pumping stations or Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) via conveyance lines. Pumping stations pump the sewage to STPs where primary and biological secondary treatment is given to sewage water before discharging into any natural water course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-install-online-system-to-check-treated-sewage-quality-101612350713213.html
03-02-2021||Pune||KCB member, seven others booked in former MLA Jadhav assault case||The Chaturshringi police have booked Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) member Manish Anand, a senior Congressman and seven others in connection with former MLA Harshavardhan Jadhav physical assault case. The police lodged the complaint after Isha Balakant Jha (37), a woman associate of Jadhav filed a private complaint with Pune court seeking registration of case against Manish Anand, Aman Chaddha, Karan Chaddha, Mamata Chaddha, Ajay Chaddha, two other motorcycle-borne men and another unidentified person under 22 different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Jha in her complaint said that she and Jadhav had parked her four-wheeler car in the opposite direction of Bank of Maharashtra in Aundh on December 14, 2021. When she opened the car door for Jadhav to get into the car, Ajay Chaddha deliberated rammed his two-wheeler into the car from behind and started abusing and molesting her. Aman Chadda was with his wife Mamta Chadda who was riding pillion on the bike. Jadhav asked him why he deliberately banged his two-wheeler onto the car after which he raised his voice, molested Jha and publicly abused them. Jadhav came to her rescue and both got into the car and went ahead, the application stated. Jha further stated, “Their car was accosted by two unidentified motorcyclists. On lowering the glass window, one of them pulled out the car key, pulled out Jadhav and brutally assaulted him. Later, one of the unidentified accused pushed her including the former MLA in another car where they were kidnapped. The three inmates of the car were Aman Chaddha (28), his brother Karan Chaddha and Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) member Manish Anand who molested and physically assaulted us with iron rods and sticks. We somehow freed ourselves from their captivity and reached the police station to lodge our complaint, but they refused to our pleas.” The application stated “The police officer present at the police station told us that there was a case under IPC section 307 against Jadhav under an FIR lodged against him and told that he needs to be arrested. I sat through the night to lodge a complaint but instead they recorded my statement between 3 am to 4 am and made me forcibly sign on a paper which was written in Marathi language which I did not understand,” the complaint addressed to Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Court No 9. Anand said, “I have no connection with the case and just because I am a political person, an issue is being made from it. Karan Chaddha is my sister’s son and he called me regarding the incident. When I reached the police station, the complaint was already lodged. My sister had sustained a fracture on one finger in the leg while my brother-in-law got a heart attack and had to be admitted to the hospital. Jadhav’s lawyer had called Karan Chaddha asking him to withdraw the case. We will take law procedure and all false allegations levelled against me will be dealt in the court. I am approaching the court for anticipatory bail and I have no connection with this case.” Former legislator Jadhav was arrested on December 15 in a case related to physical assault of a couple in a road rage case in Pune. Jadhav (43), who was a legislator till May 2019, was arrested by the Chaturshringi police after he and his associate assaulted an elderly man and his wife in Aundh on Monday. Jadhav is the estranged son-in-law of union minister Raosaheb Danve. He was booked after the victims’ son Aman Chadda (28), a resident of Bopodi, lodged a complaint against Jadhav and his associate identified as Isha Jha stating that they assaulted his parents, Ajay and Mamata Chadda, at a spot in front of a bank on an approach road towards Bremen chowk. Jadhav suddenly opened the door of his car which hit the couple’s approaching vehicle. Because of the car door, his mother, who was riding pillion, sustained an injury on the leg and his father lost balance and almost fell, the FIR had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kcb-member-seven-others-booked-in-former-mla-jadhav-assault-case-101612350712465.html
03-02-2021||Pune||11-year old falls to death in water tank, society officials booked||An official of a residential society in Kondhwa was booked by Pune police on Monday after a 11-year-old boy fell to his death in an open water storage tank on January 26. The child was identified as Pruthviraj alias Tillya Ajay Salunkhe (11), a resident of Kondhwa was playing with children from Gokulnagar Swamidham building in Kondhwa on Republic Day when the incident happened. Around 4pm, Pruthviraj slipped and fell into a water storage tank which was left with a lid. The tank was supposed to be closed and other safety measures needed to be built around it. “We are still investigating who the responsible person is,” said police sub-inspector S Sonawane of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the child’s mother Dhanashree Salunkhe (28). A case under Section 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/11year-old-falls-to-death-in-water-tank-society-officials-booked-101612350711593.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Woman, arrested for robbing man she met on online dating app, robbed at least 16 others||A 27-year-old woman from Pune who has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for robbing a man she met through an online dating platform, was found to have robbed at least 16 such people within the past year. The woman has been identified as Sayali Devendra Kale (27), a resident of Radhika Apartment at Sadhu Vaswani chowk, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad. She was arrested in January, remanded to police custody and later remanded to judicial custody by a local court, according to the police. Kale’s father, who was a teacher, died in 2010, after which her mother had developed mental health issues. The woman also has a brother who works in a BPO. According to the police, the woman is a second year BCA drop-out and used to have a job with a mobile service provider company which she quit during the lockdown.“She used the prescription of her mother who has a history of suffering from acute depression (and high blood pressure) to sedate the men she met through these dating applications. One was Restyl 0.5mg, of which 15 tablets were purchased and used, and Welprazone 0.5mg of which 10 tablets were purchased and five were used,” said commissioner Prakash.The woman used her mother’s prescription to buy these tablets and told the police that she was habitual user of sleeping pills as well. However, only four of her victims have lodged a complaint. The remaining victims - including two women - have chosen to not lodge their complaint. “One of the victims was an official of railways working in Pune and is a native of Uttar Pradesh. He told us that he was impressed with her communication skills and presentation that made it seem like she was from an affluent family. She tried to steal his jewellery, but she got caught. However, much after she had left, he realised that she managed to flee with ₹4,000 from his wallet,” said assistant police inspector Ambrish Deshmukh of Unit 4 of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch who was heading the investigation. Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, crime and senior police inspector Prasad Gokule of Unit 4 were overlooking the investigation. Of the four cases against her, one is registered at Wakad, one at Dehuroad, and two at Chandannagar police station. She used a different name on different dating platforms..The police also came across two women whom she had met through another dating app and had relations with in 2018-2019 and had extorted them for money in exchange of keeping their sexuality a secret. While one of them is married, the other has moved out of Pune and neither of the women wished to come on record even though they provided the information to the police, according to an official close to the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-arrested-for-robbing-man-she-met-on-online-dating-app-robbed-at-least-16-others-101612350652362.html
03-02-2021||Pune||State govt: Bird flu threat “depleting” in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra animal husbandry department is riding high on confidence after depleting threat of the bird flu outbreak in the state. The department has reported declining mortality rate among birds and the absence of recurrence of virus (H1N1 or H1N8). “The trend which we have observed in the last eight days gives us high confidence that the bird flu threat is declining. If the same trend continues for the next one week then we will be able to say the threat is negligible,” said Sachindra Pratap Singh, state animal husbandry commissioner. On February 1, the deaths of only 94 birds were recorded in the state. It is the lowest number of deaths since bird flu cases began on January 8. “The mortality rate has gone down across the state and the best part is that whichever place we declared as an ‘infected zone’ and prescribed preventive measures, there wasn’t a case of recurrence of the virus which is a positive sign,” added Singh. The mortality rate among birds was highest on January 19 when 4,479 birds were found dead across the state. The second highest number of mortalities was on January 23 when 1,804 birds were found dead. On other days since the bird flu outbreak in the state (January 8), the number of bird deaths were below 1,500. On Monday, February 1 only 94 deaths of birds were recorded in the state. Until Monday, a total of 19,923 bird deaths were recorded in the state. In Pune district, bird flu cases were found in Boribel village Daund; Nande village Mulshi and Gajunje village Maval. “After taking preventive measures no unnatural bird deaths have occurred in Pune district,” informed an official who looks after Pune district bird flu cases. The cafes around the city have also observed a surge in chicken orders in the last one week compared to the last 15 days. “More people are asking for chicken when we compare it to the second week of January. Still the orders are not coming like it used to come normally but there is an improvement, and we accept it will get normal,” said Abbas Ali, manager, Good luck café.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-govt-bird-flu-threat-depleting-in-maharashtra-101612350651589.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Encroachments by furniture shops on Satara road demolished||The anti-encroachment department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) took action against encroachments by the furniture shops on Satara road at Padmavati. The illegal construction was done on the backside of the shops over the Ambil Odha retaining wall which was causing risk to the steady flow of water. A team of PMC workers started the anti-encroachment drive in the morning at 10am and continued till afternoon. There are at least 40 furniture shops in Padmavati near the starting point of Shankar Maharaj flyover bridge on the Satara road. It is known as the Gururaj Society furniture shops line and the shops have been there for the last 35 years. “The action against encroachments at the furniture shops was the part of our regular anti-encroachment drive. From last few days this drive is going on and it will continue for the next few days. There was illegal construction done by the shop owners behind the shops over the Ambil Odha which was demolished by our department workers,” said Madhav Jagtap, PMC’s anti-encroachment squad chief. All the shops had increased their shop from behind approximately four feet in width over the Ambil Odha. Furniture materials and other things were kept inside these parts of the shops, also a retaining wall has been built beneath these encroachment areas. “We have been doing business at this place since the last 35 years and there has been full cooperation from all the shop owners to PMC. One year ago, we received a notice from the PMC about encroachments, after which we organised subsequent meetings with their officials. On Tuesday morning suddenly their team came and started demolishing the back-end of our shops. We requested them to give us time till February 11 so that we could shift our material and other things, but they didn’t listen to us,” said Tanaji Dadhe, one of the shopowners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/encroachments-by-furniture-shops-on-satara-road-demolished-101612350355318.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Pune standing committee rejects 11 per cent hike in property tax||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday rejected the 11 per cent hike in property tax.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, said, “Standing committee called a special meeting to discuss the hike in property tax. All party members opposed it. We denied the tax hike and instructed the municipal administration to recover maximum dues instead of proposing a tax hike.”While presenting the municipal budget Vikram Kumar proposed an 11 per cent hike in property tax and considering this tax hike, the commissioner proposed a Rs7,650 crore budget.As the commissioner proposed a tax hike, the Nationalist Congress Party, Congress and Shiv Sena officially opposed the tax hike.The commissioner said, “By proposing a 11 per cent tax hike, the civic body was expecting to get additional ₹130 crore as revenue.”PMC is expecting more revenue from property tax in 2021-22 as the 23 new villages have been merged within the municipal limits.As the municipal elections are slated towards the end of 2021, no political party wants to take a risk to upset the common public and denied the tax hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-standing-committee-rejects-11-per-cent-hike-in-property-tax-101612349512080.html
03-02-2021||Other||Punjab’s meritorious schools to reopen for Class 12 from Feb 9||The Punjab government will reopen all 10 meritorious schools in the state from February 9 for which Class 12 students have been asked to submit the Covid-19 negative certificate on arrival. The 10 meritorious schools under the Society of Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab are situated in Amritsar, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Patiala, Hakumat Singh Wala village, Ferozepur district, Ghabdhan village, Gurdaspur, Sangrur and Talwara in Hoshiarpur. According to the authorities, the Class 10 students of the meritorious school at Talwara will also be reporting back from February 9. School principals have informed parents about the Covid-19 protocol. Besides the written consent of parents, the students have been asked to bring along a sanitiser, seven usable masks, six pieces of soap and liquid soap. Students will be quarantined for 24 hours after joining school. The security guard at the school gate will screen all those entering the premises with the thermal scanner. Mess workers have also been asked to bring along Covid-19 certificates. Punjab meritorious schools assistant project director Inderpal Singh Malhotra said, “The board exams are in April and by attending physical classes, the students will be able to clear their doubts and prepare well. Those students who are unable to join can continue attending classes online.” Col Amarjit Singh (retd), the principal of the Ludhiana school that has 486 students in Class 12, said: “There will be only 25 students in a class to ensure social distancing. In hostels, three students will stay in a room instead of the six earlier. No sharing of belongings will be allowed. The school and hostels have been sanitised.” Incidentally, the meritorious school hostels had been turned into quarantine centres where Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms were treated in May last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabs-meritorious-schools-to-reopen-for-class-12-from-feb-9-101612349452002.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Pune dist admin faces possible shortage of doses as frontline workers get ready for vaccination||The district administration is likely to face a shortage of the Covid-19 vaccine doses if the second instalment of the vaccines do not arrive in time. Frontline workers are second in line after healthcare workers to get the Covid-19 vaccine in the second round of phase II of the vaccination drive. The district administration needs close to 4.29 lakh doses, including the possible 10% wastage for about 1.95 lakh registered beneficiaries.The district administration had received 78,000 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin, of which 2,000 doses of Covaxin were sent to District Hospital, Aundh. Of the 78,000 doses of Covishield, currently 40,780 doses are available with the authorities which include the second doses kept aside for the beneficiaries who received their first doses since January 16. Of the 1.95 lakh registered beneficiaries, over 1.10 lakh are only healthcare workers while the remaining 85,000 are frontline workers. The registration for the frontline workers is still going on which means that the number is likely to be higher. Frontline workers include police officials, armed forces, disaster management volunteers, municipal workers, home guards, and civil defence organisations and prison staff. The district administration is yet to receive a date to start the vaccination for frontline workers which is likely to start in the first week of this month. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health department chief, said, “We have not yet got the date and the link is not activated in the software. The beneficiaries have been registered and because of these technical issues no one has been able to start the vaccination for frontline workers. We have vaccinated about 7,500 healthcare workers as of now and we have 55,000 more to go. The second dose is also pending which would start from February 13. We have been told by the state that we would get the required doses shortly. Looking at the current stock it would not be enough even for the 55,000 pending healthcare workers. Dr Bharti added, “Without completing the first round of vaccinating healthcare workers for whom we will now start the second round by mid-February, to start the first round for frontline workers is a scary situation. It would be difficult to balance the situation. Already the system is exhausted, we had a polio drive on Sunday and this has been going on for a long time now. The vaccination would go on for five days every week for months which could lead to fatigue among the staff.” Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “We have about 85,000 frontline workers registered as of Sunday in the district. We have enough doses as of now and we will get additional doses and it is a routine process. The state has committed to provide more doses whenever required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-admin-faces-possible-shortage-of-doses-as-frontline-workers-get-ready-for-vaccination-101612348972006.html
03-02-2021||Bhopal||Dalit woman allegedly raped in MP accuses cops of forcing them to withdraw case||The family of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly gang-raped by two upper-caste men, including the grandson of her employer, in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior district on Sunday, has accused police of assaulting them when they approached them to register the case on Monday. Police were pressuring them to withdraw their complaint, they added.The police registered a First Information Report (FIR) in the case after additional police superintendent Suman Gurjar intervened.Police superintendent Amit Singh Sanghi said the FIR has been registered against Aditya Bhadoriya, 28, and an unidentified person under Indian Penal Code’s Section 376 D (gang-rape) and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. No arrest has been made so far.Also Read | 15-yr-old Chandigarh girl raped repeatedly in Zirakpur hotel“We are also probing the allegations against the police as well,” said Sanghi.According to the FIR, the woman worked as domestic help and lived in a room her employer provided her. Bhadoriya allegedly barged into her room along with the other accused and raped her. When the employer came to know about the assault, he threatened the woman and her family, according to the FIR.When the woman’s parents approached the local police to register their complaint, they were allegedly assaulted by the personnel there.The woman was sent for medical examination and later shifted to a shelter home.“I was beaten up with broom by police personnel at the police station. They tried to put pressure on me for withdrawing the complaint,” said the woman.The police station in-charge Ajay Pawar accused the woman and her parents of lying. “They were not beaten up or assaulted by anyone. The victim lodged a fake complaint. In the preliminary investigation, we found that the accused was an eyewitness to a murder case involving her uncle...[the woman] was recently in contact with the accused in the uncle’s case. We are investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/dalit-woman-allegedly-raped-in-mp-accuses-cops-of-forcing-them-to-withdraw-case-101612348912048.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Piped natural gas now available to all industries in Delhi||Piped natural gas (PNG) has been made available to all 1,627 industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi of which 1,607 units have already switched to PNG, according to a statement by the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and its Adjoining Areas.The remaining 20 industrial units, which are presently running on LPG, are also expected to be switched over to PNG by the end of February 2021.For the newly formed Air Quality Commission, switching the industrial units in Delhi over to cleaner fuels has been one of the priority actions.They followed up with Gas Authority of India Limited, Indraprastha Gas Limited and Delhi government for complete switchover.In one of its first big interventions, the Commission had also directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to inspect and identify industries using polluting fuels and take stringent penal action against those found not complying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/piped-natural-gas-now-available-to-all-industries-in-delhi-101612344712128.html
03-02-2021||Kolkata||Covaxin rolled out in Bengal, 60 beneficiaries to be inoculated on Day 1||The West Bengal health department on Wednesday rolled out Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, at three vaccination centres in the city -- each set to inoculate 20 frontline COVID-19 warriors during the day -- an official said.The three centres -- state-run SSKM hospital, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and Kolkata Medical College and Hospital - would be administering the vaccines to health and civic workers, after they sign a consent form."Everyone receiving Covaxin doses are required to sign an informed consent form. Today, a total of 60 beneficiaries at the three sites will be administered this vaccine. We do not want to take any chance. Slowly and slowly, we will speed up the process," the official told PTI.So far, Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, has been administered to nearly three lakh people in Bengal.Among those who received Covaxin on the first day are National Health Mission managing director Saumitra Mohan, its programme officer Smita Sanyal Sukla and Directorate of Medical Education head Dr Debasish Bhattacharya.A second consignment of Covaxin vaccines reached the city from Hyderabad earlier in the day, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covaxin-rolled-out-in-bengal-60-beneficiaries-to-be-inoculated-on-day-1-101612342505913.html
03-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress MLA booked for assaulting a 52-year-old||The Bharatpur police in Rajasthan have lodged a complaint against Congress MLA from Kaman, Zahida Khan, and three others for allegedly assaulting 52-year-old Akbar from village Jodhpur under Pahari police station.The complainant has alleged that at around 9.15 am on January 31, when he was on the way to join the farmers’ agitation near Haryana border, armed goons of the MLA started beating him up. He claimed that he was rescued by the locals and passersby.Akbar claimed there was a threat to him and his family members. He added that ₹5,000 was looted from him.“All allegations are baseless and politically motivated,” said Zahida Khan.After the FIR was lodged, the station house officer of Pahari police, Rajendra Sharma, was transferred.Circle officer, Kaman, Pradeep Yadav refused to comment over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-congress-mla-booked-for-assaulting-a-52yearold-101612340488311.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||#VocalForLocal: In focus, tribal arts at Dilli Haat||Abuzz with life, light and colours, one usually finds a lot of variety to shop and eat when a cultural fest on at Dilli Haat. But, what if you find Baiga art, Saura art, Red Ant Chutney and more such eclectic things? There’s this and a lot more to celebrate the spirit, culture and life essence of indigenous tribes of India, at the ongoing Aadi Mahotsav, a national tribal festival organised by Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation (TRIFED), Ministry of Tribal Affairs. The event has been organised keeping in mind all safety precautions for Covid-19, at a venue that allows for a large gathering without overcrowding. And it’s curated with the spirit to further the Prime Minister’s clarion call of #VocalForLocal. Pravir Krishna, managing director, TRIFED, says, “The pandemic has hit our artisans quite adversely. We want to give them access to large markets so that they can sell their goods, earn their livelihood and live well. The sale they get here will sustain them for a whole year, and it’s a thrill to see their enthusiasm. Our battle cry is #BuyTribal, so our focus is on making them self-reliant by enabling their economic welfare and cultural sustenance.” Over a thousand artisans and artists have come together to set up around 200 stalls that showcase the rich tribal handicrafts, paintings, jewellery, fabric, handmade soaps, woollen shawls and stoles, and foods from across the country. “After almost a whole year, we are at an exhibition showcasing our work. It feels so heartwarming to be able to get such an exposure that allows us to also earn a livelihood and continue with our generational art forms,” says Amar Baiga, a member of the Baiga tribal community from Madhya Pradesh, who is showcasing Baiga art, a form of traditional wall relief. The festival also has presence of some of the National award winning artists such as Rameshwar Munda, a flag bearer of Saura art from Odisha’s Munda tribe. His stall exhibits a melange of palm leaf engraved paintings, Saura paintings and Pattachitra. “Each piece takes weeks to complete, and the intricate work involved is what makes Pattachitra art so exquisite,” he says, adding, “Often a Pattachitra painting has an entire family working on it. I’ve been teaching this art to my kids so they can also learn this skill alongside pursuing their education.” In addition to these exquisite arts, there is a delectable spread of tribal dishes including Dal Pitha, Mahua laddoos, Telangana’s spicy biryani, Jharkhand’s Chilka roti, and something to please every palate. And there’s no dearth of entertainment with enthralling live performances by tribal musicians and dancers at different breakout zones! Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vocalforlocal-in-focus-tribal-arts-at-dilli-haat-101612340679783.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Republic Day violence: Delhi CM issues list of arrested people, says govt will help trace missing farmers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government will help trace the farmers missing from protest sites and if the need arises, he will approach the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre.Kejirwal said that the Delhi government will also release a list of 115 persons lodged in different jails in the national capital in connection with the January 26 violence.“We are issuing a list of 115 people who have been arrested after Jan 26 violence & are kept in various Delhi jails. I hope it helps people looking for their family members who went missing after participating in Kisan Andolan on January 26,” he said at a press conference.The Delhi Police said on Monday that it has arrested a total of 122 people in connection with the tractor rally violence.We are issuing a list of 115 people who have been arrested after Jan 26 violence & are kept in various Delhi jails. I hope it helps people looking for their family members who went missing after participating in Kisan Andolan on January 26: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/fsCVvyZGNbThe chief minister further assured that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government would make every effort to trace the missing people and he would also speak to the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre if the need arises.On Tuesday, a delegation from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer groups, met Kejriwal, Delhi home minister Satyendar Jain and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha and presented a list of 29 people that went missing since the tractor rally in Delhi last Tuesday. The SKM also demanded a judicial inquiry into the whole incident and also requested a medical board to examine all those who had been arrested.“The delegation demanded a medical board and said the investigation will expose the police brutality done on farmers. The leaders also demanded a judicial inquiry into the whole case so that the conspiracy of January 26 could be revealed,” a statement issued by the SKM read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-help-trace-farmers-missing-from-protest-sites-says-kejriwal-101612339824851.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||SSR death probe: NCB arrests assistant director in drug link||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested assistant director Rishikesh Pawar in connection with the alleged drug angle in the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). NCB officials claimed that Pawar was allegedly procuring and supplying drugs to the late actor.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said Pawar was arrested on Wednesday morning for his alleged role in providing drugs to SSR. He was Rajput’s friend and was also a part of some of the actor’s projects.His name had come up during interrogation of actor’s cook Dipesh Sawant , who was arrested in October last year for allegedly supplying drugs to the actor on the instructions of his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik.Also Read | Malicious reporting on SSR case: HC directs digital media to follow PCI rulesNCB had summoned Pawar once earlier but he did not respond to the summons and instead approached Mumbai session court for an anticipatory bail. His pre-arrest bail plea was rejected last month, said another NCB official.Pawar was earlier questioned by NCB in September last year when several others, including friends and staff of SSR were questioned by the agency. A search operation was also conducted at his residence in Chembur and some gadgets were recovered which were scrutinised and incriminating evidence was recovered, added the official.Rajput was found dead at his residence in Bandra on June 14, 2020. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing his death while the NCB is investigating the drugs angle related to the case. NCB has arrested 30 accused in alleged drug nexus in SSR death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssrdeath-probe-ncb-arrests-assistant-director-in-drug-link-101612340271465.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC allocates ₹2945.78 crore for education in budget for 2021-22||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday announced the allocation of funds for its education budget for the year 2021-22. The budgetary estimates for the year are set at ₹2945.78 crore, which is marginally higher than that of the previous year wherein the budgetary estimates were ₹2944.59 crore.The civic body has set aside an amount of ₹15.90 crore for supplying essential Covid-19 equipment like hand sanitisers, soap, hand wash and others, anticipating the re-opening of schools in the coming days.It is also working to form a child protection team in order to look at matters with relation to the violation of child rights and similar other grievances. A policy draft for the same is currently underway. ₹2 crore has been set aside for the opening of 10 new CBSE schools under the civic body. These schools will be housed in existing BMC buildings and will be free of the children of the respective buildings.The budget is set to be presented before the standing committee of the BMC at 2 pm on Wednesday. The introduction of new taxes for the residents of Mumbai is unlikely consideing the coronavirus pandemic but a revision of the property tax, done every five years, is on the cards as per civic officials.It is also expected that the civic body will prioritise expenditure in key areas like health, education, and infrastructure-related developments.“Every year, there is an 8% to 10% increase in the budget. Our budget will be larger than last year this year as well, and the capital expenditure will also be more. Moreover, important departments such as health, education, and infrastructure will not see a cut in budgetary allocation or a reduction in the budget outlay in comparison to last year,” said a senior civic officer.The BMC budget in the ongoing fiscal 2019-2020 was pegged at ₹33,441.02 crores, which was 8.95% more than the previous year’s budget. Budget 2018-19 was pegged at ₹30,692.59 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-allocates-rs-2945-78-crore-for-education-in-budget-for-202122-101612336491605.html
03-02-2021||Patna||Protest against Bihar order suggesting protestors could be blacklisted||Opposition in Bihar has begun to protest against the move to strictly enforce police verification for issuance of character certificates for obtaining government jobs and contracts as it threatens to blacklist those involved in road blockades, protests etc.The row broke out following a directive from Bihar police headquarters, asking all station house officers (SHOs) to issue police verification report (PVR) for character certificate within stipulated period.The directive states that in the PVR, police must mention the criminal history of those who apply for a character certificate. If the person is found to be charge sheeted and convicted by any court, the SHOs will mention details in the format.It also says that while the charge sheeted persons will not be entitled to PVR, those involved in road blockade, protests etc, can also be debarred from government tenders and jobs. The PVR has made it mandatory to get character certificates from the state police.Leader of Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, tweeted against the order to say if a person uses his democratic right to protest against the ruling dispensation, he will be denied a job.A senior police official said all the contractors, especially those engaged in the bidding process for construction of bus stands and vegetable markets, would have to obtain character certificates from the state police.The police official also claimed that for contractors, engaged in government’s work, the norm of obtaining a character certificate had been in vogue in the state for long. “It will, however, be implemented strictly now,” he added.Also Read:‘Something’s cooking’: Bihar DyCM fuels speculations after meeting RJD MLAs“Workers, associated with the contractors or private firms awarded government contracts, will also have to submit character certificates. They will be issued identity cards later,” he added.The order also says that if any person is found innocent during investigation or trial in the court, their case history will not be required to be filled in the PVR format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/protest-against-bihar-order-suggesting-protestors-could-be-blacklisted-101612339288986.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to help trace farmers missing from protest sites: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday released a list of the names of 115 persons who have been arrested and kept in different jails across the city over the past few days in connection with the Republic Day violence. He said the move will help trace those who, according to various farmers’ unions, have gone missing over the past one week. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the Delhi government will extend all possible help to trace the farmers missing from various protest sites. He said if the need arises, he will also approach Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and the Central government for help. The move comes a day after a delegation from the legal team of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting against farm laws at Delhi borders for months, met Kejriwal and gave him a list of 29 missing farmers.Also Read | Parliament proceedings halted amid protest over farm laws: All you need to know“We are releasing a list of 115 protesters who were arrested by police in relation to the Republic Day incident and are in different jails in the city. Our government will make every effort to trace the protesters who are missing and I will even speak to the Lt Governor and the Central government if the need arises,” Kejriwal said. On Sunday, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha had claimed that more than 100 people were missing since the tractor parade violence on Republic Day. The union has formed a committee to look into the issue, which seeks to compile information on the “missing persons” to able to initiate formal action with the authorities. The six-member committee has urged people to share information on missing persons on the phone number 8198022033.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-help-trace-farmers-missing-from-protest-sites-cm-kejriwal-101612339490841.html
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Former BC premier writes to CJI for probe into Red Fort violence||Ujjal Dosanjh, a former premier of British Columbia and the first Indo-Canadian provincial leader, has urged Chief Justice of India SA Bobde to take suo motu cognizance of the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day and order a probe by a special investigation team monitored by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court. In an open letter to the CJI on Tuesday, Dosanjh wrote, “It is quite evident from the publicly available information that the disturbance at the Red Fort was caused by rogue elements illegitimately claiming to represent the peaceful and disciplined Samyukat Kisan Morcha. The substantial preponderance of evidence provides reasonable and probable grounds to believe that the events at Red Fort were the culmination of a criminal conspiracy to cause disturbance with the purpose and intent of undermining one of the largest and longest non-violent protest campaigns in the history of the country.” Also read: SC refuses to entertain pleas seeking intervention into R-Day violenceDosanjh, a Punjab-origin member of the Canadian Parliament for Vancouver South from 2004-11, said there were “reasonable and probable grounds to believe that the rogue elements may have been aided and abetted by the leadership of the Government of India and its security establishment, including the police.” “In view of the foregoing and the long history of judicial activism of the court, I urge you to take suo motu cognizance of the evidence of the events of January 26 at Red Fort and order an investigation by a special investigation team, monitored by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-bc-premier-writes-to-cji-for-probe-into-red-fort-violence-101612336190691.html
03-02-2021||Lucknow||E-cabinet training for UP ministers and officers, paperless budget next target||The Uttar Pradesh government held an e-cabinet training for ministers and senior officers on Tuesday to make state cabinet proceedings paperless, while efforts have begun for presentation of a paperless budget for the year 2021-2022, inspired by the Central government’s tabling of a paperless budget on February 1.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who attended the e-training session at his official residence in Lucknow, asked for more such training sessions for ministers. He also directed the distribution of tablets among MLAs before the state legislature’s budget session commenced on February 18. He said training sessions should also be organised for legislators on the use of tablets.Those aware of the developments, said about 60 ministers and officers attended the e-training session and added that more intensive training sessions will be organised for ministers at their offices and residences to ensure that future meetings of the state cabinet were held through the e-cabinet system.Yogi said ministers should also be educated about the use of security features of the e-cabinet system. He said people would be able to see a new UP, belonging to a new India, if all the ministers and MLAs were conversant with modern technology.He said the use of E-PoS (electronic point of sale) units in the public distribution system had led to a saving of ₹2,500 crore in the past two years in the state.He said the e-cabinet move would help in implementing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s idea of minimum government and maximum governance through e-governance.Secretary to chief minister Alok Kumar made a presentation on the e-cabinet system at the training session.Also Read: UP CM suggests reopening schools from class 6 onwards in next 10 days“We can provide necessary infrastructure for the same if a decision to present a paperless budget is taken. Changes may, however, be needed in rules,” said another officer.Principal secretary, Vidhan Sabha, Pradeep Dubey said the state assembly was already implementing e-vidhan and members were allowed to attend the proceedings of the monsoon session virtually. “We are yet to get any indication about the presentation of a paperless budget,” said Dubey.The state government had decided to implement the e-office system in its 20 major departments in the state secretariat in 2017. It decided to extend the system to 73 remaining departments on April 1, 2018. Although efforts have been made to train the staff and take the e-office programme to grassroots level, the complete implementation of e-office system is yet to be achieved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ecabinet-training-for-up-ministers-and-officers-paperless-budget-next-target-h-101612335356631.html
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Four IPS officers transferred in Himachal Pradesh||In a minor reshuffle, the Himachal Pradesh government has transferred four Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Atul Kumar Digamber Fulzele, a 2001 IPS officer who was serving as principal, Police Training College (PTC), Daroh, has been transferred as inspector general of police (IGP), crime, against a vacant post. Bimal Gupta, who was DIG, crime, replaces him. Their transfers will be effective from April 1. Santosh Patial, deputy inspector general, cyber crime and economic offences, has been posted as DIG, intelligence and security, Dharamshala, against a vacant post with immediate effect. G Shiva Kumar, who was awaiting posting after repatriation from central deputation, has been posted as the superintendent of police, Narcotics Control Bureau, crime investigation department (CID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-ips-officers-transferred-in-himachal-pradesh-101612331629993.html
03-02-2021||Lucknow||UP CM suggests reopening schools from class 6 onwards in next 10 days||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked senior officials of the education department to consider reopening schools from Class 6 onwards, in the next 10 days in the state.He ordered a fresh assessment of the overall Covid-19 situation so that a decision on allowing schools to resume offline classes for students of class 6 and onwards is taken in accordance with the Union government issued guidelines.The unaided private schools’ association in the state expressed pleasure over the decision as they had recently urged the state government to allow reopening of schools for classes 6 to 8, followed by classes 1 to 5 and the primary sections.The government had allowed reopening of schools from classes 9 to 12 from October 19. For the rest, online classes were recommended. The association had recently met deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and requested him to allow reopening of schools up to class 6, so that they could hold physical classes before the annual examinations.Universities in the state have been asked to hold annual examinations in May, practical examinations in April and declare results by June 30, as per the fresh directives issued by the higher education department on Tuesday.Also Read: Vande Mataram to rend air on Chauri Chaura centenary as UP targets world recordAdditional chief secretary (higher education), Monika S Garg, said the odd semester examinations are to be conducted between February and March after the practical examinations in February.The classes for the odd semester will begin in March, as per the new directives, and the new session will begin from July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-suggests-reopening-schools-from-class-6-onwards-in-next-10-days-101612331063668.html
03-02-2021||Other||Tripura: Day after man dies of bullet injury, BSF files case against villagers||Over 24 hours after a man was shot dead allegedly by Border Security Force (BSF) in Tripura, the force lodged a complaint against a few villagers suspected to be cattle smugglers, police said on Wednesday.“We got a complaint from the BSF late on Tuesday evening, accusing a few persons of attacking them on the incident day [February 1]. We are investigating the matter. No one has been arrested so far,” said Mihir Datta, a senior police official of the south district. He added that there have been two complaints over the incident; the other being from the family of the deceased.Also Read | Tripura: Teachers clash with police; 90 left injuredThe victim, 22-year-oldJashim Mia , succumbed to a BSF bullet at Belonia’s Debipur village, nearly 130 kilometres from Agartala, on February 1.His family claimed that his father, Khalk Mia, was assaulted by BSF personnel along the border where he was grazing his cattle. Hearing his cry for help, Jashim reportedly approached the BSF personnel, asking them what had happened. At this, the personnel allegedly shot him.However, the BSF complained that its personnel were attacked with sharp weapons when they tried stopping some people from damaging the Indo-Bangla international border fence to smuggle cattle to Bangladesh. In self-defence, the personnel fired with pump action gun that hit one of the persons, who later died in a local hospital.Meanwhile, the BSF has ordered a departmental inquiry to probe the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripuraday-after-man-dies-of-bullet-injury-bsf-files-case-against-villagers-101612330669932.html
03-02-2021||Patna||‘Something’s cooking’: Bihar DyCM fuels speculations after meeting RJD MLAs||After the recent meeting of five All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) MLAs with chief minister Nitish Kumar, on Tuesday, it was the turn of two RJD MLAs from Kosi region to meet deputy chief minister and BJP leader Tar Kishore Prasad, ostensibly for discussions over ‘development of their respective constituencies’, sparking another round of speculation in Bihar’s political circles.Prasad’s intriguing comment made after meeting RJD’s Madhepura MLA Prof Chandrashekhar and Nawada MLA Bibha Devi on Tuesday has led to conjectures that something could be brewing.“Khichri pak rahi hai, thali me aane tak intezaar kijiye, Prasad used a popular Hindi proverb to signal the media to wait for the political broth to be cooked for the final outcome of the developments.Prof Chandrashekhar declared his Tuesday visit to Prasad to be a courtesy visit. However, he could not stop praising the deputy CM. “He is a very good man and we are from the same region,” he said, adding, “My visit was related to the issues of development and nothing else.”On January 28, all five AIMIM MLAs from Seemanchal had met chief minister Nitish Kumar, triggering speculation about their possible shift to the JD(U). However, they too had incidentally described their meeting to be about the ‘development’ issues.On Monday, AIMIM state president Akhatarul Iman, said their party was committed to the development of Seemanchal and threatened to launch an agitation if the development of the region was neglected.“We fought the election on the issue of backwardness of Seemanchal and we will try our best to fight for this cause and will take to the streets if the government fails,” Iman had said while describing the purpose of their meeting with the CM.“We want development of the Seemanchal region either by hook or by crook. People have expressed hope in us and by their blessings we won five seas in Seemanchal and emerged as a potential political power centre,” Iman added while exhorting Seemanchal MLAs and MPs to lend their support in the ‘fight’ for Seemanchal.Seemanchal, once regarded as a bastion of the RJD, dealt a blow to the party, which could only win the Thakurganj seat in the region, where Saud Alam, son of late Congress MP Maulana Asrarul Haq, won.Out of 37 assembly seats in Seemanchal and Kosi region, NDA won 23 seats. Out of the 24 assembly seats falling in Seemanchal’s four districts- Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj and Purnia, NDA won 12 seats while the AIMIM and the Congress won 5 each and one each went to the RJD and CPI-ML.Similarly on Kosi region’s 13 seats, NDA won on 11 and the remaining two went to the RJD.Also Read: SC seeks Centre's reply on encroachments on Ganga's floodplains in Patna“Tarkishore Parasad was offered the post of DCM as a reward as he is associated with the two regions,” said Naresh Kumar Srivasatava, a political observer.Srivastava pointed out that the Deputy CM was born in Kosi and made Seemanchal his political turf. “Tarkishore Prasad is quite popular in Seemanchal and Kosi,” he said, adding, “MLAs from even the opposition parties will have a sense of bonhomie with Prasad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/somethings-cooking-bihar-dycm-fuels-speculations-after-meeting-rjd-mlas-101612328395822.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC budget today: All eyes on revision of property tax||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) budget 2021-22 for Mumbai is scheduled to be presented before the standing committee of the BMC at 2pm Wednesday. The BMC is unlikely to introduce new taxes for Mumbaiites considering the pandemic and the civic polls scheduled next year. However, a revision of property tax in 2021, done every five years, is likely, according to civic officials.The hike in property tax is unlikely to be announced in the budget, but in the months following the beginning of financial year 2021-22.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “Budget 2021’s outlay will be larger than the previous year, and even the capital expenditure be more than the current financial year.”Also Read | Traffic violations in 2020 more than 2019: Mumbai traffic police dataAt a time when BMC, India’s richest civic body, is facing a cash crunch, its budget is likely to prioritise expenditure in key areas such as health, education, and infrastructure-related developments such as roads. Funds will be allotted for at least one new infrastructure project.“Every year, there is an 8% to 10% increase in the budget. Our budget will be larger than last year this year as well, and the capital expenditure will also be more. Moreover, important departments such as health, education, and infrastructure will not see a cut in budgetary allocation or a reduction in the budget outlay in comparison to last year,” said a senior civic officer.The Mumbai coastal road project is likely to receive a substantial amount of funds even this year. In the last fiscal, it was allocated ₹2,000 crore.Velrasu added, “We are not introducing new taxes this year in the budget. However, during the year, a revision in the property tax is due.”The BMC budget in ongoing fiscal 2019-2020 was pegged at ₹33,441.02 crores, which was 8.95% more than the previous year’s budget. Budget 2018-19 was pegged at ₹30,692.59 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-scheduled-to-present-its-budget-today-101612328749843.html
03-02-2021||Other||Speeding train kills black panther in Karnataka’s Udupi||A black-coated leopard (Panthera Pardus), commonly known as Black Panther, was killed in the early hours of Tuesday after a speeding train hit it in Karnataka’s Udupi, about 400 km from Bengaluru.“The incident occurred near Badakere in Kundapura forest range. The animal died after it was hit by a train [Mangala Express] around 2 am,” a forest official from the range said. The animal was four or five-year-old, the official added.Black Panthers are elusive cats and can be found in Karnataka. Though there are no official figures, black panthers account for around 4-5% of the state’s leopard population, the official said.Also Read | Carcass of tiger cub found in Kaziranga National ParkEnvironmentalists hit out at the government’s plans to double railway lines in the eco-sensitive and fragile western ghats region. “Despite frequent deaths of leopards, elephants, guars, deers, reptiles, birds...the government is hell bent on railway line doubling in pristine, evergreen Western Ghats,” Joseph Hoover, an environmentalist posted on Facebook after the incident.He added there is an existing railway line to the neighbouring Goa, but the government is looking to add another despite the National Tiger Conservation Authority and Karnataka Forest Department’s opposition to “economically unsustainable and environmentally destructive project”.The shrinking spaces for wildlife due to rapid urbanisation and encroachment of forest land and development activity has increased human-animal conflicts in Karnataka.A leopard was sighted in a residential apartment complex in Bengaluru until it was caught on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-train-kills-black-panther-in-karnatakasudupi-101612328689769.html
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s vaccine wastage below permissible limit of 10%||More than three weeks after the roll out of coronavirus vaccination, Haryana has reported an average vaccine wastage of 9.43%, well below the programmatic wastage of 10% allowed by the Union ministry of health.According to the vaccine coverage data of the health department up to January 29, the state has administered 1,16,481 doses against the actual dose consumption of 1,28,660. This also meant that more than 90% of the doses have been successfully utilised for inoculation.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said that better vaccination session planning which led to inoculation of more healthcare workers was a major reason that the wastage was within the permissible limits.Of about 1.9 lakh healthcare workers registered on the CoWin software for prioritising beneficiaries of vaccination, about 1.28 lakh (about 67%) were inoculated by Tuesday.“A lower level of vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers in Haryana is also a factor in lower vaccine wastage since the turnouts have been good,” said National Health Mission (NHM) director Prabhjot Singh.The ACS said that they created multiple vaccination sites and ensured that gaps are filled in case of lower turnout at any site. “We also ensured that inoculation of healthcare workers is advanced by a day. This helped in curbing vaccine wastage as they filled in for those who did not turn up. In case more people turned up, we create a new vaccination site,” he added.Healthcare workers to get vaccinated by Feb 15The ACS said that all healthcare workers have asked to get vaccinated till February 15 and priority for them will end after the set date. Meanwhile, the state will start the second phase of vaccine rollout for frontline health workers from February 3.All frontline workers who are to be administered the vaccine during the second phase will be registered on the CoWin portal by February 7. Frontline workers, include employees of revenue, jails, police, home guards and urban local bodies departments.So far, about 1.10 lakh frontline workers have been registered for the second phase on the portal, said the NHM director.Singh added that 7,23,000 doses of coronavirus vaccine have been received from the central government so far.Infection curve continues flattening trendHaryana recorded 694 coronavirus infections last week (Jan 25-31) as compared to 894 the week before. The infection curve thus has continued with its flattening trend for a successive 10th week.ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said that dipping infection, however, should not mean complacency as there is always an apprehension of fresh surge due to lowering of guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-vaccine-wastage-below-permissible-limit-of-10-101612328089305.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Over 50% in Delhi exposed to Covid, says 5th sero survey: All you need to know||The fifth serological survey in Delhi to detect Covid-19 antibodies has shown that 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled tested positive. Here is all you need to know about the findings that suggest more than half of the Capital’s population on average may have been exposed to the virus:• The data showed that except for the north district, the other 10 districts had a seroprevalence of more than 50%. Of these, six had a seroprevalence of over 55%. South-east district had the highest at 62%.• The numbers now appear to fall in a territory that experts believe is similar to the herd immunity threshold – a point in seroprevalence (estimated to be 60-80% of the population in case of Sars-Cov-2) when there are too few people left for the virus to spread to, slowing an outbreak down.Also Read | Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districts: Sero survey in Delhi• Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has cautioned that this should not be seen as having hit herd immunity.• Experts have underlined herd immunity is uncertain in the case of natural infections since such immunity could wane and people still spread the disease while they are infected (contrary to what happens when someone is vaccinated).• The latest round of the survey was conducted between January 15 and January 23 and included 100 samples from each of the city’s 272 wards.• It was the largest in the Capital and the country so far.• The high seroprevalence is in sync with the state of the outbreak in the Capital.• Over the past 10-12 days, Delhi has been reporting less than 200 Covid-19 cases every day and the positivity rate, which at one point had touched 15%, is now stable at lower than 1% for the past one month.• The full report of the latest survey will be released later this week after further examination of the findings.• This time, too, the number of women having antibodies was more than that of men. There means that all these people had Covid at some point and now have fully recovered. • Experts say the latest survey was bigger in scale and also better technology was used. • CLIA technology was used for the latest survey, which is more sensitive than the ELISA technology.• All the samples were tested to ensure uniformity. The survey was conducted in association with Maulana Azad Medical College. The samples were collected from people of all socio-economic strata and from across all kinds of population and age groups.• Delhi’s first serological survey was done in June-July and it had shown that 23.4% of people surveyed had developed antibodies against the virus. • Similar surveys in August showed that 29.1% of people had antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October. • A positive result implies that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point and developed immunity against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-50-in-delhi-exposed-to-covid-says-5th-sero-survey-all-you-need-to-know-101612324729262.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi traffic thrown out of gear as restrictions continue||Motorists on Delhi’s roads continued facing trouble on Tuesday as the police kept several roads heavily barricaded and diverted traffic from many points. Closure of several border points due to the farmers’ protest also led to a slowdown in traffic in roads around those points. Several of these restrictions are a part of security that was enhanced in the city in anticipation of trouble by thousands of protesters who are camping at Delhi borders against the three contentious farm laws. On Republic Day, farmers took out a tractor rally, clashed with the police at several points and barged into Red Fort.Traffic jams have been reported from the eastern, southern and central parts of Delhi which were worsened by the closure of the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border, Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-9, and NH-24. The closure of the almost all the lanes of the NH-24 has resulted in bumper-to-bumper traffic on roads in the eastern parts of the city. Also Read | SC to hear petitions for probe into R-Day tractor rally violence todayThe Ghazipur border remains fully closed. Traffic has been diverted from NH-24, NH-9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli,Paper Market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham and Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is heavy on Vikas Marg, IP extention and NH 24.The alternative routes on account of the closure of the Ghazipur border are Anand Vihar, Chilla, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders. Singhu, Saboli, Piau Maniyari borders remained closed. Auchandi, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open for motorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-in-chaos-as-restrictions-continue-101612324069150.html
03-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan IPS officer Manish Agarwal linked to extortion racket, arrested||Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested IPS officer Manish Agarwal, former Dausa superintendent of police, who has been accused of involvement in the Dausa bribery racket case.“Agarwal has been arrested on charges of graft. A team of ACB is carrying out searches at Agarwal’s premises,” said Bhagwan Lal Soni, director general (DG), ACB.Earlier on January 14, two sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) Pinky Meena (Bandikui) and Pushkar Mittal (Dausa) and one Neeraj Meena, an alleged middleman employed by Manish Agarwal, were arrested in the same case.During investigation, it was found that the IPS officer was involved in the extortion bid of a road construction contractor in connivance with other government officials and a middleman. The lid was blown off the racket after a complaint was filed against some of the accused officers, according to an ACB officer.A construction company, which won the contract for Delhi-Mumbai express highway construction under the Bharatmala project, had complained to the bureau, alleging the SDMs demanded a bribe for helping the contractor in the land acquisition process for road construction and for not obstructing the project.When he refused, the SDMs started harassing him, the contractor had alleged.Also Read: Vasundhara Raje's hour-long meeting with Shah surprises manyThe ACB had found that in the last 35 days, SDM Mittal, along with other officials, met Agarwal multiple times. Neeraj, the middleman from Dausa, also a contractor by profession, was also found to have been in constant touch with Mittal and Agarwal regarding the award of the highway project to the complainant.The complainant had alleged that the SDMs harassed him continuously citing different technicalities.“The middleman used by the SP threatened the contractor with a criminal case if he refused to pay ₹10 lakh every month and an extra amount of Rs10 lakh to settle a case. The accused also blackmailed others but they were not able to gather courage to register a complaint. These officials used to threaten victims with trapping them in civil and criminal cases,” said an ACB official.Meena and Mittal, both Rajasthan Administrative Officers (RAS), are presently in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-ips-officer-manish-agarwal-linked-to-extortion-racket-arrested-101612323461824.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||SC to hear petitions for probe into R-Day tractor rally violence today||The Supreme Court, on Wednesday, will hear a clutch of petitions demanding investigations into the tractor rally violence in the Capital on Republic Day.A Supreme Court bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, will take up four different petitions on the issue of violence on January 26 and chaos on the streets of Delhi as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of iconic Red Fort.In one of these petitions, advocate Vishal Tiwari has sought setting up of a commission headed by a retired apex court judge to inquire into the incident.Also Read | ASI files FIR in Red Fort violence, crime branch to probe the caseTiwari has also sought direction to the concerned authority to lodge FIRs against individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour to the National Flag on January 26.In another petition filed by Swati Goel Sharma and Sanjeev Newar, a prayer has been made for a probe by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) into the tractor rally violence.Additionally, the petitioners have sought removal of the protesters from Delhi as well as from its borders.Two more petitions will also be heard by the bench with these pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-to-hear-petitions-for-probe-into-r-day-tractor-rally-violence-today-101612323469150.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s minimum temp rises by 3° today, rain likely: IMD||As minimum temperature in the national Capital rose by nearly three degrees on Wednesday, the city is likely to experience rain. Minimum temperature is expected to be around 9 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The minimum temperature in the city on Tuesday rose to 6.2°C, as against 5.3°C on Monday.A western disturbance is likely to bring light rain to the city. The temperature is likely to dip after the western disturbance moves away, experts said.“The maximum temperature has gone up due to an approaching western disturbance. This is the highest temperature recorded since December. There is a change in wind direction due to the western disturbance. Winds are variable blowing over land and not bringing cold air from the hills. The wind speed is also low during the day,” said Kuldeep Srivastava of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also Read | Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districts: Sero survey in Delhi“Both minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-3 degrees Celsius from February 5 when the disturbance moves away,” said Srivastava.An induced cyclonic circulation lying over central Pakistan and adjoining west Rajasthan is likely to affect the weather over northwest India and the western Himalayan region from Tuesday night, the weather body said in a statement.“The confluence of southwesterlies in association with the western disturbance and lower level southeasterlies is very likely over the plains of northwest and adjoining areas of central India from February 3 to 5,” it added.Under the influence of these systems, widespread light to moderate rainfall or snow with isolated thunderstorm, lightning and hail is likely to occur over the western Himalayan region till February 5.Heavy rainfall or snowfall is also expected to take place over Jammu and Kashmir on February 3 and 4, and over Himachal Pradesh on February 4.“Light to moderate rain is likely over Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on February 4 and over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on February 4 and 5,” Srivastava said.Meanwhile, air quality remained in the “very poor” category with the hourly Air Quality Index at 356 Wednesday morning. On Tuesday, it was 364.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-minimum-temp-rises-by-3-today-rain-likely-imd-101612320888656.html
03-02-2021||Lucknow||Vande Mataram to rend air on Chauri Chaura centenary as UP targets world record||The Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up to create a world record during the Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations, which will see thousands of children from across the state recite Vande Mataram from 10am on February 3 to 12 noon on February 4, said officials.The plan is to make around 50,000 students together sing Vande Mataram in a bid to make it to the Guinness Book of World Records. Currently, this record is held by a gathering of 20,000 who sang it together, said Vinay Kumar Pandey, director, secondary education in the state.As part of the mission, thousands of students are recording video clips of their own recital of the first stanza of the patriotic song while standing in the salute pose. They are required to send the clips to their respective schools, which will be uploaded on a link to be made available by the Guinness Book of World Records.The UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad has started preparations for the attempt. The principals of secondary schools in the state have been directed to prepare students for the exercise. They have been asked to ensure that the chosen students learn Vande Mataram and are able to recite the same flawlessly with correct pronunciation.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations at Chauri Chaura in Uttar Pradesh on February 4 via video conferencing.Also Read: No plans to bring national anti-conversion law: GovtFebruary 5 marks the centenary of the Chauri Chaura event, considered a landmark moment in the freedom struggle. This day, a hundred years ago, a crowd had set fire to a police station in protest against the police firing on peaceful agitators partaking in the non-cooperation movement on February 2, 1922. The incident resulted in deaths of several policemen and also a few protestors and it led to Mahatma Gandhi announcing the end of the non-cooperation movement against the British rule. The British government, in response, imposed martial law in the area and arrested hundreds of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vande-mataram-to-rend-air-on-chauri-chaura-centenary-as-up-targets-world-record-101612320292644.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Hero’s grave||Among those who care for graves of historical people, it is common knowledge that the shrine of Sufi saint Hazrat Sarmad Shahid lies between the Jama Masjid and the Red Fort in Old Delhi. Some might even know that the grave of freedom fighter Maulana Abul Kalam Azad lies between these two monuments as well. But very few will be aware that the area is also home to the grave of General Shah Nawaz Khan. Born in 1914 in Rawalpindi, he served in the Indian National Army (INA) under the leadership of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose during WW2, and was famously convicted for treason in 1945 by the British in the Red Fort, along with two other top INA figures—Prem Sahgal and Gurbaksh Dhillon. In Shyam Benegal’s 2004 biopic on Netaji, actor Sonu Sood portrayed General Khan.But his burial place is hidden from sight. The marble grave lies within a small garden, its boundary wall circled by unwieldy trees. Even to an alert eye, it is almost impossible to spot the venue while walking on the crowded lane outside. This afternoon, the garden is filled with the incessant chirping of birds. The sound is so deafening that one feels the presence of hundreds — though not one is to be seen. A more concentrated gaze reveals that these are tiny ullus (owls). An earthen pitcher filled with water is placed beside the grave, possibly for these birds.The enclosure has another grave. The smaller one belongs to Begum Karim Jaan, the General’s wife. While the General’s grave has grass growing out of it, hers is perfectly dry. According to the inscriptions on the stones, she died 13 years after his passing in 1983.Though the place is empty, there are signs of a recent visit. A tea cup is lying upturned beside the graves. A cushion is flung along a hedge. A wooden bench is standing vertically against a wall.Suddenly a cat appears. She tiptoes about the General, and then turns towards the Begum. The cat stands still for a while, seemingly immersed in her own thoughts, and then goes away. The couple is left alone.The main door to the grave enclosure remains closed, but you can enter through a back gate via Meena Bazar. After sundown, a pavement clothes-seller called Allahabadi sleeps just outside the grave-garden, as a night watchman would.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-hero-s-grave-101612319593225.html
03-02-2021||Dehradun||‘Anti-national’ posts could deny police clearance for passport in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand police will now scrutinise social media behaviour of those putting anti-national posts on social media platforms and would not clear their verification for passport or arms license if it's found against the country, state director general of police Ashok Kumar said on Tuesday.Kumar was speaking on the concluding day of state police officers’ conference held at police headquarters in Dehradun. Many other measures to improve policing in the state were also discussed in the conference."Till now, in cases of any person putting any anti-national posts on social media, the police used to first do his counselling, asking him not to repeat it in future. A case was registered only if it was a very serious case," Kumar said, throwing light on the state police’s current approach on the matter."From now onwards, the police would scrutinise the accused person’s social media behaviour to check if he is habitual of putting such anti-national posts. If it is found, then the police would not clear his police verification, needed while applying for passport or arms license," said Kumar.Another police officer privy to the development said, "The decision was taken as there has been an increase in the number of people putting anti-national posts on social media in the state."Also Read: Senior Cong leaders push for Harish Rawat's name for CM, infighting intensifies"The social media monitoring team has been keeping a strict vigil to track down such posts and people as it is a clear threat to law & order," said the officer.Speaking about other important policing decisions taken during the two day conference, DGP Kumar said, "In the cases of road accidents involving mining vehicles, the police would now also register a case against the owners of such vehicles and not just its driver."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/antinational-posts-could-deny-police-clearance-for-passport-in-uttarakhand-101612318207963.html
03-02-2021||Patna||Fire breaks out at godown in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, locals say electric short circuit led to blaze||A fire broke out at the Maniyari police station Muzaffarpur early Wednesday with an official citing an electric short circuit as the reason for the blaze, news agency ANI reported."The fire started due to an electric short circuit. It is hard to estimate the extent of the damage caused. Fire brigades will be called in to help douse the flames," sub-inspector Sujit Kumar Mishra was quoted as saying.Bihar: Fire breaks out at the Maniyari police station in Muzaffarpur"The fire started due to an electric short circuit. It is hard to estimate the extent of the damage caused. Fire brigades will be called in to help douse the flames," says Sub-inspector Sujit Kumar Mishra pic.twitter.com/ybKgYjARv6More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fire-breaks-out-at-godown-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-locals-say-electric-short-circuit-led-to-blaze-101612317403483.html
03-02-2021||Bangalore||8 held in K’taka for sexually assaulting teen for 5 years||The police on Tuesday arrested eight people including the aunt of a 15-year-old girl in a case related to alleged sexual exploitation of the minor in Sringeri taluka of Chikkamagaluru district for five months. The police are on the lookout for at least nine others.“We have arrested eight people including her aunt, who had pushed her into prostitution.Hunt is on for nine others who had sexually exploited the girl,” a police official told news agency PTI .“There are several others who are suspected to be involved and the case is under investigation,” another police official said. The aunt of the minor girl is alleged to be the mastermind behind the racket who pushed the latter into prostitution that went on for at least five months, the official added.Also read: Govt orders probe by Revenue Commissioner into Shivamogga blast“The aunt encouraged this activity for money,” the official added. The victim is currently undergoing medical treatment, the official added.The incident came to light after a case was filed by G Subramnya, the chairperson of the child welfare committee, department of Women and Child Development in the district.According to the first information report (FIR) filed on Saturday, the victim has alleged that she was assaulted by several others and is unable to identify all of them. The victim was living with her aunt after the death of her mother three years ago, news agency PTI reported.A case has been filed naming 17 people and others under various sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) 2012, Immoral Traffic Prevention Act 1956 and Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Amendment Act 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/8-held-in-k-taka-for-sexually-assaulting-teen-for-5-years-101612315935898.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Schools kick off prep as parents, students welcome exam schedule||With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) releasing the 2021 exam time table for classes 10 and 12 on Tuesday, almost three months in advance, principals and teachers across the national capital said it was a welcome step as students can now prepare well for exams. The board also announced that class 12 students will have exams in two shifts – morning and afternoon.While CBSE had announced in December that exams would be conducted between May and June 2021, on Tuesday it released the date sheet for the board examinations, which would begin on May 4 for both Class 10 and 12 students. While exams of Class 10 students will end on June 7, those of Class 12 students will end on June 11.Of the total 2,168 schools in Delhi, a majority is affiliated to the CBSE and board exams for classes 10 and 12 are usually held in February. Due to the pandemic and the subsequent shift to online education, the board had also reduced the syllabus for the academic year by 30%.Also read: CBSE class 10 and 12 date sheet 2021 releasedManju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International in Kailash Colony, said conducting exams in two shifts won’t be an issue. “As per the notification by the CBSE, exams in the second shift are of subjects not offered to students in CBSE schools abroad. That means these will be subjects having fewer enrolments. It won’t be an issue for schools to conduct exams for fewer students in the second shift. We won’t require more than three or four classrooms for that and we can easily sanitise and ready them before students arrive,” she said.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales, Pusa Road, also said it was a balanced date sheet. “For instance, Class 12 students will appear for their English exam on May 4 and then get a week to prepare for the next major elective paper. In between, they have music and vocational subjects. Since the board has introduced an afternoon shift, schools will take measures so that students are able to write their papers comfortably while wearing masks.”Most students were happy with the schedule. “Commerce students have ample time between major subjects and we are happy with the date sheet. Also, unlike previous years when the date sheet was announced less than two months before exams, this time we have nearly three months in hand. We know how much time there is between papers so we can devise a study routine accordingly,” said Twisha Kacker, 18, a class 12 student of The Indian School.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, principal of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya Rohini, Sector 3, said since the Delhi government had allowed class 10 and 12 students to return to schools for preparations, teachers can plan the lessons accordingly and as per the needs of students.Also read: CBSE class 10 date sheet 2021 released, here's link to check“The class 10 date sheet has days between major subjects. Same is the case with class 12 students. However, for certain subject combinations, there are no gaps. For instance, students who have opted for both biology and commerce, there would be no gap day,” he said.Yadav also said since exams would be held during peak summer in Delhi, the timings could have been different. “Students will be wearing masks; so it would have been better if the morning shift started at 9am instead of 10.30am and the afternoon shift at 3pm instead of 2.30pm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-kick-off-prep-as-parents-students-welcome-exam-schedule-101612308734840.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Front line staff to get Covid jabs later this week; 77 centres added||State health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that the ongoing Covid-19 inoculation drive —which currently covers health workers — will be opened to front line workers this week even as authorities increased the number of vaccination centres from 106 to 183 as well as the number of vaccination days from four to six days a week.Jain, however, did not mention the exact day when the vaccination will begin for the city’s estimated 600,000 front line workers, including the police and municipal employees, among others, directly engaged in Covid-19 management in some way. About 338,011 front line workers have enlisted so far to take the jab in a registration drive that is still underway.Meanwhile, Delhi gave a boost to its vaccination drive. So far, Covid-19 vaccines in the national capital were administered on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. From Wednesday, it will become a six-day drive (from Monday to Saturday), a senior health official said on condition of anonymity.Also read: Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districtsBut the turnout rate in Delhi witnessed a sharp fall on Tuesday with only 9,357 of a targeted 18,300 (at scaled-up capacity) beneficiaries getting vaccinated. The turnout rate of 51.13% was the lowest since January 19, the second day of vaccination when it was 48.8%.On Tuesday, Delhi also reported 17 cases of adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), of which none was severe in nature, government officials said.Several government officials attributed the low turnout to fewer people turning up at new centres because of lack of awareness about them, said officials. However, other government officials said turnout at some of the existing vaccination centres have reached a saturation point.“That is why the government should start vaccinating front line workers now, along with health workers, to fill up the gap,” said a health department official.For instance, the vaccine centre at Maulana Azad Medical College, which witnessed a turnout of around 70% over the past one week, saw only 18 beneficiaries on Tuesday.“There are apprehensions among beneficiaries, especially in view of several cases of mild fever and AEFI (adverse event following immunization) that have emerged. In its ongoing awareness drive, the government should stress that the vaccine is for prevention and India is yet to witness a second wave like several other countries such as the US and the UK,” said Dr Namrata Makkar, deputy medical superintendent at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on Tuesday’s turnout figures.The 183 sites are spread across 114 hospitals, which essentially means at least some of them – such as Lok Nayak Hospital in the public sector and BL Kapoor Hospital in the private sector — have more than one centre now, said the health department official cited above.“This scaling up was needed to increase the coverage at a faster rate among health workers. There will be need for more capacity building to accommodate front-line workers, whose numbers are more,” said a second health department official.The number of health workers in the city is estimated at 300,000 by the Delhi government, of which around 240,000 registered for the Covid-19 vaccination and 73,983 health workers have taken the jab.“The aim at this stage should be to reach out to more categories of beneficiaries. People belonging to other priority groups, who want to get vaccinated at the earliest, should be given the opportunity now,” said Dr Suneela Garg, director professor, community medicine, Maulana Azad Medical College, and member, Lancet Covid-19 Commission and Vaccination Task Force for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/front-line-staff-to-get-covid-jabs-later-this-week-77-centres-added-101612305997796.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Centre defends police use of tear gas on protesters||Defending the use force on protesting farmers during the January 26 tractor rally that descended into violence and chaos, the Union government told Parliament on Tuesday that Delhi Police was left with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons, and mild force to control the agitating crowd, which was also breaking Covid safety protocols. .The ministry of home affairs (MHA), which oversees the policing of the Capital, said that Delhi Police have registered 39 cases between September and December 2020 against the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. These cases do not include those registered in connection with the January 26 violence.Responding to a query by several members of Parliament in the Lok Sabha, Union minister of state (home affairs) G Kishan Reddy said in a written reply: “As regards the use of tear gas and resorting to lathi charge against protesting farmers by the Delhi Police, it has been reported by Delhi Police that at Delhi border, large convoys of protesting farmers in tractor trolleys tried to furiously force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi to mark their protest against the recently enacted farm laws.”Also read: Metal batons, just an experiment, say Delhi PoliceHe added that the farmers “aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to government property, and used criminal force to deter public servants from the discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel. Moreover, social distancing was not followed by the farmers/protestors and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid Covid-19 pandemic. The farmers’ actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd”.The minister told Parliament that one case of a farmer’s suicide has been reported to the ministry by the police till date.The Centre, however, appeared to duck a question on number of farmers who have lost their lives so far during the agitation, which have been going on at Delhi’s borders for over two months now. To a query on number of farmers’ killed so far during agitation, the MHA told Parliament that police and law and order is a state subject. “The responsibilities of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration / prosecution of crimes, conviction of accused, protection of life and property etc. rests primarily with the respective state governments,” the MHA reply stated.In Delhi, law and order comes under the Union government.Farmers claim that over 100 people have died on Delhi’s borders, for various reasons, since the agitation began.The minister also did not give a specific response to a question seeking evidence from the home ministry on the claim that “terrorists have infiltrated the farmers’ agitation”. Over the last month, the government and intelligence agencies have repeatedly said that the farmers’ agitation has been hijacked by some pro-Khalistan elements.Avik Saha, Secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), said, “The government has always been very shy of admitting farmers’ deaths, be it suicides or now during the agitation. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-defends-police-use-of-tear-gas-on-protesters-101612303590260.html
03-02-2021||Pune||FIR against AMU leader Usmani over speech at second Elgar Parishad event||Pune Police on Tuesday filed an FIR against one of the speakers of the second Elgar Parishad event on charges of promoting enmity and disharmony.Sharjeel Usmani, a student leader from Aligarh Muslim University, was booked under section 153(a) of the IPC on a complaint by local advocate Pradeep Gawade for an allegedly derogatory comment on Hindu society.The comment triggered a row with BJP leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, demanding action against Usmani.The first edition of the Elgar Parishad was held on December 31, 2017 and allegedly triggered caste clashes in Bhima Koregaon the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-against-amu-leader-usmani-over-speech-at-second-elgar-parishad-event-101612298482789.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districts: Sero survey in Delhi||The fifth serological survey in Delhi to detect Covid-19 antibodies showed that 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled tested positive, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday, releasing findings that suggest more than half of the Capital’s population on average may have been exposed to the virus.The data released by Jain showed that except for the north district, the other 10 districts had a seroprevalence of more than 50%. Of these, six had a seroprevalence of more than 55%. South-east district had the highest number at 62%.These numbers now appear to fall in a territory that experts believe is similar to the herd immunity threshold – a point in seroprevalence (estimated to be 60-80% of the population in case of Sars-Cov-2) when there are too few people left for the virus to spread to, slowing an outbreak down.But Jain cautioned that this should not be seen as having hit herd immunity, something that experts have separately said is uncertain in the case of natural infections since such immunity could wane and people still spread the disease while they are infected (contrary to what happens when someone is vaccinated).“Some say herd immunity is achieved at 50%, others say it should be 60%. I don’t think we should get into the debate of herd immunity now. This is a new form of virus or disease, we should not get lax with our precautionary measures because in October, we had thought the virus was brought under control, but then we got the third wave,” said Jain.Also read: Delhi records 3 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 10 monthsAccording to Jain, the latest round – which was conducted between January 15 and January 23, and included 100 samples from each of the city’s 272 wards – was the largest in the Capital yet. “It is also the largest in the country so far. Delhi has largely won over Covid-19, but we should continue to practise Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Jain said.The latest figure is an over 30 percentage point jump over the last sero survey that was held in October, before the city entered the third wave of infections.The high seroprevalence is also in sync with the state of the outbreak in the Capital. Jain stated that over the past 10-12 days, Delhi has been reporting less than 200 Covid-19 cases every day and the positivity rate, which at one point had touched 15%, is now stable at lower than 1% for the past one month.“Still, I want to urge everyone to continue wearing masks for a few more months. In the past two months, the compliance has improved substantially, the result of which is in front of everyone -- Covid cases have drastically come down. If people continue to wear masks this way, we will be able to totally control the virus in the next few months,” the minister said.The minister said the full report of the latest serological survey will be released in a day or two after further examination of the findings.“Like the results in the previous surveys, this time too the number of females having antibodies was more than that of males. There means that all these people had Covid at some point and now have fully recovered. We can say that antibodies have been found in 49.09% to 62.18% of the people in Delhi, and the average percentage of people who have been found positive is 56.13%,” Jain said.Dr Nutan Mundeja, director general of health services (Delhi state health mission) said this time, the sero survey was not just bigger in scale, but also better technology was used.“We have used CLIA technology this time, which is more sensitive than the ELISA technology, as a result of which results come out more accurate. All the samples were tested at the ILBS hospital to ensure uniformity. The survey was conducted in association with Maulana Azad Medical College. The samples were collected from people of all socio-economic strata and from across all kinds of population and age groups,” said Mundeja.Delhi’s first serological survey was done in the city in June-July and it had shown that 23.4% of people surveyed had developed antibodies against the virus. Similar surveys in August showed that 29.1% of people had antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October. A positive result implies that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point and developed immunity against it.Jain said earlier, the Delhi government was conducting sero survey every month.“But, now we are doing it after 1.5-2 months. The next survey will also be done after about 2 months,” he said.T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore said the latest sero survey result is a representation of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which had hit the national Capital in mid-November when the peak daily cases had touched around 8,500.Also read: Barricaded roads lead to massive snarls in Delhi“This sero survey does not include those who got infected in the first and second wave because the tests detect antibodies which lasts only for about 2-3 months. So, in general more than 56.13% people in Delhi have got infected and recovered. Also, loss of antibodies, which is not the last word on immunity, does not mean loss of protection,” he said.John said herd immunity will be better achieved once vaccination is rolled out in a larger way.“Senior citizens and those with co-morbidities, school staff and essential service providers should be vaccinated at the earliest so that Delhi can inch towards herd immunity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-50-exposure-to-sars-cov-2-in-10-of-11-city-districts-sero-survey-in-delhi-101612296515799.html
03-02-2021||Other||Mumbai youths secure 1st, 3rd ranks in CA exam||Two women from the city bagged the first and the third ranks in the chartered accountancy (CA) examination (new syllabus) held in November 2020. The results of the exam were announced on Tuesday. Komal Jain, 22, cleared the exam in her first attempt and also managed to get all India rank (AIR) one in the exam. “I have already completed my articleship and I’m now hoping to find a job in the corporate sector either in finance or consulting,” said Jain, who doesn’t wish to start her own firm. A resident of Ghatkopar, Jain graduated from RA Podar College of Commerce and Economics in 2019. Similarly, AIR three (new syllabus) Rajvi Nathvani, 22, is hoping to secure a job in the corporate sector. “I was waiting for CA results to be declared before I start applying for jobs. My father is also a practising CA, but I wish to find a job,” said Nathvani, a resident of Kandivli. She pursued studies for CA exams alongside a Bachelor of commerce (BCom) degree from Narsee Monjee College of Commerce and Economics (NM College). AIR two (new syllabus) was bagged by Mudit Agarwal from Surat. The first three ranks for the exams with the old syllabus were bagged by Essakiraj A from Salem; Sripriya R from Chennai; and Mayank Singh from Jaipur. The CA exam was originally scheduled to take place in May 2020, but had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Exams were ultimately held between November and December 2020 in the offline format. According to figures shared by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), 12,026 candidates appeared for the group I test in CA finals (old syllabus), of which 17.84% passed. Of the 17,132 candidates who appeared for the Group II test, 31.77% passed. There were 4,143 candidates who appeared for both groups and 5.84% cleared both tests. For the Group I test in CA finals (new syllabus), there were 32,542 candidates, of which 12.84% passed. For the Group II test, there were 27,907 candidates and 30.97% passed. There were 19,284 candidates who appeared for both groups and 14.47% cleared both tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-youths-secure-1st-3rd-ranks-in-ca-exam-101612295506716.html
03-02-2021||Other||At 36.3°Celsius, Mumbai records season’s highest temperature||The city recorded the season’s highest temperature on Tuesday. The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the city’s temperature, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, which was 4.9 degrees above normal. The temperatures soared after a week-long spell of cold conditions last week and is in line with IMD’s forecast. “As IMD considers January and February as winter months, this is the highest temperature recorded in the ongoing winter season. November and December are months when the transition in temperatures happens,” said an official from IMD. Prior to this, the Santacruz station had recorded a maximum temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius on January 12. The Colaba weather station, which is representative of the weather in south Mumbai, also recorded high temperature at 33.8 degrees Celsius, which was 3.5 degrees above normal. The minimum temperatures were also higher than normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was 19.2 degrees Celsius, which was 1.6 degrees above normal, while at Colaba the minimum temperature was 22 degrees Celsius –2.4 degrees above normal. “The delayed setting-in of sea breeze led to higher temperatures in and around Mumbai. In the morning, there was land breeze with easterly component that continued to dominate almost till 3.30pm. This delayed the setting of sea breeze, which normally happens before 1pm. However, gradual reduction in both day and night temperatures is expected in the coming four-five days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), IMD, on Twitter. Meanwhile, the air quality, which had improved slightly on Monday, worsened on Tuesday, but continued to remain in the poor category. An overall air quality index (AQI) — an air quality indicator— of 283 was measured on Tuesday, as opposed to Monday’s 221. Navi Mumbai had the worst air quality with an AQI of 359 (very poor), followed by Mazagaon at 325, while Andheri and Malad recorded an AQI of 303. “The air quality of Mumbai is in the poor category. With the current calm wind conditions, local emission with continental pollution to keep the AQI poor for Mumbai in the next two days,” short-range forecast by SAFAR statedThe AQI is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in and around Mumbai. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-36-3-celsius-mumbai-records-season-s-highest-temperature-101612295265645.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Free guidance, doubt-solving for Class 10, 12 students: Maharashtra govt||To help students of Class 10 and 12 ace their state board exams which are to be held in April-May this year, the state education department has started an online guidance series. The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) has begun live-streaming lectures of expert teachers on its YouTube channel from Monday. Teachers will conduct guidance sessions and live doubt solving sessions as part of the initiative. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad tweeted about the initiative. “Students will be guided in each of the subjects, and they will also get to get their doubts cleared from experts,” she said in the tweet. During every session, MSCERT will flash email ids where students can send in their queries which will be then answered by the experts. Similarly, contact numbers of a few experts in the area will also be flashed on the screen during each session. On Monday, MSCERT streamed the first lecture on chemistry for Class 12 (HSC) students which got over 12,000 views on YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/free-guidance-doubt-solving-for-class-10-12-students-maharashtra-govt-101612294965524.html
03-02-2021||Other||Need affordable, eco-friendly mass transport in post-pandemic world: Maharashtra CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called for affordable and eco-friendly mass transport system in Mumbai to tackle the challenges of climate change and global warming. He was speaking at the inaugural session of Colaba Conversation, a conference organised by the Observer Research Foundation to discuss policy issues affecting the city, the country and world. The two-day conference held via video-conferencing had 70 speakers from 20 countries to discuss policy and planning in life after pandemic in global cities. Speaking at the inauguration of the conference, Thackeray said that development activities must be undertaken bearing in mind their impact on nature and environment. He said that even as there is no medicine to treat Covid-19, oxygen has saved lives of several people.The CM added that Mumbai is perhaps the only city which has a jungle within its limits. “It’s not a concrete jungle, but one that is rich with biodiversity,” he said, adding that Mumbai ranks among the top cities in the world where migration from rural to urban areas is high. “Global warming does not happen in jungles, and it hardly happens in the villages. Cities contribute hugely to climate change. We must gauge the need of the hour and rise to the occasion,” he said in his speech on Tuesday, adding that the transport arm of the Mumbai civic body, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, has introduced e-buses, and the government is also augmenting the Metro rail network.Thackeray added that the Covid-19-pandemic brought the world to a pause and the reset button needs should be thinking and changing the manner in which things are done in the future. “The pause brought because of the pandemic has made us identify where and how the next challenge is going to arise. Corona has opened our eyes to environment. The question is whether we have learnt the lessons,” he said.Additional civic commissioner Ashwini Bhide, who was also speaking at the conference, said as trains are not running in full capacity, there is further strain on road transport. “There are inherent limitations as Mumbai is a linear city with a high population density. It’s poised to expand its public transport network but in the meantime, we still need to face challenges: be it pandemic or floods. We need efficient protocol to ensure these facilities work smoothly during a crisis,” Bhide said in a panel discussion on ‘Lessons from the pandemic’. CM lays emphasis on sustainable development Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was on Tuesday attended the inaugural session of Colaba Conversation, a conference organised by the Observer Research Foundation, to discuss policy issues affecting the city, the country and the world. He said rise in migration leads to increase in construction activities, mechanisation etc, which is a “danger” for all global cities including Mumbai. “Cities contribute majorly to climate change. So should we stop the development work? No, that may not be the case. As the population is rising, issues such as affordable housing and eco-friendly mass transportation are gaining significance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-affordable-eco-friendly-mass-transport-in-post-pandemic-world-maharashtra-cm-101612294125637.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Traffic violations in 2020 more than 2019: Mumbai traffic police data||Despite being under complete lockdown for over six months, the city had witnessed more number of traffic violations last year as compared to 2019.According to the Mumbai traffic police data, in 2020, 5,095,478 drivers had received challans for various traffic -related violations compared to the 4,938,485 violations in 2019. The traffic police had imposed penalties worth ₹148.16 crore, of which 953,679 fines worth ₹25.73 crore had been recovered, while 4,141,799 challans worth ₹122.43 crore have remained unpaid last year, the data revealed. In 2019, there were unpaid challans worth ₹102 crore. Traffic police officers said after the lockdown restrictions were eased, the department had to ensure smooth flow of traffic, especially of emergency vehicles and government vehicles. Thus, they increased patrolling and nakabandis across the city and could nab more traffic violators. Additional commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Padwal said that the department had in January and February also noticed a rise in the number of violations, even before the city went into lockdown. “We had ensured more action in 2020,” said Padwal, adding that after the lockdown was eased in September, there was increase in challans as more action was taken. Traffic police officers said that there was a backlog of 29 lakh unpaid fines on e-challans issued, amounting to ₹315 crore. To recover the pending e-challans, the call centre started by the traffic police on December 7 contacted around 4,600 motorists and managed to recover ₹1.12 crore-fines from 2,596 violators. Yashasvi Yadav, joint commissioner of police (traffic), said they would continue with the call centre until all the pending challans are recovered. The officers said that to clear the backlog of pending challans they had urged the motorists to pay their dues but did not get response. A mobile application was also set up to make it easy for the violators to pay their fines but that was also not working. The traffic police had also requested the regional transport department to cancel the driving licences of 2,000 motorists who failed to pay their pending e-challans. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-violations-in-2020-more-than-2019-mumbai-traffic-police-data-101612293525411.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Farmers’ protest: NCP slams Centre over multi-layered barricades at Delhi border||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) slammed the Narendra Modi-led Central government over converting Delhi’s borders into cantonment areas. Commenting on the crisis on Tuesday, party chief spokesperson Nawab Malik asked if the Central government is preparing to fight a war with the farmers. He also said that the prime minister should use the same strength against China instead of its own farmers.The Delhi Police has turned the borders of the Capital — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — into fortresses as they have become the epicentre of the farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws. The police’s measures include multi-layered barricades, heavy security deployment, roads cemented with nails and concrete walls erected between barriers.“Is (Narendra) Modi ji planning to start a war with the farmers of our country? He should be reminded that they are our own countrymen who are fighting for their rights. If Modi ji is so keen on showing his strength, then he must question China for all its wrongdoings against our country,” Malik, the Maharashtra minority affairs minister, said in a tweet on Tuesday.“The people will not accept the idea of suppression of the farmers’ agitation through these means. The Central government should stop using the policy of General Reginald Dyer [who was behind the Jallianwala Bagh massacre],” Malik alleged in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-protest-ncp-slams-centre-over-multi-layered-barricades-at-delhi-border-101612292445911.html
03-02-2021||Other||Aaditya Thackeray: Mumbai 24X7 nightlife to resume after pandemic||Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday said that Mumbai’s 24x7 nightlife will restart after the Covid-19 pandemic is over and also announced a host of measures to promote the city as a major tourism destination. Thackeray was addressing hoteliers from the city. “We will be restarting the 24X7 concept after Covid-19. We want to make Mumbai a major tourist destination so that visitors can extend their stay by a day or two,” said Thackeray. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an association of hoteliers, called it a positive move which will add substantially to the state’s coffers. “We had conducted a study which indicated that if the tourists extend their stay by just one night, the city will get an additional revenue of ₹108 crore daily. This will also boost employment opportunities and give boost to the state exchequer,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson of HRAWI.The minister said there are plans to make a vintage car museum in the city. “People go to Nariman Point or Worli Sea Face now to view vintage cars. So a new museum will attract them. We also plan to create an aquarium in Worli as well as start heritage walks in the city. The BMC headquarters tour has already started, and we are also requesting the Bombay high court to allow us to tour on weekends,” he added.Thackeray also said that the hotels will be given the status of an industry from April 1. This will entail them for concessions in electricity and property tax and also make them eligible for government schemes, among other sops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aaditya-thackeray-mumbai-24x7-nightlife-to-resume-after-pandemic-101612292385369.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MPs meet farmer leader at Ghazipur border to express support||After its half-hearted show of solidarity with the farmers who had marched into Mumbai last week, the Shiv Sena came out in full support of the agitation on Tuesday. Sena members of Parliament (MPs), led by senior party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut, met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been at the forefront of the protest against the Centre’s three farm laws, at the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.Raut, along with MPs Arvind Sawant, Vinayak Raut, Rajan Vichare and Anil Desai, met Tikait and other farmers at the border and express solidarity with them. “We met Tikait saheb and gave Uddhavji’s message to him and expressed solidarity. This is not an issue of one state, but of the country’s farmers. The government should speak to farmers in a proper way. There should not be any politics in talks. Ego will not help run the country,” said Raut after the meeting.The Sena also launched an attack on the Centre over the barricading and fortification of Ghazipur border and said that had the Union government done this at the Indo-China border, the Chinese troops would not have infiltrated eastern Ladakh.Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray asked if the Ghazipur border was that of the state’s, or the country’s. “The pictures of walls being built and barricades being erected [at the Delhi border] that I’m seeing through media and on Twitter seem like they are at the country’s border against its enemies. Farmers, who feed the country, are being named terrorists and given such treatment is unfortunate. Whatever we do must happen with consent and dialogue with all,” Aaditya told media persons in Mumbai.The Centre ordered that the Ghazipur border be sealed with barbed wire, concrete blocks and police barricades. Commenting on what many have considered an extreme measure, Anil Desai said, “Looking at this, it seems like it is some other country beyond the barricade. These are extremely unfortunate scenes, which would shame any nation. If protesting farmers, the annadata, are being blocked with barbed wire, then the common man can clearly see in which direction this country is headed.” Former Union minister Sawant added, “We would have been happy if these barricades and barbed wire were installed at India’s borders with Pakistan and China rather than state borders to prevent farmers from entering Delhi.”Despite being critical of the BJP-led Central government’s farm laws, Sena’s prominent leaders stayed away from the public meeting of farmers held at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan last week. Instead, the party sent a youth wing leader as its representative. The party was questioned and criticised for the move. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress president, minister Balasaheb Thorat and other members of their parties were present at the Azad Maidan event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mps-meet-farmer-leader-at-ghazipur-border-to-express-support-101612292325499.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Tourism, hospitality sectors neglected in Union Budget: Travel federation||The travel industry, disappointed after the budget announcement on February 1, said the government has completely neglected travel, tourism and hospitality sectors that need an urgent boost for revival.Tourism has been one of the most severely affected industries due the Covid-19 pandemic leading to lockdown. The industry continues to struggle as international borders remain shut and domestic travel is yet to benefit the travel companies that are running into losses. Apart from this, many travel companies have had to close down their business last year.Subhash Goyal, general secretary of Federation of Associations in Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH), said the budget was a good opportunity for the government to revive the tourism industry and save around 30,000- 40,000 jobs that are on the verge of extinction. According to Goyal, 75 million people are directly and indirectly employed in the tourism industry.Goyal, however, added, “There are a few good things (in the budget) which may indirectly help the tourism industry, like more tourist coaches and trains in the railways. Rupees 35,000 crore on vaccines and medical infrastructure will indirectly boost medical tourism. Rupees 15,700 crore for the ministry of micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) may help a few small operators indirectly too.”The Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) said the budget has focused more on spending to enable economic growth through infrastructure roads and financial remedies.“It is inappropriate on the part of the finance minister to completely ignore travel, tourism and the hospitality business during the budget, said Jay Bhatia, vice president, TAAI.Bhatia added that TAAI had proposed single employee benefits under one provision which cares for labour welfare, social security, health, safety, family, etc.“We are happy to note prima facie that with the implementation of the four labour codes, for the first time globally, social security benefits will extend to gig and platform workers. Minimum wages will apply to all categories of workers, and they will all be covered by the employees’ state insurance corporation. Women will be allowed to work in all categories and also in the night-shifts with adequate protection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tourism-hospitality-sectors-neglected-in-union-budget-travel-federation-101612291965878.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Law on ballot paper: Speaker tells Maharashtra to mull possibility||The Maharashtra government may propose a law to have ballot paper as an option for voters during local body and state Assembly elections. Assembly speaker Nana Patole on Tuesday directed the law and judiciary department to examine and prepare a draft law. Patole insisted under article 328 of the Constitution, the state legislature has powers to bring such laws. The initiative taken by Patole does not have support of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition partners, as of now. Legislative experts said the state would not be able to do so in case of Assembly elections as they are held by the ECI under a Central law. They are divided over such a possibility in case of municipal bodies and district councils. A senior Shiv Sena minister said the MVA parties —Sena, NCP and Congress — have not discussed any such move yet. “We are not aware of the move. It is possible that the Speaker has taken the initiative on his own. We will react when any such proposal is put forth before the three parties formally,” he said, seeking anonymity as he did not want to remark on Patole’s (who belongs to the Congress) move publicly. “We don’t know if it is legally feasible. As such we will have to hold extensive consultations with constitutional experts before moving any bill in the legislature,”he said and added that Patole should not have gone public with his proposal at an early stage. “I have directed the law and judiciary department to prepare a draft for an amendment in the existing laws to give the people an alternative of using ballot paper for voting. People have doubts over the EVM and want the old system of ballot to be brought back. Article 328 of the Indian Constitution empowers the state legislature to make provisions with respect to the elections,” Patole told HT.Patole was recently approached by Nagpur resident Pradip Uke, requesting him to bring the ballot-paper system back for voting. The petition was discussed in a meeting called by Patole on Tuesday. State legislature secretary Rajendra Bhagwat, chief electoral officer Baldev Singh and secretary in law and judiciary department Bhupendra Gurav attended the meeting along with other senior officials.“Public sentiment must be respected. As such, I have issued the directives,” added Patole. Bringing back the ballot paper voting system is a popular demand raised by most opposition parties time and again as they suspect manipulation. However, the ECI has been insisting that EVM is a fool-proof system.While Patole is insisting the state government and state legislature have powers to make legal provisions to ensure ballot-paper voting in elections related to the state, state officials dealing with legislative affairs are not sure about the same. They feel that a provision for ballot paper voting might be done for local polls but difficult for assembly elections which are held by ECI. Article 328 of the Constitution states: Power of Legislature of a State to make provision with respect to elections to such Legislature subject to the provisions of this Constitution and in so far as provision in that behalf is not made by Parliament, the Legislature of a State may from time to time by law make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in connection with, the elections to the House or either house of the Legislature of the State including the preparation of electoral rolls and all other matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such House or Houses.Officials from the state election commission (SEC) that conducts local elections (gram panchyat, zilla parishad or district council and municipal bodies) in the state said that the amendment in the laws related to local body elections can be made but not for state Assembly elections as it is conducted under the Representation of People Act, 1951 which is a central law.“We conduct local bodies’ election under four different laws, each for municipal corporations, zilla parishads, village (gram) panchayat etc. and all the above laws have a provision for conducting elections through EVM. Theoretically, they can be amended for use of ballot paper, but for this the state will have to consult the SEC and the commission will have to make the request officially,” said a senior official from the SEC, requesting anonymity.“However, the state assembly elections are conducted under a central law. It means the state government has no purview to make any amendment related to assembly polls,” the official added. Another official said giving the option of EVM as well as ballot paper to the voters is practically not possible. “The state cannot allow half of the polling through EVM and another half through ballot paper. It is not feasible at all. It can either continue with the existing system of EVM or adopt a ballot paper system,” he said.Former state legislature secretary Anant Kalse said the state has no right to make any such change. “Article 324 of the Indian Constitution empowers the Election Commission of India to conduct all the elections of state legislatures as well as the general elections. The state government cannot do anything in this case. Even in the case of local bodies elections, it may not be possible for the SEC to act contrary to the central law — Representation of People Act, (which has provision for conducting elections through EVM),” Kalse opined.Meanwhile, senior NCP minister Nawab Malik said that the decision has to be taken by all the three parties. He said they don’t have powers to make any changes in respect with Assembly elections, but for local bodies a policy decision can be taken.“It is a policy decision which needs to be discussed among the ruling allies. The state government cannot make any amendment related to state Assembly elections as it is the right of the Parliament, but the election process of the local bodies can be changed, however, for that, we will have to wait for the opinion of the law and judiciary department,” the minority affairs minister said.Senior Congress minister Amit Deshmukh said the speaker asked the officials to examine the merit of the demand made by some sections of the society. “Some sections of the voters demanded to be given a choice on how to vote. They also had some legal inputs and arguments which the Speaker heard and asked the officials to examine the merit in the demand. As part of the government, I can only say that a policy or mechanism regarding conducting the elections will have to be completely transparent and without any doubt,” Deshmukh said, who was also present in the meeting called by the Speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/law-on-ballot-paper-speaker-tells-maharashtra-to-mull-possibility-101612291786625.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis writes to Uddhav Thackeray, seeks action against Sharjeel Usmani||Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has written a letter to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, demanding that a case be registered against former student leader Sharjeel Usmani for his allegedly provocative speech at an Elgaar Parishad event in Pune on January 30. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its frontal organisations have filed complaints against Usmani at various police stations.In the letter to the CM on Tuesday, Fadnavis has questioned the permission given to organise the conclave in the wake of violence witnessed in the past after the first Elgaar Parishad organised in 2017. “Sharjeel’s provocative speech has proved how permission given to the conclave was wrong. His statements were derogatory to Hindu religion, serious and objectionable, and insulting to community members. The state government should take stern action against him immediately,” Fadnavis said. In his letter, the BJP leader said that it was surprising to see that no action was initiated against a youth leader who came to Maharashtra and defamed Hindutva. “It is a shameful event that leads to tension in the state. The state should immediately book him by lodging a complaint and taking legal action against him,” Fadnavis stated.The Elgaar Parishad was organised in Pune on January 30 by Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Rohit Vemula, a Dalit research scholar of the University of Hyderabad, who died by suicide in 2016.On Monday, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said that police were examining the speeches at the conclave and appropriate action would be taken based on the information.Meanwhile, BJP’s Kandivli MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar filed a complaint against Usmani at Dindoshi police station. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), BJP’s youth wing also filed a complaint against the youth leader at Swargate police station in Pune, and demanded that a first information report (FIR) be registered against Usmani under section 153 (a) (attack on religion, race, group); 295 (a) (malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of a community), and 124 (a) (whoever, by words, signs and visible representation attempts to create contempt towards the government) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/devendra-fadnavis-writes-to-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-action-against-sharjeel-usmani-101612291785334.html
03-02-2021||Other||Day 2 of Mumbai local trains for all sees 3.2 million travellers||Approximately 3.2 million passengers travelled by local trains on Tuesday, which was the second day since suburban train services resumed for the general public after 10 months of lockdown. Since February 1, the general public is allowed on local trains during specified hours. However, commuters have complained that these timings are not convenient and the state government has said it may reconsider the time slots. Guardian minister of Mumbai (suburban) Aaditya Thackeray said the government is maintaining a cautious approach to ensure there is no spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. Local train services for the general public were suspended on March 23,2020, due to the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Train services resumed for frontline and essential workers on July 15, 2020, and on February 1, train services resumed for the general public. On the first day, nearly 3.4 million passengers had travelled by the suburban local train network. On Tuesday, 2 million passengers travelled by local trains on Central Railway (CR) and 1.2 million travelled on Western Railway (WR). No overcrowding was reported on trains, but there were long queues outside booking offices at suburban railway stations. Passengers are allowed on local trains from the start of train services till 7am; between 12pm to 4pm; and post 9pm till the last train service. These time slots are intended to prevent overcrowding in trains, which could lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. However, commuters have said these timings are not convenient to reach workplaces and consequently, the state should allow travel during peak hours. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The government will definitely consider the inconvenience the commuters are facing due to the staggered timing. We will definitely think over the rescheduling of the permissible timings of the trains. Ultimately, the convenience of the people is key in decision making for any government. My department will move the proposal for rescheduling of timings.” However, guardian minister of Mumbai (suburban) Aaditya Thackeray has adopted a cautious stand. “More than convenience, saving lives is important for the government. We have been opening up activities slowly under Mission Begin Again and fortunately have not been forced to revoke the decisions taken, like seen in some other countries. The pandemic has not ended as yet, and we need to be careful,” he said. Face masks are mandatory for those travelling on local trains. Around 560 people were fined on Tuesday for not wearing face masks on trains. The fine amount is ₹200. On the CR network, 278 passengers were fined Rs55,600 was collected in fines. On the WR network, 282 people were fined and Rs47,900 was collected in fines. Further, 2,104 passengers were found travelling without valid railway tickets on the suburban railway network on Tuesday with 1,700 of them travelling on CR. A total of Rs5.5 lakh was collected as fines from ticketless commuters. At Dadar station alone, 400 ticketless travellers were caught. On WR, 915 passengers were caught travelling without a valid railway ticket and Rs1 lakh was collected in fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-2-of-mumbai-local-trains-for-all-sees-3-2-million-travellers-101612291727904.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||2022 BMC polls: Mumbai Congress to launch 100-day programme from February 6||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, the Mumbai Congress will launch a 100-day outreach drive starting February 6, to interact with citizens in all 227 electoral wards of the civic body. According to party leaders, the drive is aimed at presenting the vision of the Congress for the city and offering solutions to the citizens.The BMC, which is considered to be India’s richest civic body, is expected to have polls in February 2022. The civic body is currently dominated by the Shiv Sena, whose corporators hold 97 of the total 227 seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 83 corporators; the Congress has 29; NCP has eight; six are from the Samajwadi Party (SP); two from All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), and one from the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS).“The drive is aimed at talking with citizens, knowing their problems, understanding them and giving solutions. We will give our vision document for each ward to the citizens,” said Ravi Raja, Congress corporator from Sion and leader of opposition in the BMC.“There is no one particular solution for the problems in the entire city, but it will depend on the area… like dilapidated buildings, road, health, etc,” he added.The Congress said it would involve all its active party workers across the city for the drive.When asked if the programme was being planned too early before the BMC polls, Raja said, “It is nothing like early or late. This outreach programme is aimed at interacting with citizens. The actual manifestation and election campaign will be at a later stage.”The Shiv Sena and the BJP both said their leaders have been in regular touch with the citizens.Senior Sena corporator and former mayor Vishakha Raut said, “We are in regular touch with the citizens for their problems. Unlike the Congress, we are a cadre-based party and are always in touch with the citizens. Also, I think every political party will conduct outreach with citizens before the BMC polls… even Sena will do it.”Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator and party leader in the BMC, said, “We have been doing door-to-door campaigns as part of our programme to collect money for the construction of the Ram temple. During this collection drive, we are also interacting with citizens, and till now we have covered around 30% of the city. Actual activities for the election campaign will also begin in the coming months.”The Congress has maintained that as of now, it is going to fight the BMC elections independently irrespective of it being in alliance with the Shiv Sena and the NCP at the state level.“As of now, Congress is going to fight the BMC elections on its own,” said Raja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2022-bmc-polls-mumbai-congress-to-launch-100-day-programme-from-february-6-101612291545432.html
03-02-2021||Mumbai||TRP scam case: Former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta denied bail||The Mumbai sessions court, in its January 20 order, has rejected the bail plea of Partho Dasgupta, observing that the former chief executive officer (CEO) of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) appears to be the mastermind of the television rating point (TRP) manipulation scam.The court has also expressed a need for a face-to-face probe into Dasgupta’s WhatsApp chats with channel owners and code language used by him in the exchanges. Dasgupta has now approached the Bombay high court (HC) for bail.The BARC CEO’s lawyer Arjun Thakur had contended that all the accused in the case have been granted bail. Hence, the rule of parity should be applied and Dasgupta should also be given bail.In response to this argument, the court observed: “It is true that 14 accused have been granted bail by the learned additional chief metropolitan magistrate, but the case paper in the present crime reflects that the accused (Dasgupta) is the mastermind of the entire scam and was acting in his capacity as CEO to manipulate the television ratings through mechanical devices.”Thakur, however, said that the lower court had not considered the rule of parity for bail. As far as a further probe or face-to-face investigation is concerned, it can also be done after releasing Dasgupta on bail.The prosecution had relied heavily on the WhatsApp chats between Dasgupta and TV channel owners, which is part of the supplementary charge sheet filed by police. The court, while rejecting the bail, observed that the accused used coded words in their conversations on chat, which only the accused can explain. Hence, the court held that a face-to-face investigation is required in this case.“It appears from the papers put forth before me, that it is not a case of simple manipulation of TRP but more than that. However, before forming any opinion regarding the Whatsapp chats, I am of the opinion that a thorough investigation is required,” read the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-scam-case-former-barc-ceo-partho-dasgupta-denied-bail-101612291365330.html
03-02-2021||Other||Bhiwandi godown collapse: Death toll reaches 2; Owners, firm booked for negligence||Twenty-year-old Hrutik Patil, who suffered severe injuries in the Bhiwandi godown collapse on Monday, succumbed to his injuries at Jupiter Hospital in Thane the same night. This is the second fatality due to the collapse. Meanwhile, Narpoli police booked the three owners of the godown and a company that handles its maintenance, for negligence. “Patil was stuck under the debris for around six hours, and both his legs were severely injured. He was rescued alive and rushed to the hospital in Thane. He died during treatment,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane. A representative of Jupiter Hospital said,”Patil was under the rubble for six hours and was brought to the hospital in a state of shock. Despite all resuscitative measures he succumbed to his grievous injuries in the emergency department of Jupiter hospital and the body was sent for post mortem.”Patil worked in the godown along with his elder brother, Ajay, 24. On the day of the collapse, Ajay decided to join in the afternoon shift instead of the morning one. Mother of the deceased, Jaimala Patil, 50, said, “My son suffered a lot till his last breath. My elder son was lucky enough to not go to work that morning. Both my sons joined work at this godown during the lockdown.”Prior to Patil’s death, Saurabh Tripathi, a 33-year-old security guard died on the spot of the incident. On Monday, around 10am, a portion of the ground-plus-one storey godown at Harihar compound in Dapode village, located on Bhiwandi’s Mankoli Road collapsed. The godown housed Shadow Fax Technology Private Limited on the ground floor and Mark Infax company on the first floor.Six people were injured in the incident. Rescue operations were carried out by the Thane disaster response force, National Disaster Response Force and the fire brigade of Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). At the time of the incident, 31 workers were present inside the godown. Narpoli police booked the three owners of the godown – Suryakant Vitthal Patil, Ramchandra Patil, Mahanand Patil – and VY Buildcom Private Limited that maintains the godown, for negligence under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Prashant Avare, assistant inspector, Narpoli police station, said, “We have booked three owners of the godown and the company that maintains the godown, for negligence, and have initiated an investigation into the cause of the collapse. Further course of action will depend on the findings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhiwandi-godown-collapse-death-toll-reaches-2-owners-firm-booked-for-negligence-101612291065402.html
03-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC catches 95 banks evading property tax; imposes penalty||The municipal corporation (MC) has penalised 95 banks, operating in rented buildings in the city, after these were found evading property tax. The bank managements or property owners are required to pay 7.5% of the annual rent as property tax but these banks had been deliberately showing a lower amount on the rent deed to save up on tax.The MC has served notices to the defaulters, asking them to pay up the tax along with 100% penalty on the amount evaded. As per information, there are 360 banks in the four MC zones of the city. Out of this, the civic body has scrutinised the tax returns of 225 banks. So far, the MC has caught 28 banks evading tax in Zone-A, 38 banks in Zone B, 17 in Zone C and 12 in Zone D. The MC is expected to recover around ₹2.2 crore from these banks and its property owners. Zone-D superintendent Rajeev Bhardwaj said that notices have been served to the bank authorities and building owners to submit the tax along with penalty or be ready to face action.Zone-C superintendent Vivek Verma said, “After completing the process of scrutinising the rent deeds of banks, we will also be checking the rent deeds of insurance companies being operated from rental properties.”The MC is also serving notices to religious organisations that have set up shops on the boundaries of their premises and given it out on rent. Further, notices are also being served to government departments, including Zila Parishad and bus stand. The MC is struggling to meet the annual recovery target under the head of property tax as the civic body has only recovered around ₹70 crore against the target of ₹130 crore for the financial year 2020-21. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had earlier warned officials of strict departmental action if they failed to achieve the targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-catches-95-banks-evading-property-tax-imposes-penalty-101612290647864.html
03-02-2021||Other||As A2Z firm leaves, MC to take over solid waste management in Ludhiana||Failing to find a common ground with A2Z company on solid waste management in the city, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to take matters in its own hands. From Thursday, the MC will be facing a herculean task of dealing with over 1, 100 metric tonnes of garbage generated in the city on a daily basis, on its own. During a meeting called by mayor Balkar Sandhu, which was also attended by MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, civic body officials said on Tuesday that it will be a challenge for the MC to take over this task as it does not even have the machinery for lifting garbage from secondary dumping points. The MC will also have to make alternative arrangements for door-to-door lifting of garbage from around 30 wards (out of the total 95 in the city), from where garbage is being partially collected by the company. Civic body will also have to lift garbage from 45 secondary dumping points where household waste is dumped by waste collectors and shift it to the main dump site on Tajpur road. At the main dump site, the MC will have to run the static compactors and refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant. The A2Z company had in December 2020 served a self-termination notice to the civic body, stating that it will stop lifting of garbage in the city after February 4. The company had entered into a 25-year contract with the MC in 2011 for lifting of garbage in the city. The company officials said that among the main reasons behind serving the self termination notice, is the delay on part of MC in making monthly payment of around ₹1 crore to the company as tipping fee for transportation of garbage to the main dump site. The company officials said that the payment was pending for the last six months when the notice was served to the MC. Also, the MC and Punjab Pollution Control Board are forcing the company to run the RDF plant at full capacity even when the civic body has failed to find a buyer for the RDF, they claimed.The company has claimed ₹47 crore as compensation for investment done in the past. The MC is however expected to challenge the same in the court, said the officials.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “We have been working to find a common ground and a meeting was also conducted with the company officials a few days ago to reach a compromise. But if the company steps back, MC will take up solid waste management in the city as the residents should not face any kind of harassment. We may also enter into ab agreement with some other company or service provider in the sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-a2z-firm-leaves-mc-to-take-over-solid-waste-management-in-ludhiana-101612290646983.html
03-02-2021||Other||Head teacher of primary school in Ludhiana tests positive for Covid-19||A day after primary schools across the state resumed classes after a hiatus of 11 months, a head teacher at Government Primary School, Chet Singh Nagar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The teacher had reportedly been unwell since Saturday and had developed Covid symptoms on Monday after which she got herself tested. Though the teacher had not attended school on Monday, at least 14 teachers in the school have been asked to isolate themselves as a precautionary measure, as they had come in contact with her last week.Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh said the teacher was unwell. “While pre-primary classes resumed on Monday, the classes for students of Class 3, 4 and 5 were also being held in the school as per routine,” the DEO said. Four more inmates of old-age home test +ve Four more inmates of Shree Vivekanand Swarg Ashram Trust, Model Town Extension, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The health department had collected samples of 50 inmates and seven staff members on Monday after six inmates had been found infected. The old age home has been sealed and the area has been turned into a micro-containment zone. Shree Vivekanand Swarg Ashram Trust president Anil Bharti said while the six inmates who had tested positive earlier are at the civil hospital, the four new patients have been admitted to the charitable hospital run by the trust. It is not yet clear how the elderly inmates had contracted the virus. Bharti reiterated that all the caretakers at the old-age home had been strictly following the Covid guidelines put in place by the government.No new case from Mundian Kalan schoolIn a major respite, no new Covid infections have been reported from Government Senior Secondary School, Mundian Kalan. The school had been closed after an English teacher had tested positive for the virus on Saturday. A team of the health department had collected samples from 29 teachers, nine non-teaching staff and three students on Monday. The school has been closed as a precautionary measure and students have been asked to attend classes online. Over 600 of the total 1, 377 students of Classes 6 to 12 had been attending classes physically at the school. District now has 353 active casesWith 37 fresh infections on Tuesday, the cumulative count of Covid cases in Ludhiana went up to 25, 884. The district now has 353 active cases. As many as 24, 527 patients have successfully managed to defeat the virus in the district while 1, 001 have succumbed so far. Second stage of Covid vaccination starts todayThe second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive will start in the district from Wednesday. Frontline workers from the municipal corporation, police department and other government offices are to be covered in this phase. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has offered to be the first to receive the jab in the second phase in the district. District immunisation officer Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the vaccination process will start from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) and later start at other sites. She added that around 20,000 frontline workers have enrolled to receive the shots so far while 16,897 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/head-teacher-of-primary-school-in-ludhiana-tests-positive-for-covid19-101612290645284.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||MCDs did not get grant from Centre due to corruption in Delhi BJP, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said the Centre did not give a single penny in the Union Budget 2021-22 to the three cash-strapped Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi because it has “lost confidence” in the Delhi BJP and the party’s leaders.Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the Union government has “accepted that the Delhi BJP is completely corrupt”. Pathak said the MCD mayors and Delhi BJP leaders earlier met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and urged her to release a grant but received nothing.“Yesterday, the BJP government at the Centre left the MCDs high and dry with zero allocation against their demand of Rs.12,000 crores. The employees of the BJP-ruled MCDs, along with the citizens of Delhi, expected that in this budget the BJP government would provide some aid to the MCD. The BJP has been ruling the MCD for the last 15 years and the reason behind no allocation for the MCD is BJP’s own Delhi unit. The saffron party’s central leadership has lost all faith in its Delhi unit,” Pathak said.Also read: AAP criticises ‘meagre’ allocation for Delhi in Union budgetThe Delhi BJP said the AAP is “concocting stories” to divert public attention from the fact that the Delhi government is not paying constitutional funds that constitutionally due to the three MCDs.“Central government gives municipal bodies funds as per Niti Aayog’s recommendations. Also, Delhi does not figure in the list of Union Territories eligible for direct grants to its municipal corporations. This is the reason why the Centre has not given a direct grant to MCDs,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“It will be better if instead of issuing misleading statements on municipal funds, Pathak asks chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to clear all pending dues of the three MCDs,” Kapoor said.Pathak also alleged that the Centre has reduced allocation for local bodies across India.“Earlier, the Centre used to pay the local bodies on the basis of ₹428 per person of their population. But now, it has come down to ₹206. Gurugram has received ₹200 crores, Ghaziabad received ₹200 crores, Lucknow also got the same amount. Gurugram and Ghaziabad are situated on the borders of Delhi and Lucknow is just around five hours drive from the capital. The BJP government has provided aids to the local bodies of these cities but not to Delhi,” he said.“It is significant that leaders of Delhi BJP and mayors of the MCDs met Sitharaman and minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur to demand grants. But, despite their demands, the BJP-led central government has not provided a single penny to the MCD,” Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcds-did-not-get-grant-from-centre-due-to-corruption-in-delhi-bjp-alleges-aap-101612289924488.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Court asks police to file report in vandalism at DJB office||A Delhi court on Tuesday sought an Action Taken Report (ATR) from the city police on a plea by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, seeking registration of FIR against Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, other BJP leaders and unknown persons in connection with vandalism at the Delhi Jal Board office on December 24, 2020.Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar asked the SHO of the police station concerned to file the report and posted the matter for further hearing on February 15.Chadha, through his counsel, Prashant Manchanda alleged that the Delhi police have failed to discharge its duties properly and registered an FIR under “trivial” sections like disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, negligence and common intention against unknown persons.Also read: Front line staff to get Covid jabs later this week; 77 centres addedWhile seeking monitoring of the investigation by the court, Chadha has also sought additions of sections of unlawful assembly, harming a public servant on duty and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act.The plea has also sought registration of FIR against the police officers for diluting the material facts and not discharging their duties properly. It has contended that despite a PCR call from a woman employee of the DJB, who was trapped inside when the attack was happening, a belated FIR was registered by the police on a complaint by the Head constable.The plea had also contended that violence was aggravated owing to the conspicuous inaction on the part of Delhi police “who nonchalantly stood as mute spectators while the riotous mob created havoc and illegally trespassed the Delhi Jal Board Headquarters and woefully ravaged the public property of the DJB.Around 200 to 250 BJP workers had allegedly vandalised the DJB headquarters in broad daylight, the plea said.Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Our protest was peaceful. As we entered the DJB office to try meet CEO of the board, some Aam Aadmi Party volunteers infiltrated and it were they who indulged in violence. It is really shocking to see the reaction of AAP leaders of approaching a city court to get FIR registered as this party owes its birth to agitational politics and here we find AAP leaders trying to threaten Delhi BJP to take back its agitation against financial irregularities in DJB or face manipulated FIRs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-asks-police-to-file-report-in-vandalism-at-djboffice-101612289864405.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||DMRC asks Centre, states to cover Covid-19 induced losses||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which had to shut operations in March last year for 169 days owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, is facing a funds squeeze and has sought a financial assistance of ₹1678.41 crore from the Centre and the state governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.The DMRC had written to the Centre and the Delhi government in November last year too in this regard.The DMRC, it is learnt, has been incurring operational losses since it resumed services on September 7 last year. With Metro operations shut for 169 days following the nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre in March last year due to the pandemic, DMRC’s revenue has shrunk drastically.Also read: Maximum temperature rises up to 28.1°C, rains likely, says IMDOn January 14, Delhi Metro chief Mangu Singh wrote to Union housing and urban affairs ministry and state governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to release funds for them at the earliest. HT has seen copies of the letters written by Singh.The DMRC has asked the Centre and the Delhi government to pay ₹541.33 crore and ₹887.15 crore respectively, while asking the Haryana and UP government to release ₹143.72 crore and ₹106.21 crore respectively. This is just 50% of the operational losses incurred by the Metro in the financial year 2020-21.While the Centre and Delhi government are to share the operational losses equally for Phase I and II corridors, for Phase III, the Delhi government is mandated to pay entirely for the operational losses.While requesting the Centre and state governments to release the funds at the earliest, Singh wrote, “…DMRC is facing an unprecedented financial crunch making it difficult to even meet day-to-day expenses.”A senior Central government official said, “The matter was referred to our integrated finance division for consideration. The division has certain observations and has also asked for an audited amount. The matter has been referred back to DMRC.”Prodded about the same, DMRC officials didn’t comment on the issue.While officials with Haryana government’s town and country planning department said that they are examining the matter, the Delhi government didn’t respond to HT’s query.No one from the UP government could be reached for a comment.The total loss for the financial year 20-21 is estimated to be ₹2,856 crore. With its operations closed for 169 days, the DMRC incurred losses close to ₹1,700 crore during that period. Its revenue from other sources, such as property development, also dropped due to the pandemic.Revenue from tickets is one of the main sources of funds for Delhi Metro. That revenue too has dropped , as DMRC has been running its services at only 50% capacity due to the Covid-19 restrictions.(With inputs from Hitender Rao)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrc-asks-centre-states-to-covid-induced-losses-101612289744499.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||14 tractors seized for R-Day violence, 80 more identified, say Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have seized 14 tractors, while more than 80 tractors have been identified for allegedly being part of the farmers’ tractor rally, which had turned violent in the national capital on Republic Day.Police said the tractors were used to break through the barricades and buses stationed by the police on the roads to stop protesting farmers from deviating from the agreed-upon routes for the rally. The police said they have also got “clear photographs” of 12 men allegedly involved in the January 26 violence from video footage available with them. The video grabs of the 12 suspects were circulated on social media on Tuesday, but the police said they have not officially released them yet.Also read: Journalist Mandeep Puniya arrested at Singhu protest site gets bailA total of 44 cases have been registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort and other places in Delhi during the tractor rally on January 26 and also in connection with an incident on January 29 when a group of persons, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Police said in all, they have arrested 123 people, including protester Akash Preet Singh whose arrest details were shared on Monday, and apprehended two minor boys. The total number of police personnel injured in the two incidents of violence is 510. A day after the January 26 violence, the city police had said 394 police personnel were injured, during clashes. At least 10 farmers have also sustained injuries.The crime branch, which was already investigating 10 cases related to the January 26 violence, has now been given four more cases (from the 44) for investigation. Of the four cases, one pertains to the FIR filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), in connection with the vandalism at the iconic Red Fort. This is the second FIR in the violence at the historic monument; the first one was filed by the police themselves. The other three FIRs transferred to the crime branch were registered at the Nangloi police station, police officers privy to the development said.One of the officers, who did not want to be named, said 14 tractors were seized from different places in the city, where the violence had occurred on January 26.“The seizures were made after video footages pertaining to the violence confirmed that they were involved in the vandalism and violence. The owners of these tractors have been served notices, asking them to join the investigation and record their statement,” the officer said.Asked about the 80 or more tractors that have been identified but are yet to be seized, the officer said these were identified with the help of the video footage and photographs available with the police and those shared by the public.Also read: Centre defends police use of tear gas on protesters“A majority of these tractors are from Punjab and Haryana. Many of them were at the Red Fort during the violence. The owners of these tractors are being sent notices for joining our probe recording statements,” the officer said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and a few other states have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders near Delhi to protest against the three contentious farm laws. Their agitation entered its 70th day on Tuesday.After the January 26 and 29 violence, the police have strengthened their security arrangements at the three spots with multilayered barricading, iron spikes on roads, trenches, barbed wire fencing and y place iron rods between cemented barriers, and pouring cement mixture between barricades. All these measures are in addition to the deployment of DTC buses and extra personnel. The new security measures have attracted sharp criticism from protesting farmers, civil society as well as politicians.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava on Tuesday defended the measures and said the force had “strengthened” the barricading so that it is not broken again. Addressing the media outside DCP Outer’s office in Pitampura, Shrivastava said he was “surprised” that nobody had raised questions when protesters had attacked policemen.“I am surprised that when tractors were used on January 26 to attack policemen and barricades were broken, no questions were raised. Why were no questions raised at that time? What have we done now? We have just strengthened the barricades so that it could not be broken again,” he said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/14-tractors-seized-for-r-day-violence-80-more-identified-have-clear-photos-of-12-vandals-say-delhi-police-101612289685066.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Metal batons, just an experiment, say Delhi Police after pictures go viral||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said that there was no official order asking its personnel to use improvised metal batons while handling law and order situations across the national capital. On Monday, photographs of a group of police personnel carrying metal batons and arm guards in east Delhi’s Shahdara were widely circulated on social media, prompting criticisms against the Delhi Police for resorting to the use of metal batons against farmers who are protesting at the city borders against the three contentious farm laws.Apart from photographs of metal baton-wielding personnel, pictures of policemen drilling iron nails on to the roads and heavily barricading them -- reportedly to stop farmers from driving their tractors into the national capital -- were also widely circulated.Also read: Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districtsCurrently, police use canes, water cannons and tear gas shells for riot control and metal batons have not been a part of their riot gear.Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said they got the batons on an experimental basis to counter rioters who may be armed with swords. The usage of improvised metal batons was a “defensive mechanism and not an aggressive one”, he insisted.“Everyone has seen the violence during the tractor rally on January 26; barricades were broken, agreed upon route was not followed, rally began before the scheduled time and tractors were used as weapon against police personnel,” Kumar told ANI.“There is no official order for its usage, and it was being used on an experimental basis,” he said.Officers aware of the matter said so far, only 10 to 15 policemen were given the improvised batons. The decision to use such batons did not come from the police headquarters, senior officers said.“It’s a makeshift arrangement to minimise injury in case a policeman is attacked by rioters armed with swords. This new baton will help stop the blow of a sword and prevent the personnel from sustaining grievous injury,” said an officer, who wished not to be named.Last week, a police inspector was injured after he was allegedly struck by a sword by one of the farmers camping at Singhu border after clashes broke out between farmers and a group of about 200 men, who claiming to be locals tried to disband tents put up by farmers. Also, during the Republic Day violence, many protesters who took to the streets were seen wielding swords.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metal-batons-just-an-experiment-say-delhi-police-after-pictures-go-viral-101612289625008.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Nursery admissions in Delhi soon: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the state government will soon commence nursery admissions in private schools across the Capital, a process that has been delayed significantly this year due to the pandemic.Officials of Delhi government’s education department had in December last year said they were considering skipping admissions to entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten, and Class 1 — in view of the Covid-19 pandemicEvery year, the process for admissions to entry-level classes begins between November and December, for over 200,000 seats in around 1,700 private schools in Delhi. The government also carries out a separate admission process for students from economically disadvantaged families to these classes for the 25% reserved seats under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.Also read: Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districtsJyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “The government should immediately release the notification, because parents have been waiting since November. The nursery admissions have already been delayed by more than a month.”During the interaction officials of private schools in Delhi, Kejriwal also said schools may soon reopen for other classes as well. “Children want to go back to schools and colleges but parents and teachers are worried. Since vaccines are here, we hope we will be able to open schools soon,” he said.While schools have already reopened for classes 10 and 12, the government has allowed schools to call students of classes 9 and 11 back to campuses from February 5.The interaction was attended by school principals under the banner of the Action Committee of Private Unaided Recognized Schools in Delhi.Kejriwal emphasised the need for government and private schools to work together.“The Delhi model of Covid-19 management was appreciated across the world because government hospitals and private hospitals worked together in close coordination. Similarly, government schools and private schools need to work together to create a world-class education system in Delhi.”He said he is in complete favour of autonomy to private schools. “At the same time, the Delhi government will not allow any injustice to happen to students and their parents,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nursery-admissions-in-delhi-soon-cmkejriwal-101612289505554.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Journalist Mandeep Puniya arrested at Singhu protest site gets bail||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to independent journalist Mandeep Puniya, who was arrested on January 30 during the farmers protest at the Singhu border for allegedly obstructing police officials on duty.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Satvir Singh Lamba said, “It is well settled legal principle of law that bail is a rule and jail is an exception,” He added that there was a delay in lodging the FIR and the witnesses, all being police officials, cannot be influenced.Granting bail to Puniya on a bail bond of ₹25,000 with a surety of same amount, the judge also noted that the accused is a freelance journalist and no recovery of any material has to be made from him. “It is pertinent to mention here that the alleged incident of present case is of around 6.30pm. However, the present FIR was registered at around 1.21am the next day. Moreover, the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that the accused/ applicant can be able to influence any of the police officials.”Also read: Rakesh Tikait coins new slogan at Ghazipur protest sitePuniya was barred from leaving the country without informing the court.The journalist was arrested on the grounds of misbehaving with the police personnel on duty and obstructing a public servant from discharging its duties during the farmers protest at the Singhu border. He was arrested while covering the clashes that broke out at the protest site last week.The police opposed the bail plea, stating that Puniya was concealing his identity and misleading them. The police alleged that the accused was trying to incite the protesters at the Singhu border by shouting slogans and he even “clung” to one of the policemen on duty and dragged him.The Editors Guild of India on Monday had demanded the release of the journalist. The guild claimed that the arrest was an attempt to curtail the voice of independent journalists who were fighting fake news.In a separate matter, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea which sought immediate release of protesters, not limited to farmers, from the alleged “illegal detention” of police since January 26 in connection with the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh came down heavily on the counsel for the petitioner and said that it was nothing more than a “Publicity Interest Litigation” and not “Public Interest Litigation. It also said that the protestors cannot be released without investigation and going in the merits of the case.It directed Delhi Police to complete the investigation of the cases in a time bound manner and produce the detainees before a magistrate within 24 hours in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/journalist-arrested-at-singhu-protest-site-gets-bail-101612289504424.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Red Fort shut indefinitely to prevent spread of bird flu||The Red Fort in Delhi has been indefinitely closed to the public as a measure to control the potential spread of bird flu, an order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Monday has said. The ASI-protected monument has also been declared an “infected zone”.“As per order received from the district magistrate (central)-cum- district disaster management authority, and in continuation to previous office orders of this office, it is hereby directed that the Red Fort, Delhi, shall remain closed to public and general visitors until further order as a measure to control the spread of avian influenza in the Red Fort area which is declared as (an) infected zone,” said the order issued on Monday, a copy of which HT has seen.At least 15 carcasses of crows were found on the Red Fort premises in early January and some of them were sent to a laboratory in Punjab for tests. On January 19, one sample tested positive for the H5N1 virus that causes the avian influenza, following which the ASI shut the monument till January 26, and later extended the closure till January 31, officials said.Also read: 96 more birds found dead in MaharashtraMonday’s order of the ASI essentially stretches the closure of the monument for an indefinite period of time.The historic site had witnessed violence on January 26 when hundreds of farmers, who were participating in a tractor rally -- part of the larger ongoing protest against the three contentious farm laws – stormed the Red Fort, and raised a religious flag alongside a farmer union flag and clashed with the police.The report on the samples taken Red Fort had come just three days after an owl, found dead in the Delhi zoo, had tested positive for the bird flu.Earlier in January, crows in at least three other locations in the city and ducks at Sanjay Lake in east Delhi were found infected, following which the government closed Delhi’s only wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur for 10 days. In the days that followed, multiple agencies had imposed temporary restrictions on poultry trade, transport of fowls and their serving in restaurants. The restrictions were lifted on January 14 after the government vouched that the poultry birds in Delhi were not infected with the H5N1 virus.Currently, there is no restriction on poultry within the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-shut-indefinitely-to-prevent-spread-of-bird-flu-101612289504960.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Centre hands over probe in blast near Israeli embassy to NIA||The Union government on Tuesday handed over the investigation in the last week’s blast near the Israel embassy to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in view of a suspected Iranian link and the international ramifications of the case, people familiar with the matter said.A low-intensity blast was reported outside the Israel embassy in New Delhi’s VVIP zone at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Marg, around the time when security was on the highest alert due to the Beating Retreat ceremony at Vijay Chowk, less than 2km away. The blast came on the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Israel on January 29, 1992.People familiar with the development said the central anti-terror probe agency will form a special team to investigate the case. NIA sleuths will also coordinate with Israeli agencies, including Mossad, to get inputs on the outfit behind the attack, which has been termed as a terrorist act. The agency has registered a case and is getting documents from Delhi Police Special Cell.Also read: Avoid travel in Myanmar, says Indian Embassy in advisory after military coup“Initial assessment has pointed out to the role of Iranian suspects, which will be the focus of our investigation among other angles,” said a senior NIA officer, requesting anonymity.A home ministry official said, “The case file and evidence gathered by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell so far including the sample of the explosives used, CCTV footage and a letter recovered from the blast site will be handed over to the central agency.”Over the last few days, Delhi Police and NIA investigators, who were informally associated with the probe till now, have collected information about certain social media channels, including a Telegram entity which had claimed responsibility for the blast on behalf of a group called “Jaish ul Hind”, an investigator said.Experts are also trying to locate the people who placed the bomb and a letter near the pavement, few metres away from the Israeli embassy. The letter swore revenge for the killing of Iran Quds Commander Qassem Soleimani, and Abu Mehdhi Al Muhandis, who were killed in a US drone attack in January 2020, and Iranian nuclear physicist Dr Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who died in a car bomb attack in Iran in November 2020.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday assured his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu of punishing the perpetrators of the blast. According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the two leaders spoke on phone and PM Modi told Netanyahu that India gives high importance to the safety and security of Israeli diplomats and embassy.No injuries were reported in the incident except window panes of three cars parked in the vicinity of the embassy on Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road were shattered.After the incident, external affairs minister S Jaishankar assured the Israeli foreign minister of “fullest protection” to their diplomats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-hands-over-probe-in-blast-near-israeli-embassy-to-nia-101612289445041.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Opposition MPs write to PM over search of lawyer Pracha’s office||Members of Parliament from various Opposition parties have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to act against the Delhi Police for searching lawyer Mehmood Pracha’s office last year.The MPs alleged that the Delhi Police, which is under the Centre’s jurisdiction, committed a “serious breach in process of justice.” The letter has been signed by 10 MPs, including, Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Shaktisinh Gohil of the Congress, and NR Elango of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK).“...Pracha, who is representing a number of cases of communal violence victims and other cases involving members of the ruling party at the centre, was subjected to search and seizure by a large group of armed police personnel of the Special Cell Delhi Police, who barged into his office and conducted searches for over 12 hours,” the MPs said in their letter. “The purpose [of the raids] was to access computers which had files of many of these sensitive cases.”Also read: SC tells Franklin Templeton to pay investors ₹9,122crPracha has been representing various parties in cases registered post the violence in northeast Delhi last year.They added that the police’s actions set a “shocking precedent”. “If the lawyer is representing cases not to the liking of the government, has the police the right to raid the lawyer’s office and break a primary principle of justice, which is the confidentiality between a lawyer and the client,” the letter states.The MPs have asked the PM to take “urgent and immediate action against those responsible”.A Delhi Police statement issued in December said, “During the course of a bail matter pertaining to an accused of the NED riots, use of a forged notary stamp and creation of allegedly false/manipulated evidence at the hands of certain members of the bar was noticed. The learned special court had observed that the same required thorough investigation. Pursuant to this, a criminal case under appropriate sections of law was registered and investigation was taken up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/opposition-mps-write-to-pm-over-search-of-lawyer-pracha-s-office-101612289325119.html
03-02-2021||Pune||SPPU’s 72nd anniversary awards declared||To mark the 72nd anniversary of Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) foundation, the varsity declared various awards recently. The awards will be given out for the academic year 2020-21 at the anniversary function to be held on February 10.There are different categories of awards like best college/institution, best principal/director, best faculty, innovative educational activity, innovative research programme, college or institution which received national or international awards for their work, youth award and other categories. In the best college or institution in urban category under the professional courses, the selected college is MKSSS’s Cummins College of Engineering for Women, Pune, while in the rural category the award was shared by two colleges – Amrutvahini College of Engineering, Sangamner and J H Raisoni Institute of Engineering and Technology, Pune. Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar was selected as the best college in non-professional courses in urban category and KK Wagh Arts, Science and Commerce college from Nashik was selected in rural category. SPPU’s technology department was selected under the best department of the university. Prof Pradeep Bajrang Mane, director of AISSMS Institute of Information Technology, was selected in best principal category in urban category and Prof Chandrashekhar Upsani, principal of Sureshdada Jain College of Pharmacy, Nashik was chosen under the rural category. Several other categories were also declared by SPPU which consisted of 18 awardees. While four awards will be given under the Youth Awards in four sections – research, sports, arts and literature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppus-72nd-anniversary-awards-declared-101612278643381.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 2 deaths and 360 fresh Covid-19 cases||On Tuesday, Pune district reported two deaths due to the Covid-19 infection in 24 hours. The city reported 360 fresh positive cases which took the final total to 3.89 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.67 lakh have recovered, 8,012 have been reported dead and 13,487 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city reported 188 new cases taking the final total to 1,98,889 and one death took the death toll to 4,526. PCMC reported 59 new cases taking the final total to 97,251 while zero deaths were reported which took the death toll to 1,316. Pune rural reported 113 new cases which took the final total to 92,986 while one death was reported which took the death toll to 2,128.The department reported that 4,011 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.36 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.37%. Also, 1,927 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.30 lakh. In addition, 30 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,383. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.52%. Of 1,47,06,992 laboratory samples, 20,30,274 have tested positive (13.80%) for Covid-19 until Tuesday. Currently 1,89,288 people are in home quarantine and 2,121 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-2-deaths-and-360-fresh-covid-19-cases-101612276183140.html
03-02-2021||Pune||3-yr-old female jackal rescued and released in Otur||A three-year-old female jackal, rescued by the forest department, Otur, Pune district, was released in the wild after medical treatment on Tuesday. “Farmers found the jackal lying in a semi-conscious state near a field in Otur and alerted us. The young animal required immediate medical intervention and was rushed for treatment to the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar,” said Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, adding, “The jackal was weak and exhausted when we found her. Otur range is home to a significant jackal population.” Golden Jackals, native to the Indian subcontinent, play a very important role in forest ecology. “They are omnivorous in nature and feed on a variety of small mammals, birds, fish, hares and even fruits. Unfortunately, the animal is frequent victim of hunting, wildlife trafficking, man-animal conflict and highway accidents. This species is protected under Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and has an estimated population of 80,000 in the wild,” he said. Preliminary examination by Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar revealed that the jackal was suffering from a stomach infection. After a few days of intensive care and treatment, the jackal showed signs of improvement and a final examination deemed her fit for release. Dr Bangar said, “The jackal was suffering from a stomach infection that led to diarrhoea and severe dehydration. We administered antibiotics and placed the animal under fluid therapy to ensure steady recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3yrold-female-jackal-rescued-and-released-in-otur-101612275104661.html
03-02-2021||Pune||BJP cautious on Balgandharva revamp plan ahead of PMC polls||With civic polls round the corner, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has put the Balgandharva Rangmandir revamp plan on hold following opposition from certain quarters.The political party has decided to launch an awareness campaign regarding the project to clear misconceptions, seek public support and avoid any controversy. The brainchild of noted humourist Pu La Deshpande, the auditorium has become a hub of the city’s cultural activity. It is a popular venue for cultural events, plays and art exhibitions. The hall has staged numerous functions and plays since it was inaugurated in 1968.Eight architectural firms in raceAccording to PMC officials, 56 architects and designers had shown interest in rebuilding the auditorium. The civic body received designs from 26 firms and eight were selected for final presentation. PMC had announced a budgetary provision of ₹10 crore for the redevelopment of the auditorium in 2018. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol formed a committee comprising experts to look into the issue after artist groups raised objection to the demolition of the historic auditorium. Plan to be finalised soon Mohol said, “We are going through the design plans received from architects. The final plan will be presented before the expert committee soon. We will work on the project in phase-wise manner. After presenting the plan before committee, we will put it up on social media. All stakeholders, including committee members and Balgandharva’s family members, will be shown the proposed plan.” Waiting for PMC’s callVirendra Chitrav, one of the committee members, said, “PMC has not approached any committee member since the last one year. In the second meeting, the committee received a suggestion and basic plan of the auditorium. Plan was based on renovation of existing structures, demolition of few structures and construction of new ones. Firms gave an estimated ranging from ₹20 crore to ₹120 crore. The committee could not come to a conclusion to demolish or alter. Members favoured renovation. However, there was one suggestion that that if the existing structure is unable to sustain for renovation. Then, go ahead for new construction.”Structural audit completedShivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer of building (construction) department said, “We have kept ₹10 crore as budgetary provision for the revamp plan. The structural audit of the building has been completed. However, it is not worth spending money on renovation as there will be very little scope to introduce new things in the existing structure.”The historic building Existing theatre detailsGround floor- 5,159 sq feetBalcony- 2,460 sq ftStage area – 2,400 sq ftParking area- 18,000 sq ftAuditorium seating capacity-Ground-669Balcony-320Art gallery-3,280 sq ftTheatre facilities• Air-conditioning auditorium• Pay and park• Canteen and cafeteria.• Tenements for drama companies • Display boxes for advertisements• The art gallery for different exhibitions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-cautious-on-balgandharva-revamp-plan-ahead-of-pmcpolls-101612273062903.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: “Stonehenges” of Pune and Megalithic Man||So, do you think aliens ever landed earth? Were the gigantic pyramids, the mysterious crop circles, Inca civilisation, the giant statues of Ester and formidable looking Stonehenge of England created by them?There are numerous such architectural marvels scattered across the earth which leave you wondering about who might have created them and how! In absence of modern technology, it is almost impossible to believe that they might be product of human endeavour. And yet, as we dig deeper (literally) with archaeologists’ help, we can find some clues to reveal the astonishing answers to our mystical pasts. Stonehenge in England is one such fascinating monument comprising 13 giant stones (13 ft high, 7 ft wide) standing in a circle, essentially, representing the burial grounds from Neolithic and Bronze ages of civilisation. All that is indeed wonderful, but what does it has to do with our Pune story? Did you know what Pune and Stonehenge mega stone circle burial grounds at England have in common? Proto historic Pune folks were not very behind in raising giant projects and have left marks of similar Stonehenge of Pune in the suburb of Bhosari. When British authors of Gazetteer of Bombay presidency wrote about history of Pune in 1885, they were unaware of enigmatic humans as well as their remains in the vicinity of Pune. But, as we have seen in past articles, the scholars of Deccan College, including Dr Hasmukh Dhirajlal Sankalia, were not a passive lot and proactively hunted in the environs of Pune for clues to past inhabitants. As the local memory serves, Bhosari is an old settlement known as Bhojpur and had a fortification enclosure called “Kot”. In the old village, the medieval remains were scattered in the forms of Mahadev shrine, Khandoba temple with enclosure, and shrine of folk gods such as Chedoba, Munjaba, Babpuji Buwa along with some herostones. Amongst these medieval remains, Dr Sankalia and his team in 1939 found traces of stone structures which went back many centuries ago. In proto-historic period, one comes across the structures made of colossal undressed stones, either arranged in a circle called “stone circle”, or an erect, roughly tall triangular flat slab called “Menhirs” standing out prominently. Sometimes, the large three or four stones are arranged at right angles and covered with capping stone called a “Dolmen”. None of these stones show any chisel marks or have cementing material and one wonders how they were moved to particular place and installed in particular manner. These structures mark the proto-historic burial grounds of humans who were aptly referred to as “Megalithic” (of Big Stones). Till recently, not many habitation sites of these humans have been reported by archaeologists and such prominent burial grounds have been largely reported from Vidarbha region and southern Deccan. So, finding evidence of Megalithic man near Pune was indeed a significant discovery. Based on the black and red pottery found in excavation of such burial grounds, archaeologists have dated these cultures to Iron Age of India dating roughly to 1000 BCE. The Vidarbha region excavations such as Mahurjhari have reported good amount of iron tools, jewellery, and the remains of humans and horse buried commemorating the dead. This elaborate burial practices indicate that the Megalithic man believed in life after dead and hence, packed goods and vehicle for the journey of departed souls. At Bhosari, three “Menhirs” of height 4’8” ft, 8’8”ft and two 6’4” were seen near Bapuji Buwa shrine, Chavadi area and Bhairoba shrine, respectively. Two stone circles were reported from Kot area and Kanhoba shrine. Numbers of “Dolmens” were reported in the form of the enclosure of Chedoba and Mhasoba shrine where present day communities have established shrines by placing aniconic symbols. Unfortunately, no burial remains or significant pottery has been reported.Overall, the entire area seemed to be proto-historic burial ground and the tradition of burial continued till the time of investigation as Mahar community was seen practicing burials. But, Mahars did not erect the huge stones to mark the site as seen above.It is thus interesting to see that in the time when most Hindu communities practice cremation, it is unusual to find burial grounds except for certain communities such as Mahars, Jangam, etc. It was also fascinating to note that many nomadic communities such as Lamani and Dhangars visit these shrines annually and offer worship. This practice may signify some important ties between Megalithic humans and present nomads. Of course, erosion of tradition and loss of the material evidence on ground has made it difficult for us to trace the continuity of such practices. Some communities in modern period also followed the custom blindly and had erected a “modern dolmen-like” structure to carry the resemblance with Megalithic structures forward without knowing their true nature. Dr MK Dhavalikar has known to excavate a stone circle yielding Chalcolithic potsherds at Pimpalsuti in Shirur, Pune marking another Megalithic site. Similarly, due to resemblance in form, Dr DD Kosambi had indicated that the Vetal of Vetal hill in midst of Pune city may be originally a stone circle belonging to the same period. He claimed that Mhatoba and Vetal lie on tracks which yield microliths and were frequented by nomadic communities too and served as pre-historic cult sites. Thus, he also suggested that the place might have served as ancient necropolis or burial ground. He had reported some interesting rock engravings at Vetal hill as Megalithic engraving which were later examined by Deccan college archaeologist and geologists to reveal that majority of them are result of natural erosions. Some which may be made by man could not be dated for lack of context. And yet, it is intriguing to note that Dhangars do pass though this area and venerate the Mhatoba and stone circle like formations as Vetal, even today!Today, the growing suburb of Bhosari has engulfed most of these remains, including the stone circles and few obscurely survive hidden in narrow lanes. The big stone circle was lost to expansion of Pune-Nasik highway. But thanks to efforts of Dr Sankalia and the communities who still keep the place alive through their veneration, we can witness the fascinating human endeavours of Megalithic Man of Pune!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stonehenges-of-pune-and-megalithic-man-101612268973361.html
03-02-2021||Pune||Junnar forest division resumes first leopard census project||Work on the first leopard census in Junnar forest division under the Pune circle has resumed from Manchar-Shirur border in Ambegaon taluka from January 2021. The operational work of the census had begun last year before it was disrupted after a few months due to the Covid pandemic. The census aims to estimate the population of leopards in four talukas — Junnar, Shirur, Ambegaon and Khed — under the Junnar forest division. The findings from the project will provide details about the animal’s number and their migratory and movement patterns in agriculture and residential areas. The project is funded by Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA), the national advisory council under the chairmanship of ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEF&CC). Wildlife expert and conservation biologist Bilal Habib is the principal investigator of the census project. According to forest officials, river belts and sugarcane areas are hotspots in terms of the predominance of leopards and incidents of human-animal conflict. “Otur, Manchar-Shirur border, Shirur taluka’s northern and southern parts are the hotspots. We analysed data of almost 20 years and identified some new hotspots. Khed taluka has not reported any case related to leopards in the recent past. The census will help check the rising cases of human-animal conflict,” said Jayaramegowda R, deputy conservator of forests (territorial), Junnar division, Pune circle. Forest officials said that leopard census will help devise strategy to reduce conflicts and maintain human-animal coexistence. “As we are yet to know the exact number of leopards in the division, four talukas have been picked for the census. Though their number has been counted in protected areas such as national parks or wildlife sanctuaries, area census is not done. This is the first attempt,” said Jayaramegowda. The project is expected to be completed in four years. Junnar forest division has got the permission from authorities to radio-caller leopards to study their movements and activities. Some leopards have already been radio-collared. The paw count Of the 5,826 sq km geographical area in Junnar forest division, 591.89 sq km is under forest cover. The area contains four talukas — Junnar, Shirur, Ambegaon and Khed — in Pune district The project is funded by Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) 50 sq km: Area of each site to be covered under the division 100 trap cameras: Installed at each site Every month: Period of data collection by cameras at each site Every week: Period of data collected at each site will be analysed Four years: Expected period of completion of the census project||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/junnar-forest-division-resumes-first-leopard-census-project-101612266453129.html
