04-02-2021||Delhi||350 buses provided to police, para-military personnel taken back by DTC||Over 350 buses provided to the police and the para military personnel were taken back by the DTC on Thursday, officials said.The move comes a day after the Delhi government decided to withdraw all the buses under special hire.The decision was taken in the backdrop of heavy deployment of police and para military personnel on Delhi's border points in view of the farmers agitation against Centre's farm laws.The low-floor DTC buses have been extensively used for movement of police and paramilitary personnel for deployment in various parts of the city. The departments concerned have been asked to relieve the buses, officials had said on Wednesday."As per direction of the authorities, 360 of the total 576 buses provided to police and para military under special hire have been withdrawn to different depots. However, 216 buses are still with the security personnel in view of the law and order situation," said a senior Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) officer.In normal times, about 100 buses are provided by DTC to the police and para military forces. However, the number of buses went up to 576 after farmers started their protest at the Delhi borders, officials said.It was decided that all the Delhi Transport Corporation buses on special hire would be withdrawn with immediate effect, by the Delhi government, on Wednesday. It was also decided by the authorities that approval of the government will be required now before requisition of buses under special hire, officials had said.Some DTC buses that were used by police and security personnel to block the roads during the tractor parade by protesting farmers on January 26, were vandalised by a section of protesters who had entered the city. The BJP leaders have slammed Delhi government for withdrawing buses from police and para military personnel amid the protests at the city borders and charged the ruling AAP of taking the decision for "political" gains in Punjab where Assembly polls are scheduled next year.The farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and UP are protesting at Delhi border that have been fortified with barricades, cement blocks, concertina wires, spikes and deployment of heavy police and para military personnel. PTI VIT TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/350-buses-provided-to-police-para-military-personnel-taken-back-by-dtc-101612461873413.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Govt says lockdown led to improvement in river Yamuna's water quality||The water quality of the Yamuna in Delhi improved during the lockdown due to the stoppage of industrial effluent discharge, availability of more water for dilution and absence of polluting human activities, the government told Lok Sabha on Thursday.It said the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) carried out water quality tests at three locations -- Palla, Nizamuddin bridge and Okhla -- in April last year.The assessment of the water quality in April as compared to the pre-lockdown period in March showed improvement at Palla, where the river enters Delhi, in terms of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and at Nizamuddin Bridge and Okhla in terms of dissolved oxygen (DO) and BOD.Biochemical oxygen demand is the amount of dissolved oxygen used by microorganisms in the biological process of metabolizing organic matter in water.Dissolved oxygen is the amount of oxygen available to living aquatic organisms. High BOD levels mean there is a high level of microorganisms in the water, and a high content of organic material that is broken down by the organisms.The greater the BOD, the lower the amount of dissolved oxygen available for fishes and other aquatic lifeThe improvement in the water quality was attributed to the "release of fresh water from Wazirabad Barrage" which washed away sediments, settleable and colloidal form of pollutants in the river, Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria informed Lok Sabha. Other reasons included the stoppage of industrial effluent discharge (about 35.9 million litres a day), "good penetration" of solar radiation in the water body and the absence of human activities such as throwing of garbage, bathing, washing of clothes due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-says-lockdown-led-to-improvement-in-river-yamuna-s-water-quality-101612461587700.html
04-02-2021||Other||BJP president Nadda says PM Modi gave special attention to Kerala||Bharatiya Janata Party National President Jagat Prakash Nadda on Thursday said that special attention and focus have been given to Kerala under the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.While addressing a public rally at Thrissur, BJP Chief said that ₹3,000 crore has been spent on a 450 kilometre-long natural gas pipeline from Kerala's Kochi to Mangaluru."Under the NDA government led by PM Modi, special attention and focus have been given to Kerala. ₹3,000 crore have been spent on a 450-km long natural gas pipeline from Kochi to Mangaluru under the 'One Nation, One Grid' program," Nadda said.He further said that ₹16,000 crores have been spent for Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL)'s Integrated Refinery Expansion Complex in Kochi."In terms of infrastructure, I can assure that ₹12,000 crores will be spent on six mega projects whose foundation stones have been laid," the BJP chief said adding that the six-laning work of several highways and high-level bridge construction has also been undertaken under the leadership of PM Modi.The Mumbai-Kanyakumari Economic Corridor worth ₹50,000 crore, an initiative no one could think of, he said.In a veiled dig at former PM Manmohan Singh, Nadda said that the then Prime Minister was not available when the tragic Sabarimala stampede took place in 2011 but when a fire broke out in Kollam's Puttingal Temple the PM Modi was at the site within three hours."In Kollam, a fire broke out one night and 400 people had to face its wrath. Within three hours, PM Modi was in Trivandrum, and I was here as well. He deputed me here for a week, to personally look after the patients and take care," Nadda said.Slamming the ruling party, the BJP chief alleged that the entire state machinery in Kerala is involved in corruption."One CM has a love for gold, the other one delivered and derived energy from 'SOLAR'. It has given a very bad name to Kerala as a state. In both corruption and scam cases," he said.Regarding the COVID-19 cases in the state, Nadda said that COVID has been mismanaged in a massive way."Over half the cases are from Kerala at this time. When India has the highest recovery and lowest fatality rate, Kerala is performing poorly," he added.Nadda arrived in Kerala on Wednesday for a two-day visit to the state to review the BJP's election preparations ahead of Assembly polls. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-president-nadda-says-pm-modi-gave-special-attention-to-kerala-101612461351216.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Judge recommends counselling, meditation to reform gang-rape convict, upholds 10-year jail term||The Delhi high court on Thursday said correctional courses, meditation therapy, vocational training and psychometric tests should be given to reform a man convicted of gang-raping a 13-year-old boy along with is accomplices in a truck in Aman Vihar area in 2016.Justice Anu Malhotra, while upholding the 10-year-old prison sentence awarded to the man, said educational opportunities and skill development programmes should be given to the man for making himself self-dependent.The court said adequate counselling should also be given to him to keep him from joining antisocial groups and to make him understand the reason for him being in prison.The man, Chand, through his counsel had challenged the conviction and punishment awarded to him in February last year for aggravated penetrative assault on the minor.According to the prosecution, the man along with two others, one of them a juvenile, sexually assaulted the child and also criminally intimidated him on January 25, 2016, around 3am. The child had told the police that he was beaten and forcibly taken aboard an oil tanker truck, where he was sexually abused while being held at knifepoint.The judge said the trial court had rightly convicted Chand because there was no motive for the child to falsely implicate him. It said the appellant does not deserve any leniency and there is no infirmity in the judgment of the trial court.“In the circumstances, there is no infirmity whatsoever in the judgment and the appellant merits no leniency... The appeal is thus declined,” Malhotra said.He asked the jail superintendent to submit a biannual report till the date of release of the convict, detailing the measures taken to reform and rehabilitate him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/judge-recommends-counselling-meditation-to-reform-gang-rape-convict-upholds-10-year-jail-term-101612461370705.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||DU set to reopen Central Library on experimental basis for research scholars||As a part of its phased reopening plan, Delhi University on Thursday announced that it was reopening the Central Library complex for research scholars and faculty members on weekdays. The library had been closed since the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced in March and all content moved online for students.“We have tried to open the library on an experimental basis. If this is successful, we will allow postgraduate students to access it as well. The undergraduate students are mostly connected to their college libraries,” said Rajesh Singh, librarian at Delhi University.The MPhil and PhD students allowed to visit the library reading rooms will have to take prior permission online before visiting the complex. For permission they will need to contact the university librarian through email at librarian@du.ac.inStudents will also be able to access the reading rooms between 10am to 4pm from Monday to Friday. “Library facilities under DULS will be made operational in phases. In the first phase only bonafide faculty members, PhD/M. Phil scholars will be allowed to use library reading room facilities,” Delhi University Library System (DULS) announced in a statement.While the staff handling books have been asked to wear gloves, library users have also been advised to carry gloves and sanitisers and follow social distancing protocols. Those with Covid-19 symptoms will not be allowed and the premises will be frequently sanitized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-set-to-reopen-central-library-on-experimental-basis-for-research-scholars-101612461370122.html
04-02-2021||Other||Delhi: FIR against two children’s homes for ‘abuse and irregularities’||New Delhi: A first information report (FIR) was registered on Wednesday against two care homes for children after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) reported a host of abuse and irregularities such as sexual abuse, using the children for anti-CAA protests, not providing them the right living conditions, Covid-19 norms violations, among others, the police said. The police identified the two homes as Umeed Aman Ghar, a home for boys, and Khushi Rainbow Home, a residence for girls -- both based south Delhi. “The NCPCR conducted inspections at the two homes on October 1 and submitted their findings to us. We did a preliminary enquiry after that and registered an FIR under the Juvenile Justice Act and the section 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant) at Mehrauli,” Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south) said on Thursday. According to Priyank Kanoongo, chairperson of NCPCR, the two homes are run by Centre for Equity Studies where activist Harsh Mander is a director. Kanoongo accused the officials of the two homes of trying to “derail” the enquiry process by saying that Mander was not connected to them. While Mander remained unavailable for a response despite repeated phone calls and a text message, a response sent by the management of the homes said that Mander only conceived the Rainbow Homes Programme (HRP) under which the children are cared for. The management said the NCPCR was trying to malign the reputation of HRP as Mander is a “known critic of the government and its policies”, they added that Mander was no longer associated with the “day-to-day running” of the programme. Kanoogoo said there were shortcomings in how the children at the home for boys were kept and the arrangements for their toilets and bathrooms despite several incidents of sexual abuse.The management of the homes said none of the three known cases of sexual abuse between 2012 and 2016 involved the staff there and was perpetrated by inmates. They said all cases were brought to the notice of the authorities and led to registration of FIRs. But DCP Thakur said that there were reports of sexual abuse continuing and not being reported. However, no cases of sexual abuse was found in the home for girls. Kanoogoo, as well as the findings of an inspection by NCPCR on October 1, pointed to alleged irregularities in the financial aspects of the two homes, the living conditions of the children and flouting of several applicable laws. Other allegations, the DCP said, was of the children being sent to attend anti-CAA protests, not having necessary measures in place to deal with Covid-19 and foreign nationals visiting the homes. The management denied any financial irregularities, and said that no children were sent to attend any protests and there were no set rules or standard operating procedures (SOPs) for several shortcomings that the commission noted during the inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-fir-against-two-children-s-homes-for-abuse-and-irregularities-101612461311592.html
04-02-2021||Other||9,494 get vaccine jabs in city, trial for front line workers starts||New Delhi Delhi administered 9,494 Covid-19 jabs, out of the targeted 18,300, on Thursday, registering a turnout rate of 51.88%, which is around 12 percentage points higher than the previous day, even as the drive was opened up on a trial basis for front line workers.The 9,494 beneficiaries who got the shots on Thursday, include both health care workers and front line workers. But the government did not share data for beneficiaries under each category. On Thursday, 13 cases of adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) were recorded, but none of them were severe in nature, senior government officials said.Health care workers are the first priority group for the inoculation drive, which was rolled out across the country on January 16. In Delhi, 240,000 health workers have registered for the vaccination.Front line workers come next on the priority list. They include police officials, fire officials, municipal staff, sanitation workers, schoolteachers and staff across all departments and agencies which were engaged in Covid-19 management. Delhi has an estimated 600,000 front line workers, of which around 350,000 have registered for vaccination so far, said data shared by senior government officials, who added that the registration drive for front line workers is underway.Last week, the Union government told states to consider starting vaccination for front line workers by the first week of February, following which the Delhi government scaled up its vaccination capacity on Tuesday by increasing the total number of vaccination sites from 106 to 183 and the number of vaccination days in a week from four to six“The trial run for vaccination of front line workers started today (Thursday) at least three vaccine centres in each of the 11 revenue districts. Few more centres will be roped in on Friday. We plan to start it full-fledged vaccines by Saturday. The front line workers will be eligible for shots in the same centres where health workers are being vaccinated. This is the reason why overall capacity for vaccination was scaled up,” said a senior government official.A senior official in the health department of the New Delhi Municipal Council said, “Registered front line workers will also be allowed for out-of-turn jabs, similar to the policy adopted for health care workers. The government is helping with the list of beneficiaries for all centres. The centres will have to ensure that records are properly maintained.”On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded the lowest vaccination turnout for a single day – at 40.25%. In Delhi, the highest single-day turnout was recorded on January 25, the fifth day of the drive, at 91.5%. Delhi had 81 vaccination centres then, which was increased to 106 on January 27.Government officials and experts attributed the recent decline in turnout to lack of awareness among beneficiaries about the new centres and decline in figures in several of the existing vaccination centres which, they said, suggest that they may have reached a saturation point. However, they said, the turnout is likely to go up once again now with doors opened for front line workers.Dr Namrata Makkar, deputy medical superintendent at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said: “The turnout numbers should increase. Now that thousands of health workers have already been vaccinated in Delhi, the confidence-building exercise should be easier for front line workers and eventually the masses. In its awareness drives, the government should clearly deliver the message that how the vaccine is the biggest preventive measure against a potential second wave of the disease, which several countries across the world have witnessed.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “More centres will open doors for front line workers on Friday as part of the ongoing trial. It was a good decision to start with the trial and assess management-related issues. With time, the turnout numbers should go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9494-get-vaccine-jabs-in-city-trial-for-front-line-workers-starts-101612461312165.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Don’t have funds to treat 5 lakh suffering from rare form of muscular dystrophy, health ministry tells HC||The Centre on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that it does not have the budget to treat over five lakh people suffering from a rare disease, Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), in the country as it requires genetic therapy which costs about ₹5 crore per child annually.DMD, one of several forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys primarily and causes progressive weakness.On Thursday, Justice Prathiba M Singh, while hearing two pleas filed on behalf of two children who are suffering from DMD, was told by deputy secretary of the ministry of health, Dr Pulkesh Kumar, that there are more than five lakh DMD patients requiring genetic therapy in India and the current cost of such therapy was approximately ₹5 crore per child annually.Kumar said the new National Health Policy for Rare Diseases, 2020, will be notified by March 31 this year and it will have a clause for crowd funding expensive medicines and treatments for rare illnesses.On the last date of hearing, the court had directed the Centre to implement the draft policy for rare diseases while noting that such an important issue cannot be left unfinished for so long -- the draft has been pending finalization for the past year and a half.Justice Singh remarked that a solution should be found at the higher level and posted the matter to February 19.The court also directed the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to file an affidavit within a week giving certain details such as the details of the therapy provided to one of the patients and its effect on the child.“The institution shall also state the manner in which medicine of the said patient was ordered from Sarepta Therapeutics and whether there was an intent supplier of medicine at that stage for the patient….AIIMS will also mention in the affidavit the condition of the child after the ongoing six-month therapy,” the court said.Advocate Ashok Agarwal, representing the other child petitioner, said the government should do some research and make an endeavour to invent the drugs in the country itself to save lives of people suffering from this illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-have-funds-to-treat-5-lakh-suffering-from-rare-form-of-muscular-dystrophy-health-ministry-tells-hc-101612461310924.html
04-02-2021||Other||All Delhi industries switch over completely to PNG||New DelhiDelhi has managed to convert all its industries to relatively cleaner piped natural gas (PNG), according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). According to DPCC, Delhi has a total of 1,644 polluting industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi. Out of these units, 1,607 units were subsequently found convertible to PNG, and the remaining had shut their operations. Thereafter, IGL successfully connected all these units with the eco-friendly PNG fuel by January 31. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas had in a meeting on December 22 and had set a deadline of January 31 for all industries to switch to PNG.AK Jana, managing director, IGL, said, “Our team has been able to overcome various challenges of laying gas pipelines in narrow lanes and has been successful in complying with the directions of Commission for Air Quality Management and DPCC well within the prescribed timelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-delhi-industries-switch-over-completely-to-png-101612461251778.html
04-02-2021||Other||43 FIRs in R-Day violence, 13 being probed by special cell, Delhi police tells HC||New DelhiThe Delhi Police on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that 43 FIRs have been registered in the Republic Day violence, out of which 13 have been transferred to the special cell.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was told by the police, represented by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, that provisions of UAPA have also been invoked in some cases involving banned organization “Sikhs for Justice” and investigations is on.The submissions were made while hearing a plea seeking a probe into the violence during farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day and the alleged lapse in security, which resulted in a religious flag being hoisted at the Red Fort.The court declined to hear the plea and asked the petitioners, three Uttar Pradesh residents, to withdraw the petition or face costs. It said that a crime can happen in a fraction of seconds but the investigation takes time, while adding that it was to analyse the mindset of such petitions.“So you started typing the petition right after the incident on January 26 noon? Do you know how much time is given for investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code? You are a lawyer. How much time is given for an investigation?”“You expect the investigations to be completed within two days of the incident? Does the government have a magic wand which it will wave and everything will be done? Should we dismiss it with cost or will you withdraw,” the bench asked advocate Vivek Narayan Sharma, appearing for the petitioner.Man arrested for R-Day violence gets bailA Delhi court has granted bail to a man arrested for allegedly being part of unlawful assembly and conducting riots in the Uttam Nagar area during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The court stated that “no fruitful purpose would be served by curtailing the liberty of the accused”.Additional sessions judge Dheeraj Mor, while granting bail to one Sandeep Kumar, said that the Investigating officer’s report is “conspicuously silent” about his previous criminal involvement.“Therefore, there is no reason to doubt the submissions on behalf of the accused that he has clear antecedents. He is no more required for the investigation of this case. In the aforesaid circumstances, no fruitful purpose will be served by further curtailing the liberty of the accused,” the judge said in his order of February 3.The judge also noted that co-accused Gurvinder Singh, with the similar allegations as that of the accused, was released by the police after giving a notice.Kumar, through his counsel, advocate Kapil Chaudhary, had contended his client was falsely implicated in this case and he was just a bystander at the spot of occurrence. He said that Kumar was neither part of the unlawful assembly nor he was involved in the riots.The counsel said that Kumar owns a shop of iron rods at Kakrola, Dwarka Mor, New Delhi and he was not part of any agitation.However, opposing the bail application, additional public prosecutor Satvinder Kaur, told the court that the accused was part of unlawful assembly that committed riots and caused injuries to nine police personnel. She said that the members of the unlawful assembly also damaged the public property including the cluster buses.The police had earlier released a list of over 120 arrestees after allegations that several protestors were illegally detained without even informing their families.Advocate Harpreet Singh Hora said that their legal team has been providing legal aid since the first day of the arrests of several farmers and this type of orders give them hope.“Additionally, the bail reinforces our faith that the people who have been wrongly implicated in these cases shall get justice. What we are doing is upholding the law and we will strive to fight cases of these farmers till this reaches a logical conclusion,” he said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three farm laws.The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/43-firs-in-r-day-violence-13-being-probed-by-special-cell-delhi-police-tells-hc-101612461250767.html
04-02-2021||Other||MCDs siphoned off money given by govt for paying salaries: AAP||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption, claiming that leaders of the party siphoned off ₹1,095 crore which was given to the BJP-ruled municipal corporations last month by the Delhi government to pay off salaries to their employees.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.“The AAP government released around ₹1,095 crore for the BJP-ruled MCDs to help them pay salaries to their employees. But the BJP has distributed the money among their own leaders. While the BJP leaders are claiming that they did not receive any money, bank statements show otherwise,” said the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Employees in the municipal bodies – from health workers and teachers to sanitation workers and clerks – have been protesting over non-payment of their salaries.While the corporations claim that they are facing a massive financial crunch because of inadequate funds released by the Delhi government, the latter has accused the municipal bodies of multiple scams. On January 14, the Delhi government had announced that it would give ₹938 crore to the MCDs for payment of salaries to their employees.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These allegations are baseless. Delhi government has not given the MCDs ₹1,095 crore. They have given the MCDs ₹438 crore for salaries and ₹463 crore for expenses under other heads related to health and education. Such blatant lies will affect their prospects in the 2022 municipal polls in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcds-siphoned-off-money-given-by-govt-for-paying-salaries-aap-101612461250104.html
04-02-2021||Other||CM asks officials to ensure launch of cloud-based health management system by August this year||New Delhi Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday directed officials of the health department to stick to deadlines in order to ensure that the Delhi government’s ambitious project of cloud-based health information management system (HIMS) can be rolled out by August 2021.Kejriwal passed the order while chairing a review meeting of the project on Thursday.The HIMS project aims to connect all hospitals, dispensaries, polyclinics and mohalla clinics in the city digitally. It will start with Delhi government hospitals and, with time, aim to rope in hospitals operated by the Central government, civic agencies and private ones, said senior officials in the health department.The system will include issuing health cards to patients, which would essentially be a QR code-based system that can keep tabs on clinical details such as health checks, follow-ups, surgeries, medications and vaccinations.The system is also supposed to include a mobile-app as well as a 24x7 call centre to help patients with health-related information, seeking consultation and other assistance. The centralised call centre will provide two levels of help — first where an operator will receive people’s calls and messages and provide them with requisite information and the second where doctors and experts will provide appointments based on the problem or immediately provide solutions for emergency cases.“The chief minister directed the officials to ensure that work is strictly completed within the stipulated deadline. He also instructed to ensure that the distribution of the health cards is started at the earliest. In the meeting, the healthcare helpline was also discussed… Under HIMS, various features such as a web portal, mobile app, etc will be launched to store a database of the health condition of residents of Delhi. The system will be implemented by August 2021 in all Delhi government hospitals,” said a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office on Thursday.It further said, “The system seeks to target the health care delivery process. All the patient care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management, and backend services and processes will be brought under the system. The entire system will be on cloud and digitized. This will enable citizens to avail all information on one platform, which will help them in emergency cases. With this, Delhi will become the only state to have a cloud-based health management system. This facility will also be extended to private hospitals in the future.”The project is in lines with the Central government’s National Digital Health Mission that also aims to digitise all patient records, where the patient’s ID would act “like a health care account” and the patient’s entire medical history will be available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-asks-officials-to-ensure-launch-of-cloud-based-health-management-system-by-august-this-year-101612461190798.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||N-E Delhi Riots: Bail to murder accused for ‘humungous delay’ in recording eyewitness accounts||New DelhiA Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to a man accused of murder in one of the cases of the north east Delhi riots stating that there was “a humongous delay of about 83 days” in recording the statement of the eye witnesses in the case.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said that the police have not given any “cogent explanation for such a huge delay in recording the statement of witnesses”. The judge granted bail to Kuldeep Singh in connection the murder of an auto driver Babbu during the riots that had broken out in the Khajuri Khas area.The court also said that one of the witnesses, Munna, claimed that he was present when the incident happened on February 25, 2020; however, he never approached the local police station or make any call to the police on 100 on that day.“…instead he went on to name the applicant (Kuldeep Singh) for the first time during the course of recording of his statement by the investigating officer (IO) on May 18, 2020. Between February 25 and May 18, 2020, Munna never made any complaints whatsoever to the local police/investigating agency,” the court said in its order.The judge also said that the case of another eyewitness, Imran, is the same — he did not make any complaint to the police on his own till June 20, when his statement was recorded.The court said that identification of the accused by two beat officers is hardly of any consequence. It questioned the actions of one of the policeman in waiting till May 11, 2020 for the identification of the accused.“In my opinion, the identification of applicant by aforesaid police officials is hardly of any consequence, as this court is not able to comprehend as to why the beat officers waited till the recording of their statements/ supplementary statements when they had categorically seen and identified the accused indulging in riots…..,” the court said.“Being police officials, what stopped them from reporting the matter then and there in the police station or to bring the same in the knowledge of higher police officers? This cast a serious doubt on the credibility of aforesaid two police witnesses,” it added.The court granted bail to Kuldeep Singh on a bail bond of ₹20,000 and asked him to maintain peace and harmony in the locality. Communal riots had broken out in north east Delhi in February 2020 claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ne-delhi-riots-bail-to-murder-accused-for-humungous-delay-in-recording-eyewitness-accounts-101612461190138.html
04-02-2021||Other||Centre wants to rule over Delhi through back door channel: Sisodia||New Delhi: Delhi’s Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday attacked the Central government for “stealthily” approving a proposal to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, which he claimed would give more powers to the lieutenant governor (L-G), undermining the city-state’s elected government.Addressing a digital press conference, Sisodia said the Union cabinet approved the proposal on Wednesday in an attempt to “snatch powers” from the elected chief minister and the Delhi cabinet and strengthen the authority of the L-G, who reports to the Centre. The Bill will now be tabled in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament, he said.The Centre’s move could lead to fresh friction between the office of the L-G and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government which have squared off several times in the past six years over the extent of each other’s powers. The battle of primacy ended up in the Supreme Court, where it is still pending. “The Union cabinet has stealthily approved amendments to give so much power to the L-G that he can now stall any project or work initiated by the elected government in the Union territory. As per the Centre’s proposal, the final decision-making power will lie with the L-G and not the elected government,” Sisodia said.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.Specifically, the proposed law will clearly spell out the functions of the Council of Ministers and the L-G by giving more discretionary powers to the L-G. The proposed amendments suggest that the L-G could act in his discretion in any matter that is beyond the purview of the powers of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi in matters related to the All India (Civil) Services and the Anti Corruption Branch. If the legislation is passed, all the incentives offered to the people of Delhi by the AAP government would be taken away by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government, Sisodia warned. Under the current arrangement, following an order by the Supreme Court on July 4, 2018, the L-G is in charge of police, land, and public order, and the state government, the rest. The proposed law is “nothing but a backdoor channel being created by the BJP-led Central government to directly rule over Delhi. If this happens, then all the freebies and subsidies given by the AAP government will be snatched away from the people of Delhi. The BJP-led Centre will revoke our free power, water and bus rides for women schemes. It will also revoke the free treatment in Delhi government hospitals which every resident of the city is entitled to,” Sisodia said. He added that giving such powers to the L-G means empowering the Centre to rule directly over Delhi. Because Delhi is a Union territory, the L-G is appointed by the Union ministry of home affairs. “The Centre’s attempt to reduce the powers of an elected government is not just against democracy but it is also against our Constitution. The Constitution of India clearly states that barring three subjects - police, land and public order - all other subjects and works will be under the direct control of the elected government, which currently is that of Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party,” he said. Sisodia said that in 2015, the Central government misinterpreted the Constitution to claim that the L-G would run the Delhi government. When AAP challenged the interpretation in the Supreme Court, a constitution bench clarified that the elected government had the right to take decisions on all subjects except matters related to the police, land and public order, with the L-G only having to be kept informed about the Delhi government’s day-to-day decisions, Sisodia said. The court is yet to rule on who has control over the subject of services, which deals with transfers, postings and annual performance reviews of bureaucrats.“Now that it has no way out, the Central government is now keeping aside and overlooking the Constitution and the observations of the SC to directly rule over Delhi,” the deputy chief minister said. The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.Constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said all union territories are administered by the Central government through the L-G.“Delhi has very limited powers because of its nature as a union territory. It is something the Delhi government has to compromise with. The President administers it through the L-G and hence the assembly has very limited powers. But, it is true that it was unnecessary for the Centre to initiate such an amendment at such a junction when the Supreme Court has given a subject wise clarity on several issues. Maybe the central government is attempting to clarify the division of power further,” he said.The Delhi BJP said the Centre’s decision to amend the Govt Of NCT of Delhi Act is an important step to ensure proper governance in the national capital.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said repeated instances of conflict between the Arvind Kejriwal government and the lieutenant governor in the past six years have put the “prestige of the national capital and people’s lives and welfare at stake”.“The latest move by the Delhi government to withdraw DTC buses from police duty is a glaring example of why how national capital Delhi’s law and order and other serious administrative powers cannot be left to the state government. Steps being taken by Centre are important to maintain law and order and administrative control in the national capital,” he said. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said when the Congress was in power at the Centre, the focus was strengthening the state governments. “But the current BJP government is creating a dictator-like regime and weak state governments are unable to stand before it.” “Arvind Kejriwal, who portrayed hinself before the public as someone who would fight against the government, is now proving to be a weak leader who cannot safeguard the interests of Delhi and its people. I want to ask him (Kejriwal), why doesn’t he sit on a protest against the central government now? Why doesn’t he fight for the rights of Delhi? Since this government came into power in Delhi, we have time and again seen weak leadership from the AAP government, and the BJP at the Centre is taking advantage of this,” Chaudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-wants-to-rule-over-delhi-through-back-door-channel-sisodia-101612461130115.html
04-02-2021||Other||Police asks DTC to review decision to recall buses||New Delhi: A day after the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) asked the police to immediately return all its buses taken on ‘special hire’ to maintain law and order in the city, the Delhi Police wrote to DTC asking it to review its decision as it may lead to obstruction in maintaining law and order. In the letter, special commissioner of police Robin Hibu said if any untoward incident happens in Delhi then DTC may be held accountable.A senior DTC officer confirmed that the corporation has received the letter after which DTC managing director met Hibu to resolve the issue. The DTC MD also raised the pending dues on the part of the Delhi Police amounting to about ₹10 crore with Hibu, officials said.Till Thursday, of the total 576 buses, over 350 buses provided to police and para military personnel were returned to DTC. Late Wednesday evening, the Delhi government issued a directive to DTC to seek prior approval before giving any of its buses on ‘special hire’ by the Delhi Police or any other organisation. The order came in the wake of 40 DTC and cluster buses getting damaged during the tractor rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day when the police used buses as barricades at several locations, including ITO and Akshardham.“As per direction of the authorities, 360 of total 576 buses provided to police and para military under special hire have been withdrawn to different depots. However, 216 buses are still with the security personnel in view of law and order situation,” said a senior DTC official.Normally, about 100 buses are provided by DTC to the police and para military forces. However, the number of buses went up to 576 after farmers started protest at Delhi borders, officials said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised the Aam Aadmi Party government on Thursday for withdrawing DTC buses given to the city police, saying chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is pushing the city into a state of anarchy for political gains, especially in Punjab and Delhi. The AAP which is the main Opposition party in Punjab has extended support to the farmer agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Several BJP leaders such as party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, MPs Meenakshi lekhi, Parvesh Verma, Ramesh Bidhuri, Manoj Tiwari tweeted on Thursday with hashtag #KejriwalWantsAnarchy, criticising the decision to withdraw DTC buses. “India has a history of brave patriots from Prithvi Raj Chauhan to APJ Kalam & also has a history of Jaichand to Mir Jaffar. Recent action by Arvind Kejriwal to deny DTC bus services to police is a case in point which proves his anarchist credentials in support of Delhi seizure,” tweeted Meenakshi Lekhi, BJP MP from New Delhi. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta tweeted, “Delhi Police has always been a victim of cheap politics of Anarchist CM @arvindkejriwal. For their political interests, @aamaadmiparty has blamed Delhi Police for every act of violence in the city be it Jamia, JNU, Delhi Riots or Farmers protest violence. #KejriwalWantsAnarchy.”Gupta said Kejriwal was compromising with the safety and security of the people living in Delhi.Demanding immediate withdrawal of the order, BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also the leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly, said, “The buses are needed by security forces. This is not the time to do politics. For political gains in Punjab, he shouldn’t push the city into a state of anarchy. The order should be immediately withdrawn.”Bidhuri added, “It is regrettable that Kejriwal neither went to ask the health condition of 300 police personnel injured during the Republic Day violence nor uttered a word of sympathy for them.” Despite calls and text messages, the AAP did not comment on the allegations by the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-asks-dtc-to-review-decision-to-recall-buses-101612461010157.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Four held for snatching mobile phones in Noida||Noida: Noida Police on Thursday arrested four alleged mobile phone snatchers and recovered 29 phones from them.According to police, they were arrested from Noida sector 6 after a chase.“They were involved in several phone snatching incidents in Delhi-NCR. The prime suspect, Monu Sharma, had been in jail for a year in Delhi for a similar offence. They live in Delhi’s Ashok Nagar,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Police said that they sold the stolen phones in Delhi’ Gaffar market for ₹3,000-4,000 apiece. They recovered ₹10,000, a motorcycle, scooter, knife and countrymade pistol from the suspects. Police personnel said that the suspects will be booked under the gangster act, and that they are investigating other members of the alleged gang.In a separate case, four persons were arrested for theft in a factory manufacturing surgical instruments.On January 29, ₹15 lakh had been stolen from the sector 80 company following which a case was registered at the Phase 2 police station. On Thursday, an employee of the said firm company and his accomplice was arrested.“They don’t have a criminal history. We have recovered ₹12. 41 lakh from the suspects along with a countrymade pistol,” said DCP, zone 2, Harish Chander.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-for-snatching-mobile-phones-in-noida-101612460470589.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Security guard arrested for killing colleague over salary dispute in Greater Noida||Ecotech III police on Thursday arrested a security guard for allegedly killing his colleague at an under construction building on Wednesday night after an argument over salary. The suspect was identified as 55-year-old Ajit Kumar from Ghaziabad but living in a rented accommodation in Suthyana village of Ecotech III.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that Kumar and his colleague 35-year-old Virendra Kashyap were from the same village. “Kumar had joined the company a few years ago and had helped Kashyap get the job. On Wednesday night, Kashyap asked Kumar to ask the employer to give him his salary as he wanted to go home. This led to an argument between the two,” he said. Bhuvnesh Kumar, SHO Ecotech III police station, said that it seemed the two were inebriated at the time. “They manhandled each other and Kashyap fell on the ground. Kumar, who was armed with a licenced double barrel rifle, opened fire at Kashyap and injured him in his right leg,” he said.Another guard informed the police. Kashyap was rushed to a private hospital but died. Kumar’s medical report was awaited at the time of filing this report. A case was registered against him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said the suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. His licenced gun and six live cartridges were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/security-guard-arrested-for-killing-colleague-over-salary-dispute-in-greater-noida-101612460470012.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Sector 18 prostitution ring: Cops asks district admin to seal spa||Noida: The Noida police have written to the district administration to seal a spa in Sector 18 from where a prostitution ring was allegedly running.According to the police, 12 spas in a mall in Sector 18 were raided on Wednesday following tip-offs, of which one was found to be allegedly engaged in nefarious activities. Police said three customers were allegedly found in compromising positions at the spa, and were arrested along with the spa manager by the Sector 20 police. The Delhi-based owner of the establishment has also been booked and is on the run at the moment.Police officers said 14 women were rescued from the spa who alleged that they were being forced to provide illegal services to customers. Eight cell phones, cash and used contraceptives were recovered from the spot.“Most of these women are from Nepal and the north-east who have been living in the city for years now. When questioned, they said they were being forced to work there. They were sent to a women’s shelter for rehabilitation,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Rajesh S.Officers said Noida police is not taking action against the women. They added that the police had used decoys posing as customers to bust the operation.The DCP said that the department has sent a letter to the district administration to seal the spa and take further action, while notices will be issued to the other spas as well.“We are yet to receive the letter but once we do, necessary action will be taken,” said city magistrate Umashankar Singh.Officials said that unlike Delhi, there are no provisions to recall licenses of running spa centres in Noida. A senior police official said that most of the spas operating in the city are running illegally.“Our teams had raided six-seven other places last week following tip-offs but no evidence of nefarious activities was found at the time, because of which action could not be taken,” said the official, asking not to be identified.Officers said that the spas have been operational since 2005 and are now under police radar.“We have identified a few places in Sector 18, a couple of city malls in Sector 51, among others, and are building teams for raids. Work is being done to monitor the online presence of such establishments as well,” said the DCP.Police said they suspect more than 70 illegal spas are operational in the city area.Three spas in Sector 18 were sealed in July 2019 after a sex racket was busted, in which 35 people – 25 women and 10 men, including foreign nationals – were arrested by the Noida police. Police said that one of them continues to remain sealed while two have resumed operations after taking stay orders from the High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sector-18-prostitution-ring-cops-asks-district-admin-to-seal-spa-101612460411241.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Covid-19 vaccination phase 2: Noida aims to inoculate 18,500 persons in five sessions||NOIDA:The Gautam Budh (GB) Nagar district health department has registered 18,500 people for the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive scheduled to begin on February 5 over five sessions.Serum Institute of India’s Covishield would be administered to police and paramilitary personnel, and revenue officials.The district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said 10% of registered beneficiaries would get the vaccine in the first session on February 5.“In the next three sessions on February 11, 12 and 18, 30% beneficiaries will be vaccinated daily. The fifth session on February 22 will be for those who missed the shots in phase 2,” he said.For the first session, the district health department has set up 15 booths. “Around 125 people are scheduled to be inoculated at each booth. Unlike the first phase, in which a little over 65% of the 24,453 listed beneficiaries got the shot, this time, the health department will keep a close eye to ensure that it would not be the case. We verified beneficiaries from their departments, including the ministry of home affairs (reporting authority for paramilitary personnel in the district), police personnel and revenue officials of the district,” he said.The first phase of vaccinations, that was only for health care workers, began on January 16 and had five sessions of which only one remain.“We have set up 60 booths for sessions scheduled for Thursday and Friday when over 12,000 would get their shot,” said the CMO. “After the second phase is over, we will announce dates for the second dose for those who got their shot in the first phase.”GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said they had started a campaign to clear any questions over vaccine efficacy and side effects.“We’re running the information campaign launched by the Centre to clear their apprehensions. Senior doctors and hospital staff who took their shot would motivate others. Officials will provide a genuine database of beneficiaries on the Co-WIN portal,” he said.Co-Win is a government portal to register and track those who will and have got their vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-vaccination-phase-2-noida-aims-to-inoculate-18-500-persons-in-five-sessions-101612460350028.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Noida sees rise in night temperature, mercury to drop by Saturday||Noida: The city on Thursday witnessed a rise of three degrees Celsius in minimum temperature, while parts of it saw light drizzle thereby dropping the day temperature. The city has seen the minimum temperature rising by seven degrees Celsius since Tuesday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature for Noida on Thursday was recorded at 15 degrees Celsius against 12.1 degrees a day earlier and 8.4 degrees on Tuesday. The maximum temperature, however, dropped due to thundery development and drizzling. Noida recorded a maximum temperature of 23 degrees Celsius against 25.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier and 27.2 degrees on Tuesday. IMD said that while the minimum and maximum temperatures will continue to be well above the season’s average, the mercury is likely to fall from Saturday due to return of the cold north-westerly winds. According to weather analysts, Noida saw light drizzle – too low to measure – that impacted the minimum temperature slightly. The current active western disturbance – a weather system that causes rains or snowing in the Himalayan states and subsequent rains or thundery development over the national capital region (NCR) – will, however, pass through the region by Friday, further leading to change in the wind directions from warmer easterly to colder northerly. “Noida saw very light rains on Thursday. But, the sky will get clear on Friday. There will be a slight drop in mercury on Friday, and the minimum temperature is likely to fall considerably and hover around seven degrees by Saturday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. For NCR, the average minimum and maximum temperatures, based on Safdarjung observatory, were 12.4 degrees Celsius and 23.2 degrees Celsius against 10.4 degrees and 26.1 degrees a day earlier. The Safdarjung area also recorded an average rain of 0.5mm, IMD said. The minimum and maximum temperatures on Friday are expected to hover around 12 and 24 degrees Celsius, respectively. Meanwhile, the air quality of the region saw remarkable improvement as wind speed increased. However, the air quality remained under ‘very poor’ category. “The wind speed further increased on Thursday and the maximum speed recorded was 20 kmph. This led to further improvement in the air quality.” Srivastava added. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Thursday was 322 against 339 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was 312 against 345 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad reported an AQI of 338 against 388 on Wednesday. An AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The three cities – Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad – had been suffering either ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ levels of air quality since January 13, while the best air quality last realised was under ‘moderate’ category on January 4. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the surface winds will be supportive of better air quality. “Surface winds are high and easterly in direction. Under the approaching western disturbance, isolated rain is expected tomorrow. AQI is likely to further improve to the poor category tomorrow, and may touch moderate for a shorter period. The improved AQI is likely to stay for a couple of days,” said a SAFAR statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-rise-in-night-temperature-mercury-to-drop-by-saturday-101612460230583.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Traffic police set up road safety cell to prevent accidents||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police on Thursday set up a road safety cell for better management of traffic-related issues and preventing accidents. With a dedicated team of eight officials led by a traffic inspector, the safety cell will coordinate with different departments and civil society members to help make the roads safer.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GB Nagar, said that most of the accidents take place as commuters fail to obey traffic rules. “We have developed the road safety cell which will coordinate with different departments related to traffic and also create awareness among the public and the road users,” he said. The safety cell will also coordinate with different NGOs, resident welfare associations, and market associations to deal with the traffic problems effectively, he said, adding that a dedicated mobile phone number will soon be issued to contact the cell.“The cell will work every day. It will organise workshops for the drivers of commercial and public vehicles such as buses, trucks, auto rickshaws, etc. The cell will also organise awareness programme in schools, colleges and other educational institutions,” Saha said.According to the GB Nagar traffic police data, as many as 358 people died while 240 were injured in 442 accidents in the district from January 1- September 15 last year. Rohit Baluja, director, Institute of Road Safety Education, in a programme of road safety month – November 2020 – had said that as per the National Crime Records Bureau, every year around 23,000 people die and 28,000 others are injured in road accidents in Uttar Pradesh only.Anurag Kulshrestha, president of TRAX, an NGO working towards road safety, is an advisor to the road safety cell. Kulshrestha said that a number of fatalities take place due to poor qualities of helmets used by two-wheeler riders. He also demonstrated this at the event by placing some sub-standard helmets on a table and hitting them with a hammer, which were damaged with one blow.The DCP (traffic) said that the traffic police will soon run a drive and take action against the seller and manufacturers of sub-standard helmets in GB Nagar. “We will take action leading to an FIR,” he said.Kajal Kumari, a student of Shyam Singh Smarak Inter College, Sarfabad, also attended the programme with her classmates and NCC cadets. “I also used the hammer to break a sub-standard helmet. I have learnt that road safety is very important and people should buy good quality helmets,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-set-up-road-safety-cell-to-prevent-accidents-101612460230088.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Medical device park project to be launched soon in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Thursday said the state government will soon announce the medical device park project aimed at creating jobs and bringing in investment.The authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh went to Lucknow to discuss the project with top state government officials. “Once the state government finalises the date, the authority will begin work on the ground,” said Singh.Yeida had earmarked 350 acres for the park in sector 28 and also sent a proposal to the state government. The state government has in-principal approved the project. The authority is expecting ₹5,250 crore investment in this project if it is executed, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/medical-device-park-project-to-be-launched-soon-in-greater-noida-101612460170016.html
04-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar district consumer commission directs builder to refund money for wrong info||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a Noida-based developer to refund the deposited amount of ₹2.75 lakh to a buyer for misguiding him over the approval of the project by the local development authority.According to the consumer forum’s order, Pankaj Kumar Gupta, the complainant, was allotted one-bedroom flat in Wave City Dream Homes at NH-24, Ghaziabad, at the rate of ₹2,352 per square foot in June 2013. At the time of the allotment of the flat, the developer had assured that the said project was duly approved by the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA).Later, Gupta, a Delhi resident, came to know that no approval had been granted by GDA in respect of the said project. He then contacted the developer and wrote emails for the cancellation of allotment and refund of the deposited money. He paid an amount of ₹2,74,571, which was 20% of the total cost of flat, as per the order of the consumer forum.The developer denied the allegation and stated that 20% of the basic sale price of the flat constituted the earnest money. The earnest money shall stand forfeited in case of default by the buyer not making payment of all instalments in time, the developer said.Then Gupta filed a complaint with the consumer court on March 27, 2015, against the developer having its corporate office at Noida, seeking relief by directing the developer for cancellation of allotment of the flat and refund of the deposited money.The developer stated that it had applied for the sanction of the site plan of the project on October 7, 2013, but it was sanctioned by GDA on July 14, 2014.“The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission comprising president Anil Kumar Pundir and member Daya Shanker Pandey has directed the developer to cancel the allotment of flat and refund the deposited amount of ₹2,74,571, along with an interest of 9%. The order was delivered on January 29,” Aditya Bhati, representative of District Consumer Court Advocates Association, said on Thursday.When asked, a Wave City spokesperson said, “We will honour the court order and refund the money.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-district-consumer-commission-directs-builder-to-refund-money-for-wrong-info-101612460110098.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Don’t come here to seek votes, says Tikait on politicians coming to UP Gate||Ghaziabad: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday gave a veiled warning to politicians that they will be welcomed to the UP Gate protest site as guests, but no one should visit with the intention of building a voter base. His statement comes in the light of Tikait and farmers protests stationed at the borders of the national Capital drawing criticism over politicians’ visits to protest sites after incidents of violence on Republic Day in Delhi.“Yahan vote nahi milega, yahan roti mil sakti hai; galatfahmi main mat rehna (you can get food here, but not votes; do not harbour misconceptions). Don’t come here seeking votes. Jung chhidi hui hai (there is a fight going on). This is not the ‘manch’ (stage) for seeking votes. The MPs and MLAs who are coming here are our guests, but they will not be allowed to make speeches from the dais as the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (the apex body of farmers’ unions leading the protests) has issued guidelines in this regard,” Tikait said at UP Gate Thursday evening. He, however, lashed out at the government on issues of heavy barricading at the Delhi-UP border and Ghaziabad and the issue of internet services there being snapped.“The agitation will be long. Plan ‘A’ went on for 70 days, and we now have plan ‘B’. Under this, we are calling for 15 persons and one tractor to be sent from a village for 10 days of stay here. After 10 days, this group can go home and another group can come here for the protest. With such an arrangement, we can stretch this agitation for long. If we can plan the sowing of our crops, we can plan to prolong our agitation. We sow crops and they sow nails,” Tikait added. He said if need be, the farmers can resort to underground boring to get water and can also get generator sets and water tanks brought to the site. He also added that the government should talk to the core-committee at Singhu Border and decide on the issue of repeal of the three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.“For the past three days we have observed that some people have arrived who have different views . We have put a complete ban on speaking against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and we will not allow this from the dais as well. There are people who are uploading such videos. They must leave,” Tikait added.He said that during the Chakka jam planned for February6, protesting farmers in their respective areas should offer milk,groundnuts, fruits and food to people and should also hand over memorandums to their respective district officials. As part of the call, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has called for state and national highways to be blocked.Since the protests began at UP Gate on November 28, 2020, there have been many instances where speakers have made comments against the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the dais. After the developments on Republic day in Delhi, many politicians from opposition parties have visited the UP Gate site. Prominent among those were Delhi’s deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Manish Sisodia, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, Uttar Pradesh Congress committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, while many others have spoken to Tikait over the phone and extended help and support.The site also saw visits by Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, besides several others who tried to come to UP Gate on Thursday morning but were unable to cross the heavy barricading at the border. “The protest is completely political; it is a form of masked protest for political opposition. People who have no agenda are resorting to such tactics. They say that farmers are with them. But the farmers are not with them but with PM Modi. There are many people from different political parties who are going there and participating in one way or the other,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and state secretary of BJP – UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dont-come-here-to-seek-votes-says-tikait-on-politicians-coming-to-up-gate-101612460049971.html
04-02-2021||Noida||Barricading stops MPs from meeting farmers at UP Gate||The multi-layered barricading at the UP Gate border once again came in for criticism as 15 members of parliament (MPs) from different political parties arrived to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Unable to cross the barricading from Delhi, they returned without going to the site.The protesters said that if the leaders had resorted to a sit-in at the border, it would have created a lot of pressure on the Delhi Police to remove the barricades. Among the MPs were Lok Sabha members former Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Supriya Sule of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK’s) Kanimozhi and Trinamool Congress’s Saugata Roy. They said they were shocked at the magnitude of the barricading in place. “It is for the first time in my life that I have seen such barricading that stops people meeting people in the national Capital. We have been trying to raise the issue of farmers in the Parliament for the last two days. We have seen such multi-layered barricading, almost a fortification, only at the Pakistan border. They (police) told us that it is closed and said that we cannot go. Are we anti-nationals or terrorists? Are these farmers anti-nationals or terrorists?” Badal told reporters on the Delhi side of UP-Gate border. “It is also humanly impossible to cross it (the barricading). The DMK and our leader MK Stalin have been supporting the (farmers’) cause right from the beginning and we want the laws to be withdrawn. We just came here to say that we are with them,” said Kanimozhi. Delhi Police barricaded the border with iron grilles, concertina wires and even big boulders to prevent anyone or any vehicle from breaking it. Earlier barricades were easily pushed aside by tractors and farmers in their march to Delhi. Ever since it was put up last week, the nails on the ground to prevent tractors from going through came in for special criticism.On Thursday morning, a group of workers were also seen removing the nails and it was speculated that the Delhi Police had decided to remove them. But that was not to be.“These are just being repositioned. Position of arrangement at the border remains same,” said Deepak Yadav, DCP – East district of Delhi.Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday had said, “I am surprised when tractors were used on January 26 and police were attacked and barricading was broken, no on raised questions. What we did? We have just strengthened the barricades so that they should not be broken time and again.” On the other hand, the farmers at UP-Gate have also been voicing concerns over the barricading and said that it was causing affecting their supplies and people who wished to join them. They added that the barricading was also affecting local residents who now had to switch to other routes. “We don’t know why such heavy barricading was put up in the first place. It also prevented MPs from visiting us. We feel that had the members staged a sit-in near the barricades, it would have created a lot of pressure on the Delhi Police,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP-Gate farmers’ committee. Pintu Biswal, a native of Ghazipur district in Uttar Pradesh, also echoed similar sentiments. “I have been here for the past two months and have seen a number of politicians coming to support the farmers. But they come and go. No one sits here with us,” he said. Prominent among those were Delhi’s deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Manish Sisodia, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, UP Congress committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, while many others have already spoken to Tikait over the phone and extended help and support. The site also saw visits by Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and also Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. (With inputs from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/barricading-stops-mps-from-meeting-farmers-at-up-gate-101612459930112.html
04-02-2021||Other||Khattar govt bent on appointing former HPSC chief as power regulator||Chandigarh The Haryana government is contemplating to appoint a former chairman of Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) RK Pachnanda as the chairman of Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC). The move, legal experts say, is in contravention of Article 319 of the Constitution which prohibited member of a public service commission from holding offices on ceasing to be such members. Article 319 says that a chairman of a state public service commission shall be eligible for appointment as the chairman or any other member of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) or as the chairman of any other state public service commission, but not for any other employment either under the central or a state government. The state government, however, has taken a legal opinion on the matter from advocate general BR Mahajan, who is learnt to have given a green signal for Pachnanda’s appointment on the grounds that HERC is a quasi- judicial body and does not fall under the constitutional restriction. Mahajan, however, was unavailable for a comment. When asked on the legality of the move, power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, who will administer the oath of office to the new HERC chairman, refused to comment. Legal experts however disagree on the justification. Former Haryana advocate general, Ashok Aggarwal said such an appointment will violate the spirit of the Constitution. “ Prima facie, even though HERC is a statutory body, one can’t say that it’s not a government employment. Whether such a move will hit the letter of law can be a matter of debate. But by all means, the move violates the spirit of the Constitution. This is not an exercise in tune with the spirit of the Constitution. The idea of putting a constitutional bar was to ensure the independence and impartiality of members of the public service commission by insulating them from allurement of a future employment under the government,” Aggarwal said. Another former advocate general Mohan Jain said there was clear constitutional prohibition on chairman or member of a public service commission from holding offices once their term in the commission is over. “ The appointments in HERC are done by Haryana government. There is a certain amount of control that government exercises over the electricity regulatory commission,’’ Jain said. Box What Dr BR Ambedkar had said Speaking about the employment or eligibility for employment of the members of the Public Service Commissions, Dr BR Ambedkar, regarded as the architect of the Constitution, said in the Constituent Assembly on August 22, 1949, that both the chairman and members of the central and state public services commission have been made ineligible for reappointment to the same posts once their term of office is over. “I think that is a very salutary provision, because any hope that might be held out for re-appointment, or continuation in the same appointment, may act as a sort of temptation which may induce the member not to act with the same impartiality that he is expected to act in discharging his duties. Therefore, that is a fundamental bar which has been provided in the draft article,” he had said. Dr Ambedkar had further said there is also a provision that neither of these shall be eligible for employment in any other posts. “There is therefore a double disqualification. There is no permission to continue them in their office, nor is there provision for their appointment in any other posts,’’ he said. The only exceptions where they could be appointed are mentioned in Article 319.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-govt-bent-on-appointing-former-hpsc-chief-as-power-regulator-101612459330058.html
04-02-2021||Other||Haryana transfers 24 IAS officers||Chandigarh Haryana government on Thursday issued transfer and posting orders of 24 IAS officers. Additional chief secretary (ACS), food and civil supplies, PK Das, was posted as ACS, power and renewable energy replacing TC Gupta. Gupta was posted as ACS, mines and geology in addition to employment and housing. ACS, fisheries and chief executive officer, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, VS Kundu, was posted as ACS, labour, sainik and ardh sainik welfare and printing and stationery. ACS, science and technology, Amit Jha, was posted as ACS development and panchayats, replacing Sudhir Rajpal. Rajpal was posted as chief executive officer, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, and ACS, civil aviation. Among other ACS rank officers, Ankur Gupta, was posted as ACS animal husbandry and dairying, Anurag Rastogi, was given the charge of food and civil supplies in addition to excise and taxation, Raja Sekhar Vundru, was posted in skill development and industrial training, and Vineet Garg in information technology, electronics and communication. V Umashankar, principal secretary to chief minister, was given the additional charge of public relations, department. Principal secretary, mines and geology, Anand Mohan Sharan, was posted as principal secretary in higher education, and technical education departments. Principal secretary, general administration, Vijayendra Kumar, was given the additional charge of industries and commerce department. Additional principal secretary to chief minister, Amit Agrawal, was given the additional charge of director general, public relations replacing PC Meena who was posted as director general, skill development. Director general, higher education, Ajit Balaji Joshi, was posted as chief administrator, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran replacing Vinay Singh who was posted as chief administrator, HSAMB. Managing director, Haryana Dairy Development Cooperative Federation, A Sreenivas, was posted as director general and secretary, mine and geology replacing IPS officer Amitabh Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-transfers-24-ias-officers-101612459210055.html
04-02-2021||Pune||21.50% attendance for Class 5 to 8 on Day 1 in PCMC||Pune: Presence of doctors on campus, only a student on desk – it was a new normal start of schools for the students of Class 5-8 and the students had not complaints as they were studying via blackboard after a long gap. The overall statistics of Day 1 (see box) provided by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation states only 21.50 per cent of students were present. At least 303 private and 120 civic body-run schools conducted classes for 5-8. “Number will increase as many schools will put in place Covid prevention measures soon. There are 647 schools in PCMC for class 5-8,” said Parag Mundhe, education officer in PCMC. Private schools in PCMC showed good response and parents were happy with the arrangements. “Students were happy to be back in school instead of continuing with the online classes. The response was good with almost 40 per cent of students present out of 50 per cent which is allowed,” said Sharad Inamdar, chairman of high school committee, Modern High School and Junior College, Yamunanagar, Nigdi. Sweta Paithankar, principal SNBP International School, Morwadi said, “The soul of school is back today with students on campus. We had sent them videos regarding how schools will function like seating arrangement and socially distancing norms. The ward count Class 5-to 7 data Private School: 303 Civic body run school: 120 Total students: 132,438 Present on Day 1: 2,5745||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2150-attendance-for-class-5-to-8-on-day-1-in-pcmc-101612458429943.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to inspect affordable housing constructions as complaints pile up||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has decided to conduct an inspection of affordable housing projects where the pace of construction is not meeting the timelines. Developers of five such projects have also been directed not to demand payment from buyers till the adequate amount of construction is carried out.The decision was taken after a review meeting on Tuesday, wherein officials observed that some developers were not executing the work at the required pace.Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said that directions have been issued to officials to constitute a team and visit the construction sites to check the status of work as there have been repeated complaints from buyers regarding delays in construction. “The report should be submitted to this office in the next week and after perusing the same, we will make recommendations to senior officials in Chandigarh for initiating action against the developers,” he said.DTCP officials observed that a number of complaints had been received directly by the department, while a few were also registered with the CM Window, following which it was decided that a status report be obtained in this matter. Mann said that earlier, the department considered the status report submitted by developers in good faith, but the rising number of complaints have forced them to intensify scrutiny.The decision to call for an inspection was also triggered by the fact that some of the developers did not attend the review meeting called by the department on January 27. A major grouse of the homebuyers in these projects has been that while 50% of the payments have been made, the pace of work has been inadequate.“Affordable housing will remain viable only if the builders deliver the projects within the stipulated time of four years. The majority of buyers in these projects are end-users, who want the units to live there. If timelines are not followed, then the entire idea would be defeated,” said Mann, adding that the directions from the government state that projects under this segment should be completed on time.Gurugram has 80 affordable housing projects on the ground and there are around 50,000 such apartment units in various stages of construction. To boost this segment, the department has already announced an increase in the land available in residential sectors and the size of the projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-inspect-affordable-housing-constructions-as-complaints-pile-up-101612458310433.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||HSVP tells estate office 1 to clear pending files||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Thursday directed that certain applications pending with the estate office 1 be processed at the earliest.The applications include occupancy certificate (OC), transfer of property and re-allotment certificate, mortgage among others.The direction was issued after applicants said their files were unduly delayed. As per information available with the agency, the estate office had received around 242 applications in January and, till Tuesday evening, 79 were pending. The citizen charter had required the office to clear applicants’ requests within a fixed timeline -- 32 such categories had to be completed in two weeks -- and many of these were flouted.For instance, the process to issue a completion certificate needs to be completed in four days and the certificates should be issued within eight working days and so on. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, said, “We are also working to ensure that CM Window complaints are resolved.” Earlier, the chief administrator had also taken cognizance of delay in processing of applications in Gurugram, said an official privy to the matter. “Apart from instructions from local officials, the direction from head office will ensure that pending work is completed on priority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-tells-estate-office-1-to-clear-pending-files-101612458311006.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||Pathways School blocks online access over fee issue||As many as 80 to 100 students of classes 9 to 12 of Pathways School Gurgaon have been blocked from attending online classes by the school authorities since Monday over a shortfall in fee payment, the parents’ association said on Thursday. Members of Pathways School Gurgaon Parents Association (PSGPA) alleged that the school was pressurising students to ensure that parents pay the full composite fee (instead of 80%, as per interim court order) for classes, despite the matter being sub judice. The parents’ association has lodged a complaint with the district education department which has sought a response from the school. The school, meanwhile, said that since physical classes for grades 9 – 12 had commenced from January, no rebate/concession on school fee will be granted for these grades from January onwards. In an email response to HT, a school representative said, “The rebates/concessions on school fee were to be granted ‘till school commences its physical operations’. Since physical classes for grades 9 – 12 have commenced from January, no rebate/concession on school fee is to be granted for these grades from January onwards.”The school and PSGPA have been embroiled in a dispute over fee payment since last March. The PSGPA had also approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, which, in December 2020, passed an interim order declaring that the school could charge 80% of the composite fees on a monthly basis for online classes. Parents, however, said that the school raised an invoice seeking 100% of the composite fee in January irrespective of whether the student opted for online or physical schooling. Subsequently, parents were given time till January 31 to pay the fee. Strangway Orridge, a parent, said his son, a class 11 student, had been blocked from accessing online classes since Monday. “The principal of the school wrote an email to my son regarding the fee matter last week. After that, since Monday, they have suspended my son’s school accounts and he has not been able to access classes or lessons,” said Orridge. He said that he had been paying 80% fee of the composite fee regularly, as mandated by the court order. “The school is choosing students as soft targets. Our children are not able to make submissions, which are crucial. Even if they visit schools, they can’t make submissions,” said Orridge. Gauri Webster, the president of PSGPA, said, “The whole issue is in court. We are complying with the court’s directive and paying the fee as per the interim order. Why can’t the school wait till the court gives a final verdict? The court has said that the 20% rebate on composite fee will continue till the matter is decided.” She said that students were being asked to visit schools for submission but online access to students was being denied. “Students are being called to school, but since they don’t have access to their accounts, they cannot learn or submit any work despite physical visits,” said Webster.The school, in its reply to HT, stated that while it had extended full support to parents and remained in full compliance with the directives of the state and Punjab and Haryana high court, there were some parents, who — in spite of having been directed to make payments by the director of secondary education, Haryana, and the Punjab and Haryana high court — were failing to do so. “Several requests and reminders issued by the school to such parents have gone unheard, compelling the school to take steps in accordance with the law,” the reply stated. District education officer Indu Boken referred to a directive of the department issued on Wednesday and said that private schools were expected to abide by the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court issued in June and October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pathways-school-blocks-online-access-over-fee-issue-101612458309911.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||Vij launches drive at police commissioner’s office||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij on Thursday launched the second phase of the vaccination drive at the office of the commissioner of police, KK Rao. Vij said that the health department has sufficient doses of the vaccines and all front-line workers, including the police personnel, will be vaccinated within 10 days. “The health teams are dedicated and are working hard to ensure all people get vaccinated as soon as we get the vaccines. All police officials and MCG officials will be covered within 10 days and others will be covered under the third phase,” Vij said. Police personnel will be inoculated at five camps in different areas in the city. The police said that personnel aged above 50 years and those deployed at state and district borders are being given priority. Rao said that 409 personnel, including 10 officers, were vaccinated on the first day of the drive. There was no hesitation from the force and none of them reported any side effect, he said. Rao and Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, were among the first to take the Covishield jab at the commissioner’s office on Thursday. “The deputy commissioner and I were the first ones to get the vaccination shot to convey a message that the vaccine is safe and assure others not to pay heed to misinformation. We were the first ones to get vaccinated so as to assuage apprehensions about the vaccine,” he said. Other senior officials, who were vaccinated on Thursday, included the joint commissioner of police, deputy commissioners of police, assistant commissioners of police, station house officers and personnel who were deployed at borders with Delhi and Rajasthan. The drive was planned to begin at 10am at commissioner of police building but due to the sudden visit by Vij, the arrangements were changed and the vaccination started at 11.30am at the commissioner’s office. The four other dedicated vaccination sites for the police were set up at the traffic tower, Sohna police station, Manesar police station and police lines. The police said that personnel were registered beforehand and locations were allocated close to their police stations. There are 5,930 police personnel in Gurugram and about 400 personnel had tested positive for Covid-19 last year.Amit Chauhan (37), constable, posted with the complaints branch, was the first to get vaccinated. He said that he was excited and relieved to get vaccinated, but his family members were reluctant due to a fear of side effects. “Immediately after getting vaccinated, I informed my family that I am fine and do not have any symptoms like nausea and headache. They asked me to rest for the day and asked about my experience,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vij-launches-drive-at-police-commissioner-s-office-101612458252766.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||Wayu devices reduced dust pollution by 35-50%, shows data; experts sceptical of impact||A preliminary analysis of particulate matter concentrations near 53 outdoor air purifiers, which were installed at six locations in the city by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) last year, shows that the devices are able to reduce dust pollution by 35 to 50% in the immediate vicinity of the device.Authority officials said that this analysis, conducted by Delhi-based NGO Indian Pollution Control Association, although promising, needs to be substantiated with better data before a decision can be taken on installing more such purifiers at other locations.In November last year, GMDA had launched Project Air Care, a corporate-funded partnership with a private pharmaceutical company, the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and Indian Pollution Control Association (Ipca), which is certified by the central pollution authority and founded under the aegis of IIT-Delhi.The campaign involved installing a total of 65 Wayu — Wind Augmentation purifying Unit — devices at Subash Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, and other areas with high traffic volume. Of these, 53 were installed by November-end and have been operational since launch.“Each week, a team is sent out to change the filters, do routine maintenance, and monitor variations in air quality around the device. All of Gurugram’s Wayu units are in working condition. Our preliminary findings suggest that they are being able to reduce particulate matter pollution to a significant degree in a radius of 20 metres around the device, or 500 square metres, in terms of area,” said Dr Radha Goyal, deputy director, Ipca.“The efficiency depends on local conditions and proximity to emission sources. We are installing another 12 units at AIT Chowk and in Sector 54 by Saturday and will start monitoring those weekly too,” she said.Goyal added that Ipca has been granted a three-year operation and maintenance contract for these devices by the GMDA, which includes submitting timely reports on their performance. While all the devices are not going to have an equivalent impact, Goyal said that the range of efficacy lies between 35 and 50%. “This basically means that when the device is turned on, it can reduce at least a third of total dust pollution load, if not more. We have also sent filters from each device to be tested by Neeri, which developed the technology, to understand the chemical constituents of particulate matter at key traffic junctions in Gurugram,” she said.Subash Yadav, head of the GMDA’s urban environment division, however, clarified that the authority does not have immediate plans to install more such devices, beyond the 65 stated in the contract. “The interim results look promising, but we need more proof of performance before we can scale up this intervention. We will give it a couple of more months to see if these devices are durable, and we will require a more detailed report about each device’s impact. Ipca is currently preparing one, which will be reviewed next month,” he said.This view was also echoed by VS Kundu, the chief executive officer of GMDA, who said, “We may also seek an independent report from a third-party agency to see how the Wayu units are performing. Any decision to install more devices will also depend on the CSR budget of the partner organization for the next financial year.”Experts, however, remained sceptical of these measures. A senior Delhi-based air pollution scientist and former member of the erstwhile Environment Pollution Control Authority (Epca), requesting anonymity, said, “These purifiers did not work when Delhi implemented them in late 2018. The devices kept getting tampered with or vandalised because there was no concessionaire appointed for maintenance. While the technology itself is sound, the impact is going to be negligible because the principle is weak. In an indoor setting, with limited volumes of air, filters are a good option. But the sheer volume of ambient air is too much for these devices to be effective outdoors.”Responding to this, Kundu said that a detailed air pollution mitigation plan for the city is currently in the works. “We cannot provide any more details at the moment because it is in too early a stage. Proposals have been sought from three organisations, including The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri) and Neeri. The broad contours of the plan are yet to be worked out, and the final draft is a few months away. We will share more details as the plan progresses.”However, Yadav and Kundu both said that this plan would be part of a larger environment management plan for the city, along the lines of the recently published Comprehensive Mobility Management Plan for Gurugram, which was outsourced to the Delhi School of Planning and Architecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wayu-devices-reduced-dust-pollution-by-35-50-shows-data-experts-sceptical-of-impact-101612458251436.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||Turnout at 44% on Day One of second phase of vaccinations in Gurugram||The second phase of Covid-19 vaccinations started on Thursday, but only 44% of the 1,100 registered front-line workers, which comprised police, municipal workers and revenue department staffers, showed up to take the jabs, according to the district health department data. A reluctance among workers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and revenue department led to a boycott of vaccination at a few session sites and caused an overall dip in the footfall on the first day of inoculation of front-line workers.Of the 1,100 front-line workers, only 481, comprising police, MCG and revenue department workers, took the Covishield jab at 11 dedicated session sites. Over 400 of the total who took the jabs were police personnel, said officials. Almost 81% of the 500 targeted police personnel turned up for the vaccinations at the five session sites. The other two departments — MCG and revenue – together reported a turnout of only 14%. Against a target of vaccinating 500 MCG workers, comprising sanitation and other staff, only 67 turned up across the five vaccination sites, while only five of the 100 revenue department workers took the shot at the session site set up at the Mini Secretariat. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who is also the state health minister, inaugurated the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive at police commissionerate in Gurugram. The commissioner of police, KK Rao, and deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, were present during the inauguration and received their shots in the presence of the minister. Vij said that across the state, about 450,000 front-line workers have been identified for the second phase of vaccinations. In Gurugram, roughly 18,000 such workers are registered, who are planned to be covered across the 11 session sites, said officials. Considering the high footfall among its employees, the police department has planned to add five more new sites to the existing ones. On the other hand, among the MCG sites — the MCG office in Sector 34, community centres in Islampur, Sukhrali, sectors 27 and 10A — a few of them lacked proper management on Thursday. A vaccination site was yet to be set up at the MCG’s Sector 34 office till 11am, as per a visit by the HT team. Besides, the site lacked proper seating space for observation after vaccinations and had no facility for adverse events. MCG officials present at the site said that messages were not delivered to the vaccine beneficiaries. “We are contacting some of our employees to come for vaccination,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. The staff at the site said that none of the senior officials of the agency had turned up for the inoculations. Confusion prevailed at the Islampur site due to the presence of two community centres in the area. The session site was opened after 11.30pm and over 40 sanitation workers who had reached the site boycotted the vaccination due to apprehensions. According to the district health department data, two session sites set up for the MCG, at Islampur and Sukhrali, reported zero vaccinations. Ashish Singla, the medical officer of MCG, was unavailable for comment.“The health department provides vaccinators, data entry operators and helps in arranging police personnel at the vaccination site fixed by the department concerned,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “Other arrangements — from setting up the vaccination site to motivating employees — had to be done by the department. It can be expected that the footfall of MCG employees will improve on Friday,” Singh said.The health department also continued with the vaccination of healthcare workers. Of the 650 people targeted on Thursday, at least 506 workers took the vaccine shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/turnout-at-44-on-day-one-of-second-phase-of-vaccinations-in-gurugram-101612458252081.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||Zero vaccinations at two MCG session sites||A group of men and women wearing khakhi uniforms had gathered outside the community centre in Sector 38 on Thursday morning to head to the Covid-19 vaccination site at Islampur community centre on Sohna Road. But before reaching the site, they decided not to take Covid-19 vaccination, after hearing that many of their seniors in the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had not taken the shot. “We will go to the vaccination site but won’t take the shot. Vaccination is voluntary, and it cannot be forced,” said Sachin, supervisor, sanitation staff of Ward 28, even as 20 people surrounding him nodded in agreement. “Why is so that we are being pushed to take the vaccine but not our seniors?” said Sachin.A woman worker, requesting anonymity, said that the entire sanitation staff has pulled through the worst of the pandemic over the last year. “So, is it even necessary to take the vaccine now?” she said. Many sanitation staff who reached the vaccination site posed similar questions to Kamlesh, an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), who was deployed as a Covid-19 vaccinator at the Islampur site.The entire sanitation group of over 40 people boycotted the vaccination and left the site despite Kamlesh’s efforts to motivate them. None of them took the vaccine jabs, even as the vaccinators waited till 5pm. A similar situation prevailed at Sukhrali, where none of the registered vaccine beneficiaries turned up for the shot, citing multiple reasons. Rajbala, a vaccinator at Sukhrali said, “Based on the contact numbers given in the beneficiary list, we have contacted the MCG staff. Some of them directly refused, while others said that they are too busy to come for vaccination.” Out of the five vaccination sites for MCG workers, these two sites reported zero footfall. Due to apprehension and lack of awareness regarding the safety of Covid-19 vaccine, front-line workers decided to turn away from taking the jab on Thursday. Hesitancy regarding vaccination existed even among healthcare workers. The vaccination of front-line workers, however, has brought to the fore the lack of awareness as well as fears among white-collar workers.Overall, only 67 of the 500 MCG workers took the jabs. “These workers are not confident to take the vaccination as they are scared. If one from the group takes the vaccine, others will certainly follow,” said a vaccinator at the Sector 10A session site. The vaccination at the site did not start until the councillor of the area arrived to motivate the staff. At the vaccination site at the MCG’s Sector 34 office, some employees at the superintendent level inquired about the vaccine but cited multiple health issues for not taking the shot. A computer operator at the MCG office, who took the vaccine said, “Unnecessarily, senior officials are scared of vaccination. Someone has to come forward and be a part of it at least motivate others.” The vaccinators at the site also said that the staff has been lacking confidence to come forward.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and chief medical officer of MCG, Dr Ashish Singla, were unavailable for comment on Thursday. A senior official of the administration privy to the matter, said, “Vaccination of MCG employees cannot improve until seniors set an example by getting vaccinated at each of sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/zero-vaccinations-at-two-mcg-session-sites-101612458250596.html
04-02-2021||Gurugram||‘Reluctance can only be tackled through positive messaging’||The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, who took the Covid-19 vaccine shot on Thursday said that hesitancy for vaccination can only be addressed through positive messaging. In a conversation with Archana Mishra, Garg talked about plans to tackle the poor turnout of front-line workers from the municipal corporation and revenue department in the second phase. Garg also shared plans for the third phase of vaccination by collating the data of prioritised groups.How do you assess the success of the vaccination drive in Gurugram so far?The vaccine has been an integral part of Covid-19 management. It is the fastest and the safest way to build herd immunity. In Gurugram, roughly 24,000 healthcare workers have taken the shot. Minus the duplicity in the registered list of vaccine beneficiaries, there are close to 31,000 healthcare workers in the district. Over the next 15 days, the plan is to cover workers who have been left out. Now, the second phase has also started; therefore, the commissioner of police and I took the Covid-19 vaccine to assuage any concerns and address rumours regarding vaccine safety. A vaccine is not launched without proper safety protocols. There could be minor side effects, which indicate the body is building up an immune response. Therefore, people should not be hesitant in taking the shot.As compared to healthcare staff, front-line workers from MCG and revenue seem to be more hesitant as at some of the sites, not a single beneficiary turned up on Thursday. How do you plan to address the issue?Since vaccination is a voluntary exercise, reluctance can only be tackled through positive messaging on a massive scale. Also, one has to lead by example to motivate others. Meetings will be held with the departments concerned and the MCG commissioner to circulate messages regarding the safety of the vaccine. Also, social media and available resources will be used to create awareness after identifying the lacunas in the vaccination drive and the reasons for the lag.When is the third phase of vaccination likely to start?The third phase of vaccination includes people above 50 years of age with co-morbidities and also those who are younger than 50 years but have co-morbidities. The phase is yet to be rolled out by the central government. However, we are trying to do the preliminary work of building our database. Vaccination sites and workers are being identified. We are also trying to coordinate with private sectors. By the time the third phase is rolled out, the district will be in a good position with a solid plan for vaccination.How are the prioritised group for the third phase being identified?During the pandemic, a lot of surveys have been conducted in the district. The administration will also utilise the data collected through Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) or Family ID card. Multiple sources are being used. The self-registration mechanism might also start for the general population.When will the district administration begin the vaccination of employees of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) as they too have been added as the front-line workers?The state government has given time till February 7 for collating the data of PRI workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/reluctance-can-only-be-tackled-through-positive-messaging-101612458249981.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Engineering specialisation courses top picks this year||Pune: As the institutional-level admissions will begin from February 5 for engineering courses, this year’s trend shows students going only for few specialisations like computer science, artificial intelligence, data science and instrumentation. Traditional engineering specialisations like mechanical, chemical, civil and other courses are hardly getting student admissions. Pharmacy courses are also getting few takers across the state. A senior state education department official on condition of anonymity said, “Computer science and artificial intelligence specialisation for engineering courses are in demand this year. In such tough times of Covid-19 pandemic where each college and institute is struggling to survive, they cannot sustain if seats for various courses remain vacant. Several engineering colleges across the state have yet to see a single admission.” Admission process of various engineering and other professional courses got delayed this year. “There are students waiting for the institutional-level round to start, just to get the college and specialisation of their choice. Hence, vacancy rate is high across the state. There are limited seats for the selected engineering specialisation that students seek admission. If admission is not done this year, many students have decided to skip this year and try next year with fresh CET exam and admission process.” said Prof Kishore Tayade, from one of the engineering colleges from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/engineering-specialisation-courses-top-picks-this-year-101612457649874.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Admission delays leave students frustrated in Pune||Pune: The delayed admission process for various professional courses in the state has left students and parents a frustrated and worried lot. The Maharashtra State Common Entrance Test (CET) Cell has completed two Common Admission Process (CAP) rounds for engineering admissions along with other courses. From February 5, the institutional-level round of MHT-CET Bachelor of Technology (BTech) counselling 2021 will begin. “Colleges have many vacant seats for various courses like engineering, pharmacy, management, agriculture and other streams. Specifically in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur cities, there are colleges where admissions are not happening which include both government and private colleges. We have completed the two CAP round of admissions and now the institutional-level admission process will begin,” said Maharashtra Chintamani Joshi, commissioner, state CET cell. “While admission process is still going on, medical and dental courses admissions have completed. Engineering admissions will end on February 5 then agriculture and law admissions will start from same day. But the response by students is not as expected in engineering as except computer sciences and artificial intelligence, there are vacancies for other courses across the state. For example, in one college there are 100 available seats for an engineering course and only two students have shown interest,” said Joshi. The Class 11 First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions are also delayed. For this year’s 11th standard admissions, 72,820 students were eligible for admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department stopped the admission process for FYJC since September 9 and it resumed from November 26. After completing three regular rounds and two special rounds of admission process, the deputy director of education (DyDE), Pune, took one round of first-come-first-served (FCFS). At least 36,000 seats are still vacant in Pune division and the remaining students who have still not completed the admission process will get one more chance for FCFS second round that will be announced soon. “We have received permission from the state government to take one more round of FCFS. The schedule of the round will be announced soon,” said AS Ukirde, deputy director of education for Pune division. Kuldeep Ambekar, student and president of Students’ Helping Hand organisation, said, “Post issues related to Covid, the delay in admissions for various courses has added to students’ woes. Technical issues and state government’s decisions have led to admissions still going on. Hope the admission delay does not affect students’ career prospects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/admission-delays-leave-students-frustrated-in-pune-101612456989845.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||'No reason to change govt's plan': Delhi HC on plea demanding inclusion of legal fraternity in Covid vaccine drive||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said the Government has its own priority in vaccination drive and it sees no reason to change the priority as decided by the Centre while hearing a petition seeking inclusion of judges, judicial staffs, advocates and the members of the legal fraternity in the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination.Meanwhile, after noting the submission of senior lawyer Pradeep Rai representing the petitioner, the bench of Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the authorities to consider the petition as a representation.Petitioner Amrender Singh, a practicing lawyer sought, the entire Rule of Law depends on the functioning of courts and the litigants are suffering delays in delivery of justice in absence of normal functioning of courts.The plea states that several advocates amongst the legal fraternity has faced unprecedented times due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and is still dealing with the repercussions of the same.The plea had alleged that the Government failed to include the legal fraternity in its first vaccination drive without having regard to the life, health and wellbeing of the Judges, practicing advocates and other staff of the legal fraternity.It added that due to pandemic, the courts have not functioned to their full capacity and restricted audience, absence of examination of witnesses, limited hearing of cases, malfunctioning of software programmes operating the video system and delays in hearing are leading to a crisis not only for the litigants and lawyers but also to many who draw their sustenance from the courts- small canteen workers, couriers, photostat shops, stationers etc.Many are being driven to penury and others seeking relief in the long-pending case, the plea said.Plea seeks direction to extend the present vaccination programme to the legal fraternity to usher in normalcy in the working of the judicial system.This will restore the faith of the people in the judiciary. Opening court halls and hearings in physical form are of seminal importance. It would be in the larger interests not only of the litigating public but also in the history of the administration. It will assuage a system that has been fractured by the pandemic.The Supreme Court Bar Association on 18th January through a letter requested the Union Law Minister to extend the vaccination to Judges, members of the staff and lawyers who work in the judicial system as frontline workers, but no action has been taken till date to include the legal fraternity in present vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-reason-to-change-govt-s-plan-delhi-hc-on-plea-demanding-inclusion-of-legal-fraternity-in-covid-vaccine-drive-101612429980808.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Slam Dunk: Selecting elite talent – what physical attributes does NBA talent selection prioritise?||Pune: It is the 2015 NBA finals, and the Golden State Warriors are down 2-1 to the Cleveland Cavaliers led by LeBron James. With a basketball hoop that is 10 feet above the ground, height has usually been a premium advantage to each team. However, in this pivotal Game 4, coach Steve Kerr opts to replace a 7’1 starting centre with a 6’7 wing player in the starting lineup. The Warriors go on to win the game and the championship in six games. A few decades earlier, a move like this would have been unthinkable. What caused the evolution of playing styles in the NBA and how has this impacted the current NBA game?In the 1980s decade, the most valuable commodity in basketball was size, specifically height. The best teams were usually the teams that had the most talented and biggest athletes playing close to the rim, scoring the majority of their points in the painted area close to the goal. Teams that ruled the decade such as the Los Angeles Lakers, Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers featured multiple superstar big men such as Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Robert Parish, Kevin McHale and Moses Malone. In fact, even in the 1984 NBA draft where Michael Jordan was picked with the number 3 pick, the two players selected ahead of him were both centres. Through the 1990s, height was still prioritised heavily in constructing NBA lineups. The more frequent adoption and common usage of the 3-point shot made it so that smaller teams could compete and attempt to outscore bigger teams. However, with the dominance of the Chicago Bulls in the 1990s, this was the first time that a team featuring a guard (Michael Jordan) and a wing (Scottie Pippen) as the primary offensive and defensive players won multiple championships. Height was still regarded as a premium commodity, emphasised by teams consistently selecting big men with higher picks in the NBA Draft. With the success of the Chicago Bulls, there was a paradigm shift towards talented wing players who could score, pass and defend all over the floor in the 2000s. The NBA started to emphasise the skillsets of versatile players such as Kobe Bryant, Tracy McGrady, Jason Kidd and Kevin Garnett. The two best teams of the decade were both led by hulking big men in Shaquille O’Neal for the Lakers and Tim Duncan for the Spurs. Despite this, more and more franchises started shifting towards a style that emphasised versatile skillsets for traditionally different positions. Big men who could shoot further away from the rim like Dirk Nowitzki, pass the ball like Chris Webber and guard multiple positions like Kevin Garnett became the first in a wave of players to prove that a paradigm shift was occurring in the talent selection of the NBA. Finally, in the era of the 2010s the league started to see a complete shift towards versatility in athleticism and positional length. Looking at the current NBA, the most impactful players and lineups played by coaches feature players with above average hand sizes and wingspans, with the athleticism to cover the entire court quickly and move fast laterally. In fact, the average NBA player has never been shorter in comparison to the past 39 seasons. Players that have the most impact and have won championships in today’s NBA like LeBron James, Kevin Durant and Kawhi Leonard all possess these elite physical attributes. In fact, there are a number of NBA Drafts that have now selected wings or guards as #1 picks in this era. This is how the NBA has evolved in its talent selection compared to previous eras, which consistently prioritised height over athletic versatility.Adi Vase is the first Indian to work in the physical coaching and sport science departments of NBA teams. Born in Pune, Vase charts the course and the basketball realities that took him from Pul gate, Pune to the San Antonio Spurs, Los Angeles Lakers and now, the Golden State Warriors. Email: adi.vase@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-selecting-elite-talent-what-physical-attributes-does-nba-talent-selection-prioritize-101612444387424.html
04-02-2021||Kolkata||PM to dedicate projects worth about ₹4,700 crore in Bengal ahead of polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate four projects worth around ₹4,700 crore in oil, gas and infrastructure sectors at Haldia during his visit to West Bengal on February 7, an official said on Thursday.The projects are those of PSUs Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL), Gas Authority of India (GAIL) and NHAI.IOC director (marketing), Gurmeet Singh said the prime minister will lay the foundation stone of the second catalytic dewaxing unit at the Haldia refinery of the PSU which will also serve as an import substitution project.Singh said the cost of the unit will be around ₹1019 crore and the proposed date of completion is April 2023. It will save foreign exchange of $185 million with reduced imports.He said the dewaxing unit will produce base oil which is mostly imported.BPCL director (marketing), Arun Singh told reporters that a new LPG terminal at Haldia will be inaugurated by the prime minister to meet the growing demand of the eastern region.The terminal has been built at a cost of ₹1,100 crore and the nameplate capacity of the project is one million tonne per annum.On that day Modi will dedicate the 347-km-long Dobhi- Durgapur pipeline, which is a part of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project built at a cost of ₹2,400 crore, ES Ranganathan, director (marketing) of GAIL said.He said the pipeline aims to provide natural gas to Sindri fertiliser plant and Matix fertiliser plant at Durgapur, besides to the city gas distribution projects in major towns of West Bengal.RP Singh, the chief general manager of NHAI, said that the prime miniter will dedicate a ₹190 crore road over bridge-cum-flyover at Ranichak in Haldia for seamless traffic movement at Haldia port gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-to-dedicate-projects-worth-about-rs-4-700-crore-in-bengal-ahead-of-polls-101612440946672.html
04-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 11 cattle rescued from ditch, 7 others die||The district administration of Bageshwar has set up an inquiry into the case of 18 cattle allegedly being pushed into a ditch by some people, due to which seven cows died. Rakesh Chandra Tiwari, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kapkot, said, “Eighteen cattle were rescued by the SDRF from a ditch on Tuesday. How they reached there and who pushed them there is a matter of inquiry. I have written to Kapkot police to probe the matter.” Eleven of 18 cows were rescued by the state disaster response force (SDRF). Seven cows had already died before the rescue operation could be launched, said Chandra. Also Read | ‘Anti-national’ posts could deny police clearance for passport in UttarakhandChandra said some shepherds spotted the cattle stuck in a ditch of Kalapani Gadhera in Kapkot area of Bageshwar district. “They were wriggling with pain and hunger. They alerted a member of Nagar Panchayat, who informed the SDRF officials. SDRF officials rushed to the spot on the information, but they found six cows had died by then. One cow died later on,” he said. SDRF officials managed to rescue 11 cows with the help of ropes. Later, the rescued cattle were provided fodder and medical treatment, he saidSDM Tiwari said, “It is case of animal cruelty and stern action will be taken against those found guilty. Police have been asked to identify owners of the cattle so that appropriate action can be taken against them also,” he said Devendra Pandey, a social activist from Kapkot, said, “People of the area are facing stray cattle menace like any other area. They have been demanding appropriate action to get rid of such stray cattle, but this is an absolute case of animal cruelty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-11-cattle-rescued-from-ditch-7-others-die-101612439706667.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra state tourism dept to organise 20 mini festivals in Feb-Mar||The Maharashtra tourism department on Thursday said it will organise 20 mini festivals across six regions -- Konkan, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, and Nagpur -- in February and March to boost the sector.The state tourism department has earmarked ₹100 lakh for organising these 20 festivals, according to a press release.After a difficult year of the pandemic, the state government is all set to welcome tourists through 20 mini festivals so that travellers can explore the less-known destinations across Maharashtra.These festivals will also provide opportunities for tourists to celebrate cultural heritage tourism of Maharashtra, it noted.Some of the landmark festivals to be held in Nashik include Grape Harvesting, Nandur Madhyameshwar, Bhandardara in Ahmednagar and Laling Fort Festival in Dhule.In the Konkan region, popular festivals such as Vengurla (Sagareshwar) in Sindhudurg district, Shrivardhan Festival in Raigad district, Katal Shilpa Festival and Anjarle Festival in Ratnagiri district will be organised.Aurangabad division will witness Ter Festival in Osmanabad district, Kapildhara Festival in Beed district and Hottal Festival in Nanded district, while Sindkhed Raja Festival in Nagpur district, Narnala Fort Festival in Akola district and Tipeshwar Forest Festival in Yavatmal district are planned under the Amravati region.Nagpur will also organise the illustrious festivals, including Ramtek Festival, Bor Dam and Wildlife Festival, in Vardha and Bodalkasa Bird Festival in Gondia district, it stated.These festivals will be organised through regional offices of the Directorate of Tourism with the help of the local district administration and are aimed to help feature the less explored destinations prominently on the Maharashtra tourism map, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-state-tourism-dept-to-organise-20-mini-festivals-in-febmar-101612439143921.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Prabha Atre foundation starts initiative to create resource centre for Kirana gharana||With an intention to create a resource centre which will help study Kirana gharana, Prabha Atre foundation has started an initiative which will be useful for music researchers and lovers. Kirana gharana is one of the most prolific Indian classical khyal gharanas. The Prabha Atre foundation intends to document published or written material related to Kirana gharana and its artists under a roof. Many legendary musicians have come from Kirana gharana. Prabha Atre is one amongst them.“The documentation or written material on performing arts and music is too less. Scriptures which are available today for research rely on books which were published in 15th and 16th century books such as Bharat Natya Shastra. Through these books we just learn the theoretical aspect of music,” said Bharathi MD, honorary secretary of Prabha Atre Foundation.“There are not many books available on contemporary performing art. There are few a books and material available which documents and analyses contemporary performing art,” Bharathi MD added.Given the historic and vast nature of the Indian classical music, it is a mega task to document entire classical music forms. So, for now Prabha Atre foundation has begun with the Kirana gharana. “Considering the limited resources and infrastructure, we have we decided to concentrate on Kirana gharana. Maharashtra, northern Karnataka is the region from where Kirana gharana musicians have emerged. Prabha Atre belongs to Kirana gharana. So, we thought of creating a resource centre where we can collect the material related to Kirana gharana and it will be available for those who want to study it,” said Bharathi MD.The foundation is collecting the books, articles and other material related to Kirana gharana. It has asked music lovers also to contribute to this initiative. Any material (written or recorded) about Kirana gharana and its artists or Kirana gharana and its artists are welcomed to be collected for the resource centre. This material will be codified and properly stored in physical or digital form.Those who wish to contribute can give material at Prabha Atre Foundation, opposite Sambhaji Garden, JM road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prabha-atre-foundation-starts-initiative-to-create-resource-centre-for-kirana-gharana-101612437064532.html
04-02-2021||Lucknow||Stop viewing protests as political conspiracy, Priyanka Gandhi tells Centre||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday said that the government has failed to identify the agitation against the three farm laws as a real struggle and does not recognise the plight of the farmers’ protesting at Delhi’s borders.The Congress leader is on a visit to Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur to meet the kin of a farmer who died during clashes which erupted on January 26 when a planned tractor rally organised by farmers’ unions in New Delhi turned violent leading to the death of a farmer and caused injuries to more than 390 policemen and 10 farmers.The farmer, Navreet Singh, 27, died after his tractor overturned during the rally on Republic Day. The Congress leader also attended the final prayers organised for the deceased.Priyanka said that the government is choosing to look at the agitation against the three laws as a political conspiracy. “The three farm laws are crimes (being committed) against the farmers and should be rolled back, but the bigger crime is calling martyrs ‘terrorists’ and viewing the farmers’ protests as a political conspiracy against (the government),” Priyanka was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.She also said that the Congress will stand by the farmers and voiced her support to the family’s demand for a judicial inquiry into the death of the farmer. She said, “Family members of the deceased want judicial inquiry. We are with the farmers and their families. The government is yet to identify this movement as a real struggle. There is no politics behind it. It is painful for our farmers.”The Congress, Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and BJP’s ex-ally Shiromani Akali Dal along with other opposition parties have expressed their support for the farmers’ agitation.The farmers have been protesting since November last year against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers’ unions representatives came under criticism after the January 26 clashes but they claim that outsiders had infiltrated the movement in a bid to malign the agitation. They continue to claim that the laws will lower the incomes of farmers and pave the way for multinational corporations to earn profits off the agricultural sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-needs-to-stop-viewing-protests-as-political-conspiracy-says-priyanka-101612436286233.html
04-02-2021||Pune||ARAI ties up with the Atal innovation mission to boost start-up ecosystem for mobility sector||The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), a research and development organization and, the testing and certification body for the automotive sector in India is putting its step forward to boost a start-up ecosystem for the mobility sector. The ARAI has tied up with the Atal Innovation Mission (AIM)- NITI Aayog for the purpose. A statement of intent (SOI) has been signed between ARAI and AIM - NITI Aayog to bring this objective into effect.Dr Reji Mathai, director, ARAI said, “Under the initiative, ARAI will use its TechNovuus platform and shall lend experience, expertise and equipment to nurture the start-ups working in the mobility segment. To begin with, the start-ups being incubated under the AIM and the ones that are associated with any other program of the Atal innovation mission shall be provided necessary help for transforming their ideas to reality.”According to Mathai, special attention will be given to evaluate the usability and the commercial feasibility of the concept. “The partnership will help start-ups for industry connect, B2B innovations, provide technical guidance and hand-holding for technology realisation,” he added.“Most importantly, ARAI will offer special engagement models for testing and validation services to start-ups under this joint initiative”, said NB Dhande, senior deputy director and business head, ARAI. R Ramanan, mission director, AIM said, “We are happy to form a partnership with an institution like ARAI, best known for its contribution to the automotive sector in the country. Our objective is to create a culture of innovations across India to build a problem-solving mindset among the student community. This partnership will move forward with a specific goal of creating mobility, electric mobility, transportation, sustainable development goals, and digital infrastructure in cities as well as in villages.”Speaking about the scope of this tie-up, Ujjwala Karle, general manager, ARAI, and the coordinator of this joint initiative said, “We will collaborate under the Atal New India Challenge (ANIC) for the deployment of technologies identified as challenges, problem statements by the ministry of road, transport and highways. We shall jointly work to foster technology for social benefit such as road safety, mobility, and automotive components. Eventually, generating a compendium of good practices in the development and deployment of ANIC in mobility and automotive components.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/arai-ties-up-with-the-atal-innovation-mission-to-boost-start-up-ecosystem-for-mobility-sector-101612436945481.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana DGP leads from front, takes first Covid-19 vaccine shot||The Covid-19 vaccination programme for frontline warriors of Haryana Police was kickstarted on Thursday with director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava leading the drive. Apart from the DGP, a battery of senior police officials took the vaccine for protection against coronavirus, a police spokesperson said. They included DGP, state vigilance bureau, PK Agrawal; DGP, crime, Mohd Akil; ADGP, administration and IT, AS Chawla; ADGP, vigilance, Ajay Singhal; IGP M Ravi Kiran; IGP Rajinder Kumar; and Panchkula commissioner of police Saurabh Singh. Encouraging police personnel to get vaccinated, Yadava said: “More than 40 lakh people have been injected with the vaccine. It is completely safe.” He praised the police force for working tirelessly on the frontline when Covid-19 was at its peak. “Besides maintaining law and order, police personnel fearlessly ensured food to the needy besides the safe return of migrant workers to their native places and took care of the elderly. During the lockdown, the humane face of the police came to the fore and the efforts were recognised at the national level,” he said. So far, 3,000 Haryana Police personnel have tested positive of which 14 personnel have succumbed to coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-dgp-leads-from-front-takes-first-covid-19-vaccine-shot-101612436885389.html
04-02-2021||Other||13,358 students enrol for distance learning programme at Pune varsity||At least 13,358 students have enrolled themselves for the distance learning programme at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The varsity offers graduate and post-graduate distance learning courses.“Last year was tough for all including students and the admission process also got delayed due to the Covid-related restrictions. Now, along with regular courses, we have also started admissions for distance learning courses which have got a good response,” said Vaibhav Jadhav, director, SPPU open learning department.“Till now we have completed 13,358 admissions, out of the total 16,600 for various courses and the process will continue till February 15,” he said.“This year more people have opted for MBA as compared to last year. There were hardly 25 to 30 admissions last year which has now gone up to 145 admissions this year till February 3,” he said.“Most people who are working prefer distance learning courses and the fee is also less,” he said.Sanket Randhive, a working professional, said, “I am currently working in a KPO company in the accounts department and want to do MBA in finance. I will be taking admission at SPPU’s distance learning programme in the next week. Also, the fee is less as compared to the full-time course.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/13358-students-enrol-for-distance-learning-programme-at-pune-varsity-101612436705551.html
04-02-2021||Other||Chhota Rajan aide held in Pune, handed over to CBI||An alleged aide of gangster Chhota Rajan was arrested by Pune police crime branch officials on Tuesday in a case against him which is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The accused man identified Parmanand Hansraj Thakkar (56), a resident of Tilekar Nagar, Kondhwa Khurd, was handed over to police commissioner of CBI, special crime-2, Mumbai.“Thakkar was absconding in the case registered in 2015 in Navi Mumbai in which Chota Rajan gang had asked for extortion amount of ₹26 crore. In the same case, the magistrate had sentenced the accused Chhota Rajan, Suresh Shinde, Sumit Mhatre, Ashok Nikam with imprisonment of two years. Sunil Takawale, police inspector, unit-1, and his team got confidential information of Parmanand’s whereabouts and apprehended the accused on Tuesday. There are total six offences against Thakkar,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.Thakkar is a real estate agent who was among five people booked in a case under Section 387, 452, and 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for trying to extort a realtor of ₹25 crore in 2015.The complainant in the case was identified as realtor Nandu Vazekar who owned a piece of land in Market YardIn 2015, Vazekar was taken to Chembur, Mumbai by Thakkar to meet with Suresh Shamrao Shinde and was connected through a phone call with Rajan who threatened to kill him if he failed to pay ₹25 crore, according to the police.Subsequently, a case under Section 387, 452, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Panvel Police station of Navi Mumbai.The case went to court and four people - Chhota Rajan, Shinde, Ahok Nikam, Sumit Mhatre were sentenced to two years imprisonment and ₹5,000 fine.However, Thakkar evaded arrest and has a record of six cases in total related to extortion.The unit 1 of Pune police crime branch are now investigating if Thakkar had been active in Pune as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhota-rajan-aide-held-in-pune-handed-over-to-cbi-101612436464114.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Case against Usmani in Pune: Who is the complainant?||The case against Aligarh Muslim University student Sharjeel Usmani (23) is registered based on a complaint lodged by advocate Pradeep Gawade (28).Gawade is the secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and a former member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of BJP, and a law graduate from Fergusson College of Pune.He works in Vivek Vichar Manch, an organisation formed by former Parliamentarian Pradeep Rawat, who is also a senior BJP leader.“Vivek Vichar Manch had formed a fact-finding committee after the Bhima Koregaon riots and submitted a report. I’m defending that report in the Bhima Koregaon enquiry commission,” said Gawade who practices in the Pune Sessions and Bombay High Court, according to him.Advocate Gawade’s allegiance to BJP started in 2012 with ABVP and he was part of the BJP convoy that landed at the office of police commissioner Amitabh Gupta to submit a letter listing their demands including invoking the charge of sedition against Usmani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-usmani-in-pune-who-is-the-complainant-101612436165093.html
04-02-2021||Lucknow||Bulandshahr farmers carrying water start marching towards Ghazipur border||Thousands of farmers from different villages of Bulandshahr district on Wednesday began their two-day 100km march towards the Ghazipur border to support the protesting farmers. Many of them were carrying water collected from 36 communities of 36 villages in steel urns. Water supply to the Ghazipur border has been disrupted, causing problems to the farmers staging a dhrana there in protest against the three newly enacted farm laws. “If the government stops water supply to protesting farmers, we will take it from our villages,” said prominent farmer leader Mangeram Tyagi, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) for National Capital Region, who is leading the march.Also Read | Parliament proceedings halted amid protest over farm laws: All you need to knowThe padyatra (foot march) started from Jakhait village of Shikarpur area of Bulandshahr in the afternoon. More farmers joined the march on the way. Tyagi said along with water, they (farmers) were carrying ration and other commodities. The farmers, who were carrying the tricolour, shouted the “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” slogan.The marching farmers stayed at Lalpur village in Sikandrabad area of the district for the night stay and resumed their march on Thursday morning. They are likely to reach the Ghazipur border by Thursday evening. BKU youth wing district president of Bulandshahr Thakur Shailendra Arya said support for the protesting farmers was pouring in from different communities and villages.He reiterated that the farmers won’t return home till government agreed to repeal the three farm laws. Arya added that soon more such marches would be organised from the district to support the farmers’ stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bulandshahr-farmers-carrying-water-start-marching-towards-ghazipur-border-101612435985333.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Maharashtra home minister says Usmani to be arrested from “wherever he is”||A day after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed against Sharjeel Usmani, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said that the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) leader will be arrested from ”wherever he is”. A case has been registered against Usmani by Swargate police on Tuesday for allegedly trying to create divide between two groups as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) threatened to launch a statewide protest. Usmani (23) is a resident of Uttar Pradesh, was one of the speakers at January 30 Elgar Parishad in Pune, where he made controversial remarks about Hindus. He had earlier hit headlines after his arrest by the UP police on July 10, 2020, over allegations of his role in the violence that broke out at AMU during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019. He was released on bail on September 2, 2020. Calls and text messages sent to Usmani went unanswered. “Police have investigated the video clippings of the Elgar event held on January 30 in Pune and a case has been registered against Sharjeel Usmani for his offensive remarks. He is currently not in Maharashtra, but we will arrest him from whichever state he is in, be it Bihar, UP, Gujarat or elsewhere,” said Deshmukh, while speaking to reporters in Mumbai. In Pune, BJP leaders stepped up pressure after the FIR and met police commissioner Amitabh Gupta demanding invoking of sedition charges against Usmani and his arrest. “Yes, a case has been registered under Section 153(a) of the Indian Penal Code based on a complaint lodged by advocate Pradeep Gawade about a speech made at Elgar Parishad. The case is registered at Swargate police station. Investigation is on,” said commissioner Gupta. Besides being a lawyer, Gawade is also BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary in Pune. The BJP launched an attack on the state government based on the nature of the case that was registered against Usmani. The BJP leaders have also asked for the organisers of the Elgar Parishad to be booked for sedition. Moreover, Chandrakant Patil, state chief of the BJP, wrote to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to register an FIR against Usmani and arrest him. “We have asked for the sections of sedition to be invoked against him. If that is not done, we will hold large scale protest. The state government is being two-faced in this matter - they are trying to protect these criminals. The Shiv Sena, which asked for votes based on Hindutva, has taken a complete U-turn,” said Jagdish Mulik, Pune unit head of Bharatiya Janata Party. Mulik met with commissioner Gupta and joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve along with mayor Murlidhar Mohol, MLA Mukta Tilak, and complainant Gawade. In a letter that was given to the commissioner, the BJP members raised the issue of Usmani to have been invited to the Elgar Parishad 2021 in Pune by Harshali Poddar, a member of Kabir Kala Manch, who is among the multiple accused in the case registered after the Elgar Parishad in 2017. The first edition of the Elgar Parishad was held on December 31, 2017, and allegedly triggered caste clashes in Bhima Koregaon the next day. Following the clashes, Pune police arrested multiple activists and lawyers including Sudha Bharadwaj, VV Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Arun Ferriera, Mahesh Raut, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Vernon Gonsalves, and Rona Wilson by Pune police. After the current Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government took office, Centre transferred the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) who then arrested at least four more including Jyoti Jagtap, Ramesh Gaichor, Sagar Gorkhe of KKM, and journalist Gautam Navlakha. “They have distributed literature during the Elgar Parishad that made defaming statements about the death of Babasaheb Ambedkar. The book claims that he was murdered by his wife, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Shripad Dange, and brahmins,” said Gawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-home-minister-says-usmani-to-be-arrested-from-wherever-he-is-101612435805887.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Organiser condemns Sharjeel Usmani’s ‘Hindu’ remark during Elgar Parishad in Pune, also slams BJP||Former Bombay high court judge BG Kolse Patil, one of the organisers of January 30 Elgar Parishad, said on Wednesday that he condemned former AMU student leader Sharjeel Usmani’s remarks during the event. Patil said that Usmani’s speech was “fine”, but the usage of the word “Hindu” was wrong and the organisers have condemned it. “It was his mistake. Instead of the word Hindu, he should have used the word ‘manuwadi’ or ‘brahminwadi’,” said the former judge. Kolse Patil also criticised the BJP for demanding action against the AMU leader. “BJP is making an issue out of this, purely to defame Elgar Parishad. Those who are now talking about Hindus, we appeal to them for a discussion.” Usmani did not respond to calls and text messages. Following his remarks, Swargate police filed an FIR against Usmani on Tuesday, based on the complaint by advocate and the general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), Pradeep Gawade. The FIR was filed under section 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Uproar broke out following Sharjil’s video going viral on social media, followed by the demand for action against Usmani, by the Maharashtra BJP, accusing him of hurting religious sentiments of the Hindu community. Saturday’s event was organised by the Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan, an umbrella body of 250 Dalit, Left and other social organisations. It was addressed by Arundhati Roy; former bureaucrat Kannan Gopinathan; former Bombay HC judge BG Kolse Patil; journalist Prashant Kanojia, Ayesha Renna and singer Bunt Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/organiser-condemns-sharjeel-usmani-s-hindu-remark-during-elgar-parishad-in-pune-also-slams-bjp-101612435685344.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Kullu police seize 6.27kg of heroin from African supplier in Delhi||The Himachal Pradesh Police made its biggest seizure of synthetic drugs by recovering 6.27 kg of heroin in Delhi on Wednesday night. Announcing this at a press conference in Shimla on Thursday, state police chief Sanjay Kundu said that a team of Kullu police arrested a 38-year-old native of the west African country of Ivory Coast after recovering the contraband from him in the national capital. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh, who joined the press conference virtually, said that the special investigation unit of the district police zeroed in on the accused after the arrest of two peddlers of African origin on January 30 with 55gm of heroin. “On tracing their links, the special investigation unit was able to track down the supplier in Delhi and make its highest seizure of 6.27 kg of the synthetic drug,” Singh said, adding that the accused had been brought to Kullu for questioning. Preliminary investigation showed that the accused was living in Delhi without valid travel documents. A case was registered against him under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act that punishes a person using a forged passport for entering India or illegally staying in the country to a jail term of at least two years. The drug supplier in Delhi was in touch with heroin peddlers across the country, including those active in Himachal Pradesh. The Himachal Pradesh Police have so far arrested 23 foreign nationals, including 16 from Africa, for drug smuggling. Committed to cracking down on drug mafia: DGP Kundu said that the state police were committed to cracking down on the drug mafia. “It’s a myth that the police catch only small-time peddlers. The Kullu police recovered 123 kg of charas along with two guns in January. That was the biggest drug seizure in the state’s history,” he said. Additional director general of police, law and order, Ashok Tiwari and ADGP, crime and security, N Venugopal were also present at the press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kullu-police-seize-6-27kg-of-heroin-from-african-supplier-in-delhi-101612434065863.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||BJP-led Central govt wants to rule Delhi through back door: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday slammed the Centre for “stealthily” approving a proposal to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act to give more power to the lieutenant governor, who reports to the Central government.Addressing a digital press conference, Sisodia said the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal to “snatch powers” from the elected chief minister and the Delhi Cabinet and strengthen the authority of the lieutenant governor. A bill will now be tabled in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament for the amendment, he said. The move is set to trigger a fresh tussle between the lieutenant governor and the Delhi government. “The Union Cabinet has stealthily approved amendments to give so much power to the L-G [lieutenant governor] that he can now stall any project or work initiated by the elected government in the Union Territory. As per the Centre’s proposal, the final decision-making power will lie with the L-G and not the elected government,” he said.Also Read | Govt will help find missing farmers: Delhi CMSisodia warned if this legislation is passed, then all subsidies would be taken away from the people of Delhi by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “This is nothing but a back door channel being created by the BJP-ruled Central government to directly rule Delhi. If this happens then all the freebies and subsidies given by the AAP [Aam Aadmi Party] government will be snatched away. The BJP-led Centre will revoke our free power, water and bus ride for women scheme. It will also revoke the free treatment in Delhi government hospitals which every resident of the city is entitled to,” he said.Sisodia said giving such powers to the L-G means giving it to the BJP-ruled Central government to rule Delhi. “The Centre’s attempt to reduce the powers of an elected government is not just against democracy but it is also against our Constitution. The Constitution of India clearly states that barring three subjects - police, land and public order - all other subjects and works will be under the direct control of the elected government which currently is that of Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP,” he said.Sisodia said in 2015, the BJP-led Central government misinterpreted the Constitutional rule to say that the L-G would run the Delhi government. “...when we went to the Supreme Court to challenge this, the constitution bench of the Apex court clarified that the elected government in Delhi had the right to make decisions on all decisions except the three subjects. The SC had stated that the L-G will only have to be informed about the Delhi government’s day-to-day decisions,” he said.“Now that it has no way out, the BJP-ruled Central government is now keeping aside and overlooking the Constitution and the observations of the SC to directly rule Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjpled-central-govt-wants-to-rule-delhi-through-back-door-sisodia-101612431123823.html
04-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Frontline workers will have to give reason for not getting vaccinated||The frontline workers such as policemen will be asked to specify the reason if they chose not to be vaccinated in the phase-II of Covid 19 vaccination drive in Rajasthan. The personnel of police, home guard, civil defence, Rajasthan armed constabulary and the jail department are to be vaccinated in this phase starting Thursday, said state officials.Since January 16, over 3.36 lakh medical healthcare personnel have been vaccinated against the target of 5.47 lakh in Rajasthan. A total of 157 adverse events following immunization (AEFI) have been reported in the state so far.Vaccination for the personnel of the police department, municipalities, district council and revenue department will begin on February 6.In a circular issued by the home department, superintendents of police (SPs) and police commissioners of Jaipur and Jodhpur are instructed to ask frontline workers for reasons for any instance of refusal to get vaccinated.Senior officials have been instructed to get vaccinated first followed by the staff. Any staff refusing to get vaccinated should be brought to the vaccination center and asked the reason for refusal, according to the home department.“If personnel are apprehensive, afraid or misled due to any misconception or rumour related to vaccine’s side effects etc, they should be convinced,” said V Sarvana Kumar, special secretary, home department. He added that the CoWin application requires listing the reason for refusal to take vaccine by any frontline personnel.Also Read: ₹74.95 lakh siphoned-off from SBI bank ATMs in Rajasthan, authorities cluelessFrontline workers will have the chance to get vaccinated on the next date of the drive if they miss their slot due to some reason. The responsibility of making the vaccination program successful has been given to the district officials, states the circular issued by Kumar.A senior official of the home department said on condition of anonymity that the Central government plans to vaccinate around 30 crore people to contain Covid 19 and vaccination of government employees will be a big help towards this goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-frontline-workers-will-have-to-give-reason-for-not-getting-vaccinated-101612428712417.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP seeks to gain foothold in Himachal with 2022 elections||With two years left for the Himachal Pradesh assembly elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is trying to gain a foothold in the hill state that is known for its bipolar politics.The AAP opened an office in the state capital Shimla on Sunday and announced its intention to contest from all 68 assembly constituencies in the 2022 polls. Spokesperson SS Zogta said AAP will also field its candidates in the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections in Dharamshala, Mandi, Solan, Palampur and Shimla . “Time is ripe for AAP to enter the fray as the people of Himachal are fed up with both the parties: Congress and BJP. Electricity generated in Himachal is being sold to other states while we have to pay exorbitant bills. The BJP has failed to live up to people’s expectations. Meanwhile, the Congress in is facing a leadership crisis and is in doldrums,” said Zogta.  AAP has never contested assembly elections in the state before though it did try its luck in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Former BJP MP Rajan Sushant, who has now formed Hamari Party Himachal Party, had been the party’s convener in the state. However, all four candidates pitched by AAP, including Sushant and Kamal Kanta Batra, the mother of Kargil hero and Param Vir Chakra awardee Vikram Batra, lost the election. While Sushant polled around 20,000 votes, others had to forfeit their deposits. Voters traditionally alternate between BJP, CongThe two-party system has been ingrained in Himachal politics for so long that there has been almost no scope for a third alternative. Voters in the hill state have traditionally alternated between Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party, formerly known as Bharatiya Jan Sangh, for the last five decades.Any third option emerging in the state’s political scene only served the purpose of demurring. Previously, attempts have been made to launch a third front but the parties, whether national or regional, failed. “The largest community homogeneity and Congress and BJP’s penetration at grassroots level perpetuates bipolarity in Himachal’s politics. The rule of two clans has also re-enforced the bi-party system,” says Harisha Thakur, heads of the political science department at Himachal Pradesh University . Regional parties in Himachal have not succeededLok Raj Party (LRP), headed by former speaker Thakur Sen Negi, was the first regional party formed in the state in 1967. JBL Khachi was another tall leader of the LRP. In the 1972 assembly election, LRP had pitched candidates in 16 constituencies. They won two seats, only to be disbanded by the time of the next elections. No third party succeeded for the next two decades as power changed hands between the Congress and BJP. Come 1990, the Janata Dal (JD), made a mark on the political landscape. Vijai Singh Mankotia, who had left the Congress, led JD to a big victory, winning 11 seats in a pre-poll alliance with BJP, which got an absolute majority with 46 seats. Former chief minister Thakur Ram Lal’s outfit Jan Him Kranti Morcha had merged with the Janata Dal . However, the coalition government was dismissed in the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992. By the 1993 assembly elections, Mankotia was back with the Congress and JD had faded into oblivion.Congress veteran Pandit Sukh Ram also tried to give HP residents a third alternative. After parting ways with the Congress, he founded the Himachal Vikas Congress (HVC) in 1997. HVC won five seats in 1998 and formed a post-poll alliance with the BJP. It helped the saffron party, which was one seat short of majority, to form a government. Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) made a foray into Himachal’s political landscape in 2008 but could only secure one seat. Its lone legislator Sanjay Chaudhary later joined the BJP. The BJP witnessed a split in 2012. Maheshwar Singh, former president of the saffron party, with other disgruntled leaders formed Himachal Lokhit Party (HLP) before the 2012 elections but won only one seat. The party merged with the BJP before the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-seeks-to-gain-foothold-in-himachal-with-2022-elections-101612427643159.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Speaker Nana Patole to resign, to head Congress in state||Maharashtra Assembly speaker Nana Patole is expected to be announced as the Maharashtra Congress chief soon. Patole is likely to hand over his resignation to deputy speaker after which the formal announcement will be done party’s central leadership from Delhi.Patole hails from Vidarbha region and has influence in the peasant Kunbi community. In several parts of the region, the community supported Congress in the 2019 assembly elections. Patole began as a Congress leader but later shifted to the BJP. He was elected as BJP MP in 2014 from the Bhandara-Gondia constituency but later quit the party by criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and returned to the Congress. He was elected to the state assembly in 2019 and was made Speaker when the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) formed the government. Also Read | Senior Mumbai cop sues Arnab Goswami for defamationAfter his meeting with the central leadership on Wednesday, Patole returned to Maharashtra on Thursday morning. His name for the post of the state unit chief has been finalised by Congress and formal discussion with the chiefs of the other two ruling parties has taken place, said people aware of the matter.“Patole is expected to resign from his post anytime soon. As per the parliamentary traditions, no speaker can hold any political position unless he relinquishes the chair. The official announcement by the party is expected only after he resigns from the post,” said a top Congress leader.Congress’ organisational leaders in Delhi spoke with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and conveyed the decision. “The unanimous election of the speaker in the Assembly is the responsibility of three ruling parties and thus, talking to other two parties was necessary. Both the parties have given go ahead for the changes,” the leader said.According to the party leaders, Patole wanted to be made a minister in the MVA government alongwith the state Congress president but his request was turned down.“He has been told that the party leadership does not want to disturb the state Cabinet and that the party needs a full-time chief to head the unit. Patole has reportedly accepted the party decision and will lead the state unit,” another leader from Delhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-speaker-nana-patole-to-resign-to-head-congress-in-state-101612426624628.html
04-02-2021||Other||Most e-toilets installed by PMC non-functional||PUNE The e-toilet project undertaken in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in limbo, as only six out of the 23 e-toilets are functional in city limits.The project was launched by former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Anil Shirole in 2018, under the MP local area development fund at ₹2 crore.Siddharth Shirole, MLA from Shivajinagar, said, “After it was undertaken in 2018, a private firm was appointed to look after the maintenance for one year. I have to check if the contract was renewed. It is the job of PMC to maintain it.”All these e-toilets work on human sensor mechanism and one needs to insert ₹2 coin for using it. At many places, miscreants have dismantled the coin boxes with the purpose of theft and at many places sensors are not working which is making it filthy.An official from PMC on condition of anonymity said, “PMC had undertaken repairs at many places in the last two years, but miscreants kept on dislodging the coin boxes. The sensor mechanism was also reinstalled on a few occasions. Currently, repair work is underway at some of the e-toilet facilities.”“I have seen people using these e-toilets regularly when it was installed, but after a few months some doors were not opening even after inserting a coin or cleaning mechanism was not working. Now no one uses it,” said Amol Patil, who runs a mobile shop at the Model Colony.The unit installed for women is working in Model Colony and at the SB road where there are two units for women out of them, one is working. Whereas units at JM road are not operating due to ongoing metro work.E-toilets (location)==StatusFC road (M); ActiveFC road (W); ActiveFC road (W); Not activeJM road (W); Not activeJM road (W); Not activeHirwai Garden (W); Not activeHirwai Garden (W); Not activeSB road (W); ActiveSB road (W); Not activeModel Colony (M); Not activeModel Colony (W); ActiveOpp to Wadia College (M); ActiveOpp to Wadia College (W); Not activeNilayam Bridge (W); Not activeNilayam Bridge (W); Not activeRajaram Bridge (W); ActiveRajaram Bridge (W); Not activeTaljai Tekdi (M); Not activeTaljai Tekdi (W); Not activeVimannagar (M); Not activeVimannagar (W); Not activeLMD Garden, Bavdhan (W); Not activeLMD Garden; Bavdhan (W); Not active**M and W denotes men and women(Source: Pune Municipal Corporation)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/most-e-toilets-installed-by-pmc-nonfunctional-101612424583323.html
04-02-2021||Pune||BJP, NCP corporators eye standing committee membership||Elected members from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are eyeing membership in standing committee as its eight members will end their tenure later this month. The PMC standing committee clears tenders and policies that involves monetary transactions. The tenure of each member on this committee is two years. Six members from the ruling BJP and two members from NCP will end their standing committee stint this month. The standing committee has a total of 16 members where eight members are appointed every year. As members from BJP and NCP are completing their tenure, the elected members from these two parties are lobbying to get nominated on the committee. The last date for the tenure of relieving members is February 28 and new members need to be appointed before the deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-ncp-corporators-eye-standing-committee-membership-101612424581431.html
04-02-2021||Other||Urban development dept asks PMC to submit proposal on TDR||PUNE The urban development department has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to submit a proposal on the use of TDR (transfer of development rights). The department had earlier turned down an order issued by Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, to provide TDR for construction and development projects.A meeting was called at the Mantralaya on Wednesday to discuss the issue.Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister; Eknath Shinde, urban development minister; Suhas Divase, commissioner, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) officers and were present.Prashant Waghmare, engineer, PMC, said, “The urban development department heard PMC’s views and instructed to submit a proposal for the same.”After the state published the Unified Development Rules in December 2020, the municipal commissioner had published guidelines separately for the use of existing TDR in PMC. After receiving complaints from builders and political leaders regarding the municipal commissioner’s decision, urban development minister Eknath Shinde stayed the civic chief’s order and said that PMC cannot issue such a circular.A civic official on condition of anonymity said, “Without listening to the municipal commissioner’s view, urban development department stayed the order which was in the interests of the city.”PMC officials said that if the unified development rule policy is executed there would be no demand for existing TDR which was already issued. Also, it would be difficult for the cash-strapped civic body to acquire land as many are demanding cash compensation and many development projects will be affected because of land acquisition issue.BOX1.29 crore square metre total available TDR in Pune25 lakh square metre Slum TDR available40 lakh square metre maximum TDR got utilised per annum||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/urban-development-dept-asks-pmc-to-submit-proposal-on-tdr-101612424528053.html
04-02-2021||Pune||A first in eight months, district’s active Covid cases drop below 10,000||Pune district’s active Covid-19 cases dropped below 10,000 on Wednesday for the first time in eight months. A total of 9,123 patients were reported to be either undergoing treatment at hospitals or in isolation at homes. With 483 new Covid-19 cases, the district’s total count went to 3.89 lakh cases of which 3.72 lakh have recovered, 8,018 have been declared dead. This is the lowest count of active cases in the district since June 28, 2020, when Pune recorded 9,448 active cases. Six deaths were reported on Wednesday in Pune district. Of these, one death was reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and five were reported in Pune rural and no deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 199,098 Covid cases and 4,527 deaths until Wednesday whereas PCMC reported 97,328 cases so far and a total of 1,316 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 93,183 total cases so far and 2,133 deaths. As per the state health department, 7,030 patients were discharged on Wednesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 1,943,335 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 95.58 per cent. Across Maharashtra, 2,992 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Wednesday and 30 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Wednesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.52 per cent. The state health department stated out of 14,764,744 laboratory samples, 2,033,266 have been tested positive until Wednesday. That is 13.77 per cent of patients until Wednesday. Currently, 182,181 people are in home quarantine, and 2,093 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/a-first-in-eight-months-district-s-active-covid-cases-drop-below-10000-101612424526285.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Pune rural reports lower turnout leading to vaccine wastage||Pune rural has been lagging in terms of Covid-19 vaccination in comparison to Pune city and the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) causing wastage of doses. The rural areas in the city which have beneficiaries from the remotest areas are reporting lesser vaccination percentage compared to the urban localities. Officials claim the delay in starting walk-in vaccination at their sites as one of the reasons as it is already running in urban areas in the second vaccination week. Of the 45 sites where the Covid-19 vaccination was administered on Monday, 22 sites are for Pune rural where 1,690 beneficiaries were vaccinated of the 2,200 which took the percentage to 77 per cent for the day. PMC and PCMC reported more than 100% of beneficiaries being vaccinated. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer at Pune zilla parishad said, “We had not started the walk-in vaccination methods at our session sites and were dependent on the Co-WIN app. While PMC and PCMC are allowing walk-ins for registered beneficiaries, we are yet to start it at all our centres.” Since the beginning, Pune rural reported a vaccination percentage of about 61 in the initial few days which remained at par with beneficiaries vaccinated in PMC and PCMC. However, the urban areas reported more beneficiaries being vaccinated after walk-in vaccination for registered beneficiaries was allowed. In Pune rural, the process of session creation at Co-WIN app as per the central government’s guidelines was continued and the vaccination percentage went down comparatively. Dr Bhawan Pawar, district health officer said, “We anticipate wastage of at least 10 per cent doses of the entire lot. Every dose has a short life of just a few hours after it is opened and so when fewer beneficiaries turn up at the site, the dose is considered inefficient.” As per the data from the district information office, while Pune rural reported wastage of 822 doses since the beginning of the vaccination drive in the district, PMC saw 461 and PCMC registered 325 wasted doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-reports-lower-turnout-leading-to-vaccine-wastage-101612424525569.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Sassoon hospital offers cancer treatment at minimal cost but lacks dedicated centre||Changuna Bansode, a 74-year-old woman will now live with only one and a half kidney after a recent surgery at city-based Sassoon General Hospital (SGH). A portion of Bansode’s kidney was surgically removed as it was cancerous, and it cost her less than ₹4,000. In spite of the regular occurrence of such cases at the hospital, there is an absence of a dedicated cancer centre at SGH which caters to thousands of patients. Shobha Kamble, a relative of Bansode said that the patient was diagnosed with cancer and the surgery would have been very expensive at a private hospital. “We had to get her to Sassoon General Hospital. She was taken in for surgery twice in January but due to high blood pressure, the surgery was not done. At last, recently, the surgery was done, and she is fine now. Under various medical schemes, the overall cost of surgery was meagre, and we are happy that she could get the best treatment at this hospital,” said Kamble. Dr Kiran Kumar Jadhav, associate professor at BJ medical college and Sassoon hospital with the department of surgery operated on the patient. According to Jadhav, a portion of Bansode’s kidney was malign. “Thankfully, we could save the rest of the kidney. Now the patient has one and a half kidney and it is functional. The patient has responded well to the treatment,” said Dr Jadhav. SGH is a tertiary hospital and witnesses a wave of patients from all parts of Maharashtra, including that for cancer. However, the hospital does not have a dedicated cancer centre. “Our department has done around 42 cancer surgeries in December and January. On average, at least seven patients come to the hospital for chemotherapy. Many patients prefer SGH as the cost of treatment here is less as compared to private players. With so many footfalls for cancer itself, a dedicated centre is a need of the hour,” said Dr Jadhav. Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean, BJ medical college and Sassoon said that the hospital has all the facilities for patients at lower costs. “For several years the proposal for a cancer centre is in the pipeline. We need a proper budget and land for constructing a dedicated centre where surgery, chemo and radiotherapy can be given to patients at affordable costs. We are taking all the efforts that we can to get the budget sanctioned as well as the land for the centre,” said Tambe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-offers-cancer-treatment-at-minimal-cost-but-lacks-dedicated-centre-101612424523540.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Round two: Frontline workers receive Covid vaccination||The round two of phase one Covid-19 vaccination began on Wednesday as 67 frontline workers were administered the vaccine at district hospital, Aundh. The district saw 94 per cent beneficiaries being vaccinated as 4,913 registered beneficiaries received the jab of the 5,200 targeted for the day. The vaccination for frontline workers took place at only two centres in Pune rural while Pune city and PCMC did not report any vaccination for frontline workers. On the first day of vaccination, 67 frontline workers and 4,846 healthcare workers in the district got vaccinated. The vaccination for frontline workers was delayed for the past few days due to the technical glitches in the Co-WIN app. However, on Wednesday, only 67 frontline workers could get vaccinated at only two of the 52 sites both of which were located in rural Pune. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer said, “The vaccination for frontline workers could not be started at all sites as the link could not be activated.” Dr Ashish Bharati, chief health officer at PMC, confirmed that despite creating an additional session site for Covid-19 vaccination at PMC’s Kamala Nehru hospital, the vaccination for frontline workers could not be done as the link did not activate. He said, “We are having regular video conferencing with state officials also regarding the issue. Unless the link is activated, we do not have the list of registered beneficiaries and so we cannot even manually call them for the vaccination which we have been doing for healthcare workers as of now.” PMC topped the three local authorities in the district with 2,399 of the 1,900 registered or 126 per cent beneficiaries vaccinated at 19 session sites. Pune rural reported 80 per cent or 1,999 registered beneficiaries of the 2,500 targeted vaccinated while PCMC reported the lowest with 64 per cent of the registered beneficiaries vaccinated or 515 of 800 targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/round-two-frontline-workers-receive-covid-vaccination-101612424521406.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to change its fleet of cars to electric vehicles in 6 months: CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced that the Delhi government will change its fleet of hired cars to electric vehicles (EVs) within the next six months and launched a new campaign -- Switch Delhi -- to spread awareness about the subsidies provided by the city administration on EVs. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said vehicles are one of the main contributors of air pollution in the national Capital. The Delhi EV policy, announced in August last year, envisages that 25% of all new vehicle registrations should be Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) by 2024.“We have to make EVs a jan andolan (mass movement) now. So, we are launching the Switch Delhi campaign today to create awareness about EVs. The idea is to convince people to switch from their current vehicles to EVs,which have zero emissions. I also urge the youth, who are looking to buy their first car or bike, to go for an EV as the Delhi government is giving huge subsidies and there is no road tax or registration charges,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister also stated that the government will soon float a tender to set up the first 100 charging stations across Delhi. Also Read | 166k students in Delhi fell off grid as schools moved onlineA senior transport official said for the installation of EV charging stations, a centralised tendering system will be adopted to hire an energy operator to run, maintain and upgrade charging stations. “Land-owning agencies will be required to provide land for the installation of public EV charging stations,” the official said.Kejriwal urged companies having a large fleet of vehicles to shift to EVs. “I request resident welfare associations (RWAs), market associations and delivery fleets to participate in the campaign to promote the use of EVs and switch to such vehicles. The Switch Delhi campaign also seeks to convince companies, malls, cinema halls, restaurants and commercial shopping complexes to get charging stations installed in their parking spaces,” he said. Kejriwal said around 6,000 EVs have been bought in Delhi ever since the city’s EV policy was announce in August 2020. “Almost all of the applicants have received subsidies from the government. The Delhi government credits the subsidy amount directly into the bank accounts of a new EV purchaser within three days,” he said.The policy gives a subsidy of ₹10,000 per kWh to the first 1,000 e-cars or electric four wheelers, with a capping of ₹150,000 per vehicle. A subsidy of ₹5,000 per kWh of the battery capacity up to ₹30,000 is also to be given on the purchase of each electric two-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, rickshaw and freight vehicle. To push people to shift to EVs, the policy also has a “scrapping incentive” for those who make the switch.On August 7 last year, Kejriwal had announced the Delhi EV Policy 2020, with a focus to increase the adoption of electric vehicles in the city by incentivising the purchase and use of the EVs. The policy aims to register 500,000 electric vehicles in the city by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-change-its-fleet-of-cars-to-electric-vehicles-in-6-monthscm-101612424462719.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Food trucks get a push in BMC budget, 65 locations designated across Mumbai||In the upcoming months the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to set up street food hubs across Mumbai. BMC has identified 65 locations wherein 3,331 vendors will be accommodated. These vendors can also sell food on trucks or in normal stalls. This plan is an extension of BMC’s plan to station food trucks across the city, for which it had prepared a draft policy last year. The idea of food trucks has also been given a push by state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray.In the budget for 2021-22, BMC has reserved ₹200 crore for creating food hubs and beautifying footpaths and the space below flyovers etc.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday said, “We already have identified 65 locations for food hubs in the city for about 3,331 vendors. These vendors can also operate food trucks 6pm and 11pm.”Also Read | Health top priority in BMC budgetAs per the draft policy prepared by BMC last year, food truck owners will be given designated spots at several locations.However, these food trucks and stalls cannot be used for any other purpose or activity apart from selling food. The owners will also have to get permission from BMC’s health department, license and shops & establishment department followed by the traffic police and the fire brigade.According to BMC’s budget speech for 2021-22, “Selling popular street food that meets the highest hygiene and sanitary standards will be allowed to operate at the 65 locations where a cluster of 30 vendors at a time will be permitted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/food-trucks-get-a-push-in-bmc-budget-65-locations-designated-across-mumbai-101612423561356.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fearing backlash, candidates avoid BJP symbol in Punjab civic polls||The farmers’ agitation has generated such a crisis for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the grassroots level in Punjab that for the urban local body (ULB) polls in the state on February 14, candidates it is backing, or is known to support, are standing as independents. The last date for filing papers was Wednesday. The saffron party couldn’t field its candidates on all seats in 18 urban local bodies of Doaba region, comprising Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts. Here, polls are scheduled in 22 urban local bodies, including Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur municipal corporations. BJP office-bearers, who are in charge of polls, said the party has fielded all candidates in Nawanshahr (19 in 19 wards), Mukerian (15 in 15) and 49 in 50 wards of Hoshiarpur. In Jalandhar district, the BJP failed to field a single candidate in Kartarpur municipal council and two nagar panchayats of Lohian and Mehtapur. BJP in-charges of Lohian and Mehatpur, Sudarshan Sobti and Amarjit Singh, for Kartarpur, said, “Our candidates are contesting independently in both nagar panchayats. Our representatives have been threatened by the Congress and the SAD.”Congress general secretary and Kartarpur improvement trust chairman, Rana Randhawa, rubbished these charges. “The BJP has lost ground in Punjab due to anti-farmer policies,” said Randhawa. Seeking anonymity, a senior BJP leader said candidates were reluctant due to farmer agitation, and most were contesting independently. In Hoshiarpur district, where the party has a good grip on the ground, it has managed to field maximum candidates in four ULBs including Hoshiarpur Mukerian, in 12 of 15 in Dasuya and in 10 of 15 of in Tanda. It has found it tough in Garhdiwala (four of 11) and some other bodies.In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Poonam Manik, BJP district president said the party found just six candidates for Rahon (13 wards) and three against a total of 15 seats in Banga municipal council. SBS Nagar BJP general secretary Pritpal Bajaj said, “Party workers fear contesting the polls as Banga is a small town and their candidature can hit the spirit of brotherhood.”Rakesh Duggal, the Kapurthala BJP president, said the party had fielded candidates in 38 of the 50 wards in teh MC. Senior BJP leader and former cabinet minister Manoranjan Kalia said there were a large number of wards in towns, where party leaders were being threatened and prevented from filing nomination. “We are compiling the data and will take this up at the state level,” he said. Bathinda BJP president  to fight as Independent Fearing a backlash from farmer unions, the Bathinda district BJP president Vinod Kumar Binta filed nomination his papers as an Independent candidate from Bhucho Mandi municipal council. Binta of Bhucho town was accompanied by his close aides. “We want to avoid any conflict with farmer unions in the electoral battle. Farmer unions are opposing the BJP from holding any political or social programme, hence I am contesting as an Independent,” he said, evading a direct reply on whether he had the support of the state party leadership. BJP office-bearers feigned ignorance that the district head is not contesting on the party symbol. No one from the district was apprised of Vinod’s decision, party sources said. “It causes embarrassment to the party when the electioneering is on and the BJP is trying to establish itself electorally,” said a source in the BJP.For Bathinda MC, the BJP managed to field candidates only on 42 of 50 wards. The Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the AAP filed papers for all 50 seats.Dushyant Gautam, in-charge of Punjab BJP affairs, said Binta is being expelled for anti-party activities. “He crossed the party lines by contesting as an Independent. There will be a strict bar on him for rejoining the party for the next six years,” said Gautam, also the national general secretary of the party.Over 2,000 file papers in Majha regionAs many as 2,078 candidates filed their nominations for two municipal corporations (MC), 11 nagar councils (NCs) and three nagar panchayats (NPs) in the Majha region districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot. Here, no trend could be established yet, but in Amritsar district, 156 candidates, including 50 of the Congress, 27 of the SAD, 28 of the AAP and 11 of the BJP, have filed the nominations for Jandiala NC (15 wards). In Gurdaspur district, 912 nominations have been filed. For Batala MC (50 wards), 420 nominations have been filed. In Pathankot district’s Pathankot MC (50 wards), 336 nominations have been filed.(With inputs from Vishal Joshi in Bathinda and Anil Sharma in Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fearing-backlash-candidates-avoid-bjp-symbol-in-punjab-civic-polls-101612423201772.html
04-02-2021||Other||Vehicles in Priyanka Vadra’s cavalcade collide in UP; no injuries reported||At least two vehicles in Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s cavalcade collided at Hapur bypass in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday morning while she was on her way to Rampur to attend the Ardas ceremony of a protester, who died during the farmer tractor rally in Delhi on January 26. Additional police superintendent (Hapur) Sarvesh Mishra said the vehicles of Congress workers collided after a vehicle moving ahead suddenly applied brakes around 8.15 am. He added there are no reports of injuries to anyone. Sharma said the cavalcade did not stop and entered the adjoining district Amroha around 8.30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vehicles-in-priyanka-vadra-s-cavalcade-collide-in-up-no-injuries-reported-101612422062850.html
04-02-2021||Other||Former AMU student leader Sharjeel Usmani now booked for sedition in UP||The Uttar Pradesh police have booked former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student leader Sharjeel Usmani for sedition for his address at Elgaar Prishad conclave in Pune on January 30. He is accused of inciting religious disharmony and offending religious beliefs.The case against Usmani was lodged on Lucknow-resident Anurag Singh’s complaint. In his complaint, Singh said he came to know about Usmani’s speech via social media.Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said based on the complaint, a First Information Report (FIR) was filed under Sections 124 A (Sedition) 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 295A (malicious act intended to outrage religious sentiments) 298 (intent to hurt religious feelings), 505 (public mischief) against Usmani. “The matter is being investigated.”Also Read | Usmani will soon be arrested over Elgar speech: Maha home ministerUsmani, 24, was earlier arrested for his alleged role in the clashes that broke out following protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on the AMU campus on December 15, 2019. Usmani is currently out on bail.The Pune police on Tuesday also filed an FIR against Usmani on charges of promoting enmity and disharmony on a complaint by local advocate Pradeep Gawade for an allegedly derogatory comment on the Hindu society.The comment triggered a row with Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, demanding action against Usmani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-amu-student-leader-sharjeel-usmani-now-booked-for-sedition-in-up-101612420201929.html
04-02-2021||Jaipur||₹74.95 lakh siphoned-off from SBI bank ATMs in Rajasthan, authorities clueless||Unknown accused have siphoned off ₹74.95 lakh from 28 ATMs of the State Bank of India located in Rajasthan's Barmer district between November 22 and January 5, said police.A complaint was lodged by the bank authorities on February 3, almost a month after the fraud first came into light on January 5, said Prem Prakash, circle inspector at city police station in Barmer.Sujeet Jha, the manager of SBI branch in Barmer city, on Wednesday, filed a complaint of fraud with the state police alleging unknown accused had withdrawn a total of ₹74.95 lakh in around 800 transactions, carried out between November 22 last year and January 5, 2021, at the 28 ATMs of SBI bank, located in Barmer city,.The complaint further stated that the accused used ATM cards of different banks to withdraw money from SBI ATMs. Shedding more light on their modus operandi, the complaint alleges the accused used to affect power failure at the ATMs right at the time of the disbursal of cash, resulting in the ATM machine incorrectly recording it as a failed transaction.Also Read: RPSC Rajasthan Police SI Recruitment 2021: 857 vacancies notified, check detailsThe accused carried out around 800 such transactions to siphon off nearly ₹75 lakh in a month and a half between November 22, 2020 and January 5, 2021.A case under section 420 (cheating), 406 (breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by banker) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and 67 (c) (D) of the IT Act has been lodged. When asked why the bank authorities took around a month’s time to report the fraud, the police official said it was being looked into. The complainant Sujeet Jha refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rs-74-95-lakh-siphoned-off-from-sbi-bank-atms-in-rajasthan-authorities-clueless-101612417615984.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: FIR against two children’s homes for abuse against inmates||The Delhi Police on Thursday said that it has registered a first information report (FIR) against violations in two children’s homes in south Delhi after receiving a complaint from the National Commission For Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).While one of these homes is for girls, the other is for boys, said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). “The complaints are regarding sexual abuse against children as well as other violations such as using children for wrong activities and misusing their facilities,” Thakur said. Also Read | 8 held in K’taka for sexually assaulting teen for 5 yearsThe DCP said that the complaints were about abuse against more than one child at each of the two homes. The officer said that the FIR was registered under Juvenile Justice Act and Section 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant) of the Indian Penal Code at Mehrauli police station. “The NCPCR had submitted a complaint after inspection of the two homes in October. We have now registered an FIR based on their findings,” said the DCP. According to the NCPCR report, sexual abuse was allegedly found at the home for boys.HT reached out to the two homes to seek their response to the allegations and learnt that both were run by the same management. “The NCPCR did ask us for some documents in October and we submitted them. But they have neither given us any inspection report despite repeated requests, nor have we heard from the police so far,” said the programme in-charge for both the homes. HT is reaching out to NCPCR for their response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-fir-against-two-children-s-homes-for-abuse-against-inmates-101612416720997.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy snowfall brings life to a grinding halt in higher reaches of Himachal||Shimla received this year’s first spell of snowfall on Thursday morning, bringing cheer to tourists, hoteliers and apple growers. However, it also brought life in the higher altitude regions of the state, including the state capital, to a grinding halt. Around 250 main and lateral roads were closed for traffic due to heavy snowfall in eight districts. The strategic Hindustan-Tibet Road or National Highway 22 was closed for traffic at Kufri and Narkanda near Shimla due to the snowfall.In Shimla town, snow accumulated on the circular road and the continuous snowfall hampered the snow-clearing operations on the main road and other roads, including national highway 5 that connects Dhalli and Fagu. “Besides NH-22, more than 200 lateral roads in the state have been closed for traffic due to the snowfall and slippery conditions,” state public works department chief engineer Archana Thakur said. The Shimla-Kalka Road was closed for traffic beyond Tara Devi Temple, eight kilometers downhill from the main town, due to snowfall.Shimla additional superintendent of police Parveer Thakur said, “Continuous snowfall has hampered efforts to clear snow accumulated on roads in Shimla and surrounding areas.” Electricity and communication lines were also disrupted in Shimla. The snow and rain in Himachal Pradesh since Wednesday broke a prolonged dry spell that lasted over a month. January witnessed a 53% rain deficit much to the worry of farmers and fruit growers. Also read: IMD forecasts rain today and hotter days till Feb 7Tourists, hoteliers elated “We are looking forward to more tourists visiting the state in the coming days as snowfall is forecast across the mid and high hills,” said Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood. Hotel occupancy that was about 30% till last week is set to climb to 70% thanks to the snowfall, he said. “This time, there are no restrictions like night curfew or markets closed on Sunday due to Covid-19 so tourists can freely enjoy in Himachal Pradesh,” he said, urging visitors to adhere to safety guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. “It is like a dream come true. To actually get to see snowfall while visiting a hill station is an amazing experience. This will be a memorable trip,” said one of the tourists, Swati Singh, a resident of Ludhiana. Manali, Dalhousie get snow too as mercury drops Kufri received 8cm of snowfall. Shimla, which received 2cm of snowfall till 10.30am, recorded a minimum temperature of 1.8 degrees Celsius. Kalpa, the headquarters of Kinnaur district, received 11.4cm of snowfall, while Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti, got 3cm of snow. Manali, a popular tourist destination, got 4cm of snowfall on Thursday and recorded a low of 4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Dalhousie dropped to -1.8 degrees after it received 2cm of snowfall. The local meteorological department has warned of thunderstorm and lightning in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Kullu and Mandi districts on Thursday. Rain and snow are forecast at isolated places in the middle and high hills on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourists-welcome-first-snowfall-of-the-year-in-shimla-101612416360782.html
04-02-2021||Bhopal||No poisonous substance in viscera of Bhopal man who died after Covaxin trial||No poisonous substance was found in the viscera report of Deepak Marawi, 42, the Bhopal resident who died of suspected poisoning nine days after taking part in the Phase III trials of India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in December. Marawi’s death came to light on January 9 when his family blamed his participation in the trial for it.Marawi’s post-mortem report earlier concluded that cardio-respiratory failure as a result of suspected poisoning led to his death. The viscera report confirmed the presence of ethyl alcohol and omeprazole, an antacid, in his body.Viscera samples comprise internal organs preserved to ascertain the cause of death in cases where autopsies are inconclusive. They can be tested for various drugs and poisons.Madhya Pradesh’s medico-legal department head Ashok Sharma said if the viscera report did not confirm any poisonous substance in the body, it does not mean that he did not consume any poison. “Due to a fast metabolic process, it is hard to confirm the presence of some poisonous substances.” Sharma said Marawi might have had alcohol that upset his stomach. “He had taken omeprazole to treat his upset stomach. But it is hard to confirm anything.”Marawi’s son, Akash, said he wants justice. “He [Marawi] was jobless and went for clinical trials to earn money. He did not have any money to purchase alcohol. He did not go anywhere after the trial. So, we are sure that he did not consume any alcohol.” He added it is their right to know the real cause of his death to ensure punishment for those responsible for it.Activist Rachna Dhingra questioned how a man could die of suspected poisoning without consuming poison. “The government should answer this question. Instead of taking required action to stop the vaccination and to probe the real cause of death Marawi, the state government was seen defending People’s Medical College and Bharat Biotech.”Bharat Biotech International Limited, the Covaxin maker, has said Marawi’s death was unrelated to the dose administered to him at the medical college.Rajesh Kapur, the head of the college who earlier said Marawi fulfilled criteria for trails and was reported to be healthy during a follow-up, refused to comment on the viscera report.State medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said they will take forensic science experts’ views even as police were also investigating the matter.Deputy police inspector general Irshad Wali said they have received the report and were investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/no-poisonous-substance-in-viscera-of-bhopal-man-who-died-after-covaxin-trial-101612415640440.html
04-02-2021||Bangalore||Wistron to resume manufacturing operations within a week: Karnataka govt||The first shift at Apple Inc’s manufacturing partner, Wistron, is likely to begin within a week as all requisite clearances have been given to the company, a senior Karnataka government official said.“The police verification for the 6,000-strong labour workforce is done and they can likely start one shift within a week’s time,” Gunjan Krishna, Karnataka’s commissioner for Industrial Development and Director, Department of Industries & Commerce, said on Thursday.The official added that the company has received its updated factory licence and other clearances as well.The statement confirming the resuming of operations comes almost two months after the Taiwanese manufacturing giant was forced to shut its shop floors when a protest by contract workers took a violent turn on December 12 at the factory site in Narasapura in Kolar district, about 60km from Bengaluru.Also Read | Aero India 2021: All you need to knowThe industries department has continuously engaged with the senior management of the company to resume operations ever since the incident.Wistron manufactures iPhones-7 and iPhone-SE for Apple among other products at its new plant in Narasapura.The incident, which made global headlines, threatened to dent Karnataka’s investor-friendly image and potentially prove a setback for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s flagship “Make in India” campaign.Contract workers, at the time, said that they were facing wage dues, unexplained cuts in salaries and 12-hour shifts with inadequate compensation among other issues. The role of contractors came into question as they were suspected to have held back payments and retained a portion of workers’ wages.At least two Karnataka government-commissioned reports have confirmed allegations made by the workers and several other violations by the company.Apple had suspended any new business to Wistron after its internal investigation too found violations. Wistron reacted by removing its vice-president overlooking India operations.A senior executive at Wistron declined to comment and a mail sent to the company’s headquarters in Taiwan remains unanswered.Days after the violence, the Karnataka government had said that they will ensure reopening of the company within 15 days; however, it has been nearly two months since.Karnataka is one of the most industrious states and attracts huge investments each year from both domestic and international corporations.About 43km away from Wistron’s plant, over 2,000 shop floor workers of Japanese car-maker Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) remain on strike since November 10.TKM’s operations have been hit after workers initially protested the suspension of one union member which eventually led to the company declaring a lockout. The Karnataka labour department held reconciliation meetings and ordered workers to return to their shifts from November 19. The company extended the lockout four days later citing “lack of congenial and safe atmosphere” at the plant.The company withdrew the lock out on January 12, but workers have refused to return due to the insistence of the management that they sign an undertaking on safety and productivity, which the latter maintain is not a government mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/wistron-to-resume-manufacturing-operations-within-a-week-karnataka-govt-101612413600281.html
04-02-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls likely in 9-10 phases, starting mid-March; no 2 child norm||Bihar state election commission (SEC) is likely to hold the Panchayat polls in the state in nine or ten phases, starting mid-March; the poll schedule is to be sent to the state government soon, said officials.Several rounds of discussions between the state government and the state poll panel have been held on this issue. “The panchayat polls will begin from mid-March tentatively. There will be nine to ten phases. The SEC will take a final call on it,” said Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department.Incidentally, Meena said the state government has no plans to implement the two child norm for candidates in the upcoming panchayat polls. “No amendment in the act is proposed. The election will take place as per the existing provisions,” he said.The SEC has started publishing the list of polling centres for physical verification and invited claims/ objections from the general public by February 11.Public is encouraged to object if anything is found wrong with the polling stations announced by the commission. An objection can be raised, for example, if the polling station is housed in a private property, at Mukhiya’s house, in a police station, inside a hospital or dispensary or if it is more than 2 km away.“The field officials have been asked for physical verification of the booths. Once we get feedback on any inconveniently located booth or on other anomalies, we will set up new polling stations,” said a senior SEC officer.The SEC has identified 1.19 lakh polling stations so far. The final publication of the list of polling stations will be done on March 2, the official said.Also Read: Plan to promote Bihar as medical tourism destinationBesides, the draft of the updated ward-wise voters’ list has been published on February 1 and the finalised list will be published on February 19. There are a total of 2.58 lakh posts in the three-tier rural local bodies for which elections will be held in the state.The SEC was also in discussion over the security cover for the polls and the logistics for commissioning electronic voting machines (EVMs), to be used for the first time in panchayat elections.“The election this time would be less staggered and the process would be completed by May. The schedule would be sent to the government in one week’s time in all likelihood,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-likely-in-9-10-phases-starting-mid-march-no-2-child-norm-101612411396096.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key borders remain closed, traffic in Delhi diverted||Traffic in eastern and central parts of the city, especially on roads leading to Delhi-Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh) border, will remain heavy and motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad will face traffic jams as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border remains closed due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. All the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-9 and NH-24 are closed because of the UP Gate border blockade, and vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND Flyway, and Kalindi Kunj. Delhi Traffic Police officials say the NH-24 road is kept open for traffic going to Delhi from Ghaziabad through Ghazipur roundabout. So, motorists entering Delhi from Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar or Apsara border may take a right turn from the Ghazipur roundabout and take NH-24 road from there to move towards south and central Delhi via Sarai Kale Khan and the Ring Road. Similarly, motorists can take Vikas Marg after taking a right turn from below the Patparganj Industrail Area flyover from Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road. Also Read | Police register cases against social media users for peddling ‘misinformation’No traffic is being allowed on Delhi-Meerut expressway while NH-9 is kept open only during morning and evening peak hours when traffic is heavy. As a majority of the vehicles is diverted on Vikas Marg, the volume of traffic on this stretch will remain heavy especially during office hours. Around 8.30am, Delhi Traffic Police tweeted, “Ghazipur border is closed.Traffic is diverted from Noida link road on NH 24, NH 9. Traffic is heavy on Murga Mandi & Ghazipur R/A (roundabout), Road No 56,Vikas marg, IP Extention, NH 24. Please commute from other borders.”In central Delhi, both the carriageways of Raisina Road are closed and no traffic is being allowed because of the construction work of the new Parliament building. Also, traffic is affected on Aurobindo Marg due to the ongoing repair work of a subway by the public works department (PWD).Apart from the UP Gate border, some borders in outer, western and southwestern Delhi connecting Haryana are also completely closed due to the farmers’ protest. These are Singhu, Tikri, Saboli and Piau Maniyari. Traffic police officials said that Jharoda and Auchandi borders will be opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open for traffic. As traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44, the traffic police have asked motorists to avoid these routes and take alternate or diverted routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-as-key-borders-remain-closed-traffic-in-delhi-affected-101612409820378.html
04-02-2021||Patna||Plan to promote Bihar as medical tourism destination||Ministry of tourism’s regional centre in Patna plans to promote Bihar as a hub of medical tourism to revive and rejuvenate the sagging hospitality and tourism sector in the state.It aims to tap into Bihar’s twin advantages--good doctors and affordable medical care—to promote it as a health tourism destination nationally and internationally.The director of India Tourism, Patna, Y Neelkantham said the centre will promote hospitals and wellness centres in the state. "Importantly, while the state has highly qualified doctors, the treatment cost is quite low in comparison to foreign countries or the metros. To promote this, India Tourism, Patna, will contact different embassies, requesting them to issue medical visas," he said.He said it will also boost the hospitality sector, suffering due to Covid-19 pandemic and may also help bring traffic to the recreational tourism circuit in the state"In case the patients need to stay back for a couple of weeks for continuing treatment, the visitors may prefer visiting nearby attractions. Tour planners may plan such customized packages. The visitors may also be offered to try local cuisines," he said.He added that some doctors are ready to be a part of the plan to develop medical tourism in the state. "It would be great if a wellness centre can be established along with other facilities under one roof,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/plan-to-promote-bihar-as-medical-tourism-destination-101612409025157.html
04-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: Patna ISBT’s capacity to be doubled||Patna’s district administration plans to acquire 25 acres of land to double the capacity of the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) near Bairiya Chak.“We have decided to acquire private land after chief minister Nitish Kumar during his recent visit observed that existing space for parking of buses would not sufficient for future requirements,” said district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh said. A portion of ISBT being built at the cost of over ₹300 crore will be operational by the month-end. “To start with, 50 out of 200 platforms for buses would be opened for operations,” said Singh.Also Read | ‘Something’s cooking’: Bihar DyCM fuels speculations after meeting RJD MLAs The expanded ISBT would be equipped with facilities such as free Wi-Fi, rest rooms and a shopping complex. “Arrangements for potable water, washrooms, lighting and general cleanliness of the premises have been made and an agency has been engaged for the maintenance of the ISBT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-patna-isbt-s-capacity-to-be-doubled-101612407960618.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||As temperature rises, Delhi to receive light rain today||Delhi’s air quality improved but remained in the "very poor" catagory on Thursday with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 312.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Wednesday was 330, in the "very poor" zone. The average AQI on Tuesday was 364, also in the "very poor" category. Delhi and the neighbouring NCR towns are expected to receive light to moderate rainfall on Thursday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance that will pass over the region. Also Read | Delhi govt asks DTC to return buses given as ‘special hire’ to PoliceThe impact of this western disturbance also resulted in the temperatures to rise on Wednesday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings show that the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 10.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature of the day also clocked four degrees above the season’s normal, at 26.1 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that light to moderate rainfall along with thunderstorm is likely in Delhi and NCR on Thursday. “The clouds, however, will pass from Friday. The temperatures will remain on the higher end because of the passing western disturbance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-temperature-rises-delhi-to-receive-light-rain-today-101612406459541.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt asks DTC to return buses given as 'special hire' to Police||Amid the ongoing farmer's agitation and security arrangements made at borders of the national capital, the Delhi Transport Department has instructed the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) to return 576 buses that were provided to Delhi Police.According to an official from the Transport Department, all these buses are being used by security agencies in the farmers' protest."Reports taken from the DTC taken by the Delhi government have revealed that more than 20 per cent of the buses in Delhi's depots are on special hire by the Delhi Police. During the violence on January 26, several buses were damaged," the official told ANI.They further informed that the Delhi government has also been receiving constant complaints of lack of buses in the depot.Security at the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders remain tightened as the farmers' agitation against the Centre's farm laws entered its 69th day on Thursday.The Delhi Police has cemented nails near barricades at Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) and Tikri (Delhi-Haryana) borders and has heavily barricaded the Ghazipur border. Barbed wire and cement barricades have been planted on the roads to restrict the movement of the farmers.Violence broke out in the national capital during the Kisan tractor parade on January 26 after several protestors strayed from the agreed-upon route, broke barricades and clashed with police. Properties were also vandalised in the incident. Many also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.Farmers have been protesting against three of the Centre's laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-dtc-to-return-buses-given-as-special-hire-to-police-101612404338365.html
04-02-2021||Other||8 arrested in Hyderabad for cheating shopkeepers using spoof PayTm app||The Hyderabad Police on Wednesday apprehended eight people in four separate cases for cheating shopkeepers with a fake Paytm mobile application.As per Hyderabad City Commissioner, Anjani Kumar, the accused had downloaded an app called 'Paytm spoof'."They would enter stores, shop for some items, and request that the bill is paid via Paytm. The app would show that the amount has been paid on the spoof app. The accused would then leave with the 'purchased' items," Kumar said.He further added that the cashier would later learn that the payment is not done and that he was cheated.The youngsters learned about the app through online videos and downloaded the app via the Google play store."Some of the apps have been deleted but some continue to be available on the Play store. The public and shopkeepers are requested to stay alert about such fake apps. They should report such instances immediately to the concerned police authorities," the Police Commissioner added.The accused have been identified as Mohd Mustafa Hussain Muzakir, Syed Aamir Hassan, Syed Iliyas, Syed Wajeed Ali, Hafeez Rana, Mohd Salman, Mohd Abdul Shahed and Mohd.Yousuf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-arrested-in-hyderabad-for-cheating-shopkeepers-using-spoof-paytm-app-101612398446043.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: For the inner hipster in you||Spending the afternoon in a cool cafe and being seen with a sleek laptop, or better still, with one of those elegant writing pads, is certainly the most sophisticated kind of show-off. Indeed, all hipsters (and aspiring writers) are occasionally spotted jotting on imported notebooks that cost a bomb.But a truly hip human is one who believes in sourcing hyperlocally. That’s why you have to try out these writing pads sold in a handful of used bookstores of central Delhi’s Daryaganj. The shopkeepers say that the notebooks are made in tiny printing workshops, buried deep within the Walled City’s neighbourhoods, especially in the cramped lanes around the Turkman Gate.Irrespective of their origins, these writing pads are so beautiful that the inner writer in you might immediately want to start penning down your magnum opus in them. This evening, one of the unnamed stores, teems with shoppers. The variety of notebooks is breathtaking. Some are as big as an A4 size. Some are bigger than that—the ideal drawing material for a dreamy architect. Some pads have the dimensions of an average pulp fiction paperback. Some pads are bound like a hardback. Some are sewn—“silai wali” in the shop lingo. Many are, as the shopkeeper calls it, “spiral bound.” Some have gilded pages. Some have red covers; some others, blue or black, and even green. And then some have pages that have a delicate yellowing shade, as if they had once belonged to one’s great-grandmother when she was a young diarist.The pages are either lined or plain, and display none of those overdone illustrations that you might find in more artsy notebooks, to distract you from their true purpose.Now let’s face it, there is also a chance to stumble into a flawed notebook that lacks a fine finish, with something looking amateurish about its production. But the imperfections make the notepad more endearing, letting one imagine the person who made it partly with his own hands (the workshops use machines too, confirms the shopkeeper). And one of the nicest things about these diaries is that they are super cheap. In fact, they are sold on the kilogram basis. Just the thing for our struggling hipsters. The shops open from 10am to 7pm, and are across the road from the Daryaganj police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-for-the-inner-hipster-in-you-101612392606228.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||IMD forecasts rain today and hotter days till Feb 7||Delhi and the neighbouring NCR towns are expected to receive light to moderate rainfall on Thursday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance that will pass over the region, weather scientists said.India Meteorological Department (IMD) said under the influence of the same western disturbance the temperatures may rise. A western disturbance is an extratropical storm originating in the Mediterranean region that brings sudden winter rain to the northwestern parts of the subcontinent.India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings on Wednesday show that the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for Delhi, was 10.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature of the day also clocked four degrees above the normal, at 26.1 degrees Celsius.Also read: Of 18,000 beneficiaries, only 7,000 get Covid-19 shots in CapitalKuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said light to moderate rainfall along with thunderstorm is likely in Delhi and NCR on Thursday.“The clouds, however, will pass from Friday. The temperatures will remain on the higher end because of the passing western disturbance,” he said.Srivastava added the temperature will fall again briefly from February 7. This fall, however, will not be very significant, he said.“The large difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures can happen specially when a western disturbance is approaching and the wind direction changes,” Srivastava had said.“There is no forecast of a drop in temperatures. From February 7, the minimum temperature will be around 7-8 degrees Celsius. From February 11 again, the minimum temperature will rise,” Srivastava said.The incoming western disturbance also resulted in improved wind speed leading to a reduction in the pollution levels in the city. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 330, in the ‘very poor’ zone. The AQI on Tuesday was 364, also in the ‘very poor’ category.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) predicted that the western disturbance is likely to positively impact ventilation.“The improved ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively for the next three days. AQI is likely to improve to the lower end of the very poor to poor category for the next two days. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate but in the lower end of the very poor category on February 6,” the Safar forecast read.In a statement, IMD said heavy rainfall or snowfall is also expected to take place over Jammu and Kashmir on February 3 and 4, and over Himachal Pradesh on February 4.Moderate rain or thundershowers with isolated lightning and hailstorm is also likely over the plains of northwest India during February 3 to 5, over Madhya Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand on February 4 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imdforecasts-rain-today-and-hotter-days-till-feb-7-101612392145011.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Of 18,000 beneficiaries, only 7,000 get Covid-19 shots in Capital||Delhi saw its lowest ever Covid-19 vaccination turnout percentage on Wednesday, with fewer than half of the day’s targeted health care workers getting jabs, even as the state government decided to open up the inoculation programme for front line workers on a trial basis from Thursday.Of the 18,300 health workers who were due to get a jab of either Covaxin or Covishield on Wednesday, only 7,365 turned up on a day the government significantly ramped up the number of vaccination centres.So far, of 240,000 health workers who are registered for vaccination in Delhi, 81,258 have been administered their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.The government on Tuesday scaled up the number of vaccination sites from 106 to 183. Vaccines will now be administered six days a week, up from four earlier, the state administration had announced on Monday.Also read: Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districtsDelhi, on Wednesday, recorded a turnout of 40.25% which, according to government records, is the lowest since January 16 when the vaccination drive was launched.The city also recorded 17 adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) on Wednesday, none of which were reported to be severe, said officials.Till Wednesday, the lowest turnout was recorded on the second day of the drive (January 18) at 44.2% and the highest on sixth day (January 25) at 91.5%. During that phase, Delhi had 81 vaccination centres.Government officials and experts attributed the decline in turn-out to a lack of awareness among beneficiaries about the new centres, adding that several other facilities may hit their vaccination saturation points.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the turnout on Wednesday.Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said: “At this point, the aim should be to strengthen last-mile reach out. People across priority groups who want to get vaccinated at the earliest should get the opportunity to do so. This will also contribute to confidence building among other beneficiaries. The turnout figures will naturally go up again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/of-18-000-beneficiaries-only-7-000-get-covid-19-shots-in-capital-101612390723639.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Protest, blockades: Locals have to take long way home||On Wednesday, Pooran Singh, 32, a resident of Sonipat’s Biswamil area, about 10 kms from Singhu border, was walking with his wife Sapna and two children, precariously on the nearly two-foot-wide dirt track near the farmers’ agitation spot, which runs adjacent to a large drain.The dirt track, which widens to up to five-foot as one moves closer to the Singhu border protest site, is one of the two routes that locals have been using for the past one week to cross the protest site. Residents are also using another route via Narela and Singhu village, which means a detour of several kilometers.Heavy barricading by police near the protest sites at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri is inconveniencing the local residents, who are now taking detours to cross the intercity borders.“Earlier, we could take shared vans to reach Azadpur where I work. But due to the increase in police barricading, there are only a few routes left. The shared vans have also hiked their fares. The nearly 30km journey from my home to work has become difficult. So, I am bringing my family and will stay at temporary accommodation in Azadpur till the barricades are removed,” Singh, a mason, said.Also read: MHA says blockade of borders causing inconvenience to localsE-rickshaws and other last-mile connectivity options ferrying people between Sonipat, Panipat, Bahalgarh to Kundli have doubled their fares. Vehicles stationed at the first police barricade — around 1.5km away from the main stage — were charging people ₹160 instead of the earlier ₹80. Arun Nishkarma, 40, who drives a van, said he increased the fare from ₹30 to ₹50 to ferry people between Sonipat and Kundli border.Along with six-layer concrete barricades set up on both carriageways of GT Karnal Road, police have also installed iron nails, made concrete walls, set up concertina wires, put containers filled with cement, and blocked most of the alternative routes. Locals said the move has heavily affected their movement – more than the agitation did in the past two months.Sonipat resident Sanjay Sharma, 40, who procures material from a garments’ factory in Kundli industrial area and supplies it to different parts of Delhi and Haryana, had been facing problems while commuting on his motorcycle since December.“The police barricades make it look like the people here are living in jail. It used to take around 30 minutes to travel from Kundli industrial area to my home in Sonipat. Now it takes me around two-and-a-half hours,” he said.Sharma said, “The farmer volunteers had ensured smoother movement of vehicles during the agitation. They do facilitate movement. But the police barricades and the personnel posted here do not let us cross these barricades and they have also blocked alternative routes.”On Wednesday, police officials used iron frames to block another dirt track leading to the main highway barely a kilometre from the main stage.No one except police personnel was allowed to go beyond the second barricade installed at this spot. Until Wednesday, media persons were allowed to walk till the Singhu toll border around 400 metres away.At Tikri, local residents are forced to take longer route for their daily commute.“My shop is near the main (Rohtak) road but because of the protests and the police closing off the entire area, now my workers and I have to take the longer route,” said Sisupal Singh Channa, who owns a garments shop near Baba Haridas Park.Hathram Pal, who owns a mobile repair and recharging shop near the protest spot at Tikri, said his business had taken a major hit because of the internet services being cut-off by the administration.“These farmers have been here for nearly two months and we have not faced any problem, the issue started when the government started getting involved and cut off electricity and internet,” Pal said. Mobile internet services were suspended at the protest spots following the Republic Day violence.Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said, “The barricades are set up as a preventive measure. We are trying to ensure as little inconvenience to the public as possible in the given circumstances.”Senior farm leader Darshan Pal said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has taken note of the transport-related problems He said, “SKM intends to resolve the problem as far as possible.”(With inputs from Shiv Sunny)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protest-blockades-locals-have-to-take-long-way-home-101612390052542.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||166k students in Delhi fell off grid as schools moved online||Over 166,000 students in Delhi’s government and municipal schools are missing, the impact of education moving online as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number is roughly 8.5% of the students enrolled in the Capital’s schools.The data, culled from the education department of Delhi, and civic bodies that run the municipal schools, shows that these children have simply fallen off the map -- the schools say they can’t trace them.Government officials and school authorities say the migration of thousands of families to their home states during and after the lockdown, and the sudden shift to online education are the main reasons for this.While schools have already reopened for classes 10 and 12 last month, they have been allowed to call in students of classes 9 and 11 from February 5.Also read: Schools kick off prep as parents, students welcome exam scheduleAccording to figures available with the Delhi government and the three civic bodies of east, north and south Delhi, the maximum number of students who can’t be found are those enrolled in schools run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (or North MCD).Officials at North MCD’s education department said around 20% (58,000) of the 290,000 students enrolled across 714 schools could not be reached despite several attempts over the past 10 months. In schools run by the south civic body, around 15% (44,000) of the 284,000 students in 581 schools can’t be reached. And in schools run by the east municipal corporation, around 20% (33,600) of the 168,000 students enrolled in 365 schools are completely out of touch.The situation is better in Delhi government schools. Only around 31,000 (approximately 2.5% ) of nearly 1,255,000 students enrolled in its 1,030 schools (from kindergarten to class 10) can’t be found.According to assessments by Unicef, over 460 million children across the world were unable to access remote learning tools last year. The UN has called on countries to ensure a generation of children do not lose out an education due to the pandemic.Attempting contactOver the past few months, the government and municipal schools have attempted door-to-door visits, sending letters and assignments to addresses on their records, and forming peer groups to locate the students.Officials at Delhi government schools said a majority of students who can’t be found are those who were promoted from municipal schools at the end of the last academic session and were admitted to class 6. Awadesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “At least 40 students are completely unreachable at our school. Of them, 25 are in class 6. We have taken all possible steps but these children were not found at the addresses mentioned in our records. We got to know from the neighbourhood that these families returned to their villages after the lockdown and have not returned yet.”Every year, around 100,000 students move from municipal schools to government ones in class 6; municipal schools only offer education till class 5. Due to the pandemic, the induction of such students happened online this time, on the basis of names sent by municipal schools.“Either the families of these students don’t have mobile phones or they have changed their numbers and did not get the information about the admission of their children in class 6. We are trying to trace such children,” said the principal of another government school, requesting anonymity.Then there are the younger children in municipal schools. Vibha Singh, principal of a municipal school in Gandhinagar, east Delhi, said 49 students can’t be found. “Their houses are locked and their numbers are not reachable. We are assuming that they migrated to their villages during the lockdown…”‘Will continue to search’Experts said it’s possible that some of them may have been pulled out of school and pushed into working to help family finances roiled by the pandemic.Sanjay Gupta, director of NGO CHETNA, said, “Extensive steps need to be taken to trace students who have been pushed into child labour due to financial difficulties wrought by the pandemic. The priorities of parents have also changed amid the financial crises. The switch to online education is also responsible for the situation. There is a possibility of more drop-outs if this situation continues.”The Delhi says it has managed to trace almost 97.5% of the students from KG to class 10.Mukesh Suryan, chairperson, south MCD education committee, said, “As per the Right to Education Act, 2009, we can’t strike off any student from the rolls up to class 8, whether they attend school or not. We will continue searching for these students with the help of fellow students and neighbours throughout the year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/166k-students-in-delhi-fell-off-grid-as-schools-moved-online-101612385072733.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Govt will help find missing farmers: CM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday released a list with names of 115 persons who have been arrested and kept in different jails across the city over the past few days in connection with the Republic Day violence, and said the move will be a step in tracing those who, according to various farmers’ unions, have gone missing from protest from over the past one week.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the Delhi government will extend all possible help to trace these farmers, and, if the need arises, he will approach Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and the central government for their help.“We are releasing a list of 115 protesters who were arrested by police in relation to the Republic Day incident and are in different jails in the city. Our government will make every effort to trace the protesters who are missing and I will even speak to the Lt Governor and the Central government if the need arises,” Kejriwal said.Also read: Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai file plea in SC to quash FIRsThe move comes a day after a delegation from the legal team of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella platform of about 40 farmer unions protesting against the farm laws at Delhi borders for over two months, met Kejriwal and gave him a list of 29 missing farmers.“I can understand the pain and suffering of these people, who are unable to connect to their family members and children, are going through. It is the responsibility of every government to find the missing people and intimate their families regarding the same. Many farmer unions have also reached out to the Delhi government and me,” Kejriwal said.On Sunday, SKM said that more than 100 people were missing since the tractor parade on Republic Day that descended in. The union has formed a committee to look into the issue, which seeks to compile information on the “missing persons” to able to initiate formal action with the authorities. The six-member committee has urged people to share information on missing persons on the phone number 8198022033.“The people whose family members are missing can look at this list to know if their family members are among those arrested. If yes, they will get to know the jail that they have been put in. I hope that many people who have gone missing will be traced through this list,” Kejriwal added.Since the beginning of the farmers’ protest, the Delhi government has show support to farmers’ protest. It also provided basic facilities of water, sanitation and food at almost all the major protest sites in Delhi. In December, Kejriwal had visited Singhu border thrice to meet the farmers. In January, Kejriwal announced that the AAP will be fighting elections in six states in the coming two years. These states include Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh from where a majority of fame era have come to protest against the farm laws.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha in Punjab, said, “We welcome that Delhi Chief Minister has promptly acted on our request for locating the missing farmers. We requested him in his capacity as the CM and not as a political leader.”“We have already uploaded a list of all the 122 people arrested in the cases on our (Delhi Police) website, which is a public platform. The list has names of the arrested persons, their residential address, age, name of the police station and the FIR number in which they have been arrested. Any individual can access the list by visiting our website. In case, anyone still has any doubts about the arrested persons, they can directly seek assistance from the concerned district control room number or visit the police stations concerned,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-will-help-find-missing-farmers-cm-101612381793544.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||India: Seaplane flown back to Maldives for 2nd time in 3 months for maintenance||For the second time in three months, the country’s sole seaplane has been flown back to the Maldives for “scheduled maintenance”, following which seaplane operations were suspended from Wednesday. According to sources in know of the matter, the 19-seater Twin Otter 300 seaplane – property of a Maldivian company – took off from Ahmedabad to land in Goa on Tuesday. “After staying in Goa overnight, it took-off for Cochin on Wednesday to reach the Maldives by the afternoon,” said an official from the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA) on condition of anonymity. SpiceJet spokesperson confirmed the development and said, “Seaplane operations will be suspended for three days starting today (Wednesday) as the aircraft is going to the Maldives for scheduled maintenance today. The aircraft will return on February 5 and operations will resume on February 6, 2021. While a facility for day-to-day maintenance has been set up in India, one for larger maintenance is in the work.” The seaplane service between Kevadia and Sabarmati riverfront (Ahmedabad) – was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel on October 31 – to attract tourists to the Statue of Unity. It was then temporarily suspended within a month. After re-commencing operations on December 30, 2020, the airline said no flights operated on three days – January 9 due to bad weather, and January 14 and 15 given the kite flying festival. An aviation safety expert who did not wish to be named said, “Aircraft do not go for maintenance twice with barely two months of its flying. This means that they did not get the paperwork done as required.” Last week, HT had reported that seaplane services were unable to attract passengers as expected. According to sources, it is flying with around 50% capacity. The airline, however, maintained that their flights to Kevadia are clocking an average load of over 90%. The seaplane, under the government’s Udey Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) project is operated by Spice Shuttle, a fully-owned subsidiary of SpiceJet, which wet-leased the seaplane from Maldives Island Aviation Services (MIAS). MIAS is owned by the Maldives government, making both the aircraft and its crew the property of a foreign entity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/india-seaplane-flown-back-to-maldives-for-2nd-time-in-3-months-for-maintenance-101612381316684.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||World Cancer Day: ‘Delay in diagnosis during lockdown led to late-stage cancer’||The Covid-19 pandemic in March last year left hundreds of cancer patients – both within and those coming from outside the city – without early intervention and timely treatment. Due to the initial delay in diagnosis, hospitals in Mumbai have observed that almost 30% of patients are in advanced stages of the disease, thereby reducing their chances of recovery. However, 11 months down the line, with relaxations in lockdown restrictions, screening and diagnosis of patients has improved by more than 100%. ‘Delay in cancer treatment amidst lockdown’ On the eve of World Cancer Day, which is today, hospitals in the city said almost 30% of the newly diagnosed/registered cancer patients have developed advance-stage cancer due to delayed diagnoses during the lockdown, and many consequently have reduced chances of recovery.In 2019, a total of 82,538 new cancer cases were recorded, which dropped to 60,699 in 2020. In April, May and June 2019, the hospital recorded 6,933, 7,035 and 6,273 new cancer patient registrations. Following the outbreak of the pandemic, new registrations during the same three months in 2020 significantly dropped to 1,002, 3,020 and 2,688. Citing several reasons for the drop of almost 20,000 new registrations last year, deputy director of TMH and gastrointestinal cancer surgeon Dr Shailesh V Shrikhande said, “Almost 60% of registered patients at our hospital come from outside Mumbai, including from neighbouring states. During the initial months of the lockdown, severe restrictions were imposed on transportation all across the nation. So, patients, especially those from outside Mumbai couldn’t come for diagnosis.” At the beginning of the pandemic, several civic-run and private tertiary care hospitals were converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. With outpatient departments (OPD) closed and non-emergency services temporarily halted, the number of cancer patients in private hospitals also reduced by almost 50%. Dr Sanjay Dudhat, head of onco-surgery department, Nanavati Hospital, said that the pandemic resulted in a 45% drop in medical oncology (chemotherapy/radiation therapy) and a 69% dip in cancer surgeries as compared to 2019 at the hospital. “Cancer patients are most vulnerable to getting infected with Covid-19 due to their weak immunity. As a result, many patients deferred visiting hospitals out of fear of constructing the virus,” said Dr Bharat Bhosale, medical oncologist at Bombay Hospital and Holy Spirit Hospital. Dr Bhosale added that due to the economic slowdown, several working professionals lost their jobs, which changed the cancer care management system. “NGOs also had run out of funds, and couldn’t financially support the treatment of patients from the lower economic class,” he said. ‘Patients detected with advanced-stage cancer post lockdown due to delayed diagnosis’ With relaxations in restrictions, cancer patients who waited for months are now flocking to hospitals for treatment. Due to the late diagnosis, however, oncologists have found that recently-diagnosed patients have developed advanced-stage cancer. “Almost one-third (or 30) have developed cancer at the third and fourth stage of the disease, which could have been cured if diagnosed earlier. Many have even died without getting treatment on time,” said Dr Sanjay Sharma, surgical oncologist and director of Asian Cancer Institute, Mumbai. Doctors said that early detection is the most essential step in cancer management and eradication, and delay in diagnosis causes a rise in mortality rates. “The key for a cure is to detect cancers in stage 1 or 2, i.e. within two to three months of cancer development in the body. As per our observations, the five-year survival rate in stage 1 and 2 of cancer is about 98%, which falls sharply to 30-40% in the advanced stages (3 and 4),” said Dr Dudhat. “On average, the tumour grows by 1cm within eight months to a year. Tumour biology in younger patients is more aggressive, causing faster development and spread in the absence of treatment.” Doctors also said that patients detected with smaller tumours before the pandemic could have recovered through surgery. “However, as they delayed the treatment, we had to perform pre-surgical chemotherapy to reduce the size of the tumours, followed by surgically extracting them, and putting them on post-surgical chemo, radiation and hormonal therapy for complete recovery from the cancers,” said Dr Dudhat. As patients couldn’t avail treatment at tertiary-care hospitals, they consulted local doctors who lack expertise, which further aggravated their health condition, said city oncologists. “In dire need, patients approached local hospitals with no adequate facilities. They performed ‘sub-optimal’ treatment which wasn’t up to the mark,” said Dr Sharma. The pandemic also dried up blood banks as blood donation camps were halted to avoid any possible chance of spread of infection, which became a huge problem for patients suffering from blood-related cancer. “Bone marrow transplants need a large quantity of blood. Since these patients also have zero immunity against any virus, a few transplants were postponed during the initial stages of the pandemic,” said Bhosale. ‘Current situation is better, but coming months will be crucial’ Patient footfall has increased since September, said oncologists. For instance, registration of new cancer patients at TMH increased by 140% from August to December 2020. Similarly, at Nanavati Hospital, post the national unlock, there has been a 108% increase in the number of patients seeking cancer-related treatment and consultations. “In November and December 2020, we recorded more registrations than in the same months in 2019. Also, there hasn’t been a huge fall in the number of emergency surgeries performed at our hospital. For instance, in my gastrointestinal oncology department, in 2020 we performed 250 emergency services, as opposed to 287 the previous year,” said Dr Shrikhande. Doctors have cautioned that the coming months will be crucial to gauge the impact of delayed diagnosis on the fatality rate of cancer patients, as many in advanced stages are still undergoing treatment. “The drop in footfall indicates a probable increase in cancer fatalities caused by delayed or irregular cancer surgeries, radiation or chemotherapy,” said Dr Dudhat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/world-cancer-day-delay-in-diagnosis-during-lockdown-led-to-late-stage-cancer-101612380236552.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Will not obstruct access to south Mumbai jetty, BMC assures HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday disposed of a petition which had sought unhindered access to the Lotus jetty at Haji Ali which local fisherfolk perceived would be restricted, due to the ongoing coastal road work. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the court that it was building a navigation bridge for the benefit of the fisherfolk at the spot and they could access to the jetty. The court took the assurance of the BMC on record, and also permitted the fisherfolk to approach the evaluation committee set up by the civic body to settle their claim for damages to their fishing boats, due to the ongoing coastal road work. A division bench of justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht, while hearing the petition filed by 10 fishermen, subsisting through fishing activities from the Lotus jetty at Haji Ali, was informed by advocate Meenaz Kakalia that the petition was not opposing the coastal road work or reclamation of land for the same, but only sought unhindered access to the jetty, which they apprehended would be obstructed by the development work. The petition also sought compensation from the civic body, which is undertaking the coastal road development work for the damage caused to their fishing vessels, anchors and nets due to the development and reclamation being carried out at the jetty. In its reply, the BMC through senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and advocate Joel Carlos informed the court that the apprehensions of the fisherfolk were misplaced and unfounded as the BMC was constructing a navigation bridge at the jetty that would provide a passage for the fishing boats to enter and exit from the jetty. The affidavit, in reply, submitted that the petition was an attempt by vested interests to stall the coastal road project and hence the petition should be dismissed. After hearing the submissions and perusing the affidavit, the court recorded the undertaking of the BMC that the petitioners would have unhindered access to the jetty and their livelihood through fishing activities would not be affected. The court also directed the petitioners to approach the fisher-folk Rehabilitation Assessment Committee which has been set up by the BMC to evaluate the effect if any, of the project on the livelihood of the fishermen and deal with issues related thereto for the damages caused to their vessels, anchors and nets for compensation and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-not-obstruct-access-to-south-mumbai-jetty-bmc-assures-hc-101612379756580.html
04-02-2021||Other||Political parties intensify campaigning in Mohali MC polls||With 10 days to go for Mohali municipal corporation elections, all political parties have intensified their campaign by focusing more on door-to-door campaigning and small public meetings. On Wednesday, Daljit Kaur Sidhu, wife of Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, kicked off a door-to-door campaign for the Congress candidates. Her son Kanwarbir Singh Ruby Sidhu , who is also the president of Mohali Youth Congress, and Jatinder Kaur Sidhu , wife of Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu — the party’s candidate from ward no 10 — also accompanied her during the campaign. They went to Sector 78 for ward no. 35 candidate Prabhjot Kaur Sidhu and Phase 3B1 for ward no. 2 candidate Jaspal Singh Tiwana. Former mayor Kulwant Singh, who is heading the Azad group, also held a campaign. While canvassing for the Azad group candidates, Kulwant said, “Educated and intelligent voters of Mohali are well aware that in the last five years, Mohali has grown in a multifaceted manner and the approach towards development has been without any partisanship and bias.”Raising the slogan ‘Choose the character, not the party’, Kulwant appealed to the people to vote for candidates with clean image in the MC elections.Local Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders also held several public meetings to woo the voters. Charanjit Singh Brar, political adviser to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, said, “The people of Mohali will send honest new faces to the House, who will raise their voices and address their demands and needs in a timely manner.” The BJP candidates also campaigned and urged people to vote in the favour of ‘clean government’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-parties-intensify-door-to-door-campaigning-101612379696490.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rape survivor woman cop dies by suicide||A 47-year-old police constable, a widow who had lodged rape case against a public work department (PWD) engineer at Worli police station around a fortnight ago, has died by suicide in Pimpri Chinchwad area.The woman cop, in her complaint to police, had alleged that the accused raped her on different occasions after promising marriage and later refused to marry her. The police said the woman was suffering from depression. The deceased was attached to Pune rural police headquarters. Her husband, also a police constable, died by suicide four years ago. According to Worli police, the woman had registered herself with an organisation in Pune that facilitated widow marriages and got the contact number of one Ajay Bansode, 53, a branch engineer in PWD. Bansode, who had introduced himself as a divorcee, allegedly promised to marry her. In the complaint lodged on January 14, she had alleged that Bansode raped her on several occasions between September 2019 to December 22, 2020 at a house in Worli and two other places in Panvel. Later, the woman found out that Bansode’s divorce petition was pending adjudication.“On January 26, the constable died by suicide in Pawana river. She has not left any suicide note. Her family members stated that she was under depression,” said Rangnath Unde, senior inspector, Sangvi police station, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.“Her family has no complaint of foul play. She was under depression, and so far we have not found anything to indicate that anyone incited her to take the step,” said investigation officer sub-inspector Kavita Rupnar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rape-survivor-woman-cop-dies-by-suicide-101612379516431.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Power tussle on in Maharashtra: Consumers, MSEDCL both wait for relief||The year 2020 has been a tough one, particularly for the 24.2 million consumers of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL). The trouble started during the Covid-induced lockdown period, when scores complained of hefty bills. Initially, the CM Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government promised them a waiver, but soon, in a complete U-turn in November 2020, state energy minister Nitin Raut announced that consumers will have to pay the entire bill as the government cannot provide any relief. With arrears mounting to ₹63,740 crore, as of January 2021, MSEDCL has directed its regional offices to recover dues or cut the power supply in case of non-compliance. While political parties such as the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and Raju Shetti’s Swabhiman Shetkari Sanghatana, along with the Maharashtra State Power Consumers’ Association, are still demanding a waiver, residential consumers, many of whom have even has lost their jobs to the lockdown, are staring at a crisis. MSEDCL in losses The state’s distribution arm, MSEDCL, is the largest power supplying company in Maharashtra. It supplies power to the whole of Maharashtra and some parts of Mumbai. Recent data accessed by HT reveals that the agriculture sector owes ₹37,236 crore to the MSEDCL, while residential consumers owe ₹3,380 crore. Industrial and commercial consumers also owe ₹296 crore and ₹723 crore, respectively, among other categories. Being a major agrarian state, agricultural consumers account for 25% of the total power consumption in the state, although they account for only 14% of the revenue generation, a report on the ‘The Curious Case of India’s Discoms’ by the Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) released in August 2020 stated. The revenue gap is owing to a tariff design where other categories of consumers pay a higher price to cross-subsidise electricity for agricultural consumers. The report state: “Even though the share of commercial and industrial consumers in total electricity consumption is 45% by volume, their revenue contribution is a much higher (at) 56%. Residential consumers take 20% of all electricity consumed and provide 20% of discom revenue.” Shantanu Dixit, co-ordinator, energy group, Prayas, said that incorrect estimation in agricultural consumption through the years has also resulted in the ballooning of arrears. Dixit referred to a report by a working group formed by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) which stated that MSEDCL overestimated supply to the farm sector by 10,000 million units in 2018-19. “Apart from this, the political flip-flops on bill waiver in the state have resulted in a large number of well-paying categories also not clearing their dues on time,” Dixit said. Prayas is a non-government organization working in the energy sector in Maharashtra. Other reasons for losses also include power thefts, aggregate technical and commercial losses (21% as of March 2020), and purchasing high-cost power from obsolete plants owing to long-term power purchase agreements, the IEEFA report states. Ameya Pimpalkhare, an energy expert based in Mumbai, said, “A city like Delhi can afford to waive power bill because it is largely urbanised and the billing efficiency is also better. In Maharashtra, the arrears from agricultural consumers have accumulated for decades now. The power sector needs a serious recalibration now.” Covid woes When the national lockdown was imposed in March 2020, the MERC asked utilities to suspend physical meter-reading to avoid contact. It also asked utilities to charge consumers based on the average of the preceding three months – December, January, and February – of winter. “This effectively means that consumers underpaid in April and May, even though the consumption was high owing to summer and excess usage of power as everyone was home all the time. In June, when the actual meter-reading began, the residual electricity amount was also taken into consideration, resulting in the high bills,” an official from MSEDCL explained. However, citizens and even celebrities slammed the authorities on social media for the bills. Almost 1,100,000 consumers complained of excess bills, of which 752,000 were MSEDCL consumers. In August 2020, the state said it was planning to waive the excess bill by bearing the surplus amount for April, May, and June. State energy minister Nitin Raut in October said that consumers will get good news during Diwali. Owing to these promises, pending complaints, job and business losses during the pandemic, more than six million consumers did not pay a single rupee towards their bill between April and November 2020. On November 17, 2020, Raut, however, said the state cannot provide any relief. An MSEDCL consumer, who did not wish to be named, said, “The state changed its stance from waiving excess bills to saying we will now cut the power supply. This may be the norm for repeat offenders, not for people who have received erroneous bills.” Pratap Hogade, a power expert and also from the Maharashtra State Power Consumers’ Association, said, “We are demanding a 50% waiver for the six-month lockdown period.” The associations also met Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar recently with their demands. Outgoing managing director of MSEDCL, Aseemkumar Gupta, last week told HT that MSEDCL has asked officials to take two steps – to take the top to bottom approach while recovering dues and to rectify errors or doubts in bills. Vijay Singhal, who has been appointed as the new managing director of MSEDCL, did not want to comment on the issue as he has just taken charge. The way ahead Last week, while unveiling a new amnesty scheme for farmers, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to them to make maximum use of the scheme and pay their bills on time. While experts say a waiver of any kind would prove to be disastrous for the state discom, there are ways in which issues can be resolved. According to Dixit, the state needs to immediately resolve pending billing complaints, especially in the agricultural sector. “There should be a permanent drive to resolve complaints and for timely recovery. Apart from this, people also need to be responsible and pay their bills on time, else ultimately quality and reliability of supply will suffer badly,” he said. Ashok Pendse, a power expert from Mumbai, said the issues cannot be resolved unless there is political will. “This whole mess is the government’s creation.” The IEEFA report also lists a series of recommendations for MSEDCL to better its financial position. This includes meeting agricultural power demand through solar power, which will reduce the burden of cross-subsidy. It also suggests reducing its reliance on old, inefficient plants for procuring power and incentivising solar rooftop schemes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/power-tussle-on-in-maharashtra-consumers-msedcl-both-wait-for-relief-101612379396659.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to reopen colleges from February 15||The Maharashtra government has decided to restart physical classes in colleges and universities from February 15, after a coronavirus-enforced gap of over 10 months, said state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Wednesday. However, the state has restricted the attendance of students in physical classes to 50%, a move that will continue for at least a month for now. The state government will take a further decision after a review of the situation. “We have decided to restart colleges and universities in the state from February 15. Colleges can conduct physical classes with 50% students in a class. They also have been directed to ensure Covid-19-appropriate behaviour is strictly followed in campuses,” Samant told reporters.“As students have been taking online lectures for the past many months and many who stay far away and don’t want to come back for physical classes, we have asked the varsities to give them an option for mode of education. Those who want to continue online lectures should be allowed. We are sure universities will not make any decision that would result in educational loss for students,” he said.The state government has also decided to relax the mandatory condition of 75% attendance for students in colleges this academic year. This is being done as we are starting physical classes from February 15, the higher and technical education minister said.The minimum attendance required for this academic year for the students will be decided later, he clarified.Even for examinations, the state government has authorised universities to decide whether they want to conduct offline or online examinations. “The vice-chancellors have requested us to allow both the modes — offline and online — for conducting examinations and we also share the same opinion. We have also asked them to discuss the issue with students before taking any decision,” the minister said.The state government has also empowered district collectors to take a decision based on the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the respective district.It has further decided not to start hostels for students as of now. The higher and technical education minister said that they are going to be started only conducting structural as well as fire audits. “We cannot allow four students in one hostel room like we used to do in pre-Covid times. Now that is not possible as Covid-19 appropriate behaviour needs to be followed. We’ll have to allot one room per student to ensure social distancing is practised. So the varsities will have to decide a criteria for the students to be allowed to use hostels as there are a limited number of hostels. Also, many hostels are still being used as quarantine centers,” he informed.On Tuesday, Samant said that they had taken an in-principle decision to restart colleges and universities across the state and are preparing standard operating procedure for the same. The minister had also asked the vice-chancellors of all universities to come up with plans for resuming physical classes in in a meeting held on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-reopen-colleges-from-february-15-101612379336390.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai education budget: ₹16 crore for Covid-19 essentials in civic schools||Supplying Covid-19-related essentials, opening 10 new Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools and rebranding civic schools – are some initiatives the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will spend on, as part of its education budget for 2021-22. On Wednesday morning, the civic body announced its budgetary estimates for the year and allocated ₹2,945.78 crore for education in 2021-22. This is a marginal increase from last year when BMC had set aside ₹2,944.59 for its schools. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak and anticipating reopening of schools soon, a provision of nearly ₹16 crore is set aside for procuring infrared thermometers, soaps, hand wash and masks for students. Hand sanitisers will not be distributed to students as they are not advisable for young children, as per health experts. This year, the civic body will also open 10 new CBSE schools in different parts of the city for which there is a budgetary estimate of ₹2 crore. These schools will operate from existing BMC buildings for students from pre-primary to Class 6, and education will be free of cost. Continuing the civic body’s previous rebranding efforts, nomenclatures of all its schools will be changed to Mumbai Public School supplemented by the original school name. The civic body has designed a new logo for its schools. To ensure standardisation of educational content in balwadis across different mediums in the city that will be implemented this year on, BMC has created a training programme in partnership with UNICEF, Pratham, Save the Children India and Rocket Learning. Similarly, child protection teams will be constituted at the school and ward level to address complaints concerning rights violation and other student grievances “These teams will hear complaints from students and parents and conduct awareness sessions about good and bad touch, and the rights of children,” said Mahesh Palkar, education officer, BMC. Some of the civic body’s previously announced initiatives like the virtual training centre in 480 BMC schools, Vidyan Kutuhal Bhawan for science-related learning and financial support to meritorious SSC students for their future education are retained and have been allotted a budget. Despite allocating funds worth ₹20 crores for the installation of CCTV cameras in 2020, work on the same is yet to begin and the initiative finds no budgetary allocation this year. Some new additions Supplies of Covid-19 related essential healthcare equipment: ₹15.90 crore Developing a school playground in a phased manner: ₹5 lakh Opening 10 CBSE schools: ₹2 crore Career counselling programmes: ₹21.10 lakh Old initiatives continued Virtual Training Centres: ₹13.15 crore Online drawing competition: ₹50 lakh Digital classrooms: ₹28.58 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-education-budget-16-crore-for-covid-19-essentials-in-civic-schools-101612379156607.html
04-02-2021||Other||2 Mohali cops land in vigilance net for taking ₹10,000 bribe||The Punjab vigilance bureau on Wednesday arrested two Mohali cops for taking bribe of ₹10,000 from a Himachal Pradesh resident.The policemen are ASI Krishan Kumar and constable (munshi) Ajay Gill, both from Industrial Area Phase 8B post.They were caught by the team of DSP (vigilance, Mohali) Harvinder Pal Singh following the complaint of Karan Singh of Kangra, who runs a company, Siaram Loan, in Phase 8B.Karan said on January 27, the constable, along with at least four more cops, had come to his office and asked him to visit the local police post. “Ajay claimed that they had received multiple complaints of fraud against me. They seized my documents, laptops, printers and cheques. When I reached the police post, I was asked to pay ₹25,000 to get my seized items back,” he added. Karan claimed to have given ₹10,000 to Ajay following which some of his items were returned to him. “Three days later, Ajay again arrived at my office and ordered me to appear before ASI Krishan Kumar. When I met the ASI on Tuesday, he sought more money,” Karan mentioned in his complaint.The complainant then approached the vigilance department, which laid a trap and nabbed the cops.DSP Harvinder Pal Singh said, “Besides Krishan Kumar and Ajay Gill, another cop was involved in this case, who will soon be identified. We have recovered the entire bribe amount from the duo as well as the seized items of the complainant. A case has been registered at the vigilance bureau’s Mohali police station. The accused will be produced in a court on Thursday. Further probe is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-mohali-cops-land-in-vigilance-net-for-taking-10-000-bribe-101612379036362.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hall ticket, tech issues delay ITI examination||Computer-based tests during the ongoing examinations conducted by Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) have been marred by several issues over the past one week. While students could not download their hall tickets for the examination, their actual examination had to be postponed in parts, especially after the server crashed repeatedly on the day of the exam.After receiving several complaints from students, the Association of Non Government ITIs have now approached the Directorate General of Training (DGT) seeking clarity. “Server and technical errors apart, the Trade Electronic Mechanic students were worst affected as after all the delay, maximum questions asked in their exam were out of syllabus. We don’t know whom to approach anymore,” said a student on condition of anonymity. In January this year, the association has also approached the DGT for clarity on exams especially since they are to be conducted online this year, but to no avail. “Computer-based exams are being carried out for ITI students without considering ground realities and the economic repercussions on ITI trainees, causing them undue stress and anxiety,” said a member of the association. While exams were scheduled to take place starting January 28, the hall tickets were to be downloaded on January 27. Thousands of students complained about not being able to download their hall tickets and were eventually told they will not need the document at the time of the examination. In some cases, students faced problems as they were not allowed in exam centres without the hall tickets.“The exam authorities waited till the day of the exam to ask ITIs to upgrade all computers from MS Office 7 to MS Office 10, which led to more chaos. Some institutes ended up waiting hours for the server to pick up on January 28 and were eventually informed that the exam was cancelled,” said the principal of an ITI on condition of anonymity. He added that the same exam was rescheduled for January 29, only to face more server trouble that led to the exams being cancelled second day in a row. “For the time being, exams scheduled for February 2 and 3 too have been rescheduled, but the new exam dates have not been released yet. This confusion has left students more anxious than ever, yet we have no response from the DGT in the matter,” added the principal of another ITI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaihall-ticket-tech-issues-delay-iti-examination-101612378976429.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: NCB arrests assistant director in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested assistant director Rishikesh Pawar in connection with the alleged drug angle in the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). NCB officials claimed that Pawar was allegedly procuring and supplying drugs to the late actor.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said Pawar was arrested on Wednesday morning for his alleged role in providing drugs to SSR. He was Rajput’s friend and was also a part of some of the actor’s projects.His name had come up during interrogation of actor’s cook Dipesh Sawant, who was arrested in October last year for allegedly supplying drugs to the actor on the instructions of his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik.NCB had summoned Pawar once earlier but he did not respond to the summons and instead approached Mumbai session court for anticipatory bail. His pre-arrest bail plea was rejected last month, said another NCB official.Pawar was earlier questioned by NCB in September last year when several others, including friends and staff of SSR, were questioned by the agency. A search operation was also conducted at his residence in Chembur and some gadgets were recovered which were scrutinised and incriminating evidence was recovered, added the official.Rajput was found dead at his residence in Bandra on June 14, 2020. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing his death while the NCB is investigating the drugs angle related to the case. NCB has arrested 30 accused in alleged drug nexus in SSR death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-ncb-arrests-assistant-director-in-mumbai-101612378916311.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||20 firms show interest in power privatisation in Chandigarh||The final count of companies that have expressed interest in privatisation of the Chandigarh power department is 20.It is to be seen how many of these companies actually submit their bids. The last date for submitting the tender is February 8. The bids are likely to be opened on the same day.The request for proposal has been issued to Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Assets Limited, Sterlite Power, CESC Limited, Torrent Power, ReNew Power, Greenko Group, LAT Limited, Feedback Energy Distribution Co Limited (FEDCO), MB Power Limited, CLP India Private Limited, EDF India, Enel Global Infrastructure and Network SRL and Megha Engineering Infrastructure Limited.The request for proposal has also been issued to public-sector enterprises, including DNH Power distribution corporation, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited, National Investment and Infrastructure Fund Limited, and Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL).The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12 last year after directions from the Centre.The UT administration had on November 9 invited bids for privatisation. In December, the high court stayed the process on the petition by the UT powermen union. The Supreme Court on January 12 put on hold this stay, and on January 14, the administration resumed the sale of tender.Powermen hold strikeMeanwhile, the UT electricity department employees observed a strike on Wednesday against the privatisation.“The call of strike was given by National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE) against the central government’s move towards power sector privatisation through the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and Standard Bidding Document for total privatisation of distribution of electricity,” said Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary of the UT Powermen Union.The employees of various offices marched towards Sector 17, the venue of rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20-firms-show-interest-in-power-privatisation-in-chandigarh-101612378736346.html
04-02-2021||Other||60 Covid vaccination centres in Thane; KDMC aims to complete phase 2 by February 15||Thane district will have around 60 Covid-19 vaccination centres starting from the end of this week, up from its current count of 46 centres. The district health authority has started including private mid-level hospitals as vaccination centres. Around 60,842 health and frontline workers have registered so far across Thane district, of which around 34,000 are vaccinated. Thane district started the immunisation drive with 23 vaccination centres, and some of the municipal corporations have also managed to vaccinate more than the planned target till now. The second phase of immunising frontline workers like police personnel and civic staff started on Thursday. Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane zilla parishad, said, “We are gradually working on increasing the number of vaccination centres across the district. Moreover, we are setting up additional teams of vaccinators at each centre. This will help increase the number of immunisations. Those who have already registered on the CoWIN portal can walk into any centre across the district to get themselves vaccinated. There are various such measures undertaken to ensure that we reach out to more beneficiaries and increase the number of vaccinations across the district.” Meanwhile, starting Thursday, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will vaccinate 5,116 frontline workers who have registered till date. So far, of the registered 8,000 health workers, KDMC has managed to vaccinate 3,500 since the vaccination programme began. KDMC has plans to complete vaccination of frontline and health workers by February 15. “The number of registered health workers were 5,000 earlier, which increased to 8,000 after many more people showed a willingness to get vaccinated. The list of registered frontline workers is 5,116, which will also increase in the coming days,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. The civic body has now included private centres for the vaccination programme, however, the inoculation itself will be done by trained municipal staff. “We will start vaccinations at AIMS Hospital in Dombivli from Thursday. Space will be provided by the hospital, while the manpower to carry out the vaccinations will be ours. In the coming days, more private centres will be selected,” added Panpatil. BNCMC workers to get immunised on Thursday The Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) has also issued a notification directing all its civic workers and officials to be present for the vaccination on Thursday at the designated centres. “The vaccination for municipal workers and officials will start from Thursday, till all of them are vaccinated. We have made it compulsory for them to visit the centres and take the dosage. The vaccinations will be carried out at three centres,” said KR Kharat, medical health officer, BNCMC. NMMC begins second phase of vaccination On the first day of the second phase, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) vaccinated 195 Covid-19 frontline workers. The target of the first day of phase 2 was to vaccinate 300 people, of which 65% turned up. In phase 1, NMMC had 23,480 healthcare workers registered on the CoWin app, of which 7,926 have been vaccinated till Wednesday. The target of phase 1, till Wednesday, was to vaccinate 9,400 beneficiaries, of which 84% have turned up till now. For phase 2, around 9,400 frontline workers have been registered.(With inputs from Raina Shine)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-covid-vaccination-centres-in-thane-kdmc-aims-to-complete-phase-2-by-february-15-101612378678064.html
04-02-2021||Other||Pan-India fake degree racket busted in Mohali||The Mohali police have busted a gang that was active throughout the country and provided fake degrees and certificates of various courses at school, college and university level. In the preliminary investigation, it has come to light that the gang has issued around 1,000 fake degrees of at least 16 government and private universities and school boards.“Five people, who used to pose as educational consultants, have been arrested. We have also recovered 859 fake degrees, 93 stamps, 5,102 holograms, 16 receipt books, six laptops, four printers, three CPUs, two LCD monitors, two keyboards and other stationery items in bulk besides a Hyundai i20 car,” said deputy superintendent of police Amroj Singh during a press briefing on Wednesday.Two of the suspects are from Mohali district: kingpin Nirmal Singh, alias Nimma, of Kartarpur village, and Ankit Arora, alias Goria, of Fatehpur Sialwa. The remaining three are from Uttar Pradesh: Vishnu Sharma of Mathura, Sushant Tyagi of Meerut and Anand Vikram Singh of Ghaziabad.SP (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said these men were running the racket from fake educational consultancy centres in different parts of the nation. “It is a large nexus and also a cyber-oriented crime,” she said. They were duping students on the pretext of providing them degree certificates of various renowned Indian universities, said the SP. “In return, they were collecting a big amount of money as well as ID proofs from the students. The students who wished to study abroad or who wanted to fill the gap years were their main targets. At least, 1,000 such students have been identified yet,” said Grewal. The suspects were using the names of renowned universities and boards, including Punjabi University, Patiala; Adesh University, Bathinda; IK Gujral PTU, Jalandhar; Sikkim University; and Punjab School Education Board, to lure the students. However, role of none of the university or board officials has come to light yet, said police.Grewal said the racket came to light after the kingpin, Nirmal Singh, was arrested by the Zirakpur police at Kalka Chowk following a tip-off January 26. During interrogation, he revealed details of his accomplices, who were arrested from different areas and recoveries were made from them.‘Probe on, more breakthroughs likely’“The suspects are literate and many of them have worked in education sector, due to which they had links with education consultants. A team of hackers was also active in the racket. We are investigating this case thoroughly and more breakthroughs might be made,” said the SP. The mobile phones used by the suspects in these crimes have also been recovered and sent to technical forensic team.The suspects are in police remand. They have been booked under Sections 259 (having possession of counterfeit government stamp), 260 (using as genuine a government stamp known to be counterfeit), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation), 470 (forged document), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc, with intent to commit forgery), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, said Zirakpur station house officer Onkar Singh. The gang’s modus operandiThe accused used to break into data charts of universities/boards after hacking their websites.The chart was edited to upload the names and addresses of their clients.By using hi-tech printers and scanners along with fake holograms and stamps, they made several degree certificates. The clients were provided degree certificates at their addresses through post.They were also provide links to download the degrees by creating false domain names of university websites. Universities and school boards on target Adesh University, Bathinda IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar Guru Kashi University, Talwandi Sabo Punjabi University, PatialaIEC University, Baddi, HP Manav Indian University, Solan, HPChhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, Kanpur, UPChaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut, UP Swami Vivekanand Subharti University, Meerut, UPBundelkhand University, Jhansi, MP Sikkim University Haryana Council of Open Schooling Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations National Institute of Open Schooling Punjab School Education Board Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panindia-fake-degree-racket-busted-in-mohali-101612378676791.html
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine dose wastage below 5% in Chandigarh||Even though, on an average, only 48% of the targeted health workers have come forward to take the coronavirus vaccine shot in Chandigarh, the wastage of doses stands at just 4.7%, half the permissible limit of 10%.Till February 2, 433 vials of Covishield vaccine, with each containing 10 doses, have been used. Of the total 4,330 doses, only 202 have gone waste, majorly due to non-availability of the targeted beneficiaries.“The vaccine coverage is as important for us as preventing the wastage of doses. We have trained and instructed the vaccinators that the vials once opened should be utilised properly. The Union health ministry has set 10% as the permissible limit, but we have been able to keep it under 5%. As the sphere of targeted groups will increase, the chances of wastage will become lower,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department.Officials said the vial is opened only after around six to seven beneficiaries arrive at the vaccination site, and special attention is given in the evening hours, when the chances of doses going waste are higher.Around 11,475 health workers are to be inoculated in Chandigarh, of whom around 4,000 have received their first shot so far.Top officials receive jab as second phase beginsThe health department on Wednesday started the second phase of vaccination drive to cover frontline workers from other departments, including police and municipal corporation. However, the response remained lukewarm.Of the 150 targeted, only 66 (44%), including 38 police personnel, turned up. Meanwhile, among health workers, 314 (31%) of the 1,004 targeted received the jab. While cops are being vaccinated at the Police Hospital in Sector 26, municipal employees got the dose at the government hospital in Sector 16, with MC commissioner KK Yadav being the first.After getting vaccinated, director general of police Sanjay Baniwal urged people to come forward. “It’s human to fear the unknown, but there is no need to fear. We will win against Covid-19,” he said. The first dose was given to assistant sub-inspector Rajani, who said: “Now I feel safe.” In the neighbouring Mohali district, too, senior administrative and police officials were vaccinated. They included senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh and additional deputy commissioners Aashika Jain and Rajiv Gupta. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the second phase of the drive is for 8,621 pre-registered frontline warriors in the district, and 54 have been vaccinated on the first day.“It was a painless and satisfactory experience with no adverse effects after vaccination,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-dose-wastage-below-5-in-chandigarh-101612378558970.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena plans monthly events to woo Gujarati voters ahead of BMC polls||In a bid to woo the Gujarati community, the Shiv Sena has planned an event every month to connect with the community in Mumbai ahead of the 2022 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election. After their first event in January, the party will now hold the second gathering of the community in Malad (West) on February 7 where 21 Gujarati business owners will join the party. The party, according to its national organiser Hemraj Shah, has planned events in Gujarati-dominated areas in western and central suburbs. For the gathering on Sunday, the Sena has come up with a theme of Raas-Garba — the traditional folk dance of the community. Last month, the Sena held an event with the tagline — Mumbai ma jalebi ne fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda (Jalebi and fafda in Mumbai, Uddhav Thackery is ours), in an attempt to reach out to the community. Shah, a prominent Gujarati face in the Sena, said, “We will hold events for the community every month. Next month we will have one in Goregaon, later in Borivli, Mulund, etc. This time we have kept the theme as garba.”He said the party aims to expand its base through these events. “Every political party holds programme and events to expand their party base. There is no need to woo the community. The community is smart and votes after careful thought. I am confident that the people would vote for the Shiv Sena as they have appreciated Uddhav ji’s idea of ‘sarva dharma samabhav’ (all religions are equal), and Gujaratis like this,” Shah said.Retaining power in the Mumbai civic body is going to be a prestige issue for the party. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which bagged almost as many seats as the Sena in the 2017 elections, has started campaigning for the civic polls. The BJP has been attacking the Sena and the Thackeray government on various issues including shifting of the Metro car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-plans-monthly-events-to-woo-gujarati-voters-ahead-of-bmc-polls-101612378557657.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body budget: ₹18.26 crore to study areas at risks from disasters||To equip Mumbai with a timely and strategic response to prominent natural and manmade disasters, such as earthquakes and tsunamis, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will carry out a risk assessment of all areas of the island city and its suburbs. The seismic microzonation, tsunami atlas, and hazard vulnerability risk assessment (HVRA) will investigate the severity of the impact of such disasters on various areas, and their impact on the livelihood of citizens. It will identify threats that require a timely and coordinated response to protect lives, property and reduce socio-economic loss.A budgetary provision of ₹18.26 crore has been made for this project, in BMC’s budget 2021-22, presented before the standing committee by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, on Wednesday. The project has been in the planning stage for almost a year. A senior civic official from the disaster management department, who has been working on the project said, “It is in the planning stage right now, and the process has begun. It will take between six to eight months to complete the project.”HVRA will be tied to an artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning-based decision support system (DSS). This will be an automated system that will alert the civic officials on impending disasters.Mumbai is located in Seismic Zone III, near the Panvel seismic zone, which is known to be seismically active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-budget-18-26-crore-to-study-areas-at-risks-from-disasters-101612378556403.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Shivaji’s birth anniversary: BJP events across Maharashtra to woo Marathas||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to celebrate Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s birth anniversary with programmes across state. The move is aimed at creating goodwill among the Maratha community that revers the warrior king. The party’s cultural wing has organised Shiv Gaan competition on the occasion of Shivaji’s birth anniversary on February 19. The competition on musical compositions on the warrior king will be held from February 9 to 19. The participants, individually and in teams, can present various genres of poetry including folk music, devotional and inspirational songs on Shivaji Maharaj. The first round of the competition will be held at 40 places with expected 15,000 participants on February 9, while the final round will be held at Ajinkyatara Fort in Satara.“We expect the competition will invoke the inspirational essence among the youth and participants from all age group and will have an audience of more than 250,000 people across the state. This is an attempt to create an atmosphere which will be filled with spirit through the inspirational musical compositions on Shivaji Maharaj. Our Hindutva or the pride for Shivaji Maharaj’s rule is not related to the power. This competition has no relevance with politics or political one-upmanship,” said party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shivajis-birth-anniversary-bjp-events-across-maharashtra-to-woo-marathas-101612378377510.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to set up climate change department from April 1||Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday announced to set up a separate climate change department from April 1, to address pollution and climate change issues in the city, during the BMC Budget 2021-22. This comes in the backdrop of Mumbai being chosen as a member of the C40 cities – a global network of cities committed to tackling climate change, in December 2020.Speaking to the media later, Chahal said, “This is a crucial step in equipping Mumbai to tackle issues of rising pollution and climate change. The department will become operational from April 1, 2021.”C40 membership encourages cities to develop and implement a climate action plan compatible with the Paris Agreement goal. The leaders of these cities use a science-based approach and there is an exchange of best practices to take effective action for keeping the global average temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius and reducing emissions by 2030 as per the Paris Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-set-up-climate-change-department-from-april-1-101612378376244.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC: Single planning body for Mumbai?||In a significant move which could have an impact on city administration if approved by the state government, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed it be made a single planning authority for Mumbai. Currently, multiple agencies act as the special planning authority for areas in the city. For example, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is the special planning authority for Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Oshiwara Business District and Cuffe Parade. The Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has powers in areas where slum projects are taken up and the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) is the special planning authority for its colonies. Several urban planners have been suggesting the city needs one authority to plan its development and control haphazard vertical development owing to lack of coordination among different agencies. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Several authorities are authorised to plan development of layouts in their possession. There is no control of the BMC on these authorities, whereas the BMC is providing all infrastructural facilities such as water supply, sewerage facility, roads, streetlights, solid waste management services, etc. This leads to loss of revenue to BMC and citizens have to suffer in case of any obstacle that may arise in the infrastructural facilities.” Making it a single planning authority for the city will facilitate speedy development and also solve the problems with regard to infrastructural facilities of citizens residing in these layouts, under one roof, according to the civic body. Chahal said, “By single planning authority we do not mean to execute several infrastructure projects going on in the city, but we plan to act as a planning authority. A single planning authority will mean Mumbai can have integrated planning and development in the immediate future. This proposal is under active consideration of the state government.” Chahal also added that in the coming months, the BMC could be made the planning authority for Cuffe Parade and Marine Drive. “Many citizens and various stakeholders have approached us for having a single planning authority, and the state government has been very positive about it,” he said. Amruta Ponkshe, an independent urban planner, said, “What BMC has proposed today has been a demand since long. But the BMC needs to have a proper plan to execute it and should involve citizens and other stakeholders.” The Congress which is also Shiv Sena’s ally in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition at the state supported the proposal of the BMC. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC, said, “The plan is good for the city, but it will require the BMC to improve on a lot many things, and this also means improving its administrative strength.” Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party (SP) corporator and group leader in the BMC, said, “We support the plan to make BMC the single planning authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-single-planning-body-for-mumbai-101612378197958.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Cyclists identify 600 locations in Mumbai for stands||Cyclists who come under the banner “Cycle Chala, City Bacha” have identified and proposed setting-up 600 bicycle stands across the city. In a press conference held on Wednesday, the group of 24 Mumbai cyclists unveiled the design for the stand. They are looking at presenting the proposal to city mayor Kishori Pednekar.Firoza Suresh, bicycle mayor of the city and founder of the Smart Commute Foundation (SCF), who is spearheading the campaign, said, “In 2020, we selected 24 bicycle councillors for each of the 24 wards. These councillors, in the last few months, have identified places where the bicycle stands can be set-up. The design is also such that it will not occupy a lot of space.”Suresh, on Wednesday, said that the campaign looks at making Mumbai the bicycle capital of the country by 2030. “During the pandemic, there has been a 35% increase in the number of cyclists. We have to keep this momentum going, and it is possible only by providing the right infrastructure to cyclists,” she added.Somnath Gharge, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, who was present at the event on Wednesday, pointed out that in 2019, nine cyclists died and 38 were injured in crashes on the road. “We need a shift in attitude,” Gharge said, stressing on the need for cycling infrastructure in the city.SCF is also working on creating a comprehensive cycling map for Mumbai, which it plans to present to the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclists-identify-600-locations-in-mumbai-for-stands-101612378196534.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC scrapped Mulund hospital land deal after scam was exposed, alleges Kirit Somaiya||Mumbai
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Kept development, not polls, in mind, says Mumbai civic body chief||What was your vision behind the budget for the city? I want to give a major push to infrastructure development for Mumbai and improve civic amenities for citizens. Last year, the ratio between capital expenditure and revenue expenditure was 35:65. I have brought it down to 48:52. Capital expenditure has seen an almost 71% increase this year, in comparison to the last year.Does the BMC have funds for it? There is a shortfall in revenue due to lockdown and BMC’s financial health is a worry. There is a gross misunderstanding that the BMC has lost revenue. Our net losses are virtually zero, as all money is recoverable. The income from property tax in 2020-21 decreased by ₹2,268.58 crore in comparison to the estimate last year. This money is recoverable in the form of arrears from all taxpayers. Similarly, from the Development Plan department, we saw reduced income of ₹2,679.52 crore, but we had already revised our estimated income in December last year, so the loss is negligible. There is no question of bankruptcy or poor fiscal health of the BMC. If that was the case, you would see the administration present a budget less than previous year’s budget. This year’s allocation has instead increased by 16%. We are also not dipping into our reserves. What is the main focus of the budget? For the first time, the BMC is heavily spending on infrastructure projects. The projects kickstarted in this budget amount to a total project cost of ₹42,000 crore. Of this, ₹13,000 is the cost of the coastal road. New projects worth ₹29,000 crore have been undertaken. For example, construction of the sewage treatment plants will cost ₹15,000 crore, Goregaon-Mulund Link Road will cost ₹6,600 crore, ₹4,790 crore will be utilised for hospital upgradation, Mithi river rejuvenation and widening will cost ₹3,200 crore, and other river rejuvenation projects on Dahisar, Poisar rivers will cost ₹1,400 crore, the desalination plant will cost ₹2,200 crore. These projects are all kickstarting this year and will take four or five years to complete. This is the last budget before BMC elections in 2022, and has been criticised by the Opposition as an ambitious pre-budget election. Comment. All projects that have received sizable allocation in this budget will take over three or four years to complete. So how do they impact the BMC polls? I am not handing out any freebies, discounts, rewards, etc. It has been made keeping the long-term development of the city in mind. What was your idea behind asking the state government to make BMC the single planning authority in the city? The matter is under consideration of the state government now. I took this decision for the benefit of Mumbai, and for integrated, wholistic, and speedy development. Nowhere in the world does a model of multiple planning authorities work. The task of planning needs to be handed to a singular body for better management. The decision was taken purely on merit. Why is BMC considering formation of a fee revision authority? It becomes difficult sometimes for elected bodies to take timely decisions about revision of various taxes and charges. Along the lines of (Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission) MERC for electricity, the BMC too needs to have a body that will take care of timely tax revision, which is binding on the BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kept-development-not-polls-in-mind-says-mumbai-civic-body-chief-101612377958402.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Travel, safety are major issues in reopening Mumbai colleges from February 15||The decision of the state department of higher and technical education, to reopen colleges with 50% capacity starting February 15, has invited mixed reactions both, from colleges and students. While many feel it is time to take baby steps towards bringing students and staff back on campus, others questioned the move, especially since the government or the University of Mumbai (MU) has not shared detailed guidelines on how such a task can be achieved.“As of now, we only know that colleges need to reopen starting February 15, but the details of this move are still unknown to all. Unless we are informed exactly how to implement this move, the institute can’t take any decision towards reopening,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal of NM College, Vile Parle. Ajgaonkar added that while the college has started slowly preparing to bring back students in a phased manner, nothing is certain unless the government clarifies its decision.Other than the worry of a large number of students returning to campus, colleges are also concerned about how this will be possible, especially since trains are still not open to the general public during peak hours. “Reopening of schools is still possible because students depend on autos, cars and school buses to commute, but college students largely depend on trains. Since trains are not open to them from 7am to 1pm and again from to 9pm, how do we expect staff and students to commute?” asked TA Shiware, speaking for the management of Wilson College, Worli. He added that the government should first rework travel restrictions before reopening colleges.Several city colleges have around 3,000 to 5,500 students, and another few hundred teaching and non-teaching staff. Even with 50% attendance, colleges are worried about bringing students back on campus.While most institutes already have a sanitisation program in place, some are worried about the expenses that will be incurred by them once students start attending regular lectures. “We have 4,000 students plus staff to cater to, and even if only 50% of them are on campus, sanitising every class and ensuring sanitisers for all students and staff will be a huge cost to incur. The government should look into offering some financial aid to colleges, especially those with a large number of students,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/travel-safety-are-major-issues-in-reopening-mumbai-colleges-from-february-15-101612377957181.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai trains for all: 9.7 million travelled in 3 days; citizens want timings tweaked||Nearly 9.7 million passengers travelled by local trains in the three days since services resumed for the general public. Nearly 3.3 million passengers travelled by local train on Wednesday – 2 million on the Central Railway (CR) and 1.3 million on the Western Railway (WR). On Tuesday, nearly 3.2 million passengers commuted, and on Monday nearly 3.4 million passengers used the local train services.Before the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year, 8 million passengers travelled daily by local train services on the CR and WR lines. Services were suspended on March 23, 2020. Suburban train services began for the general public on Monday, with passengers being allowed to commute during restricted timings. Commuters can travel from the first local train till 7am, between 12pm and 4pm, and post 9pm. Rail passenger associations have stated that time slots for the general public should be increased. “People are travelling responsibly, and no crowding inside local train compartments is visible. For passengers staying beyond Thane and Borivli, the commuting time is not sufficient. We ask the state government to revise the timings to 11am to 5pm (instead of 12pm to 4pm), post 8pm and from the first train service to 8am,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Wearing face masks at railway stations and on trains has been made mandatory by the state government, with a fine of ₹200 imposed on those found flouting the rule. On Wednesday, 226 passengers on the WR line were fined a total of ₹45,200 for not wearing masks. On the CR line, 187 passengers without masks were fined a total of ₹37,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-trains-for-all-9-7-million-travelled-in-3-days-citizens-want-timings-tweaked-101612377776346.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Railways allocates ₹650 crore in Budget to improve Mumbai suburban network||In a boost to the suburban railway infrastructure in Mumbai, the Union budget has allocated ₹650 crore for railway projects under the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP).The budgetary allocation is ₹100 crore more than that of last year’s Budget when ₹550 crore was allocated. The Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project has also received ₹7,897 crore as extra-budgetary resources (EBR) allocation. In the 2020-21 Budget, ₹5,000 crore was allocated for the project, and in the 2019-20 Budget, ₹1,000 crore was allocated for the high-speed rail corridor project. The pink book, a document which contains the details of the funds allocated for different railway projects, was tabled by Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday in the Parliament.The Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) 2 has received ₹200 crore, MUTP 3 has received ₹300 crore, and MUTP 3A has received ₹150 crore in the 2021-2022 budget. In the 2020-2021 budget MUTP 2 had received ₹200 crore, MUTP 3 received ₹300 crore, and MUTP 3A had received ₹50 crore.Critical railway projects under MUTP include a new suburban railway corridor between Panvel and Karjat railway stations, communication-based train control system(CBTC), procurement of 47 air-conditioned (AC) local trains, quadrupling of the railway line between Virar and Dahanu railway station, elevated railway corridor between Airoli and Kalva railway stations, and control on midsection trespassing. “We are happy that like in the last few years, the fund allocation has been as desired and work will get a further boost. The projects are at different stages of implementation and will be completed with works as they proceed,” said RS Khurana, managing director, Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation, which handles suburban railway infrastructure projects. Further, ₹316 crore has also been allocated for passenger amenities on the Central Railway in the Union Budget 2021-2022, a ₹21-crore increase from the ₹295.6 crore for the same purpose in the 2020-2021 Budget. In the 2019-2020 Budget, ₹284 crore was allocated, and for 2018-2019, budgetary allocation was ₹204 crore.“The net plan outlet, as compared to last year is higher, and it will help promote all railway infrastructure works and projects on the Central Railway,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. Replacement of 605 smart card-linked automatic ticket vending machines (ATVM) has been proposed in the Budget. Apart from the provision for a video surveillance system, the Budget also provides allocation for 115 escalators on the suburban railway stations on CR and 65 escalators for Western Railway (WR) stations. Passenger associations have welcomed the budget and stated that a committee should be formed to monitor the progress of each project. “The increase in budgetary allocation is good as the projects can be completed with improved speed. We welcome the increased allocation but the railway ministry should direct forming a committee to monitor the progress of each project under MUTP,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-allocates-650-crore-in-budget-to-improve-mumbai-suburban-network-101612377596361.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body budget: 10 million to get Covid vaccine||Vaccination of one crore citizens and construction of a new building in Kasturba Hospital to tackle communicable diseases are among the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plans for 2021-22, according to the budget announcements on Wednesday. The civic health department has been allocated ₹4,728.53 crore in the budget, 8% of the capital expenditure of the civic body. In his budget speech, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Computerised registry of people needing vaccination and undergoing vaccination, mega storage for whole Mumbai, training of various stake holders for vaccination, local cold storage by ILR refrigerators are being activated, Jumbo facility centers, major hospitals and important peripheral hospitals have been identified as vaccination centre. BMC’s eventual plan is to vaccinate around 1 crore citizens of Mumbai.” On whether the BMC was prepared to finance vaccination for citizens of Mumbai, Chahal said, “The single-window for procurement of vaccines in the country is the Central government for now. All procurement will happen through the Centre, under the guidelines of both the Central and state government. The Central government, in its budget for the country, has reserved ₹31,000 crore for vaccination, and I guess this should answer question of where the money for vaccination will come from.” Chahal added, “Our aim is to vaccinate one crore population and we need to understand that vaccinating the entire population is a process. Further, we have also undertaken repairs for civic hospitals and health centres.” The BMC has proposed to improve the infrastructure of healthcare institutes, carry out major structural repairs at 29 hospitals, 287 health posts and/or dispensaries and 28 maternity homes for which ₹822 crore has been allocated. Further, the BMC plans to invite tenders for construction of a new building to accommodate the existing wards of Kasturba Hospital, the first city hospital to be used as an isolation facility for Covid-19. The BMC has also allocated ₹5 crore for clinics-on-wheels wherein one van in each city, western and eastern suburbs, will give treatment to patients. The BMC has also proposed to take efforts to explore other forms of medicine such as Unani, Ayurveda and a policy to check important health parameters of senior citizens at home. As of Wednesday, Mumbai has vaccinated 58,623 health care workers in the first phase, and has 310,141 Covid-19 cases followed by 11,375 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-budget-heeds-to-vax-populi-target-10-million-101612377536338.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Phase 2 of Covid-19 vaccination drive: 793 frontline staff inoculated on Day 1||After a delay, Maharashtra started phase 2 of the vaccination drive to inoculate over 600,000 frontline workers along with vaccination of around 786,000 healthcare workers which is already in progress. On Wednesday, the state health department inoculated 35,096 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 793 frontline workers, including police personnel, sanitation and revenue department staff. The second phase got off to a slow start due to technical glitches in CoWIN, the Centre’s mobile phone application that is used for enrolment of the people to be inoculated. On Wednesday, the state recorded a turnout of 62%, which is a drop from Monday’s turnout of 77%.A total of 354,633 people have been inoculated in a total of 11 sessions held till date. Of them, 344,942 HCWs have been immunised across the state, according to a release issued by the state health department. The vaccination drive was started on January 16 and is now being held four days a week. Despite a rise in the number of health camps to 555, the state government on the first day of phase 2 could inoculate only 793 frontline workers owing to technical glitches in the CoWIN app.In many districts, the app failed to send out automated messages to beneficiaries to arrive at vaccination centres, as a result of which the phase-2 drive was conducted in only seven to eight districts on Wednesday. It may take a day or two to resolve the issues, officials said.“We are facing technical glitches in informing the beneficiaries to reach the vaccination centres. The app could not send the automated message to them; as a result, we could not roll out phase 2 in all the districts of the state. This is the reason the number of beneficiaries among frontline workers is very less,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.The technical glitches in the CoWIN app had already delayed the rollout of the second phase, scheduled on February 1. The authorities were facing difficulties in sending out messages to the beneficiaries and also in transfer of data from the state to districts. On Monday, the state had conducted a mock drill as part of its preparations for phase 2 of the drive.Data of the beneficiaries is populated onto CoWIN and the session allocation, details of vaccination to the beneficiary, information about the next dose will be captured and communicated digitally by the app.“We have planned to continue vaccination of both HCWs and frontline workers simultaneously. While doing so, those HCWs who have completed a gap of 28 days will also be called for the second shot of the vaccine. This will help us in completing the drive in less time,” said another official.The state has also continued giving shots of Covaxin to beneficiaries at six centres and vaccinated 408 people on Wednesday.In the two districts of Mumbai, 57,585 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far, the health department said.According to data released by the health department, Akola and Bhandara districts reported over 100% turnout. Akola reported 107% turnout, with 320 beneficiaries were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phase-2-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-793-frontline-staff-inoculated-on-day-1-101612377417061.html
04-02-2021||Mumbai||Revenue dips, but Mumbai civic body’s budget ambitious||While its revenue was affected by the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020, the Mumbai civic body presented an ambitious budget of ₹39,038.38 crore, although there are no clear signs of increase in the revenue. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is relying on money to be received from the state and its agencies like Slum Rehabilitation Authority to meet its expenditure and an internal loan to fund its infrastructure projects partly. The budget presented by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday reported a drop in the civic body’s income in 2020 by ₹5,876.17 crore. In 2020-21, the BMC earned ₹22,572.13 crore, against the estimated ₹28,448.30 crore. The 2021-22 budget is 16.74% more than last year’s budget which was ₹33,441.02 crore. Moreover, the capital expenditure has shown increased by a whopping 71% at ₹18,750.99 crore, in comparison to the previous year when it was pegged at ₹10,903.58 crore. BMC’s revenue expenditure for 2020 is pegged at ₹20,276.33 crore, as opposed to last year’s allocation of ₹19,096.74 crore. As the lockdown resulted in closure of many small and large commercial units, the property tax collection in the previous year was ‘adversely affected’, the budget said. Moreover, the slowdown in real estate due to lockdown, and migration of labour during lockdown months led to decrease in revenue of the development plan department. The property tax department earned ₹4,500 crore, less than the estimated ₹6768.58 crore. The development plan department earned ₹1,199.99 crore, instead of ₹3879.51 crore estimated in budget 2020. The state in January announced 50% reduction in construction premiums to give impetus to real estate projects, which resulted in a loss of over ₹2,000 crore for the BMC’s DP department. Subsequently, the BMC revised its budget, reducing it by ₹2,259 crore, at a total size of ₹31,182 crore, instead of ₹33,441.02 crore. Chahal has maintained that BMC continues to be in a sound financial position. He said, “This is not a loss in revenue. This money is recoverable, as arrears. The BMC’s financial position is strong. That is why we could increase the size of the budget this year. The BMC has not dipped into its reserves for this.” The BMC has proposed to raise ₹5,876 crore as internal loan to meet its budget requirements. Chahal said, “This money will be drawn from the separate fund of ₹14,000 crore, generated from fungible FSI premiums. This is separate from our reserves.” The BMC presently has ₹50,953.27 crore in reserves, that are linked to various infrastructure projects, and ₹26,682.95 crore locked in for pensions, provident funds and gratuity of its staff. In 2021, BMC expects an income of ₹7,000 crore from the property tax department, ₹2,000 crore from the development plan department, and ₹10,583.08 crore from compensation from the government for octroi, apart from income from water and sewage charges, interest from investments and sewage charges. To recover its revenue, the BMC is banking on ₹1,600 crore expected from land premiums and infrastructure development charges from SRA. The state also owes BMC ₹5274.16 crore until December 2020, for property tax, water charges, sewage charges, and BMC’s share in various taxes collected by the state. The BMC is also considering setting up of a fee revision authority to ensure timely revision of all taxes, whose decision will be binding on the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/revenue-dips-but-mumbai-civic-body-s-budget-ambitious-101612377356284.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt orders DTC to withdraw buses given to police on special hire||The Delhi government has directed the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) to seek prior approval before allowing any of its buses to be taken on ‘special hire’ by the Delhi Police or any other entity for that matter, senior transport officials said on Wednesday.The government order comes in the wake of at least 40 DTC and cluster buses getting damaged on Republic Day when protesting farmers clashed with the police during their tractor rally. At several points, including near Akshardham and ITO, the Delhi Police had placed buses, besides barricades, to stop farmers from moving beyond the routes approved for the rally.The directive was issued late Wednesday night to suspend direct issuance of DTC buses on special hire came with the approval of transport minister Kailash Gahlot, senior officials said.Also read: Delhi CM says government will help find missing farmersAfter the order, all DTC depots issued notices to the area SHOs of the Delhi police recalling buses with immediate effect.“It has been decided by the competent authority to withdraw all buses deployed on special hire with immediate effect. It is, therefore, requested to relieve buses immediately and any further requisition of buses shall be considered after the approval of the competent authority,” read the electronic messages sent to the area depot managers and the SHOs.Gauging the urgency of the matter, this communication was made through emails as well, said a member of the DTC Ekta Karamchari Union - a body of DTC employees.“The Delhi police has been taking state-run buses on special hire since a long time. But, the basic idea was to transport police personnel for mass deployment in specific areas,” said a senior government official.“But, over the years it was noticed that the police started using these buses for other reasons such as using them as barricades to block roads to putting them up as shields to protect forces from potential violence during riots. The damage ultimately is borne by the DTC which is already running under loss,” said a transport official.“At least 35 DTC buses were damaged in the Republic Day incident and this count is likely to increase as the assessment is still going on. As for cluster buses, a total of five buses were damaged throughout the day on January 26,” said a senior transport official.Each bus costs about ₹50 lakh at least, the official added.The damages were mostly on the windscreen, gate glasses, bumper and window glasses.“Ever since February 1, hundreds of state-run buses are now being used as barricades to block roads. At least 6-7 such buses were deployed to block the Delhi-Meerut expressway alone,” said a senior DTC official.Another official recalled how DTC drivers and depot managers had to face the brunt in the form of police cases when migrants started returning to their hometowns during the coronavirus pandemic-induced lockdown in April-May last year. “Even during that time, those buses were taken on special hire by the police. But all the blame and FIRs were faced by DTC employees,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-orders-dtc-to-withdraw-buses-given-to-police-on-special-hire-101612376996583.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Police register cases against social media users for peddling ‘misinformation’||Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have registered four cases against several social media accounts as part of their action against the “massive misinformation campaign being undertaken on social media to incite violence in the name of farmers’ protests and cause large-scale disturbance in the national capital”.They said requests for the removal of the “offensive and unlawful posts” has been sent to the service providers.The police did not name the Twitter handles against which the Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) unit of the police registered the cases for allegedly sharing or posting fake posts over violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.Also read: Police announce reward for info on R-Day violence suspectsLast week, the police arrested a 29-year-old man from Rajasthan’s Churu and apprehended a minor boy from Rajasthan for allegedly posting an old video with fake message about resignation by 200 Delhi Police personnel, said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.“Several other accused persons indulging in such activities have been identified and efforts are underway to affect their arrests. Notices to join the investigation have been issued to four persons. Further action against them will be taken on the basis of their deposition,” said Biswal.Among those who were issued notices was Yogita Bhayana, founder of NGO, PARI, for two tweets that she posted around the time of the clashes. Bhayana was booked by the police for the two tweets and in the notice issued to her, she was asked to “inform the source and reason for uploading” the two posts.While the two tweets couldn’t be found on Wednesday, Bhayana said they were in reference to the alleged shooting by police — a charge denied by the police.“I stand by what I tweeted. They were not done with an intention to cause riots. I just shared my concern about police’s atrocities against farmers and in the hope that it would stop instead of aggravating,” said Bhayana.Ahead of the farmers’ tractor march on Republic Day, which turned violent, Delhi Police reported over 300 Pakistan-based Twitter handles trying to vitiate farmers’ protest.On January 30, the Union ministry of electronics and IT (MEITY) directed Twitter to block around 250 tweets and Twitter accounts which were using offensive, inciting hashtags which have been making fake, intimidatory and provocative tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-register-cases-against-social-media-users-for-peddling-misinformation-101612376995413.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Increased police blockades cut protesters off from toilets, water||The rampant fortification of farm protest sites in Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur has restricted access to toilets, sanitation facilities, and water, agitators at the three border spots have said, alleging that the Delhi Police are intent are cutting off basic facilities to quell the stir.Since January 29, when a group of persons, claiming to be locals, entered the Singhu border agitation and clashes with farmers despite police presence, the number of barricades at the spots has been increased and alternate routes have been cut off. This means farmers spread across the eight-kilometre-long protest area have to now often travel long distances to reach toilets or access drinking water.While supplies coming from Punjab and Haryana at Singhu have not been affected so far, since the barricading and blockades are on the Delhi side, access to toilets and water tankers provided by the Delhi government has been severely disrupted.Also read: Police announce reward for info on R-Day violence suspectsJasvir Singh, a farmer at Singhu border from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district said, “By installing barricades, the police are trying to cut off supplies and intimidate us. Older farmers are being forced to relieve themselves in the open or take a longer route to reach the toilet near a petrol pump. The Delhi government toilets, which are installed only a few metres from here, are now beyond reach.”Earlier, farmers could access the various mobile toilet facilities around the entrance to the Singhu border agitation site and washrooms set up at the nearby Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial. Farmers spread over the eight-kilometre-long protest spot had access to mobile toilet stations set up by NGOs, welfare groups as well as Haryana authorities.A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said, “Not all routes have been closed. We have kept one side open for them and farmers can move between the two stages using inner lanes and use toilets which have been moved in that area.”Sukhwinder Kaur (44) a disabled person from Punjab’s Jalandhar district protesting at Singhu, uses a wheelchair, and said her family members now have to carry her till the toilets. “It is difficult, but I wanted to come here and protest with the farmers as the government has done every possible thing to break the spirit of the movement,” Kaur said.Protestors at Tikri said after the security forces shut off access to the site, basic amenities such as access to toilets have been an issue, especially for women protestors. However, local residents and several NGOs and startups have pitched in with makeshift facilities.On Sunday, Basic Shit, a start-up that has been installing low-cost urinals across Delhi, conducted a do-it-yourself workshop for protesters, to help them build toilets and urinals around the agitation areas. The first batch of these has been installed near gate number three of Pandit Shriram Sharma Metro station.Local residents have also been providing access to the toilets in their houses and shops for farmers.“The people around us have been extremely supportive. They have allowed women and senior citizens to use their personal toilets. We are also contacting NGOs and startups to help us raise money to build makeshift toilets. The public toilets have been blocked and that is a problem,” said Chaudhary Ranjit Singh, one of the organisers at Tikri border.At Ghazipur border, farmers had access to toilets, some of which have been set up by the local administration and some of their own. Here, none of these basic amenities fell on the Delhi Police’s side of the barricades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/increased-police-blockades-cut-protesters-off-from-toilets-water-101612376936074.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Court dismisses Jamia varsity plea seeking FIRs against cops for Dec violence||A Delhi court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by Jamia Millia Islamia seeking registration of FIRs against police officers for their alleged forcible entry into the varsity and assault on students in December 2019, during the anti-CAA (Citizenship (Amendment) Act) protests.On December 15, 2019, a protest against the CAA near Jamia had turned violent, resulting in the torching of four public buses and two police vehicles and stone pelting. At least 40 people, including students, policemen and firefighters, were injured in the incident. Public buses and private vehicles were also set on fire.Metropolitan Magistrate Rajat Goyal said the policemen were “acting in order to control the law and order situation which had emerged in relation to the anti-CAA protest even though some actions were questionable”. The judge also said students from the varsity were protesting which had turned violent and the situation had become tense.Also read: MHA says CAA rules under preparation, exercise pushed to July“Thus, actions of respondents in doing so are clearly connected to their official duties, though some of the said actions might be questionable. This court has no hesitation in holding that acts allegedly committed by the police… were committed in the discharge of official duties,” the court said in a 16-page order.The court also noted that the violence was due to some anti­social elements and that the protests held by students of Jamia were largely peaceful.“… one aspect which is clear from the factual background is that some of the protests had become violent and that police… were acting to control the said protests at the relevant point of time, so as to prevent violence and law and order situation from further deteriorating,” the court said.Jamia Milia Islamia (JMI), through its counsel Asghar Khan and Tahir Khan, had sought the registration of criminal cases against the police officers for their alleged atrocities on students in December 2019.JMI in its plea said that in pursuit of clearing the crowd, police had broke into the university without seeking any sanction from the varsity officials and used excessive and arbitrary force, and thrashed several university security guards and students.It had also contended that the police had caused destruction of property and fired tear gas shells while also resorting to a lathi charge. The plea had claimed that the police had also hurt the religious sentiments of the locals by entering the university mosque.The court, while rejecting the plea, said it cannot be said that the acts allegedly committed by the police were wholly unconnected to their official duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-dismisses-jamia-varsity-plea-seeking-firs-against-cops-for-dec-violence-101612376879494.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Students groups, activists held citizen march in solidarity with farmers||Members of several student organisations and activist groups gathered at Mandi House on Wednesday for a march in solidarity with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the new farm laws.Carrying placards and posters with slogans that read “Dilli ke log kisano ke sath” and “no farmers, no food”, and shouting slogans against the legislations, nearly 200 protesters gathered at Mandi House around 12.30pm.They wanted to march till Jantar Mantar, but were stopped by police personnel who then installed barricades across Barakhamba Road.Also read: S Jaishankar says Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeedThe protesters refused to disperse immediately and instead carried out a sit-in protest at Mandi House till late evening.The protest saw at least 21 organisations participate, including the All India Students’ Union (AISA), Students’ Federation of India (SFI), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU), and National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), among others.Prasenjeet Kumar, AISA national general secretary, said the Centre should accept the farmers’ demands instead of “waging a war” against them.“The government should immediately retract the complaints filed against the farmer leaders and release those who have been arrested,” Kumar said.Another protester, Sandeep Kumar, a Delhi University (DU) student, said, “Not only has the government not been listening to farmers, they have instead put in place several layers of metal and concrete barriers, fixed iron spikes on the road and built concrete walls to stop them. What kind of behaviour is that? We won’t have food to eat if farmers stop working.”Protesters criticised the Delhi Police for not allowing them to march till Jantar Mantar.Sucheta De, a member of AICCTU, said, “Why have Delhi Police installed so many barricades and deployed riot-gear to stop some students, women, labourers, and activists from carrying out a peaceful march in support of our farmers? Why don’t the police deploy such security when violence actually happens in the city?”Eish Singhal, DCP (New Delhi), said the protesters were not given permission to carry out a march because the area is a “non-designated protest spot” as per the Supreme Court’s directions, apart from the fact that Section 144 is in place as well. “The organisers were duly conveyed about the same. Adequate arrangements were made to avert any untoward situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/students-groups-activists-held-citizen-march-in-solidarity-with-protesting-farmers-101612376875394.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Blockade of borders causing inconvenience to locals, loss to exchequer: MHA||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Wednesday that the blockade of city borders by farmers protesting against the three farm laws is causing inconvenience to the residents of Delhi and neighbouring states, besides financial loss to the people and the exchequer.In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to a question by Shiv Sena member Anil Desai, union minister of state (home affairs) G Kishan Reddy said, “The Delhi Police has informed that Ghazipur, Chilla, Tikri and Singhu borders of the national capital are blocked by agitating farmers and it is inconvenient to the residents of Delhi and neighbouring states. In any agitation, there is financial loss incurred by people and governments”.The police have created multiple layers of barriers near the three protest sites at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu, including metal and concrete barricades, concrete walls, barbed wire mounted on barricades to contain the protesters there and to prevent them from entering Delhi.Also read: Students groups, activists held citizen march in solidarityReddy also defended the use of force by the police during the Republic Day tractor rally, saying the security personnel were left with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd as farmers were aggressive and damaging government property.The ministry also told the Rajya Sabha that neither the Enforcement Directorate (ED) nor the National Investigation Agency (NIA) sent summons to 40 people related to voluntary agencies, groups and individuals who are providing humanitarian support to the farmers agitation.NIA officials who declined to be named said two dozen people were summoned in mid-January as “witness” in the probe into the funding of the agitation by suspected Khalistani supporters. They said the investigation did not have anything to do with the protests by itself.Farm leaders and the Opposition parties claimed last month that the NIA issued summons to 40 activists from Punjab in a bid to “intimidate” them into withdrawing their support to the protests. The summons were reportedly sent in connection with a case against Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, the legal adviser of the US-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), a pro-Khalistan outfit, for allegedly funding various activities in India and organizing protests outside Indian missions abroad.Home ministry officials also said that there was no plan as of now to further extend the suspension of internet connectivity at Delhi’s borders. Internet was suspended at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders till Tuesday 11pm by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/blockade-of-borders-causing-inconvenience-to-locals-loss-to-exchequermha-101612376815388.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project: PMC yet to acquire land for three STPs||Pune: The much-hyped and long-pending Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is still waiting land clearance for construction of three sewage treatment plants. The sewage units are crucial part of project undertaken by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Launched five years ago, the project is still on the waiting list in terms of deadline execution. The ₹990-crore project was sanctioned by the central government in January 2016. Under the JICA project, the civic body will construct 11 new STPs across the city to reduce the pollution of Mula-Mutha river. The project will create an additional sewage treatment capacity of 396 million litres per day (MLD) over the existing 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 km of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations. Once the project is completed by January 2022, the total STP capacity available in Pune will be 873 MLD, which will be sufficient to cater to sewage generation for the year 2027, according to civic authorities. When the project was okayed by the Centre, BJP city unit had put up hoardings and banners and gave thanks to Member of Parliament (MP) Prakash Javadekar who was handling the environment ministry. Meeting at Delhi Union minister Nitin Gadkari called a meeting to discuss the river rejuvenation project for Pune, Nagpur and other irrigation projects in Delhi last Wednesday. Maharashtra’s irrigation minister Jayant Patil, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, MP Girish Bapat and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar attended the meeting. Gadkari instructed PMC to speed up the JICA project. Ahead of civic polls, BJP is pushing for completion of pending projects. Land for STPs According to the PMC land estate department, the corporation requires 1.26 acres in Warje area that belongs to 39 private owners. The compensation needed to acquire the land is ₹26.25 crore. PMC also needs ₹3.25 crore for 600 sq m land in Kharadi. In Baner, PMC has identified 6.50 sq m which costs around ₹10 crore. Jagdish Khanore, superintendent engineer, drainage project department, said, “As the Centre is not going to pay for land acquisition, operation and maintenance of the project, PMC’s expenditure share will increase. At present, the corporation has a share of 15 per cent in the project.” Nilesh Choudhary, one of the landowners in Warje, said, “There are 39 farmers owing 6.50 acre in the area. After the village merged into PMC, they stopped farming in their land, but it is their only source of income. Corporation has valued the land for ₹26.25 crore, but we demand ₹47 crore as per the ready reckoner rate.” Sakharam Barate, another landowner who owns nine guntha, said, “Discussion with authorities is still on.” Drainage department claims Khanore said, “We have acquired land for nine STPs out of 11. Remaining two — Warje and Baner — are in final stages of acquisition. We have completed formalities and a comprehensive tender of the project will be floated soon.” However, a civic official on condition of anonymity said that PMC is yet to acquire land in Kharadi, Warje and Baner areas. On Tuesday, the civic administration tabled a proposal to give cash compensation to owners in Warje and Kharadi lands. The ₹990.26-crore project is funded by the Centre ₹841.72 crore (85%) and PMC ₹841.72 crore (15%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulamutha-river-rejuvenation-project-pmc-yet-to-acquire-land-for-three-stps-101612362473163.html
04-02-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Confectioner Cornaglia gives Pune its first taste of European cuisine||Justice MC Chagla, in his autobiography “Roses in December”, narrates a rather amusing incident. MA Jinnah was contesting the Bombay municipal elections. While Chagla and Jinnah were at the Town Hall on the day of the polling, Mrs Jinnah drove up to them with lunch. The said lunch being “lovely ham sandwiches”. Since Jinnah obviously could not be seen in public enjoying those sandwiches, he and Chagla went to Cornaglia’s, a very famous Bombay restaurant. There they ordered two cups of coffee, a plate of pastry and a plate of pork sausages. While they were having lunch, in came an old, bearded Muslim gentleman with a young boy of ten. Tea and soft drink were ordered for them. The boy picked up one of the sausages and ate it with much relish. Chagla and Jinnah watched this uneasily. After the gentleman and the boy left, Jinnah was furious. He wanted to know why Chagla had not stopped the boy from consuming the forbidden meat. Chagla replied – “The question was: should I let Jinnah lose his election or should I let the boy go to eternal damnation? And I decided in your favour.” The eating habits of Indians have often been linked to religious prohibitions that prevent the consumption of certain foods, like, beef for Hindus or pork for Muslims. They are also linked to the spread of vegetarianism which excludes from diet almost all animal-derived foods. European, especially Italian, restaurants and cafes in the nineteenth and twentieth century India were the saviours of Europeans and Europeanised Indian elites who wanted to enjoy European fare without being bothered by taboos surrounding food. The first Italian restaurants in India, Peliti’s in Calcutta (Kolkata) and Shimla, F Cornaglia in Bombay (Mumbai) and Poona (Pune) were appreciated for their cooking and service and became milestones of the social life in these cities. Federico Peliti introduced macaroni to India. He had studied sculpture under Vincenzo Vela in Carignano and took part in the Third War of Italian Independence as a light cavalryman. In 1867, he decided to become a confectioner, a profession which was in great demand at that time. Two years later, he won a confectionary competition in Turin (it is said he baked an elaborate cake adorned with a figure of Queen Victoria and the backdrop was of a tall spire). Lord Mayo, the Viceroy of India, got to know of this, hired Peliti to be his chief confectioner and brought him to India. After Lord Mayo’s assassination, Peliti opened his first restaurant in Calcutta.This was a bold step, involving serious difficulties, as luxuries such as Peliti wished to place before the public were absolutely unknown in India, and further, there were no chances of him obtaining skilled confectioners in the whole of the country. He persevered, however, practically single-handed for a couple of years, and eventually he was compelled by the increasing size of his business to obtain qualified assistants from Italy. The first batch of his recruits included Felice Cornaglia, his cousin. Born in Carignano, F Cornaglia too had trained in Turin and sophisticated “architectural cakes” with finely crafted Gothic structures were his speciality. While Peliti expanded his restaurants to Shimla and Nainital, Cornaglia worked at the restaurant in Calcutta. Around 1880, Peliti established a branch in Bombay. Finding these restaurants too difficult to manage, he eventually presented the Bombay business to Cornaglia. On December 22, 1891, a notice appeared on page 4 of The Bombay Gazette announcing that “F Cornaglia was the successor to Federico Peliti, the latter having nothing to do with the Bombay and the Poona business.” It was signed by F Cornaglia of 83 Medows Street, Fort, Bombay and 1, Main Street, Camp, Poona. It’s unclear whether F Cornaglia in Poona initially started as Peliti’s. All we know is it was the first European restaurant in Poona and was initially situated on 1, Main Street, from where it moved to East Street in 1894, and then to 6, Arsenal Road (presently Moledina Road) around 1905. Hotel Ramakrishna, opposite Westend Theatre, occupies the Victorian bungalow today, where F Cornaglia was located till it shut down in the 1940s. (Concluding part on F Cornaglia will appear next week)Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/confectioner-cornaglia-gives-pune-its-first-taste-of-european-cuisine-101612352391679.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks Centre’s reply on plea challenging WhatsApp privacy policy||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and WhatsApp on a plea challenging the latter’s new privacy policy. The plea is seeking directions to the authorities to provide users with an option to opt out of sharing users’ personal data with Facebook, as mandated in the updated policy.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the ministry of electronics and information technology and WhatsApp on the plea which has contended that the new policy is in violation of right to privacy of an individual.The plea has also sought formulation of guidelines, rules and regulation for safeguarding the privacy of the citizens. It has said that the “fissures in law with respect to data are quite conspicuous and a framework to regulate the same is the need of the hour”.Also read | Any ‘senior, responsible’ Facebook staff can appear before panelOn Wednesday, additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma said the Centre has sent out questionnaires to WhatsApp on various issues, seeking answers. He also said a joint parliamentary committee is looking into the matter.The PIL, filed by Seema Singh and Meghan Singh, said, “Social media in recent years has been used by billions of people around the world and millions of Indians today are dependent on Whatsapp. Therefore information which is generally personal is shared at an enormous level. This information is susceptible to being misused if the social media giant decides to either sell or exploit the information, sensitive to the users, to any third party.”Also Read | SC notice on privacy concerns to Google, WhatsApp, Amazon UPIsThis is the second petition challenging the new privacy policy.Earlier, a law student, Chaitanya Rohilla, had challenged the new privacy policy which has now been pushed to May after backlash on its terms and conditions. Earlier, WhatsApp had made it mandatory for the users to accept the new conditions by February 8.The court, while hearing Rohilla’s plea, had said that WhatsApp is a private application and it is not mandatory for people to download it if they had problems with its new policy. The matter is likely to be heard on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-plea-challenging-whatsapp-privacy-policy-101612341531577.html
04-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police announce ₹6 lakh cash reward for info on R-Day violence suspects||The Delhi Police on Wednesday announced cash rewards of ₹6 lakh for information leading to the arrest of eight suspects, including actor Deep Sidhu, allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26.On Wednesday, the police also arrested one suspect, Dharmendra Singh Harman, a Delhi resident identified from several video clips of the clashes at the fort, a senior officer said.Police said they have identified more than 260 vehicles, including nearly 100 tractors, which were part of the rally and involved in the violence at the fort and other places in Delhi when protesters clashed with the police after breaking barriers and entering the city from Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri.Also read: Government fends off global clamour on farm stir“We have announced ₹1 lakh against Sidhu, Jugraj and two others because they appear to be the key conspirators. Raids have been conducted at many places in Punjab and other states, but the suspects are on the run. The family members of some of them are also untraceable,” said a senior officer.Investigators who declined to be named explained that the rewards were in two categories – ₹1 lakh and ₹50,000 – for different suspects even as teams of Delhi Police failed to locate these eight suspects despite multiple raids at locations in Delhi-NCR, Punjab and Haryana. A case was registered after the violence at Red Fort at the Kotwali police station and a special investigation team of the crime branch was handling the probe.Officers said the raids to arrest the suspects are still on.Among those who carry a reward of ₹1 lakh are Jugraj Singh from Punjab’s Tarn Taran, who has been identified as the one who hoisted a farmers’ union flag and a religious flag at Red Fort; Deep Sidhu, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh.Police said that ₹50,000 reward each will be given for information leading to the arrest of four other suspects identified as Jajbir Singh, Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, and Iqbal Singh.All the eight men are wanted in the same case registered under sections pertaining to offences such as rioting, attempt to murder, attempt to commit culpable homicide, dacoity and criminal conspiracy, apart from vandalising the historic monument. Two cases were registered in connection with the violence and vandalism at the monument in which more than 40 police personnel were injured.The announcement has been made through separate order issued on Tuesday against each of the eight men by deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Chinmoy Biswal, who has now been transferred to the crime branch and appointed the spokesperson of the city police.Many video clips and photographs showed protesters clashing with the security personnel and hoisting the religious flag on the monument. In the videos, Sidhu was also seen among the protesters.A second police officer said that of the eight suspects, five belong to Tarn Taran from Punjab and the police have not ruled out the possibility that they “carried out the act of vandalism and violence” at the Red Fort as part of a “pre-planned conspiracy”. The other three suspects are from Haryana’s Karnal (Sukhdev Singh) and Punjab’s Muktsar (Sidhu) and Ludhiana (Iqbal Singh).Investigators said of the 260 vehicles identified so far, notices have been sent to many of their owners. Also, notices have been sent to nearly 200 people, including farm leaders, who were part of the farmers’ tractor rally. They were asked to record their statement or join the investigation “However, none of them have responded to the notices so far,” the officer added.A total of 44 cases have been registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort and other places in Delhi during the rally and an incident on January 29 when a group of persons, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Police said they have arrested 124 people in connection with the violent incidents that left 510 security personnel injured.On January 28, Sidhu denied the charges against him through a Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-announce-cash-rewards-for-info-on-r-day-violence-suspects-101612331690116.html
