05-02-2021||Other||Pressure cookers are safer now, thanks to mandatory ISI certification||The safety and quality of the ubiquitous pressure cooker has finally got the attention of the government- from February 1 , all manufacturers of this cooking gadget will have to mandatorily comply with the Indian Standard and also carry the standard mark, as a pre-condition for sale.The popularity of these domestic pressure cookers in India is well known, but what is unknown is the exact number of accidents and injuries caused by defective or poor quality cookers in the country. However, some of the shocking cases described in medical journals , those reported in the media, online consumer complaints and the cases filed before the consumer courts seeking compensation for the injuries caused by defective pressure cookers, all point to the very serious threat posed by poor quality pressure cookers and thereby, the need for mandatory certification. Besides severe burn injuries, sub-standard cookers have caused fractures, blindness and even death.The Indian Journal of Neurotrauma (2018), for example, reports on the severe trauma and loss of vision in the right eye suffered by a 30-year old man when the metallic head of the pressure regulator, propelled by the steam from a malfunctioning pressure cooker, hit him so hard that it got lodged inside his eye socket. The penetrating orbital injury required a complicated surgery to remove the metallic part and also the bone fragments.A 57-year old woman in Khunti district, Jharkhand, suffered a similar life-threatening injury when the cooker’s pressure regulating device got lodged deep inside her face. She had kept the pressure cooker on the stove and got busy with some other work for almost an hour. When she did remember and tried to remove it from the gas stove, the steam ejected the metal part like a bullet from a gun Doctors extricated it after a lengthy surgery and saved her life, but could not restore her vision.In January 2018, two girl students of a private nursing college got hurt when a pressure cooker suddenly burst at their hostel mess in the outskirts of Shimla. In Feburary, a female mid-day meal worker suffered burn injuries on her arm and face after a pressure cooker exploded in the kitchen of a government senior secondary school in Chandigarh. In another case reported in 2015, the cooker lid opened before the complete release of the pressure (instead of remaining locked), spewing boiling food on the face of the user.Another lesser known danger from poor quality pressure cookers is the leaching of toxic heavy metals into the food, thereby necessitating quality control in respect of the choice of materials used not only for the container and the lid, but also the various parts including the pressure regulating device, safety valve and the gasket. . Besides manufacturing defects and spurious spare parts, consumers’ failure to follow usage instructions have also led to serious accidents. It’s for this reason that the Indian Standard (IS) 2347 not only specifies the quality of the pressure cooker, but also lays considerable emphasis on the manufacturer providing fully illustrated usage instructions and warnings. Each cooker should indelibly and legibly indicate the necessity of reading instructions before use, the standard says.However, since many consumers who use the pressure cooker may not be literate enough to read the instructions or even comprehend the illustrations, manufacturers should also be asked to take up consumer education on safe usage through television advertising. Retailers should also take the responsibility of instructing consumers about the proper use of the cooker at the time of purchase.. They must also warn consumers about spurious spare parts. Today the pressure cooker market has undergone a sea change. Unlike the cookers of yesteryear, they are now available in a variety of designs, materials , shapes and colours . The size of the market can be gauged from the fact that the Bureau of Indian Standards now has a list of 340 licensees and there could well be many more who are yet to get the license for use of the mandatory ISI mark ! What is now required is strict enforcement , so that every pressure cooker marketed in the country is absolutely safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pressure-cookers-are-safer-now-thanks-to-mandatory-isi-certification-101612549649104.html
05-02-2021||Other||MC elections: 110 women among 260 in fray from Mohali||With 146 candidates having withdrawn their candidature ahead of the municipal corporation (MC) elections scheduled for February 14, 260 candidates in total are now in fray from Mohali district.Among them, 110 are women candidates contesting from various parties for all 50 wards. The polls will elect candidates to the houses of the Mohali MC and seven municipal councils of the district.On Friday, all covering candidates withdrew their candidature, while the returning officers concerned assigned symbols to the independent candidates.From Congress, all 50 seats are being contested; the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is contesting on 46 seats; Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on 43 seats; Bharatiya Samajwadi Party (BSP) on four seats; 116 are independent candidates.In Zirakpur, 125 candidates are contesting; in Kurali, 64; in Lalru, 76; in Dera Bassi, 78; in Banur, 40; in Nayagaon, 109; and in Kharar, 149 are contesting.Mohali Urban has 2.36 lakh voters, of which, around 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Castes (SC) category. Seven seats have been reserved for SC and backward class candidates. There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are reserved for women.Azad Group’s offices closed from 12-3pmChief spokesperson of the Azad Group, Parvinder Singh Sohana, said that in support of the call for “chakka jam” given by farmer bodies, all candidates of the party will keep their election offices closed from 12 noon to 3pm, and no campaigning will be done during this time.Accept nomination of former councillor: HC to Mohali admnThe Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday directed the Mohali administration to accept the nomination papers of a former BJP councillor and a candidate from ward 12, Sahibee Anand, for the MC polls.The high court bench of justice Sanjay Kumar and justice Archana Puri acted on Anand’s plea, who had told the court that his nomination was rejected merely on the ground that the proposer had not signed the form.The court has sought a response from the Mohali administration by February 10.The court, however, clarified that the election process had not been stayed and the receipt of the nomination would be subject to the outcome of the plea.Anand had argued that the error could have been rectified at the stage of presentation of the nomination or during the scrutiny of papers, however, no opportunity was granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mc-elections-110-women-among-260-in-fray-from-mohali-101612549469788.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt forms GoM under Sisodia to draw up new excise policy; Jain, Gehlot are members||The Delhi cabinet on Friday appointed a group of ministers (GoM) to finalise a new excise policy for the national capital.The GoM, under deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, will deliberate on a report submitted to the government by a committee of experts that was set up by Sisodia last year to augment the excise revenue of the city-state.HT had earlier reported on these recommendations, the primary ones being that restaurants, clubs and pubs be allowed to stay open until 3 am daily, instead of 1am; that these outlets be allowed to serve full bottles at the table; and that they be given permission to serve liquor in open areas such as rooftops and balconies.The committee has also said anyone over the age of 21 years should be able to get a drink at the bar or hotel. In Delhi, at least on paper, the minimum age to be served liquor at an establishment is 25.The same committee had also recommended that the number of dry days in the capital be reduced from 21, on average, to just three a year, and norms be relaxed for department stores to avail of licences for selling wine and beer.Other than Sisodia, who also holds the finance and excise portfolios in Delhi, the GoM will have as members health minister Satyendar Jain and revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, the Delhi government said.“The new excise policy of the Delhi government will ensure transparency, ease of doing business for taxpayers and business sector too, and ensure steady growth of government revenues… The group of ministers will examine all aspects of the current system -- of excise duty administration; the report submitted by the expert committee and its suggestions; and feedback and comments received from stakeholders and general public -- before making a final policy decision in the coming weeks,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-forms-gom-under-sisodia-to-draw-up-new-excise-policy-jain-gehlot-are-members-101612549349668.html
05-02-2021||Other||Delhi govt reduces circle rates by 20% for next six months||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Friday reduced circle rates, the minimum price at which a property can be bought, for all categories of properties for the next six months, a move that experts said will boost the real estate market and boost revenue for the government. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting on Friday. It was decided to reduce the circle rates by 20% for residential, commercial and industrial properties across all categories of localities.“… This decision is expected to make it substantially cheaper for people to do property transactions, revive the real estate sector which has been hit severely by the coronavirus pandemic and create new jobs,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.The statement further read, “A reduction of 20% in the circle rate would have an impact close to reduction by 1% in the stamp duty or registration charges… The economy by and large at the national level, in general, and the real estate sector, in particular, have witnessed huge slump due to the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. Lakhs of construction workers have lost their jobs. While the Kejriwal government has already provided direct monetary relief of ₹10,000 for construction workers of Delhi, there was a need to revive the real estate sector and get the lost jobs back. Today’s decision of the Delhi cabinet will help begin the long-term recovery in the real estate sector.”Circle rate is the minimum designated price per square metre or square feet for land or property fixed for a certain category of locality, at which transactions have to be registered. It varies with each state and is revised from time to time depending on demand, supply and other development indicators pertaining to the concerned area.Delhi broadly has eight categories of localities – from A to H. Category A being the most affluent ones and H being the most economically weaker ones. The circle rates are proportionate. For instance, in an A category locality, circle rate for a residential property so far was ₹7,74,000 per square metre and for one in an H category locality was ₹23,280.Neighbourhoods such as Golf Links, Vasant Vihar and Jor Bagh come under A category, those like Greater Kailash, Defence Colony and Safdarjung Enclave come under B and those in Tagore Garden and Subhash Nagar come under C. Categories D and E mostly have localities that were notified as regularised in the past, some old areas where low-income and mid-income flats were developed and resettlement colonies. Categories F, G and H comprise mostly of unauthorised colonies in which residents have recently availed the opportunity – through a central government scheme – to get their properties registered.For registration, there is a stamp fee on the transaction value – which is 6% for men and 4% for women – to be paid by the buyers. “In property transactions, people tend to keep the transaction value less on paper and essentially pay the registry fee on more or less the circle rate, which is the base rate for property transactions in a concerned area,” said a senior official in the government’s revenue department who did not wish to be identified.In 2018-19, the Delhi government earned around ₹4,459 crore through property registries. For 2019-20, the revised estimate was ₹4,897 crore and for 2020-21, the budget estimate was ₹5,297 crore, showed budget documents of the government.However, a senior official in the finance department said that between April 1, 2020, and November 30, 2020, the Delhi government earned ₹1,860.57 crore, against ₹3,258.47 crore for the corresponding period in the previous financial year.Mudassir Zaidi, executive director of real estate consultant group Knight Frank, said: “The real estate sector in Delhi was already witnessing a slump for several years now. The demonetisation in November 2016 came as a major blow. And then Covid-19 happened. The market is now showing slow signs of recovery. This decision by the Delhi government would significantly contribute to the market’s revival by boosting the volume of transactions, especially in the most affluent colonies in Delhi where market rates of properties had dropped below circle rates. The government’s decision is capable of rectifying such anomalies in the system.”Ritesh Mehta, senior director and head (west India) residential services at JLL India, said: “It is a positive move and will encourage the fence sitters to take the plunge. The cost of a house may not be directly impacted by the move as the cost is a function of many other factors like demand and supply but will give a positive push to the real estate market. In the residential segment, it will impact more in Category A which is categorised as posh and high-end, where typically the market rates are lower than the circle rate. It will boost luxury transactions as the monetary impact would be high.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-reduces-circle-rates-by-20-for-next-six-months-101612549350321.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Light rain chases away pollution, AQI moderate in Delhi||A day after the light rain on Thursday, when the minimum temperature in the city had climbed to 12.4 degrees Celsius, the mercury dropped once again on Friday to a minimum of 6.8 degrees Celsius -- two degrees below the season’s normal. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said the drop was primarily due to the cold, dry winds blowing in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. The city had recorded 2.1mm rainfall on Thursday under the influence of a western disturbance, which also led to widespread snowfall in the hilly regions.The Safdarjung observatory, which provides the representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6.8 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, on Friday as against 12.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature was 23 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said with the passing of the western disturbance, the wind direction over Delhi has changed to north-westerly.“Cold, dry winds from the mountains have started blowing over the plains, resulting in a dip in the minimum temperature,” an IMD official said, wishing not to be named.He said the temperature is likely to fall further over the weekend and settle at around 5-6 degrees Celsius. However, by February 8, the temperature will rise again.“There is another western disturbance that is likely to impact the Himalayas. Its impact on the plains will be a slight rise in the minimum and maximum temperature,” Srivastava said. Meanwhile, the light rain on Thursday, coupled with strong winds, improved the city’s air quality significantly. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi on Friday was 133, in the ”moderate” zone. On Thursday, the average AQI was 316, in the ”very poor” category.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said isolated rain observed under the influence of a western disturbance and high winds contributed to the improvement in AQI.“Surface winds are low in the morning but forecasted to improve during daytime. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and remain in the “moderate” or “poor” category Saturday. “Poor” to “very poor” AQI is forecasted for February 7 and February 8,” Safar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-chases-away-pollution-aqi-moderate-indelhi-101612549349051.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Anarchy cannot be tolerated in civilised society, says HC on sanitation workers’ strike||The Delhi high court on Friday came down heavily on sanitation worker unions that were on a strike, and said their “anarchy” of obstructing the regular work of cleaning and dumping garbage on streets cannot be allowed to prevail in a civilised society. The strike by sanitation workers of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which began on January 15 demanding the payments of salaries pending since December 2020, was called off on Thursday, after the EDMC cleared all dues.EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain confirmed the development and said the civic body has been in talks with the sanitation workers’ union for the past one week. “I’m yet to go through the detailed court order, but sanitation workers are like a family and no action would be taken against them. All issues will be resolved through dialogue,” he said.A bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli said the strike by sanitation workers is “being fuelled and driven by political consideration”. “Political leaders do not understand that they should have a commonality in their thinking. That has been breached and we are not naming any one party. This is very dangerous and has to be stopped. We will direct the police commissioner to take action,” the court said.The bench was hearing a plea by EDMC, seeking action against “miscreants” who were “illegally waylaying garbage removal trucks, threatening drivers and dumping garbage openly on the roads and streets”.The court, in terms of a direction issued in 2015 in a similar matter, directed the Delhi Police commissioner to constitute specific task forces in each ward in east Delhi, which will be headed by a police officer not below the rank of a sub-Inspector to oversee the removal of garbage by the agencies employed by the EDMC,It also cautioned the sanitation worker unions against taking law into their hands and directed the commissioner of the civic body to take disciplinary action against erring workers.EDMC, through its standing counsel Manu Chaturvedi, told the court that unions were protesting despite their salaries being cleared till December 2020. He said salaries for January 2021 are also being processed.Two unions—MCD Swacchta Karamchaari Union and All Municipal Corporations Staff Union—represented by advocate Jivesh Kumar Tiwari, told the court that all nine unions are ending their strike and want their grievances to be heard.“We have withdrawn our strike and our nine unions are getting back to work tomorrow (Saturday). Our petition has been allowed just five minutes ago when this matter is being heard and we are ready to sort out our differences,” Tiwari said.The court replied, “We are happy to hear this…However, we are observing that if the MCD employees have any grievance and resort to a legal strike, that does not entitle them to take law into their own hands and create anarchy”.“Everyone should realise that in a civilised society, such anarchy cannot prevail and it is essential to maintain rule of law and public order, so that all authorities including police can take measures to deal with the menace created by miscreants,” it added.The court will further hear the matter on March 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anarchy-cannot-be-tolerated-in-civilised-society-says-hc-on-sanitation-workers-strike-101612549289645.html
05-02-2021||Other||Can’t wait for ‘Zero Covid Case Day’, says Sisodia as classes 9, 11 reopen||New DelhiDelhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday visited a government school in Gandhi Nagar to review Covid-preparedness in safeguards in place as students of class 9 and 11 returned to their classrooms after a gap of almost a year.“We cannot wait for ‘Zero Covid Case Day’ and it is necessary for us to adapt to our new lives in this pandemic. Students of classes 10 and 12 were able to strictly follow Covid-19 instructions given to them due to which we are confident of re-opening classes 9 and 11 as well,” Sisodia, who is also the state’s deputy chief minister, said. Delhi’s schools reopened for classes 10 and 12 students on January 18 and recorded less than 50% attendance during the initial days.Although the government schools reopened on Friday for classes 9 and 11, the private institutions said they were still waiting for parental consent for students to return and may reopen by next week The Delhi government announced last week that the reopening of schools for classes 9 and 11 students so that students could have access to practical lessons and have assistance for internal assessments. Mary Jyotsna Minj, head of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, New Kondli, said her school saw around 66% attendance in both class 9 and 11. She also said that reopening classes 10 and 12 instilled confidence among parents and students leading to higher attendance. “We did not expect so many students to attend the classes on the first day. But I think students want to prepare for their periodicals which will begin from February 12. So, they wanted to come and clear their doubts before that. We will be calling students as per their sections from Monday,” she said. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of school at Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, said around 55% Class 9 students came to school on Friday and the attendance shot up to 60% for Class 11 students. “These figures are not bad as even during normal times we had around 85-90% attendance. So, if we keep the Covid-19 factor in mind, the numbers don’t show a huge drop. However, attendance has been thin in class 12 as many students are opting for self-study and the numbers haven’t been able to go beyond 40% there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-wait-for-zero-covid-case-day-says-sisodia-as-classes-9-11-reopen-101612549289051.html
05-02-2021||Other||Delhi not to be impacted by ‘chakka jam’, say farmer leaders||New Delhi: The three-hour ’chakka jam’ on Saturday afternoon to protest against the three farm laws will not impact Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions which is spearheading the agitation, said on Friday. Farm leader Rakesh Tikait also said on Friday that there will be no blockade in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“Only national and state highways across the country will be jammed from 12 noon to 3 pm. Emergency and essential services like ambulance, school bus, etc. will not be stopped... All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers’ protest sites are already located,” said a statement issued by Darshan Pal, a leader of SKM.The chakka jam will be a part of a series of events scheduled by the farmers’ groups to press their demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws passed by the Parliament in September to deregulate agricultural trade. On January 7, the farmers protesting at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and others took out a tractor march on the eastern and western peripheral expressways which form a ring around the national capital. On January 26, the protesters took out a tractor parade and barged into the city deviating from the routes approved by the police by breaking barriers and clashed with the cops at several points. Hundreds of farmers also reached Red Fort and vandalised the monument. Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has assured that the event will remain peaceful, police have made extensive arrangements to meet any eventuality. Tikait said farmers in UP and Uttarakhand will only submit memorandums to the administration. He said they will be on “standby” in case they are needed to rush to Delhi’s borders at a short notice. “They (farmers in UP and Uttarakhand) can be called to Delhi (borders) anytime and they need to be on standby,” Tikait told a news channel.Tikait’s associate, Arjun Balyan Tikait, said the decision to keep UP and Uttarakhand was also taken in view of the sugarcane cultivation season.The statement issued by the SKM did not mention Tikait’s claim. While Darshan Pal remained unavailable for queries, one of his team members said that there was no conflict.“The farmers in some parts will not be involved in chakka jam because they are busy harvesting sugarcane. In some states, on the other hand, the chakka jam will be much more intense as farmers there will block internal roads as well,” said SKM media coordinator, Harinder, who goes by a single name.The chakka jam will take place between 12noon and 3pm and it will be “completely peaceful and non-violent”, SKM said. “Protesters are asked to not to indulge in any confrontation with the government officials or ordinary citizens,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal.The event will conclude with farmers honking from their vehicles continuously and simultaneously for one minute when the clock strikes 3pm.PREPARATIONS ON AT DELHI’S BORDERSWhile no specific activity has been planned for Delhi the three border points where farmers are protesting, the police as well as farmers were busy preparing for the event on Friday.At the Singhu Border, the police on Friday added yet another layer of barbed barricading, several hundred metres away from the main stage. At Tikri border too, the police set up an extra layer of barriers using concrete barricades and iron nails. They also installed layers of nets in anticipation of stone pelting by the protesters.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said in the backdrop of the Republic Day violence adequate security arrangements have been made at all border points. The police are also monitoring social media to curb rumours and coordinating with their counterparts in neighbouring states, Biswal said.Farm leaders urged their supporters in Delhi not to disrupt normal life in the city had a word of advice for office-goers in the NCR. “While we won’t be causing any trouble to commuters, and our chakka jam in NCR towns will be limited to the highways on the city periphery, we urge the public to reach their workplaces before noon and leave after the even ends at 3pm,” said Gurmeet Singh Bhattiwal, vice president of Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Dakonda).“To avoid hassle, they should take internal routes because our focus will be on highways only,” Bhattiwal added.The protesters have also chosen some volunteers to explain the drawbacks of the three farm laws to those who will be stuck on the highways. “If someone gets stuck on the road, our farmers will offer them snacks and lunch and explain to them the problems with the farm laws,” said Mukesh Chander, senior vice-president of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee.Farmer volunteers have also been instructed to ensure no disturbance to the shared and private vehicles plying along the protest routes. “They threw open their personal bathrooms to us and provided us water at a time when we needed it the most in the early days of our protest. The locals have sacrificed a lot for us and we will do all we can to reduce their troubles,” said Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Amritsar who is a volunteer at Singhu Border.Farmers appealed to their families and friends in the villages to ensure the success of ‘chakka jam’.“Our brothers and sisters in Punjab, Haryana and other states will be blocking roads leading to Delhi with tractors. We have requested for maximum participation,” said Sahil Kamboj from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha at Tikri Border.Rajinder Pal, from Baghpat, who joined the protest at Ghazipur after Republic Day, said it was time for the government to accept the demands of farmers. “We are only here to place one demand which is the withdrawal of the farm laws. We will make sure that none of our men get into any confrontation that may lead to violence during chakka jam. It will be a peaceful demonstration,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-not-to-be-impacted-by-chakka-jam-say-farmer-leaders-101612549229019.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Full-scale police deployment at borders ahead of chakka jam, all protest sites under heavy barricading||The farmer protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been hemmed in with multilayered barricading and are being heavily patrolled ahead of Saturday’s three-hour long nationwide highway blockade, “the chakka jam”, called by farmers to intensify their protest against the new farm laws.The Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that no permission has been granted to protesters for holding the chakka jam or any other demonstration in the city and legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order. The protest sites are under multilayered barricading with barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads and netting to stop pelted stones, besides a heavy contingent of security personnel armed with anti-riot gear. These measures, the police said, were to keep the farmers from entering the national capital on Saturday. The police have also started monitoring content on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police, senior officers said. Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions that are part of the ongoing agitation against the three contentious agriculture laws, has announced that “there will be no chakka jam inside Delhi”, police said they have tightened the security arrangements, especially on all borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, keeping in view the January 26 violence during the farmers’ tractor rally.Officers said checking of vehicles at the city border points has been intensified since Friday evening to ensure that protesters or antisocial elements were not entering the city for Saturday’s traffic blockade. Apart from thousands of Delhi Police personnel, nearly 15,000 personnel from the paramilitary forces of Rapid Action Force (RAF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – all armed with anti-riot equipment – will be on duty to maintain Delhi’s law and order during the chakka jam, officers in the know of Saturday’s security arrangements said. “A full-scale police deployment will be in place at all borders and on streets across the city on Saturday. Traffic police personnel will also be deployed in full strength to regulate traffic. While our prime focus will be on maintaining traffic as well as law and order, those attempting to disturb these will be dealt with strongly as per law. We are in touch with the police force of other states as well,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.On Friday morning, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava held a meeting with senior police officers and reviewed security arrangements. Shrivastava, on Thursday, had attended a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah at the Parliament complex to review the security situation in Delhi-NCR ahead of the chakka jam. National security advisor Ajit Doval was also present at that meeting.Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide “peaceful and non-violent” chakka jam on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours (between noon and 3pm) in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites; harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities; and other issues. They have declared that all emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped.Elaborating on the security arrangements, a senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said police personnel who will be on duty Saturday have been asked to report to their area of deployment by 7am. Every police station has been asked to keep ready for action at least one sub-inspector and four to five constables along with buses in which arrested or detained persons can be moved away.Police said they have intelligence inputs that protesters may deflate tyres of vehicles to cause jams on roads, all the police stations have been asked to keep air pumps with them for filling up deflated tyres. “Cranes have also been arranged to remove such vehicles and clear the traffic. Videographers and photographers will also be present for capturing the activities of protesters. We will also be using drones for aerial surveillance,” said the officer. According to the intelligence inputs, workers of various political parties and student organisations have planned a foot march from Shaheed Park near Delhi Gate to ITO during the chakka jam. “Anticipating that protesters may incite a confrontation with security personnel, we have asked our staff to remain calm and not get provoked in any manner,” a second police officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fullscale-police-deployment-at-borders-ahead-of-chakka-jam-all-protest-sites-under-heavy-barricading-101612549169028.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Govt floats tender to select agency for setting up 100 e-charging points||A day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a campaign to promote electric vehicles (EV) in the capital city, the Delhi government on Friday floated a tender to hire an agency for setting up 500 e-vehicle charging points across 100 locations within a year, informed power minister Satyendar Jain.Jain said the charging stations will be for both two-wheelers and four-wheelers, both private and commercial. Most of the chosen sites are located outside Metro stations and at bus depots in the city, he said.Jain further said, “This is the largest tender for public charging in India… We are working relentlessly towards the vision of making Delhi the EV capital of India. For the charging station project, the full power infrastructure cost will be borne by the Delhi government. Some of these charging stations will also double up as battery swapping stations. At least 20% of them will have the slower variety of chargers and 10% will have the faster variety in order to cater to all kinds of e-vehicles,” said Jain at a press conference on Friday.In a press statement, the Dialogue and Development Commission, a think tank of the Delhi government, said, “The ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign launched by CM Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday is a mass awareness campaign to sensitise each and every Delhi resident about the benefits of switching to e-vehicles. Under the policy, the government has offered multiple financial and non-financial incentives to accelerate the adoption of EVs in the capital. Industry leaders continue to hail the campaign and they have shown tremendous support to CM Arvind Kejriwal’s appeal.”While launching the campaign on Thursday, Kejriwal had said that his government will, in the next six months, change its policy to lease only electric cars as part of an effort to accelerate the adoption of electric cars in the city.The government launched the campaign to inform, encourage and motivate every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission EVs. All the hired cars being engaged by various departments of the Delhi government will switch to EVs within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-floats-tender-to-select-agency-for-setting-up-100-e-charging-points-101612549049000.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||13 private hospitals in Mumbai shortlisted for Covid-19 vaccination: BMC||After getting applications from around 100 private hospitals to participate in the vaccination drive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shortlisted 13 private hospitals, which will be allowed to undertake vaccinations. The names of the 13 hospitals are yet to be released. On Friday, two more vaccination centres were added in Mumbai, at MW Desai Municipal Hospital in Malad and Shri Harilal Bhagwati Municpial Hospital in Borivli. The city now has 20 vaccination centres. With the third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations expected to begin in March or April, BMC has maintained that it would need the help of private hospitals. In the third phase, members of the general public who are above 50 years old or have comorbidities will be inoculated. On Friday, it was announced that 13 private hospitals have been shortlisted to participate in the vaccination drive and details of these selected facilities will be announced soon. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have shortlisted 13 private hospitals for now in the city which will be allowed to undertake vaccination when the third phase for the general public starts. However, we are scrutinising applications of more private hospital, and this number will increase in the coming days.” Kakani added, “Currently, for the first and second phases, we are managing with civic-run hospitals for vaccination, but in the third phase when the general public is vaccinated, we will require help from private hospitals.” When asked how many citizens would be vaccinated per day once private hospitals are roped in, Kakani said the target would be decided once there was clarity on how much of the vaccine would be supplied to BMC in the third phase. Earlier, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had said around 1 lakh citizens daily would be vaccinated once private hospitals were involved in the vaccination drive. In its budget, presented on Wednesday, BMC said it planned to vaccinate a total of 1 crore Mumbaiites. As of Friday, BMC has vaccinated 69,590 beneficiaries, including healthcare (HCWs) and frontline workers. On Friday, 5,883 HCWs and 753 frontline workers received their shots. On the subject of the cost of the vaccines, Chahal said on Wednesday, “The Central government has kept in reserve ₹31,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccination, and I think this answers our question of from where we will get money for Covid-19 vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13-private-hospitals-in-mumbai-shortlisted-for-covid-19-vaccination-bmc-101612548749654.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai far behind rural Maharashtra in its Covid-19 vaccination turnout||Rural districts in Maharashtra are recording a better turnout for inoculation than Mumbai, despite having better accessibility, shows data shared by the state health ministry. Officials said most vaccination centres in Mumbai have completed vaccinating their staff members in the first phase, the response of healthcare workers (HCWs) from other hospitals is poor.In the last four immunisation sessions, the overall turnout of beneficiaries in Mumbai has gradually dipped. On February 1, Mumbai recorded 93.4% turnout, which plunged to 80% the next day. On February 3, the turnout dropped further to 76% and on February 4, it went down to 54%.Data shows that more number of shortlisted beneficiaries are getting inoculated in rural districts than Mumbai. On Thursday, for instance, rural districts like Yavatmal (72%), Jalna (71%), Wardha (71%), Sindhudurg (58%), among others recorded a higher turnout than Mumbai. As per data of the state health department, Mumbai city (south Mumbai) ranked 32 among the 36 districts with the lowest turnout (40%) on Thursday.Officials have cited several reasons behind it. When the mass immunisation programme started on January 16, the primary focus was to vaccinate HCWs associated with the immunisation centres. After 20 sessions since then, most staffers have already been inoculated.“We have inoculated 90% of our staffers including senior doctors, resident doctors, nurses, ward boys, among others who came forward for vaccination. So, the flow of beneficiaries has decreased recently,” said a senior doctor from BYL Nair Hospital.Currently, most vaccination centres have started shortlisting HCWs from other hospitals. But many aren’t showing up for two reasons- centres are far from their hospitals and delay in intimation.“Some HCWs have planned surgeries or other commitments, so they often fail to reach the centre on the given day as it is a time-consuming affair,” said the officer.To address the issue, private hospitals have already approached the civic body seeking permission to start an immunisation programme in their hospital premises. “It will be more accessible for staffers to get vaccinated at the hospitals which will ultimately increase the overall turnout of the city,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital.From Thursday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) simultaneously started vaccinating frontline workers (FLWs) along with HCWs at 18 vaccination centres in the city. But due to the technical glitch in the centralised app - CoWIN, the FLWs were informed late about their scheduled appointment. As a result of this, only 58 people out of the 1,800 targeted came forward for vaccination on the first day.“Till Tuesday night, the application was functioning properly but later again, it started having technical errors, due to which the turnout of FLWs was less on Thursday. However, we have directed all staff to alert the beneficiaries manually, until the app is functioning properly,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.From February 8, the civic body is likely to start vaccinating police personnel in the list of FLWs. Also, walk-in for FLWs will be allowed soon under which any registered FLW on the CoWIN can directly get inoculated even if they don’t have an appointment for that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-far-behind-rural-maharashtra-in-its-covid-19-vaccination-turnout-101612548630029.html
05-02-2021||Other||Mumbai: Mother carrying 1-year-old’s body in bag dies by suicide in Vashi||A 31-year-old woman from Chembur died by suicide near the Vashi creek bridge, on Thursday night. She was carrying a bag which contained the body of her one-year-old son, said police.According to the police, the woman boarded the train towards Vashi with the bag, at Chembur station after 10pm. As the train crossed the bridge before reaching Vashi station, she jumped out with the bag.“The fellow commuters raised an alarm and also informed the railway officers after the train reached Vashi station. The officers then rushed to the spot and found her lying near the creek. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, but she was declared dead on arrival, by the doctors there,” said a government railway police (GRP) officer.The woman was a homemaker, and her husband works with a construction firm. Her parents reside in Pune, said police. “The couple had tied the knot in 2013 and the son was born a year ago. Prima facie it appears that she killed the boy by slitting its throat before boarding the train. We will question her husband and parents,” the officer said.The Vashi GRP has registered a case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the deceased woman. Senior GRP officers refused to comment on this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-mother-carrying-1-year-old-s-body-in-bag-dies-by-suicide-in-vashi-101612548509659.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Kullu native arrested with 6.5kg charas in Chandigarh||A 34-year-old man blacksmith was arrested with 6.5kg charas in Industrial Area on Friday in what the Chandigarh Police said was its biggest haul of the drug since 2019. The accused, Mohan Lal, hailing from Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district, was arrested by a team of Chandigarh Police’s crime branch.While the team was on patrolling duty, they spotted Lal suspiciously trying to evade the police near Hotel Rajshree in Phase 1, Industrial Area. He was nabbed and frisked, and 6.5kg charas was recovered from his possession.Got commission for delivering drugs “A Class-12 pass-out, Lal was on his way to Delhi to supply the contraband in his second such trip. He used to travel in bus to avoid being caught and got ₹1.20 lakh as commission for each contraband delivered,” said Rajiv Kumar Ambasta, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Crime), while addressing a press conference.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against him at the Industrial Area police station. The accused was produced before a court on Friday and remanded to four-day police custody. Police will be questioning him about his links in the tricity. Shimla man held with heroin in PanchkulaThe crime branch of Panchkula police arrested a Shimla native with 10gm heroin near the cremation ground in Kalka on Friday.The accused, Manoj Kumar, alias Monu, was produced before a court and remanded to one-day custody. He has been booked under the NDPS Act at the Kalka police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kullu-native-arrested-with-6-5kg-charas-in-chandigarh-101612548328909.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Coming up, housing society for Chandigarh MC’s councillors, employees||The municipal corporation will be allotting its land for development of a housing society for its incumbent councillors, officials and employees.Under the proposed self-financing scheme, which got the go-ahead in the MC General House special meeting on Friday, the allottees will bear the cost of land and construction.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said a detailed agenda item will be presented in the MC General House meeting, following which UT administration’s approval will be taken to use MC land for the scheme.Raising the issue of housing for councillors and MC officials, BJP councillor Shakti Devshali sought that a token amount for a housing scheme be added to the budget estimates for 2021-2022.“The housing scheme will be on the lines of the self-financing schemes in Punjab and Haryana for their MLAs. As Chandigarh does not have a legislative assembly, the scheme will be for councillors and MC employees,” said Sharma, adding that the flats for the economical weaker sections (EWS) will also be part of the scheme to cover all MC employees.A society, comprising councillors, officials and employees, will be formed to pitch in funds for the project for which land will be allotted on the prevailing collector rates.Costing of the project has yet to be worked out. “Only after land is finalised and the number of flats that can be developed on the site is decided, the project’s cost can be calculated,” said Sharma.Even though the Congress councillors didn’t oppose the move during the Friday’s meeting, party’s councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla, who was absent in the meeting, said, “The Congress will oppose any such move by the BJP. MC land should be used only for people’s welfare and not for councillors’ benefit.”Smart school for underprivileged kidsMC is planning to set up a smart school for the city’s underprivileged children. Estimated to cost ₹50 crore, the school will be on the lines of a similar facility in Pune. Apart from smart facilities, the budget will cover uniforms, books and stationery for the students. “Detailed project plans and land for the project will be finalised shortly,” said mayor Ravi Kant Sharma.Banquet hall in Industrial AreaAlso part of MC’s plans is a banquet hall on the plot in Industrial Area, Phase 1, where it currently runs a cattle pound. “The work on the cowshed in Raipur Kalan will be completed in the next five months. The Industrial Area cattle pound will be shifted there and a modern banquet hall will come up in its place. Besides benefitting area residents, it will help MC generate additional revenue,” said Sharma.Agendas for these projects will be presented in the next General House meeting, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coming-up-housing-society-for-chandigarh-mc-s-councillors-employees-101612548209008.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||High court judge’s reader among 24 test positive in Chandigarh||A reader working with Punjab and Haryana high court justice MS Sindhu was among the 24 people testing positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Friday. Following the test results, justice Sindhu and at least 10 personnel in his staff were quarantined as per medical advice, a high court official said.With the 24 fresh cases, the city’s case tally reached 21,060, of which 187 remain active after 20,535 recoveries.The casualties rose to 338 with the death of a 72-year-old man from Manimajra at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Mohali also reported a death, which pushed its toll to 370. Besides, 23 cases surfaced in the district, taking the total count to 19,574. The district has 466 active cases, while 18,738 patients have recovered. In Panchkula, 18 people were found infected. The total cases in the district are 10,585, of which 95 are active. As many as 10,343 patients have been cured and 147 have died. 37% turnout for vaccination in UTOnly 452 out of the targeted 1,197 beneficiaries turned up for vaccination at the 12 sites in Chandigarh for Friday.In Panchkula, 280 of the 412 people expected got vaccinated. These included 114 health workers and 166 frontline warriors against the targeted figures of 262 and 150, respectively. Mohali civil hospital remained the centre of high-profile activity with several senior health, police and administrative officers of Punjab and 133 frontline workers getting vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-judge-s-reader-among-24-test-positive-in-chandigarh-101612548148958.html
05-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka legislative council session extended, polls for chairman on Tuesday||The ongoing session of the Karnataka legislative council, that was scheduled to conclude on Friday, has been extended till February 10 as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (Secular) alliance aims to complete the election process of a new chairman to the upper house.The two parties are now likely to further cement their alliance in the state and the upper house as the BJP has agreed to nominate and back Basavaraj Horatti’s bid to become the chairman.“I have been nominated by our party for the post of chairman,” Horatti said on Friday.An order by the Karnataka Governor’s office stated that the nomination for the chairman’s elections will be held on February 8 and voting will be held the following day.“The party has decided to back Horatti,” Kavatagimatt Mahantesh Mallikarjun of the BJP confirmed.The developments come barely a day after Pratapchandra Shetty of the Congress tendered his resignation as chairman after repeated bids by the BJP and JD(S) to unseat him over the last two months.The Congress had tried to push the no-confidence motion against Shetty to a vote to help “expose” the JD(S) and its alliance with the BJP.The Congress called JD(S) a party of convenience which will side with the highest bidder.“We will conclude the elections and Horatti will be made chairman, otherwise there was a chance of the JD(S) moving towards the Congress and that would have wasted all our efforts so far,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity.MK Pranesh of the BJP was elected as deputy chairman of the upper house with the backing of the JD(S) in the ongoing session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-legislative-council-session-extended-polls-for-chairman-on-tuesday-101612547156797.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||NDMC tells HC garbage collection has resumed, strike called off||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) on Friday told the Delhi High Court that strike of the sanitation workers was over and cleaning and garbage collection work has commenced in Model Town area here and waste will be lifted from the entire colony in the next 10 days.The submission was made before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva who on February 2 had given NrDMC time till Friday to end the strike of the sanitation workers and clean the garbage accumulating in the colony.The direction had come on a plea by the Federation of Model Town Associations which had contended that sanitation workers of the corporation were "wilfully absenting themselves from work for more than three weeks and not performing their statutory duties of removing garbage".The petitioner-federation had also claimed that the sanitation workers were also allegedly "bringing trucks full of garbage and filth and dumping them in the middle of the residential areas, markets and public roads".On Friday, the NrDMC told the court that the cleaning work has commenced and garbage dumped on the colony's main roads would be cleared soon.The lawyer for the petitioner federation said while the main road was being cleaned, garbage has accumulated in the inner lanes and parks of the colony.Subsequently, the lawyer for NrDMC assured the court that garbage from the entire colony would be lifted in the next 10 days.Taking note of the submission, the court listed the matter for further hearing on February 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-tells-hc-garbage-collection-has-resumed-strike-called-off-101612542624958.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-HPSC chief appointed as power regulator at hurriedly convened ceremony||Throwing constitutional norms to wind, the Haryana government appointed former Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) chairman RK Pachnanda as the chairman of Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) on Friday.Legal experts say that Pachnanda’s appointment is in clear contravention of Article 319 of the Constitution which prohibits member of a public service commission from holding offices on ceasing to be such members.Pachnanda, a retired IPS officer, was administered oath of office by state power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala at a hurriedly organised ceremony at Haryana Niwas on Friday evening. Only a few officers of the power department were present but none of the two HERC members were present.Article 319 says that a chairman of the state public service commission shall be eligible for appointment as the chairman or any other member of the Union Public Service Commission or as the chairman of any other state public service commission, but not for any other employment either under the government of India or under the government of a state.Former Haryana advocate general Ashok Aggarwal said the appointment has violated the spirit of the Constitution. “Prima facie, even though the HERC is a statutory body, one cannot say that it’s not a government employment. Whether such a move will hit the letter of law can be a matter of debate. But by all means, the move violates the spirit of the Constitution,” he said.Aggarwal said that the idea of putting a constitutional bar was to ensure independence and impartiality of members of the Public Service Commission by insulating them from allurement of a future employment under the government.Former advocate general Mohan Jain said that there was clear constitutional prohibition on chairman or member of a public service commission from holding offices once their term in the public service commission is over.“Appointments in HERC are done by the Haryana government. There is a certain amount of control that government exercises over the electricity regulatory commission,’’ Jain said.To justify its actions, the state government, however, has taken a legal opinion in the matter from advocate general BR Mahajan, who gave a green signal for Pachnanda’s appointment on grounds that HERC is a quasi-judicial body and does not fall under the constitutional bar.Reacting to the development, Congress general secretary and former minister Randeep Singh Surjewala said that by appointing Pachnanda as HERC chairman, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has committed gross unconstitutionality.“It is also an act of political malafide. In order to burden 2.5 crore Haryanvis with enhanced electricity rates, the Khattar government has committed this patent illegality and has trampled the Constitution, particularly Article 319, which prohibits such appointments,” Surjewala, a former power minister said.The Congress general secretary said that the hush-hush manner in which the oath was administered to Pachnanda after the illegally planned move was exposed by Hindustan Times proves guilt of the BJP-JJP regime.Former leader of Opposition and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said that Pachnanda, a former West Bengal cadre IPS officer, is actually an appointee of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).“CM Khattar has acted as a rubber stamp in making this appointment which is a clear violation of the Constitution,” Chautala said.Terming the appointment as a shameful act, former minister Karan Singh Dalal said that this showed how much the Khattar government respects the constitutional tenets and the founding fathers of the Constitution, including Dr BR Ambedkar. “Pachnanda as a power regulator will now be used to ratify arbitrary power purchase agreements made by the government-owned power companies,” Dalal alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exhpsc-chief-appointed-as-power-regulator-at-hurriedly-convened-ceremony-101612542087885.html
05-02-2021||City||'Get vaccinated or face salary cut': Odisha district admin to healthcare workers||With 1 lakh healthcare workers in Odisha yet to be given the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine before the February 10 deadline, a district administration in Odisha on Friday warned the healthcare workers that their salary would be withheld if they fail to get vaccinated.In a letter to the officials of Cuttack's SCB Medical College and Hospital, chief district medical officer, superintendent of Sishu Bhawan and CMC Commissioner, Cuttack district collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani said a large number of health workers/Anganwadi workers who have registered under different establishments are not turning up for the vaccination."As the percentage of vaccination of Cuttack district is one of the lowest in the state, it is causing a great embarrassment. Those registered under different establishments for Covid-19 vaccine should positively take the shot by February 10, failing which their salary/remuneration/stipend for the month will not be drawn,” the district collector said in his letter.The district collector advised the officials to sensitize the health workers/Anganwadi workers so that they come forward for vaccination.Cuttack is among the three districts in Odisha that have achieved less than 60 per cent of the vaccination target which began on January 16. The other two districts are Bolangir and Jajpur.Also read: 4G Mubarak! tweets Abdullah with mobile internet services being restored in J-KAdditional chief secretary, health department, Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said such dire warnings by the Cuttack administration were necessary as the healthcare workers had volunteered for the jabs. "They can't back out just like that. After they registered on the CoWIN portal, the Centre sent the required number of vaccines," said Mohapatra, who got himself vaccinated on Friday. He hoped that all the 3.38 lakh healthcare workers who had registered their names on the CoWin portal would be vaccinated by February 10.The vaccination has slowed down among the Anganwadi workers in several districts as many of them are hesitant and unsure of the vaccine's efficacy. Several Anganwadi workers are also hesitant to take the shot as they feel there is no point in taking the vaccine when Odisha is reporting less than 100 Covid-19 cases every day and the number of active Covid-19 cases have dropped below 1,000. Of the 30 districts, Kandhamal and Nabarangpur districts have currently no active Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile, the state government braced for another massive Covid-19 inoculation drive from Saturday with Odisha Police DG Abhay set to receive the first jab. Apart from Abhay, SPs and collectors of all the districts will also be administered the Covid-19 vaccine.To instil confidence, the government has asked senior officials including DGP, collectors, SPs and others to take the vaccine and share a photo of the same on social media. Apart from police personnel, frontline workers of home, urban Development and revenue departments, besides other Corona warriors, would be administered the Covid-19 vaccine from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/get-vaccinated-or-face-salary-cut-odisha-district-warns-healthcare-workers-101612540960067.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said he has tested coronavirus positive.He shared the information on his Twitter handle."I tested positive for coronavirus today, but I am in good health. I appeal to those who came in my contact to get theselves tested. I will return in your service soon after defeating coronavirus," Deshmukh said in his tweet.A state health official said Deshmukh was on a tour of east Vidarbha over the last few days and returned to Nagpur on Thursday."A precautionary test was conducted on him today, which confirmed that he has contracted the infection. Deshmukh is currently at his residence in Nagpur," the official said.It is not yet clear whether he has been advised to remain in home quarantine or get admitted to a hospital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-tests-positive-for-covid19-101612539538124.html
05-02-2021||Jaipur||Farm laws being opposed across the country, should be withdrawn: Sachin Pilot||The resolution has also sought compensation for families of the farmers who have died during the protests which started in November last year.Addressing the Mahapanchayat, Pilot said, “While making these laws none of the state governments or farmers’ organisations were consulted. These laws were passed in Parliament in haste and imposed on the country. The government of India claims these farm laws are in the interest of the farmers but they are being opposed across the country.”“The farmers are protesting in a Gandhian manner but the way barricades have been put up, and electricity and water supply discontinued, it is unjustified,” Pilot said, adding that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have supported the farmers throughout the agitation.The Mahapanchayat, held under the banner of Kisan Mahapanchayat, submitted a memorandum to district collector demanding a repeal of the laws. “We will not step back, till these demands are met,” Pilot said.Friday’s gathering was the second Kisan Mahapanchayat to be held in Dausa in the past four days. Smaller Kisan Panchayats have been held in several parts of Rajasthan, including in the Jat dominated Shekhawati belt of the state.Condemning the violence that erupted during the tractor parade, Pilot said, “The opposition parties are supporting the farmers. The issue is not of a party or leader but of the farmers.” On Saturday, the Congress leader will address a Mahapanchayat in Bharatpur, Chaksu and Bayana, each.Targeting the Congress for allegedly misleading the farmers, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “Congress itself made such promises in the manifesto. The GoI is continuously holding talks with the farmers and is committed to resolve it on a positive note.”Ram Lal Jat, head of Kisan Mahapanchayat, Rajasthan, has appealed the farmers in the state to support Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s call for a Chakka Jam (traffic blockade) on February 6.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farm-laws-being-opposed-across-the-country-should-be-withdrawn-sachin-pilot-101612533944836.html
05-02-2021||Lucknow||UP to reopen schools for classes 6 to 8 on Feb 10, classes 1 to 5 from March 1||Uttar Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools for students of classes 6 to 8 from February 10 and for students of classes 1 to 5 from March 1 on Friday, news agency ANI reported.The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier decided to reopen schools for students of classes 9 to 12 in October.The Delhi government has decided to reopen schools for students of Class 9 and Class 11 fro February 5, ten months after all educational institutions were forced to shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Neighbouring state Bihar also decided to reopen school earlier on Friday for students of Class 6 to 8 from February 8.The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier on February 2 said that it is considering reopening of schools for classes 6-12. The chief minister’s office had said that physical attendance in classes will only be resumed after authorities complete evaluation of the situation. The UP CMO had tweeted, “As per the guidelines of the Government of India, classes in schools from class 6 to class 12 may be considered.”Schools are being asked to strictly follow Covid-19 precautionary measures so as to curb the spread of the disease. Hand sanitisers and masks are to be made available to school authorities to be given to students and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-6-to-8-on-feb-10-classes-1-to-5-from-march-1-101612537932458.html
05-02-2021||Pune||PCMC turns blind eye to trimming of trees by hoarding advertisers||Pune: Residents and activists claim that the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has not taken action against advertisers who have pruned tree branches for better visibility of their hoardings across the city. Residents allege that as growing leaves/branches obstruct their hoardings, they cut the branches, without getting the permission from the authorities. “We are following up the issue since 2019. Despite a case been filed, the civic administration has not taken any major step,” said Tanay Patekar, social activist who works with NGO Angholichigoli. Many trees have been trimmed or branches pruned at Kaspate chowk, Mankar chowk and Pimple Saudagar area. “We have written many mails, reminders to the civic administration, PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, mayor Usha Dhore, PCMC sky sign and license department and garden department for taking action against these advertisers, but still await action,” Patekar said. PCMC garden superintendent Prakash Gaikwad said, “The sky sign and license department is the authority to look at this issue.” According to the Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1995, any person who defaces any tree, fence, wall, monument statue, building – on conviction to be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or both. “I am a regular commuter to Wakad-Hinjewadi road and every month I see a new hoarding and trimmed trees in front of it. It is disturbing, but is happening in most of the areas of PCMC,” said Saurabh Kakliya, IT professional. “We are going to conduct a joint meeting with the garden department to find out if the trees which are trimmed or cut were illegal. We have received a few complaints and will take appropriate action,” said Nilesh Deshmukh, assistant commissioner, sky and license department, PCMC. Juhi Sharma, PCMC resident said, “I have seen a tree reduced to half its height. On being asked, the person said to talk to his owner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-turns-blind-eye-to-trimming-of-trees-by-hoarding-advertisers-101612537347379.html
05-02-2021||City||1 mn golden cards, 10k treatments in first 40 days of PMJAY SEHAT scheme in J-K||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Friday said that 10.77 lakh golden cards and 10,000 treatments have been done in the first 40 days after the launch of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (ABPM-JAY) SEHAT scheme. The scheme was e-launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 26.Since the launch of the scheme, in the first forty days, ten thousand free and cashless treatments worth ₹7.21 Crore have been provided to eligible beneficiaries under the scheme. Besides, 10.77 Lakh golden cards have been issued in addition to 12.90 Lakh golden cards issued under AB PM-JAY.Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo said, “AB PM-JAY SEHAT scheme is a historical step in the direction towards Universal Health Insurance. We have made a humble beginning but there is a long way to go. It is heartening to see residents availing free and cashless benefits from reputed empanelled hospitals of Jammu and Kashmir.”He further said, “residents of Jammu and Kashmir have already started availing benefits under the scheme from reputed hospitals outside the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. He added that since the launch of the scheme, 155 patients have already availed benefits in empanelled hospitals from outside J-K using portability feature of AB PM-JAY scheme.”Also read: 4G mobile internet services being restored in entire J&K after 18 monthsABPMJAY SEHAT scheme, launched by the government, covers all residents of Jammu and Kashmir, including employees and pensioners as well as their families.ABPM-JAY SEHAT scheme, in convergence with PM-JAY, aims to provide Universal Health Insurance Coverage of ₹5.00 lakh per family on a floater basis. AB PM-JAY SEHAT has the same benefits as available under AB-PMJAY.The ABPM-JAY SEHAT scheme provides cashless access to empanelled health care services for the beneficiaries. More than 24,000 empanelled public and private hospitals (including 229 hospitals empanelled within the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir) under AB PM-JAY are providing benefits under this scheme.The scheme envisions to help mitigate expenditure on medical treatment to all the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. It covers up to 3 days of pre-hospitalization and 15 days post-hospitalization expenses such as diagnostics and medicines. There is no restriction on the family size, age or gender. The benefits provided under the scheme are portable across the country.The registrations under the scheme can be done at any Common Service Centers (CSCs) or empanelled hospitals. A network of more than five thousand CSCs are up and working. About 24 lakh residents of J-K have already registered under the scheme making 48 per cent the families eligible for benefits under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-mn-golden-cards-10k-treatments-in-first-40-days-of-pmjay-sehat-scheme-in-jk-101612537015115.html
05-02-2021||Jaipur||Blackbuck case: Rajasthan HC exempts Salman Khan from appearing in person||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday exempted Bollywood actor Salman Khan from appearing in person before the District and Sessions Court (Jodhpur). The district court, while hearing Khan’s appeal against a five-year sentence in the blackbuck poaching case, has ordered him to appear on February 6 before the court in person.The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Manoj Kumar Garg, however, refused to intervene on Khan's plea that Section 437A of Criminal Procedure Code (CRPC) be held unconstitutional.“Salman's personal appearance leads to a huge crowd in the Sessions Court premises, causing not only law and order problems but other litigants to face trouble. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, there is a risk of infection from the crowd. After hearing our arguments, the division bench allowed the petitioner to execute and submit bail bond and sureties through video conferencing said Salman’s counsel Hastimal Saraswat.Also read: 4G mobile internet services being restored in entire J&K after 18 months“Salman is exempt from physical appearance, but the division bench has not interfered in the plea declaring Section 437A of the CrPC unconstitutional,” Additional Advocate General Farzand Ali said.A case was registered against Salman Khan at the Luni police station on October 15, 1998, in the Arms Act. The trial court had acquitted him on January 18, 2017. The appeal of the state government against the decision of acquittal is under consideration in the District and Sessions Court (Jodhpur).On April 5, 2018, the trial court sentenced the petitioner to five years in the blackbuck poaching case, its appeal is also under consideration in the sessions court. During the hearing of both these appeals, on January 16 this year, the court directed for the personal appearance of the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/blackbuck-poaching-case-rajasthan-hc-exempts-salman-khan-from-appearing-101612532878762.html
05-02-2021||Pune||Cong appoint Bagwe and Joshi as state vice-presidents||PUNE: Pune city unit president Ramesh Bagwe and leader Mohan Joshi were appointed vice-president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress committee. Congress on Friday announced the state executive committee under the leadership of Nana Patole. The party announced six executive presidents and ten vice-presidents. Bagwe is former minister of state for home and city unit Congress president and Joshi is former MLC. With Bagwe’s appointment as state vice-president, party workers await announcement of new city unit president for Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cong-appoint-bagwe-and-joshi-as-state-vicepresidents-101612536028620.html
05-02-2021||Pune||IoT stars in global success of local firms||Pune: Most of us are using wearable devices, fitness trackers and seeking information or entertainment by instructing Alexa and Google with voice commands. Several such consumer and smart products are applications of Internet of Things (IoT) which will soon enable connected cars and home appliances in our day-to-day lives. Besides this consumer side, IoT has assumed much more significance in the enterprise domain. IoT startups are witnessing a surge in demand and investments in both consumer and enterprise domains. Scope for IoT startups is also huge in public sector where smart city projects are being implemented. There is a great opportunity for startups to explore the tremendous applications in the smart city ecosystem and program.The Centre for Industry 4.0 in collaboration with ministry of heavy industries has been set up at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Pune is a manufacturing and automotive industry hub and a big advantage for the city is that there are a lot of small companies building software for industrial sector.----------------------Founders’ SayExpect a rapid push in IoT innovations in PunePune as a city has immense potential to become the focal point for the IoT revolution in India. We have a thriving ecosystem of both IoT and IT solution providers in our city. With the advent of VC firms like Pentathlon Ventures setting their base in Pune, we can expect a rapid push towards the innovations in the space of IoT in this region.The city has already produced some world-class Industrial IoT companies. Pune is an industrial powerhouse and a preferred destination for leading automotive manufacturers as well as global IT companies.Pune being at the crossroads between the automotive and the IT industry allows access to a wide talent pool with a blend of skill sets from hardware and software space. Access to this talent pool is quintessential to build cutting-edge IoT products that can excel globally.We have a multi-fold plan to invest towards infinite uptime’s growth trajectory and achieve higher benchmarks for customer satisfaction and value delivery. After our latest funding round, we plan to hire and build a team to drive our enterprise sales and expand our global footprint. We are also optimising our sales franchise model for higher performance and value. At the same time, we will invest deeper within the OEM (original equipment manufacturer) relationships.Raunak Bhinge, founder, Infinite Uptime----------------------------------International clients account for more than 50% of our business IoT is a big domain and has applications everywhere. There is a big surge in the industrial IoT segment – the smart factories and other digital initiatives in the enterprise domain. On the consumer side, personal entertainment and healthcare wearable devices in particular are witnessing a wave and a lot more is happening on the international level on the smart products’ front. Investments in IoT startups continue to be in mix. It is recognised as a growth area. On the national level, the industrial segment is getting more investment. Singapore and US venture capital firms and Indian investors are keen in funding enterprise domain IoT startups. But the depth is less in consumer side. Altizon has now gone global. Our international clients account for more than 50 per cent of our business now. We have got good investors like TVS Digital who are helping us grow as a company. Altizon has also got product recognition in the global market. Altizon has been recognised by Gartner in the 2020 Magic Quadrant for Industrial IoT platforms. We have been listed by Gartner for the last three consecutive years. Vinay Nathan, co-founder and CEO, Altizon Systems -------------------------Investors’ SayNumber of investors is bullish on IoT growth trendsIoT enables us to get data about the physical world, which was not possible earlier. IoT essentially is built on the fact that sensors are making the physical world come alive. When this happens, and we have all latitude-longitude data, temperature data, speed data or whatever data which we never had before now we have new generation of companies, applications in technologies that are building to turn this data into insight.We are honestly seeing only the first generation of this in IoT. For past several years, we had Google and Facebook tracking the online data at a level of granularity. Imagine what could happen when the physical world comes alive at this level of granularity. The real-time information of the physical world around us and what it can do to companies, individuals, governments etc is the most exciting part of IoT. Number of investors is bullish on these trends. We will see a lot more, a completely new set of companies in this decade. Pune has seen a lot of growth in SaaS (software as a service) recently. The manufacturing ecosystem being so strong here is a great driver for new generation IoT and sensor driven companies in Pune. The ecosystem in Pune is developing fast and it will continue to evolve as more early-stage investors keep investing in companies. Vaibhav Domkundwar, CEO, Better CapitalPune has market and talent pool, lacks funding infraPune has a fairly large number of manufacturing units and a large IT talent pool. A lot of investment is happening in the enterprise domain of IoT especially in the automotive, pharma and food-tech companies. Pune has the market and talent pool, but lacks the funding infrastructure. The state government can play an active role in incentivising startups in cities like Pune.Shashank Deshpande, managing partner, Pentathlon Ventures------------------------------------Mentor Speak IoT startups have huge scope in smart city projects Due to the shutdown during Covid-19 outbreak, companies have realised that there is no alternative to going digital, including in the core manufacturing activities. Companies are upgrading to industry 4.0. Earlier IoT was a choice, but it has become a “must have” thing for companies. Our role is to educate and prepare a roadmap for these companies. Startups have a huge scope in the smart city projects too. They need to understand the landscape to successfully navigate it. Public authorities are now open to talk to innovators and startups and understand how they can solve the problems. Large companies have nurtured the startup ecosystem very well in cities like Bengaluru. There are a lot more accelerator programs and avenues to showcase products there. This is lacking in Pune.Sujata Tilak, director of smart manufacturing and IIoT division, International Society of Automation---------------------------------------------------Pune-based IoT startups, companiesCarIQ (A Varroc company), Balewadi•Founded in 2013 by Hrishikesh Nene and Sagar Apte•Acquired in 2019 by auto component manufacturer Varroc Engineering Ltd•CarIQ is an integrated connected vehicle solution provider to original equipment manufacturer, fleet owners and insurance companies. •CarIQ can help infrastructure providers and city planners to take maximum advantage of Internet of Things.Greenovative Energy Solutions (Greenovative Energy Pvt Ltd), Baner•Founded in January 2011 by Vinit Kulkarni and Harshal Samdani •Privately funded•Selected as winner of Maharashtra Start-up Week held in June 2018•Selected through Emerge-X in Microsoft’s initiative “Highway to a Hundred Unicorns”•Provides eco-friendly energy management solutions like monitoring energy usage across industrial, commercial, institutional and infrastructural facilities.Infinite Uptime (Infinite Uptime India Pvt Ltd), Aundh •Founded in 2015 by Raunak Bhinge•The industrial internet platform that automates predictive maintenance for industrial machines, provides an all-in-one industrial solution with hardware, cloud analytics, and control software to monitor equipment, diagnose problems, and drive smart decision making.•Raised $5.15 million in Series B funding in December 2020ShopWorx (Entrib Analytics Technology Pvt Ltd), Baner•Founded in 2011 by Kiran Nataraj and Swapnil Amritkar•ShopWorx is an end-to-end solution for manufacturing shop-floor management and analytics. It helps companies digitise day-to-day manufacturing processes, simplify human interactions and deliver actionable insights to improve shop floor visibility and performance.Iobot Technologies India Private Limited, Wakad•Founded in 2016 by Pranav Naiknavare and Akshay Ghadage•An Industrial IoT Platform with customisable input data channels, data storage and analytics options in single packageIOTLYNX Technologies Pvt Ltd, Balewadi•Founded in June 2016 by Rahul Dhoot, Shitalkumar Panse and Shardul Rao•Providing solutions based on the Connect, Collect and Consume model; from sensors, to connectivity to web/mobile apps for monitoring, alerting, reporting and analytics of connected devices or “Things”.Apollo, (Helios IoT Systems – subsidiary of Pratiti Technologies), NCL Innovation Park, Pashan•Founded in 2017 by Nitin Tappe and Keyur Gandhi•Apollo is providing energy analytics solutions and empowers digital twin technology revolution in renewable energy companies.•Helios IoT is a part of Startup India program since January 2018iControlify Technologies, Pashan•Founded in 2016 by Aditya Joshi and Tushar Waghulde •Inspired by “Make In India” and “Start Up India” programs, iControlify Technologies provides services throughout the life cycle of projects starting with assessment, design, development, testing/validation, deployment to maintenance and support.Aeron Systems Private Limited, Balewadi•Founded in 2008 by Abhijit Bokil and Ashvani Shukla•Aeron Systems is an avionics system and IoT hardware manufacturer. It is the first exporter of navigation products in India with exports to over 30 countries.•Offers a wide range of products in Aerospace, Defence, Automotive, Renewable Energy and Industrial sectors.Devtech M2M Limited, Viman Nagar•Founded in 2012 by Vinod Jadhav and Vishal Jadhav•Devtech M2M Limited is a cutting edge technology and R&D driven company in the area of energy savings and efficiency, smart city enabling devices and Internet of Things (IoT) with R&D centre and manufacturing unit in Pune.--------------------------------------------Centre for Industry 4.0 (C4i4) Lab, Savitribai Phule Pune University C4i4 Lab Pune is a section 8 company set up under SAMARTH (Smart Automated Manufacturing and Rapid Transformation Hub) Udyog, a national initiative of Government of India to promote adoption of Industry 4.0 by the industry.Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) Research Park Foundation and C4i4 Lab Pune through a MOU has set up Industry 4.0 Experience Centre at SPPU Campus. As per the MoU, technology training is provided free of cost to Pune University professors and the centre offers one-year fellowships to two postgraduate or PhD students of the university. ------------------------------------------Statistics: IoT startups •India – 2226 (949 - DPIIT recognised)•Maharashtra – 400 (180- DPIIT recognised)•Pune – 150 (67- DPIIT recognised)-------------------------------------Other news Pune startups welcome union budgetPune: Founders and other stakeholders from the Pune startup ecosystem welcomed the steps announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech, but also stated that much more was expected from the government.Vishwas Mahajan, chairman of startups and incubation committee of MCCIA said, “The startup, MSME sector was expecting multiple fiscal initiatives from the budget. Some of these were ESOP taxation, angel tax, allowing institutional investors like LIC to invest in startups, GST reverse charge, removal of capital gains tax for new venture investments like in US or UK, waiver of surcharge on capital gains from startup investments etc. The residency requirements reduced to 120 days means that our NRI brain trust can more easily set up companies here.”ExtraaEdge co-founder Abhishek Ballabh said, “The budget brings quite a few good news for startups and small business. Tax holiday exemption and capital gains exemption is a much-needed relief post pandemic. There have been many steps taken by the government to help startups, which include broadening the definition of start-ups, simplifying regulations, providing income tax exemptions and setting up a ₹10,000 crore Fund of Funds run by SIDBI. Govt Start-up India Seed Scheme may also become a strong investment alternative, provided disbursement and allocation happens swiftly and regularly like a private fund. This will be a much-needed respite for working capital and growth needs of early-stage firms. The allocation of ₹5000 crore towards R & D is one of the highlights of this budget and can be committed to strengthening EdTech platforms and building a strong digital infrastructure for education.”FITTR founder Jitendra Chouksey said, “This year’s Union Budget has a strong focus on healthcare with increased spending. The budget has given due importance to the startup segment as well. The extension of tax holiday on revenue as well as investment was much needed during these challenging times. This will further foster the growth of startups in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iot-stars-in-global-success-of-local-firms-101612534467080.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi to resume on February 8||The Northern Railway has decided to resume services of the evening New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express from February 8, 10 months after it was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The daily train (02005) will depart from New Delhi at 5.15pm to arrive at Kalka at 9.15pm after halts at Panipat, Kurukshetra, Ambala Cantt and Chandigarh stations.The next day, train 02006 will depart from Kalka at 6.15am to arrive at the New Delhi railway station at 10.15am with the same stoppages, railway officials said. Pantry services will remain suspended for now. The Shatabdi Express has 13 AC-chair coaches with 75 seats each and two executive coaches with 45 seats each.Earlier in October, railways had resumed the morning Shatabdi (7.40am) from New Delhi to Kalka via Chandigarh (02011/02012), with its return journey in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newdelhikalka-shatabdi-to-resume-on-february-8-101612533987664.html
05-02-2021||Pune||Active Covid cases in Pune district now 6,545||Active cases in Pune district have come down to 6,545 as per the state health department on Thursday. As on Thursday, a total of 516 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported with 12 deaths in the last 24 hours. Six deaths were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), five in Pune rural and one death in PCMC were reported on Thursday. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 1,99,339 Covid cases and 4,533 deaths till Thursday whereas PCMC has reported 97,440 cases so far and a total of 1,317 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 93,346 total cases so far and 2,138 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 3,90,125 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 3,75,550 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,030 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 6,545 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 5,339 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 19,48,674 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 95.71%. Across Maharashtra, 2,736 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 46 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.52%. The state health department stated out of 1,48,21561 laboratory samples, 20,36,002 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 13.74% patients till Thursday. Currently 1,78,676 people are in home quarantine and 1,911 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/active-covid-cases-in-pune-district-now-6545-101612529367039.html
05-02-2021||Pune||Vaccination sites increased to 135 in Pune division||The administration has increased the Covid-19 vaccination sites from current 89 to 135 in Pune division.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will also increase the sites within its limits from 16 to 25 as per the directives by the health department.Every site will now inoculate 100 beneficiaries, thus increasing the number of beneficiaries.Dr Ashish Bharati, chief, health department, PMC, said, “We have got directives from the health department to increase the vaccination sites to 25 in the city limits. We will be starting the new sites soon. We are gradually increasing the sites. So far we have increased the sites to 19 which will go up to 25.”The health department will inoculate 100 beneficiaries at each site which will increase the vaccination in the city and division.“We will inoculate 100 beneficiaries every day. Two of our officials will also be present at each site. One will be responsible for vaccination and another will be involved in the logistics. We are seeing higher vaccination at sites due to on-site allocation of vaccination,” said Dr Bharati.As per the directives, at least five days of vaccination each week is compulsory at all sites.“If the beneficiaries at the site are more, then the capacity of that site can be increased,” stated the notification.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director, Pune region, which includes Pune, Solapur and Satara districts said there are excess vaccination doses for all increased sites.“We are planning to extend vaccination to six days. Also, along with the number of sites, we will be expanding the number of vaccinations at each site where there are more beneficiaries. As of now, we have over 1.5 lakh doses in excess. And so we are targeting the vaccination of more beneficiaries in a short time,” said Deshmukh.He further added that many parts of the Pune region have started vaccination of frontline workers as well.As per the health department, to inoculate frontline workers, the link on Co-WIN app has been activated for Amravati, Parbhani, Sangli, and Satara.“The link for Pune city has not been activated yet. As soon as it gets activated. We will start vaccination of frontline workers in PMC limits,” said Dr Bharati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-sites-increased-to-135-in-pune-division-101612528287295.html
05-02-2021||Dehradun||Centre, Uttarakhand govt sign MoU on ₹173 cr science city project in Dehradun||A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Central government and Uttarakhand government for setting up of ₹173 crore science city in Dehradun in presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday.The MoU was signed between Uttarakhand State Council for Science & Technology (UCOST) and National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), an autonomous organisation under the Indian Ministry of Culture.The MoU was signed by Samarendra Kumar, director NCSM and managing director UCOST Rajendra Dobhal.Also read: Won't be intimidated, silenced - Meena Harris after protests over farmers' tweetsThe project will take four years to complete. The Centre will provide ₹88 crore while the state government will contribute ₹85 crore for the ambitious project.Rawat said special efforts are required to make the science city project a centre of attraction for all.“Efforts need to be made to complete the project on time. Such projects can be completed on time with strong will and collective efforts of all involved stakeholders,” he said.Rawat said the project will prove to be an important step in pushing the scientific legacy of India.“Our efforts would be to ensure that people see the uniqueness of Uttarakhand through such projects. The selection of land for the project will be made keeping in mind the ease for visitors and students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/centre-uttarakhand-govt-sign-mou-on-rs-173-cr-science-city-project-in-dehradun-101612525688742.html
05-02-2021||Other||Sisters say Ayodhya mosque land theirs, move HC||The Uttar Pradesh government will file a reply in the Allahabad high court if needed to a writ petition challenging the allotment of five-acre land for a mosque in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village, an official said on condition of anonymity on Friday.Delhi-based sisters Rani Baluja and Rama Punjabi filed the writ petition on Wednesday, claiming ownership of the land allotted to the Sunni Waqf Board. They have sought a stay on all construction work on the land.“The court will decide whether to admit the writ or not on February 8. If the writ is admitted, then the court will list the case for hearing and will decide a date,” said lawyer GS Chauhan.Also Read | UP CM Yogi to visit Ayodhya to review developmental projectsThe Uttar Pradesh government allotted the land in compliance with Supreme Court’s November 9, 2019, verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title dispute case.The sisters have said their father, Gyan Chandra Punjabi, was allotted 28-acre land in Dhannipur when he came to India from Pakistan in 1947 and settled in Ayodhya.The Sunni Waqf Board launched the construction work on January 26 by hoisting the national flag and planting saplings to mark Republic Day celebrations.Athar Hussain, a spokesman for the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation constituted for construction, said the government has allotted the land for the mosque and they will follow its instruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisters-say-ayodhya-mosque-land-theirs-move-hc-101612526066117.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP hopes to sweep Punjab civic body elections with broom||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership in Punjab started its campaign for the civic body elections by sweeping streets in Bathinda on Friday. Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and party legislators from different districts gathered at the local Arya Samaj with brooms, the AAP’s election symbol. Cheema said it is for the first time that the party has fielded candidates for local bodies across Punjab and looked forward to emerging as a major political force at the municipal corporation level. “The aim of starting the state-level election campaign from Bathinda is to highlight the failure of local Congress legislator and state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Manpreet held the finance portfolio in the previous Akali regime and now in the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, but the state coffers continue to remain empty. He has failed to bring any change in his own constituency,” said Cheema. He said the Bathinda MLA has failed as finance minister as people from all spheres, including state employees, are dissatisfied. Cheema said over the years, local bodies in Punjab have become synonymous with corruption and undue political interference has hampered developmental activities. Barnala MLA Meet Singh Hayer charged the Amarinder government with failing to fulfil the promises in the Congress manifesto. “The AAP has proved its model of governance in Delhi and is committed to introducing similar functioning in municipalities. It will make way for bringing a political alternative at the state government level and stands for transparency and accountability,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-hopes-to-sweep-punjab-civic-body-elections-with-broom-101612525826624.html
05-02-2021||Pune||Tale of three crime families of Pune - Taak, Dudhani, Kalyani: 31 members and 1,100 cases||The residential area under the water tank in Ramtekdi area of Pune looks like any other colony of shanties; close knit houses and small shops. That is the case in Vaiduwadi area of Hadapsar. What makes these places stand apart are some of the residents of these areas. At least 30 members of these three families, collectively, have a record of over 1,000 cases against them, as per the records maintained by the Pune city police.These two spots are known residential areas of members of three crime families that have earned a spot in the special books of the Pune police - Taak, Dudhani, and Kalyani.The family trio has makings of a multiple part series on an OTT platform - inter-familial rivalries, murder, theft, legacies, and ways of avoiding arrest.Every few months a press statement is issued by either the Pune city of Pimpri-Chinchwad police of some of the people from one or more of the three families getting arrested as a result of which multiple cases of vehicle theft and house break-in thefts are detected. Some names get repeated often, month-after-month, while new names get added every once in a while. Which begs the questions - how many of them are there? and why do they manage to evade longer jail time?The question is answered partially by the type of crimes that they commit as pointed out by Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police in a recent press briefing.“The crimes they commit are not considered as serious crimes in the court. Therefore, once the police custody is over, they make bail and go back to their old ways,” he said.Shedding light on their activities in Pune city, Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune said, “We have many sikalgaris who habitually commit house break-in thefts in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, some of them having more than 40-50 cases too. Crime branch as well as police stations have made many successful detections in which sikalgaris were involved and a regular surveillance is kept on them. Stringent preventive action is under progress against habitual offenders.” Of the 33 people on the radar of Pune police, at least 12 have a record of over 50 cases against them. In a seemingly disproportionate statistic recorded by the Pune police, a 19-year-old has 91 cases registered against him. The 19-year-old, however, was killed in a fight among the youngsters of two families -Taak and Kalyani.As per the police record of the case, Paitarsingh Taak (19) was killed as a fallout of a fight that his brother Tilaksingh Taak (28) has with Vickysingh Kalyani (25). Tilaksingh had broken an arm of Vickysingh in a fight as a result of which, he was arrested, during which time, Vickysingh and three others hacked Paitarsingh to death on the night of July 23, 2020.Advocate Aslam Sayyed, who represents most of these men from all three families in the court, pointed out that the family members do not deny their involvement in most of the crimes. “This is how they make a living. They do not deny it. But they are falsely implicated in some of the cases definitely. Once marked as a criminal, it is difficult to get that tag off. And it is not like they want to either. They do have small businesses like fabrication, blacksmith, earth movers and pig-rearing. But those are not their main source of income,” said Advocate Sayyed.The Taak family is headed by siblings Ballusingh (30) and Ujalasingh (24) while the Kalyani family is headed by siblings Baitusingh alias Karansingh (24) and Ravisingh (22) and the Dudhani family is headed by Papasingh alias Charansingh (42), according to their lawyer. Some of the most notorious names in the list of those alive are Lakhansingh Rajputsingh Dudhani (36) a resident of Ramtekdi area of Hadapsar, who has a history of 81 cases. One of the youngest adults in the list of 11 living members of the three families who has over 50 cases against them is Sunnysingh Papasingh Dudhani (21) a resident of Birajdarnagar in Mopedvasti in Ramtekdi who has a history of 57 cases and is currently in the custody of Pune police in a series of house-theft cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested two lesser-known members of the Taak family, Surjeetsingh Rajpalsingh Taak (35) and Jeetsingh alias Jeetu Rajpalsingh Taak (24), both residents of Birajdarnagar in Vaiduwadi, Hadapsar, in another case after which a recovery of cars and stolen valuables collectively worth ₹30 lakh was made. The backdated list of crimes against these men is long and their allies including jewellers who are located outside of Pune and buy stolen precious metals from them are fixed, according to well-placed sources. The multiple off-springs are carrying forward the legacy of their elders with each crime they commit and each case they are falsely implicated in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tale-of-three-crime-families-of-pune-taak-dudhani-kalyani-31-members-and-1-100-cases-101612523725585.html
05-02-2021||Pune||Road safety network appeals for launch of new mission||The road safety network, a nationwide umbrella group, appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch the Surakshit Bharat Mission to minimise road accidents and deaths.Ranjit Gadgil, programme director of Parisar organisation said, “The road safety network is a national coalition of road safety organisations working for safe roads in India. We wrote the letter to the prime minister and appealed to him to launch such a mission so that we can fix the target to bring down road crash fatalities and injuries by 50 per cent by 2025.”Gadgil said, “Every year 1.5 lakh lives and over six lakh injuries happen due to road accidents in India. With the right approach to road safety, we can reduce the number of crashes, minimise the fatalities and injuries that are caused in a crash and ensure that we save lives.”The organisation suggests following components for Surakshit Bharat Mission:- Declare clear, achievable national and statewide targets to reduce road crash fatalities and injuries- Create an independent and autonomous National Road Safety Board consisting of experts from the field which can provide recommendations without any political interference- Ensure full adoption of and compliance with the Motor Vehicles Act and ensure political leadership and support for strict enforcement, both stringent penalties and effective on road policing- Develop all new roads on best international safety standards- Implement the Bharat New Car Assessment programme with world quality safety- shift focus of performance indicators from speed to safety of all users- Create world class emergency care response system as well as rehabilitation of victims of road crashes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/road-safety-network-appeals-for-launch-of-new-mission-101612523005799.html
05-02-2021||Pune||PPP bridge from Bund garden road to Mundhwa in Pune planned to ease traffic problem||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has introduced a public private partnership (PPP) model to construct a new bridge from Bund garden to Mundhwa bridge which is parallel to the Mula-Mutha road to ease traffic problem of Koregaon park area. However, the corporation needs permission from the Khadakwasla irrigation department and environmental clearance from the state to go ahead for the project.Due to Covid-19 pandemic , PMC is currently facing financial crunch for the development work. Therefore, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar has introduced a development model to take help of private players to ease the financial burden. Commissioner has stated that 11 roads and two bridges have been planned to be developed on PPP model as well as gardens through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. Under the concept, PMC doesn’t need to spend money as private players will spend money and PMC will give credit notes which private players can use in building construction related activities to pay development charges, premium charges as well as transfer credit to developers. At present, there is no alternate road to reach Mundhwa, Hadapsar and Keshavnagar area through Koregaon Park. Due to developing Mundhwa and Keshavnagar area, North main road is facing traffic problems. To ease the traffic problem, the corporation has chosen a bridge of 5.5 kilometre parallel to the right bank of Mula-Mutha river and North Main road of Koregaon Park. The width of the road will be 30 metre as mentioned in the development plan of the city. Environment clearance and irrigation NOCAmar Shinde, executive engineer of the road department, said, “The proposed bridge has already been mentioned in the development plan of the city. It is parallel to the right bank of Mula-Mutha river. The bridge is divided into two portions- one is from Bund garden bridge to Aga Khan bridge and second starts from Westin hotel to Mundhwa bridge.”He further said, “Three kilometres of the bridge will pass through the riverbed and remaining portion of 2.50 kilometre is on land. For the land portion, we will have to acquire land. We will have to take permission from Khadakwasla irrigation department as the bridge is passing through the riverbed. Besides that, we will take environmental clearance from the state environment department. Right now, we have initiated a process with a floating tender to appoint a consultant.”Different from Vittalwadi road in riverbedPune municipal corporation received got a major setback during Vithalwadi to Pune-Mumbai National highway (NH-4) road construction which was passing through the Mutha riverbed.In 2014, NGT and Supreme Court had passed order to stop work and remove debris which was dumped to construct riverside road from Vithalwadi to Pune-Mumbai National Highway (NH-4) bypass in 2010. When asked about the similarity of bridges, Shinde said, “Both are different issues. There was a road constructed by putting debris in riverbed which was supposed to cause an obstacle to the natural water flow of the river. Here, there is no such issue. We are not going to dump debris in the riverbed.” RajendraKumar Mohite, chief engineer, water resource department, Pune, said, “We will mark the floodline in the riverbed. Bridge pillars have to be built so that it cannot create obstacles to river flow. We will check all necessary impacts on the river before sanctioning the plan, and we avoid giving permission in the blue line of the river.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ppp-bridge-from-bund-garden-road-to-mundhwa-in-pune-planned-to-ease-traffic-problem-101612522465736.html
05-02-2021||Pune||Elected members of Pune civic body demand physical general body meetings||Elected members of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have demanded restarting physical general body meetings instead online sessions.The Maharashtra government had instructed all the municipal corporations to conduct online meetings to maintain the social distancing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Congress leader in the Pune Municipal Corporation Aba Bagul, said, “The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is approving all the major issues without consulting opposition parties. They are not even allowing elected members to raise their voice in the online meetings. There have been many proposals approved by the administration and ruling the BJP. If the general body meetings are held physically, opposition parties can at least raise their voice against it. It is our request to the state government to restart the physical general body meetings.”Another Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “Though Congress and Shiv Sena both are ruling in the state government, it is our request to the government to allow physical general body meetings. Some of the members from other parties also plan to hold a demonstration in front of the PMC for holding physical general body meetings.”Opposition party leader in PMC Deepali Dhumal also sought holding physical general body meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/elected-members-of-pune-civic-body-demand-physical-general-body-meetings-101612522345703.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole appointed Maharashtra Congress chief||All India Congress Committee (AICC) has appointed former assembly speaker Nana Patole as its Maharashtra unit chief. It has also appointed six working presidents—former ministers Shivajirao Moghe, Chandrakant Handore, Arif Naseem Khan, Basavraj Patil and MLAs Praniti Sushilkumar Shinde and Kunal Rohidas Patil.Patole, 56, resigned as assembly speaker on Thursday evening. AICC announced the new organisational body for Maharashtra on Friday. It has also appointed 10 new vice-presidents including Ramesh Bagwe, Hussain Dalwai, Shirish Chaudhari and Mohan Joshi among others. The party has also replaced its parliamentary board under the new state president. The 37-member board comprises three former chief ministers, Ashok Chavan, Sushilkumar Shinde, Prithviraj Chavan, former Cabinet ministers Shivraj Patil Chakurkar, Milind Deora, Mukul Wasnik, Vilas Muttemwar, and all incumbent state Cabinet ministers among others. Also Read | Who is Nana Patole and why is he expected to lead Congress in Maharashtra?The party’s new six working presidents replace the existing five, most of whom have been accommodated in the state Cabinet. Keeping an eye on the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, the party has appointed two working presidents from Mumbai. Arif Naseem Khan is the party’s Muslim face, while Handore is a prominent Dalit leader. Former social justice minister Shivajirao Moghe is a tribal leader from Vidarbha, while Basavraj Patil, a Lingayat, has been appointed to represent Marathwada. Praniti Shinde, daughter of Sushilkumar Shinde and Kunal Patil, son of former minister Rohidas Patil represent western and north Maharashtra.Patole, a four-time legislator from Bhandara, is seen as an aggressive leader from the Vidarbha region, an erstwhile Congress stronghold where the party now faces strong competition from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Political analyst Pratap Asbe said Patole’s organisational skills are yet to be proved, but he enjoys mass support in parts of Vidarbha. “Not being part of the state Cabinet, unlike previous chief Balasaheb Thorat, will help him in asserting the party position on political issues.”According to a Congress leader, the new appointments have struck a regional, caste balance and have given due representation to new faces and the old guard alike. “Leaders like Moghe, Arif Naseem Khan, Basavraj Patil have been elevated after they lost the elections in 2019. The party leadership expects the new team to regain its old glory in the state, especially in rural Maharashtra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-appointed-maharashtra-congress-chief-101612522165561.html
05-02-2021||Pune||March 31 deadline: Pune civic body conducts meeting with housing societies on waste management||Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) solid waste department has started conducting meetings with housing societies to make them aware of the March 31 deadline to install garbage treatment plant to process or treat their wet garbage within the premises.After March 31 PMC will stop lifting garbage from housing societies.According to officials of the solid waste management department, they are getting a positive response from housing societies.Ajit Deshmukh, head, solid waste department, PMC, said, “There are five zones in the city. Till February 3, we have conducted meetings in two zones. Now, we are covering the remaining three zones in the coming days.”Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said, “The municipal corporation has started conducting meetings with members of residential housing societies, establishments, hotels to convey the message of deadline and make arrangements of processing wet garbage within society premises.”“We have identified around 750 establishments which are generating bulk wet garbage. We are convincing them to make provision of processing wet garbage in their societies. They are giving positive responses and have started implementing it,” he said.“Some of them are giving reasons like unavailability of space. We have suggested them to take help from a private agency which can process it,” he said.Last month, PMC had given an ultimatum to establishments which are generating a bulk of more than 100 kg garage per day to recycle wet waste otherwise pay a heavy fine and warned that the corporation will not lift the garbage. PMC also suggested that establishments can appoint private agencies where they can process wet garbage if establishments face a problem of space to recycle waste.As per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, “Bulk waste generator” means and includes buildings occupied by the central government departments or undertakings, state government departments or undertakings, local bodies, public sector undertakings or private companies, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, colleges, universities, other educational institutions, hostels, hotels, commercial establishments, markets, places of worship, stadia and sports complexes among others having an average waste generation rate exceeding 100kg per day (of all waste streams put together).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/march-31-deadline-pune-civic-body-conducts-meeting-with-housing-societies-on-waste-management-101612522105539.html
05-02-2021||Other||MP: 5-year-old allegedly raped, killed by person accused of raping her aunt||A 31-year-old man released on bail a fortnight back allegedly raped and killed the five-year-old niece of a Dalit woman he is accused of raping in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena in June last year, a police officer said.Police superintendent Sunil Kumar Pandey said the accused had threatened the family with dire consequences when he was arrested in June for raping the girl’s aunt. “...[he] was released on bail 15 days ago,” he said.The girl’s body has been sent for post-mortem and a heavy police force has been deployed in her village as residents took to the streets demanding capital punishment for the accused. “Guards have been deployed at the house of the victim. Police and administration are trying to pacify them [the residents],” said Pandey.Also Read | Rajasthan BJP MLA booked for raping Neemuch woman on pretext of marriagePandey said the accused has been rearrested and booked for rape and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.He added the body of the girl, who stayed with her grandparents, was found in a pool of blood hours after she went missing on Thursday. “...[she was] rushed to a nearby hospital where a doctor declared her brought dead.” The accused was seen near the murder scene when the girl’s family was looking for her in a nearby agricultural field.The girl’s grandfather called her murder a revenge killing. He added they fear for their lives as the family of the accused could harm them. “Our lives are under threat. We want protection and also justice for my granddaughter.”(With inputs from Mahesh Shivhare in Gwalior)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-accused-of-raping-woman-arrested-for-violating-killing-her-niece-in-mp-101612521385406.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla at standstill after heaviest snowfall in Feb in 18 years||A day after Shimla received the heaviest snowfall in February in almost two decades, life came to a standstill with no electricity and roads closed to traffic on Friday. The meteorological department said the state capital got 57cm of snow, the heaviest single day snowfall in February after 2002. The town got 54.1cm of snow on February 12, 2002. “All roads leading to the state capital were closed due to slippery conditions in the morning. Work is on to clear the snow and by afternoon traffic resumed on the main roads. Only 4×4 vehicles are plying on Cart Road,” said Shimla superintendent of police Mohit Chawla. More than 650 roads across the state remained closed due to the snowfall, while 450 bus routes were affected and over 400 buses stranded at various places. Chawla said there were reports of 45-60cm of snowfall at Khara Pathar, Tikkar, Sungri, Khadrala and Dodra-Kwar in Rohru sub division. Rohru and Jubbal towns in the apple belt experienced up to nine inches of snow each. The public works department has pressed men and machinery into service to clear the snow and restore traffic. Uprooted trees lead to snapping of overhead wires There was no electricity in 800 villages of Rohru. Electricity and water supply was also disrupted in many localities of Shimla for more than 24 hours. The heavy snow left trees uprooted, causing the snapping of overhead wires and power outages. “Over a dozen trees were uprooted in different parts of the town,” said Shimla municipal corporation commissioner Ashish Kohli. A majority of the main roads in the town were thrown open to traffic on Friday afternoon. “The distribution schedule was affected due to the power outage at water treatment plants,” the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited authorities said, adding the town received only 29.17 mls of water supply from various sources on Friday. Tourists advised to avoid snowbound areas In view of the inclement weather, the state authorities have appealed to tourists to avoid travelling to the snowbound areas. The rain and snowfall across the state are considered good for the wheat and apple crops. The higher reaches of the state also experienced heavy snowfall, while low-lying areas got moderate to heavy rainfall, intensifying the cold wave as temperatures plummeted below freezing point. Kalpa in Kinnaur got 6.6cm of snow, Keylong and Jubberhatti 6cm each, Manali 5cm and Dalhousie 3.6 cm. Jubberhatti experienced 56.4 mm of rain, Solan 49.8mm, Paonta Sahib 17.8mm, Bhunter 10.6mm, Nahan 9.9mm and Dharamshala 2.2mm of rain. Keylong was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of -7.2 degrees Celsius followed by Kalpa at 4.3 degrees. Shimla shivered at -1, while Manali and Solan recorded lows of zero degrees Celsius each. “Today light rainfall and snowfall is likely at isolated places in Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Sirmaur and Shimla districts. The skies will be clear from Saturday,” said Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said. “The minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 3-5degrees Celsius over the next two days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-at-standstill-after-heaviest-snowfall-in-feb-in-18-years-101612519286496.html
05-02-2021||Patna||Bihar Raj Bhawan vests SHEC with power to vet varsity statutes, ordinances||All pending draft ordinances and regulations in different universities of Bihar, as well as the draft statutes, now have to be directly referred to the state higher education council (SHEC) for examination. After deliberation, the SHEC will send them to Raj Bhawan for final approval with its comments.Bihar governor’s secretariat has written to all the vice chancellors, education department and the SHEC for compliance to ensure a smooth and fast workflow. Hitherto, the universities sent their ordinances, statutes and regulations directly to the chancellor’s secretariat for approval, which often consumed a lot of time and led to long pendency.According to a senior official, around 73 ordinances, regulations and draft statutes, many related to distance education courses being run by different universities, are pending and would be referred to the SHEC for examination.RL Chongthu, secretary to the governor, has instructed that the draft statutes prepared by the statute committee should also be sent to the SHEC for its opinion.“Any draft statute requiring the consent of the government shall be referred by the SHEC to the government for prior approval before sending it to the chancellor’s office for further action,” he added.The SHEC has also been vested with the responsibility of suggesting a roadmap to the chancellor as well as the Bihar government for implementation of the new education policy (NEP) in the higher education sphere.SHEC was constituted under the Bihar State Higher Education Council Act, 2018. The bill had been passed by the Bihar assembly in March 2018 itself, but it got the governor’s nod in January 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-raj-bhawan-vests-shec-with-power-to-vet-varsity-statutes-ordinances-101612518818794.html
05-02-2021||Jaipur||In another temple robbery in Jaipur, 4 octal metal idols stolen on Friday||Four-days after 30 idols were stolen from a Jain temple in Jaipur, another Jain temple in the city was robbed of precious idols and ornaments on early Friday morning.Around 3.15 am on Friday, four to five masked men entered the temple premises from the terrace of the neighbouring house. The robbers slipped inside the temple after removing a net cover, alerting the guards Ashish Yadav and Navratan.“When the two guards woke-up, the accused threatened them with a pistol and tied them up. They took the keys to the temple and made away with four idols of lord Parshvanath, made up of ‘ashtadhatu’ (octal metal), and a silver throne,” said a city police official.At around 3.27am, the guards somehow untied themselves and informed the officials of the temple committee, following which, police were informed and an investigation was launched.“The CCTV footage of the nearby areas are being scanned by the control room located at the office of city police commissioner. Also, the calls recorded at the nearest cell phone towers are being analyzed to trace the suspects,” the police official said.Also Read: Jaisalmer locals sign deal to keep flights to city operational to save tourismOn Monday, thirty antique idols were stolen from Digambar Jain temple in Ghati Ki Guni area of Jaipur. The stolen statues, made of ashtadhatu (octal metal) and stone, were around 500-years old.The thieves had locked the temple priest’s and a female mendicant in two rooms. When the priest broke open the door, he found all locks on the temple premises broken.“There is a high possibility of one gang’s hand behind both the incidents. Both the cases will be sorted out soon,” said Anand Srivastava, commissioner of police, Jaipur city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/in-another-temple-robbery-in-jaipur-4-octal-metal-idols-stolen-on-friday-101612517495140.html
05-02-2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer locals sign deal to keep flights to city operational to save tourism||In a unique initiative to salvage tourism, the local businessmen in Jaisalmer have inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with SpiceJet to ensure the air carrier continues commercial flights to the golden city unhindered between February 12 and March 13 this year, according to officials.The MoU states that if the air service company has to operate flights to Jaisalmer at a loss in the stated period, then the locals involved in the tourism business will bear it. The airline will also give an account of the seats booked every 15 days, as per the MoU signed on Thursday in the presence of Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi.The locals involved in tourism business in Jaisalmer decided to salvage their businesses after SpiceJet stopped its flight to the city from January 28, citing high cost and low passenger load. Realising that discontinuation of the flight service could severely impact their businesses at the end of the winter months, considered the most lucrative period for tourism in the region, the local businessmen engaged the airline management for a win-win formula.“A dozen of businessmen involved in the hospitality and tourism sector have signed the MoU with Spice Jet in the presence of the district administration. This is a very good initiative to save the tourism industry of Jaisalmer. From February 12, the air service will run smoothly. I congratulate the people of the district in this regard. This agreement has been made possible with public participation, which will determine the future of Jaisalmer,” said Ashish Modi, district collector, Jaisalmer.Modi added that according to the agreement signed between SpiceJet and Jaisalmer development committee, the operational cost of flights will be calculated for 15 days.“If the airline incurs loss then it will be borne by the local businessmen. For this, a guarantee fund of ₹84 lakh has been created too. Calculation of loss and profit will be done every 15 days,” said Modi.Also Read: Rajasthan HC issues notice on illegal mining hazard near Indo-Pak borderAccording to the understanding, flights to Delhi and Ahmedabad will be operated thrice a week from Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer-Delhi flights will operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and Jaisalmer-Ahmedabad flights will be operated on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. SpiceJet has reported an expenditure of ₹6 lakh for each round to Delhi and ₹1 lakh for the flight to Ahmedabad.Around 90,000 Indian tourists and 25,000 foreign tourists visited Jaisalmer in 2020. In 2019, the tourist footfall was 3.5 lakh, as per the official data from the tourism department.“Covid pandemic was the reason behind the decline in tourism in 2020. However, the number of tourists has increased gradually since November last year,” said a district official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaisalmer-locals-sign-deal-to-keep-flights-to-city-operational-to-save-tourism-101612515287124.html
05-02-2021||Patna||Bihar decides to reopen schools for students of Class 6 to 8 from February 8||Bihar government on Friday announced that it will reopen schools for students of Class 6 to 8 from February 8, news agency ANI reported.The government in Bihar had ordered closure of schools and colleges owing to the coronavirus pandemic since March 14. The government reopened educational institutions including schools, colleges and coaching centres earlier on January 4 after nine months.Classes with 50% attendance were held for students of standards 9-12 in schools and final year students in colleges. Students from classes 9-12 were attending classes in two shifts, with 50% of a class' capacity in each shift.The government has ordered educational institutions to follow strict Covid-19 preventative measures and ensure proper physical distancing during classes. A crisis management group of the Bihar government had taken the decision to reopen educational institutions on December 18. Earlier in January when the state government had decided to reopen schools it had also asked school authorities to ensure whether they have any COVID symptoms and to randomly conduct medical examination of pupils. The principal secretary of the department of education Sanjay Kumar had said children will be permitted to enter the educational institutions only if they wear masks. He had also said that each student will be given two masks each when they reach school.Bihar has vaccinated more than 221,354 workers in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. The state has 724 active cases of Covid-19 and has recorded 1,510 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-decides-to-reopen-schools-for-students-of-class-6-to-8-from-february-8-101612514647533.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shiv Sena organises protests against rising fuel prices||Legislators and key functionaries of the ruling Shiv Sena on Friday led protests in Mumbai as part of a state-wide campaign against the rising fuel and cooking gas prices. The party has warned it would intensify the protests if the Centre does not take steps to reduce the prices.Sena leader Ashish Chemburkar, who led protests in Byculla, said the Centre has been increasing the fuel prices since the Covid-19 lockdown was lifted. He added soon the petrol price will reach ₹100 per litre. “The Union government has been looting the common man for months by increasing the fuel prices... This has to stop. Shiv Sena will intensify protests if the Centre does not arrest the price rise.”Also Read | Who is Nana Patole and why is he expected to lead Congress in Maharashtra?Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis said the state government should reduce its share of taxes on fuel to bring the prices down.Chemburkar said the price of petrol after a reduction in the state tax would be ₹92 per litre. “Do the ones who are seeking the reduction in the state’s tax think fuel price of ₹92 is less?”Petrol price in Maharashtra was highest in Parbhani at ₹96 per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shiv-sena-organises-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-101612513995497.html
05-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP indulging in malicious propaganda over 'rath yatra' clearance in Bengal: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Friday accused the BJP of indulging in "malicious propaganda" over denial of permission to hold its 'rath yatra' in West Bengal, asserting that the ruling party has nothing to do with providing such clearance.The All India Trinamool Congress said on Twitter that the state government has not denied permission to the BJP's programme in contrary to the claims of the saffron party."GoWB has not denied permission to any Yatra, as claimed by @BJP4Bengal. They are indulging in malicious propaganda with neither substance nor truth."BJP must show material evidence of GoWB denying permission to their Yatra. This is BJP's attempt to claim victimhood," the AITC said on the microblogging site.The BJP has decided to take out rath yatras across the state in February and March to drum up support for the upcoming assembly polls.BJP president J P Nadda is scheduled to inaugurate the programme from Nabadwip in Nadia on Saturday.The TMC said the BJP functionary had sought permission from the state chief secretary's office which directed them to local authorities."A PIL was also filed regarding the same in the High Court & the matter is now sub judice. We thereby clarify that AITC has nothing to do with this issue," it said.A PIL was filed before the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday, praying for its interference to prevent the BJP's planned 'rath yatra' across the state, claiming that it would impact the COVID-19 situation and law and order in the state.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh had on Thursday said the rath yatra was part of the party's outreach programme ahead of the polls and alleged that the TMC was trying to create obstacles but will not succeed.Ghosh also said the party will go as per law.Earlier, in 2018, the BJP had planned rath yatras across the state, but the programme was called off at the very last moment as the state government refused to give permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-indulging-in-malicious-propaganda-over-rath-yatra-clearance-in-bengal-tmc-101612513795499.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Who is Nana Patole and why is he expected to lead Congress in Maharashtra?||Nana Patole, 56, the four-time legislator from Bhandara expected to be named as the next Maharashtra Congress chief, is seen as an aggressive leader from the Vidarbha region, an erstwhile stronghold where the party now faces strong competition from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He resigned as the Maharashtra assembly Speaker on Thursday after meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ahead of his expected appointment in a day or two.Patole returned to the Congress in 2017, three years after he defected to the BJP. He defeated NCP’s Praful Patel from Bhandara-Gondia constituency in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections on a BJP ticket. Patole hit the headlines in 2017 when he criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi before quitting the BJP. Within days of his re-induction, Patole was appointed as the Congress’s farmers’ wing chief. He was elected as an assembly member for the fourth time in 2019 and became the Speaker.Also Read | Nana Patole resigns as Maharashtra speaker, to be state Congress chiefThe Congress is believed to chosen Patole as it wanted an aggressive non-Maratha leader from the Vidarbha region for the role who could assert the party’s position in the competition among the state’s four major political parties--allies Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) as well as the BJP.The political space in Maharashtra is crowded and the party seeks an aggressive leader to make his presence felt. Many in the state Congress unit feel that the party lags behind Shiv Sena and the NCP, which have ambitious expansion plans.Patole belongs to the Kunbi community, which falls under the Other Backward Class category. The community is counted among the Congress supporters in the Vidarbha region.Patole has been vocal on the issues of farmers and is not seen to be allied to any group within the state Congress.A Congress leader said Maharashtra Congress was divided into two groups and pushing for the nomination of minister Vijay Wadettiwar and Rajya Sabha member Rajiv Satav when the change in the party leadership became apparent. “Incumbent chief Balasaheb Thorat’s group backed Satav. Former state unit chief Ashok Chavan’s camp supported Wadettiwar. Patole so far does not have a camp. He is not seen to be close to any of the established leaders in the state Congress--Thorat, Chavan or former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan,” said the leader, who did not want to be named.Thorat holds three key posts and wanted to be divested of his responsibility as the state chief.A second Congress leader said Patole will have a tough job as he will have to deal with top leaders like Ashok Chavan, Thorat, and Prithviraj Chavan. “...he has no strong support group in the state unit. His aggressive attitude may prove to be a hurdle in coordination with other parties in [the ruling] MVA [Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi] and also running the party unit,” the leader said, requesting anonymity. “There was friction between Patole and other leaders when he announced statewide rallies ahead of assembly polls in 2019. Patole did not get cooperation from other leaders who blamed his style of working.”Political analyst Pratap Asbe said Patole’s organisational skills are yet to be proved, but he enjoys mass support in parts of Vidarbha. “Not being part of the state Cabinet, unlike incumbent chief Balasaheb Thorat, will help him in asserting the party position on political issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/who-is-nana-patole-and-why-is-he-expected-to-lead-congress-in-maharashtra-101612513094559.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC shortlists 13 private hospitals for vaccination of general public||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shortlisted 13 private hospitals for Covid-19 vaccination drive for the general public in Mumbai.The civic body will issue a list of the shortlisted hospitals soon, it said.BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have shortlisted 13 private hospitals for now which will be allowed to undertake vaccination for the third phase for general public. However, we are scrutinising applications of more private hospitals, and this number [of private hospitals for vaccination drive] will increase in the coming days.”Also Read | India adds 12,408 Covid-19 cases, active cases fall below 152,000He added, “Currently, for the first and second phase we are managing with government-run hospitals for vaccination, but the third phase will require help of private hospitals as well.”On the number of people to be vaccinated once private hospitals are roped in, Kakani said that would be decided once there is clarity on the vaccine supply for the third phase.However, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had earlier said around 100,000 citizens can be vaccinated once private hospitals are roped in for vaccination drive.Meanwhile, as of Thursday the BMC had vaccinated 62,954 beneficiaries wherein Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar has vaccinated highest the most, 9,461 people, followed by Bhabha Hospital at 9,454 inoculations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibmc-shortlists-13-private-hospitals-for-vaccination-of-general-public-101612512674912.html
05-02-2021||Ranchi||Former Jharkhand minister Haji Ansari’s son inducted in Hemant Soren cabinet||Hafizul Ansari, son of former Jharkhand minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari, who died in October last year, was inducted in the Hemant Soren cabinet on Friday.Governor Draupadi Murmu administered him oath of office and secrecy at a ceremony at Raj Bhawan in Ranchi in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren, his cabinet colleagues, Rajya Sabha MP and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren besides members of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance.The serving minister, and a four-term legislator from Madhupur in Santhal Pargana division of the state, died of heart attack on October 3, a day after recovering from Covid-19 at a private hospital here.In a sudden move, CM Soren decided to induct Haji Ansari’s son, who is not yet a member of the Jharkhand legislative assembly, as the 10th member of his cabinet. One berth in the 12-member Jharkhand cabinet continues to remain vacant.Constitutional provisions allow an unelected member to be sworn in as a minister, but the person is expected to become a member of the assembly within six months of becoming a minister.By-election for Madhupur assembly seat is likely to be held next month and Hafizul is all set to enter the fray as the JMM candidate. Madhupur has traditionally witnessed a direct electoral battle between the JMM and the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/former-jharkhand-minister-haji-ansari-s-son-inducted-in-hemant-soren-cabinet-101612512262736.html
05-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP MLA booked for raping Neemuch woman on pretext of marriage||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Rajasthan MLA from Gogunda, Prataplal Bheel has been booked on Friday for allegedly raping a 35-year-old woman on pretext of marriage, said police.The complainant, from Neemuch district of Madhya Pradesh, has accused the 56-year-old leader of enticing her into a physical relationship by falsely promising marriage. The MLA said he was not aware of the case registered against him.“Some years-ago, I had met Bheel in a social function held in Neemuch, where he was a guest; after which we became acquaintances and confided in each other about our dissatisfactory relationship with our partners. Gradually, we became good friends before the MLA proposed me with marriage, which I refused. But he continued to repeat his proposal on several occasion, which I finally accepted on the condition that he will take permission from his family members,” reads the complainant’s statement.The complainant claimed that the MLA told her that he had parted ways with his first wife with her consent in the presence of community heads.“Further, we kept meeting in Neemuch and Udaipur in the last two years. On November 8, 2020, the MLA called me to say he had managed to convince his family members. After which, I reached an apartment in Udaipur, where he developed physical relations with me promising marriage. After that incident, he stopped picking my calls and gradually started avoiding me,” the woman said in the statement.Also Read: Rajasthan HC issues notice on illegal mining hazard near Indo-Pak borderShe further alleged to have been spurned by the MLA’s wife in the month of January, when she phoned the MLA. After this incident, the woman says, she realised that she had been “fooled”.Udaipur superintendent of police (SP) Rajeev Pachar said a case has been registered against the MLA under section 376 (rape) of IPC. “The statements of the complainant have been recorded and videography of the spot has been done. Medical test of the victim has been done too,” he said.The Udaipur SP added that since the case is related to an MLA, the investigation has been transferred to the crime branch.“I have no idea about the case. I cannot make any comments,” said Gogunda MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-mla-booked-for-raping-neemuch-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage-101612510746480.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Corporation tables budget, no new projects, tax increase this year||Thane Municipal Corporation tabled a budget estimate of ₹2,755 for 2021-22, which is a whopping ₹1,300 crore less than the revised estimate of ₹4,068 crore for 2020-21. The budget has no new project slated this year as the focus is merely on improving revenue and maintaining assets already created in the city. The budget will be reviewed mid-year when, depending on the financial and pandemic situation, new projects may be allotted. There is no increase in taxes. Dr Vipin Sharma, the municipal commissioner, said, “This is a realistic budget. We will get a clear picture on the Covid-19 situation in the next few months. As of now, the budget is tabled based on the present situation; we will revise it midterm if the situation improves. There are no new projects undertaken this year, we will only focus maintaining the assets already created.”Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress corporators and members of the standing committee created a ruckus in the special meeting called for budget presentation in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), in Maharashtra. They demanded that the corporation should first report the status of implementation of the earlier budget before playing to the gallery. The NCP and Congress members stood on the standing committee table and refused to allow the budget to progress while shouting anti-administration slogans. Also Read | Mumbai civic body budget: 65 spots picked for food hubsHanumant Jagdale, NCP corporator, said, “Every year we merely attend the budget presentation and approve it. There are huge promises of mega projects for the city while there is no actual implementation. Last year, despite allocations for corporators none of the corporators got any funds.”Vikrant Chavan, Congress corporator, added, “The administration has tabled a list of civic works worth ₹455 crore before the committee; however, none of the work orders of the projects in the previous budget have been approved yet. We do not want any big false promises in the budget. The administration should give us the actual estimate of revenue loss last year and the status of the budget. We will not allow the budget to be presented until then.”The budget presentation started amid all ruckus at 12.15pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-ncp-congress-corporators-create-ruckus-during-budget-presentation-101612509795192.html
05-02-2021||Patna||2 Maoists arrested from Muzaffarpur in Bihar||Sleuths of special task force (STF) of Bihar police arrested two hardcore members of proscribed outfit CPI (Maoist) from two different places under the Turki police outpost of the Kurhani police station in Muzaffarpur late on Thursday night, said officials.Both the arrested men are wanted in more than ten cases, registered with various police stations in Muzaffarpur and Vaishali districts. They are prime accused in the case of railway track explosion near Goraul railway station and an attack on a road construction company, engaged in widening of national highway 77, connecting Hajipur and Sitamarhi via Muzaffarpur.Confirming the arrest, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muzaffarpur, Jayant Kant said that both were absconding for many years. “We had some intelligence inputs about both of them returning to their native places in the villages under the Turki OP. The intelligence inputs were shared with the STF officials, who raided their native places and arrested them. They have been taken to the Kurhani police station and are being quizzed by various teams of district police along with STF and CID men,” said Kant.He added that the arrested Maoists had been identified as Basant Bhagat of Chhajan village and Gonaur Paswan of Dholi Ratan village.“Both were arrested in back to back raids within one hour. The raiding teams have recovered some incriminating documents, including hand bills and Maoist literature from their possession,” said the SSP.However, a member of the investigating team said that Basant was in a mood to contest the panchayat elections. “He is planning to contest for the mukhiya post in the panchayat election this year. So, he has returned to his native place from Punjab, where he had taken shelter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2-maoists-arrested-from-muzaffarpur-in-bihar-101612506399669.html
05-02-2021||Lucknow||UP Police book mother, brother for draping farmer’s body in tricolour||The Uttar Pradesh police have booked relatives of a 32-year-old farmer for draping his body in the tricolour before his last rites in the state’s Pilibhit district on Thursday.Pilibhit police superintendent Jai Prakash said Baljinder Singh, the farmer, reportedly died in a road accident while he was on his way to join the farmers’ protest in Ghaziabad. His last rites were performed on Wednesday. “His family reportedly draped Baljinder’s body in the tricolour before the cremation. This is an insult to the national flag.” He added only the body of a person given a national honour can be draped in a tricolour like this. “...an FIR [first information report] was lodged against the family members,” said Prakash.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: India may seek help from Canada in Greta toolkit probeBaljinder’s mother, Jasveer Kaur, and brother Gurvinder Singh have been named in the FIR filed on the complaint of Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, the in-charge of Sehramau police station.Prakash said the FIR has been registered under the Prevention of Insults to the National Honour Act, which provides for imprisonment of up to three years. “The matter is being investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-police-book-mother-brother-for-draping-farmer-s-body-in-tricolour-101612506494950.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Drug probe: NCB arrests two more in Sushant Singh Rajput case||As part of its continuous investigation into the drug angle of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in 2020, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday night arrested two more persons, British national Karan Sejnani and celebrity manager Rahila Furniturewala.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed that the two were arrested in connection with the case. The number of arrests made by the agency in the case has now gone up to 33.NCB had earlier arrested Sejnani and Furniturewala, former assistant of a Bollywood actress, on January 9 in a separate case after the agency raided their residences in Khar and Bandra, respectively, and seized around 200 kilograms of imported strains of marijuana.Also Read | Sushant Singh’s friend to be produced before court todayNCB claimed that Furniturewala was in touch with alleged drug supplier Anuj Keshwani who was arrested on September 6 last year in connection with the death of Rajput. The agency had raided Keshwani’s house in Khar and had seized 590gm hashish, 0.64gm LSD sheets, 304gm marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, and ₹1.85 lakh in cash and some foreign currency.Sejnani was allegedly supplying imported strains of marijuana to Furniturewala and Keshwani, said NCB officials.Sejnani was arrested following a specific input, after NCB officers seized around 340 grams of marijuana from three parcels during raids at the office of a courier company in Bandra. After arresting Sejnani and seizing drugs from his residence, the agency also raided Furniturewala’s home and seized 5kg of marijuana.During Sejnani’s interrogation, the agency found a connection to Sameer Khan, the son in-law of Maharashtra Cabinet minister Nawab Malik, in connection with a drug case and arrested him. The agency allegedly found Khan’s bank account transactions in which ₹20,000 was exchanged between Khan and Sejnani through Google Pay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-arrests-two-more-for-drug-connection-101612503255934.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Development authority to allow cultural events in parks||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has drafted a policy to allow entertainment and cultural events by creating dedicated cultural hubs in district parks, which are over an acre in size, and to make them more vibrant spaces.The policy has been placed in public domain for suggestions/objections and will be notified soon, said a DDA official.The land-owning agency has divided the parks in two categories: open park spaces and facilities like amphitheatres and boat clubs within parks. To begin with, DDA has put up a list of 16 parks, including Hauz Khas, Asita-Yamuna riverfront, Sanjay Lake, Astha Kunj in Nehru Place, Swarn Jayanti Park in Rohini, two district parks in Dwarka, Coronation park in North Delhi, among others which can be booked for various cultural events. Of the 16 parks, nine parks have other facilities such as an amphitheatre.Also Read | Police asks DTC to review decision to recall busesA DDA official said, “The purpose is to allow the public to use DDA parks in an organised manner. The events can be organised to promote cultural activities like music performances, plays and theatre, talks, poetry readings, documentary screenings, various language festivals, art competitions and shows, health-oriented events, exhibitions, etc. These events can be privately organised wherein entry would be through invitation from the organisers.”DDA officials say that political functions and marriage ceremonies will not be allowed in these parks. DDA already has over 100 open spaces across the city which can be booked for weddings or political events. “Cooking will not be allowed inside the park. Only ready-to-eat food will be permitted. The park can be booked for 6-12 hours and the events will be organised between 6am and 8pm during winter and 5am and 9pm in summer,” said the official.A DDA official said that the aim of this policy is not to earn revenue, therefore the booking charges are nominal. For six hours, one has to pay ₹3,000 per acre plus GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-development-authority-to-allow-cultural-events-in-parks-101612501814081.html
05-02-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi to visit Ayodhya to review developmental projects||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will soon be visiting Ayodhya to review the progress of the developmental works that are being carried out to provide world-class facilities to the tourists.The information was shwred by the Information and Public Relations Department of the state on Thursday but did not mention the exact date of the Chief minister's visit.According to the release," The CM will visit spots and oversee the progress of the projects which include the expansion of Bhajan Sandhya Sthal, Queen Ho Memorial Park, Ram Katha Park, beautification of Ram Kath Gallery, Ram Ki Paidi."The development works include widening many city roads, construction of multilevel parking sites and revampent of bus and railway station."There is also a plan to make Ayodhya a solar city, besides augmenting existing facilities. In addition, the renovation of all the religious, mythological and historical sites of the '84 Kosi Parikrama' is also being carried out to add to the beauty of the city which has become a strong presence on the global tourism map, owing to the Deepotsava of Ayodhya," it said."Besides this, a separate action plan has been prepared for the development of other important sites like Makhauda, where King Dashrath performed the 'Putrakamesthi Yajna'. There are also many mythological places related to Lord Ram on different 'Parikrama Margs' and the development of all such places are also on the agenda of the Yogi government as this will not only help in increasing tourism but will also provide employment opportunities at the local level," informed the government release."There will be an entire facelift of the 'Ghats' along the Saryu river and railway stations and there will be a separate four-lane road to connect to the airport, which is being spruced up to handle domestic as well as international traffic," said the state I&PR Department.The department informed that the government has decided to appoint a world-class consultant to prepare a new model of development for Ayodhya."The Housing and Urban Planning Development (HUPD) Department has issued a Request for Proposal (RFP). The HUPD department will get the development model prepared by the consultant and its implementation will be done through Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is also making a proposal for a bypass from Sohawal to Vikramjot," further said the release.The government added that the work of widening the four-lane road from Rae Bareli to Ayodhya is also under active consideration. It is to be constructed at a cost of ₹1,500 crore. In order to maintain the avidity and cleanliness of the Saryu river, the project of modern sewage treatment plants is also in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-to-visit-ayodhya-to-review-developmental-projects-101612499696677.html
05-02-2021||Ranchi||No new Covid-19 fatality in Jharkhand, tally rises to 118,897||Jharkhand has not reported any fresh COVID-19 fatality in the past 24 hours, even as 58 new cases pushed the tally to 1,18,897, a health department official said on Friday.The coronavirus death toll remained at 1,077 in the state.Ranchi district registered the maximum number of fresh cases at 33, followed by East Singhbhum at nine and Dhanbad and Dumka at three each.A total of 6,561 health workers received the shots of Covid-19 vaccine at 163 centres across the state on Thursday, and one case of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported, the official said."We have set a target to vaccinate 15,306 health workers during the day but the coverage was at 43 per cent," Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal officer of the vaccination programme in the state, said.Altogether, 74,526 people have received vaccine shots in the state so far and 243 cases of AEFI have been reported, he said."The overall coverage ratio is at 52 per cent as we have planned to immunise 1,43,764 people," the official said.Jharkhand now has 447 active cases, while 1,17,373 people have been cured of the disease so far.The state conducted 8,201 sample tests for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/no-new-covid-19-fatality-in-jharkhand-tally-rises-to-118897-101612499364099.html
05-02-2021||Ranchi||Former Jharkhand minister Haji Ansari’s son to be inducted in Hemant cabinet||Hafizul Ansari, son of former Jharkhand minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari who died in October last year, is expected to be inducted in the Hemant Soren cabinet on Friday.The serving minister and four-term legislator from Madhupur in Santhal Pargana division of the state died of heart attack on October 3, a day after recovering from Covid-19 at a private hospital here.Soren has decided to induct his son, who is not yet a member of the Jharkhand legislative assembly, leaders in the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: BJP MP Nishikant Dubey demands President's rule in JharkhandConstitutional provisions allow an unelected member to be sworn in as a minister, but the person is expected to become a member of the legislative house within six months of taking office as a minister.By-election for Madhupur assembly seat is likely to be held next month and Hafizul was considered a front runner to be fielded by JMM from the constituency.The swearing-in ceremony is expected to be held at around noon today.Though the JMM and the governor are yet to officially announce it, Raj Bhavan officials confirmed the event is scheduled past noon, soon after governor Draupadi Murmu returns from Orissa, her home state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/former-jharkhand-minister-haji-ansari-s-son-to-be-inducted-in-hemant-cabinet-101612499241691.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Things to know as Delhi opens schools and colleges today||All schools for Classes 9 and 11 along with colleges and degree diploma institutes will reopen in Delhi from Friday and will follow all Covid-19 protocols. The operating conditions followed for Classes 10 and 12 students until now will be extended to those of Classes 9 and 11. The staggered way followed earlier was 80% effective and will be continued, officials have said.The announcement was made by Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia last Friday. Delhi's tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stands more than 635,000 and the national capital has seen 10,871 deaths so far. The recovery rate is currently at 93.17%. Meanwhile, Delhi’s latest serological survey revealed that 56.13% of those under the survey have developed antibodies.Here is what you need to know:1. Government and private schools for Classes 9 to12, colleges and other degree diploma institutes will reopen from Friday after 10 months.2. Classrooms are to be sanitised thoroughly and desks would be occupied following Covid-19 guidelines.3. The Union health ministry has asked school authorities to maintain a six feet distance between students. Similar rules are to be followed by the staff and students in all the common areas.4. Classes will operate in small groups for which a tentative timeline will be introduced by the organisations.5. Students will be called on parental consent for practicals, mid-term exams, in-person consoling and guidance. Those who cannot come will access the class online.Also read| Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders remain closed; traffic likely to be affected6. The government is planning on when students can be called for exams and how they will be organised. A timeline is being issued for the same.7. Authorities have advised schools that they may conduct the assessments before the commencement of annual examinations.8. Mid-term examinations may be conducted from March 20 to April 15, 2021, tentatively from 2.30pm to 5.30pm in all the schools.9. Question papers for annual examinations will be set up covering all the reduced syllabus which is uploaded on the department of education’s website.10. For Class 9, schools have been asked to conduct the first and second periodic assessments preferably in the fourth week of February and the third week of March respectively, maintaining all Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/things-to-know-as-delhi-opens-schools-and-colleges-today-story-101612498074031.html
05-02-2021||Bangalore||Youth Congress polls tell story of internal dynamic in Karnataka Congress||The results of the youth Congress elections in Karnataka have further widened cracks between senior leaders in the party and are likely to add to its problems in the state, said political observers.Mohammed Harris Nalapad, the son of Congress legislator NA Harris, was disqualified even though he won 64,203 out of the over 1.5 lakh valid votes polled, while Raksha Ramaiah, who polled 57,271 votes, was declared the president of the youth Congress.Nalapad was backed by Congress president D K Shivakumar while Ramaiah was backed by leader of the opposition, Siddaramaiah, among others.Shivakumar's request to back Harris was overlooked by Siddaramaiah, one person aware of the developments said. The power play between the two sides led to a money splurge to win the poll, he added.Also Read: AIADMK expels its Karnataka in-charge for planning to meet SasikalaThe internal tussle seen over youth Congress polls has brought the focus back on the power tussle within the state unit of Congress, says a political expert.“Backing any candidate carries the risk of satisfying one group and the other will be unhappy. It is a positive that they have rejected a candidate (Nalapad) on a principled stand as he has pending issues and run-ins with the law. But despite his (Nalapad) issues and run-ins with the law, him managing to secure such a large number of votes is a matter of concern,” A.Narayana, a political expert and faculty with Azim Premji University said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/youth-congress-polls-tell-story-of-internal-dynamic-in-karnataka-congress-101612497633113.html
05-02-2021||Education||Patna University to start classes for first year students from February 8||With the completion of the admission process for undergraduate (UG) courses for the academic session 2020-2021, Patna University (PU) is set to commence classes for the new batch from February 8.Since the academic session is running late due to Covid-19 outbreak, the initial classes will be taken online, however, the varsity is mulling to conduct offline classes from this month, said a varsity administrator.“Over 2,500 students have been enrolled in UG science, commerce and art stream in various constituent colleges while around 1,000 have been admitted to vocational courses. Few seats are lying vacant in various departments. We are in process to fill those seats through the casual vacancy process by removing quota reservation,” said a PU official.Meanwhile, several newcomers said that the varsity had failed them due to the slow admission process. Deepak Kumar, who has taken admission in BSc, said, “Usually, students fill examination forms by this time but we have not even attended our first class. We are running late which will stretch the duration of the course.”“All constituent colleges will commence online classes from February 8. We are also trying to get permission from the state education department to resume offline classes. Students will be allotted hostels this month,” said NK Jha, dean of students’ welfare.Meanwhile, the examination department said they are gearing up to hold final examination for degree part III students in April to prevent further delay.A constituent college of PU, Magadh Mahila College, has launched a management information system to bring transparency in the working of the college and to make the office paperless.“Online portal will facilitate digital learning and students can also fill forms, apply for certificates and register their grievances on the portal. The new system will enable parents to check attendance of their wards,” said Principal Dr Shashi Sharma.The state education department has also allowed all government and private schools to conduct offline classes for classes 6 to 8 from February 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-university-to-start-classes-for-first-year-students-from-february-8-101612496823542.html
05-02-2021||Patna||Bihar budget: Fiscal deficit to be near 4% due to Covid-19 induced borrowings||With the internal revenue collections and central devolutions dipping in this fiscal year owing to economic contraction due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Bihar government’s fiscal deficit for 2020-2021 is set to increase and hover around the 4% mark of the state gross domestic product (SGDP), said officials.The Nitish Kumar government, which is giving the final touches to the state budget, is hoping to cap the deficit around 4%, well within the permissible borrowing limit of 5% of SGDP-- allowed by the Centre in May last to give states more leeway in meeting their financial needs due to Covid induced lockdown and financial constraints.The Centre had allowed states to increase the borrowing limit by 2% above the 3% of GSDP under the FRBM (fiscal responsibility budget management act), by putting in certain unconditional and conditional criteria in the additional borrowing limit.“The deficit will increase as the borrowings have increased with less flow of internal revenue against the targets as well as the central devolutions. But it would not be more than 4% and could be even capped at 3.5% of SGDP this fiscal year. The assessment is still going on,” said an officer in the finance department on condition of anonymity.The state government has already borrowed ₹26,000 crore till January this fiscal as against the target of ₹28,000 crore, owing to the dip in internal revenue and devolutions. There are projections that the internal revenue target of ₹39,900 crore would fall short by ₹9,000 to ₹10,000 crore.This year’s budget outlay is expected to be around ₹2.15 lakh crore with chances of enhancement in the non-plan (committed expenditure) outlay with no marginal hike in the annual schemes( plan outlay) given the fund deficit.The deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who is also the finance minister, held discussions with Bihar Chamber of Commerce, Bihar Industries Association, other business bodies and stakeholders as part of pre-budget consultations on Wednesday. The business bodies have given suggestions in relation to taxation, tweaking rules in taking input tax credit (ITC) under GST, simplifying the VAT forms and also reducing the road tax.Also Read: Duplication of beneficiary names on CoWIN app slowing vaccination drive in BiharMeanwhile, principal secretary finance, S Siddharth said the fiscal deficit would be kept well within the permissible limit as the cap has already been increased. “Even if the deficit is four percent, it would be in the permissible limit. We cannot go beyond the limit as the deficit limit is guided under an act,” he said.Incidentally, the finance department official said the state budget would show revenue surplus as like previous years indicating the fiscals in terms of meeting its commitments and other operational expenses are good. The state budget will be laid in the state assembly on February 22 during the budget session beginning February 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-budget-fiscal-deficit-to-be-near-4-due-to-covid-19-induced-borrowings-101612496020143.html
05-02-2021||Patna||Duplication of beneficiary names on CoWIN app slowing vaccination drive in Bihar||Duplication of names in the CoWIN application and glitches in beneficiaries receiving SMSs, carrying details of their vaccination slots, have contributed in slowing down Bihar's vaccination drive as the deadline to administer the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers ends on Friday.By Thursday, Bihar had inoculated nearly 60% of its 4.64 lakh healthcare workers, who are on top of the priority list for the pan India Covid-19 vaccination drive that began on January 16.“The Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) portal throws up names of beneficiaries who have already been vaccinated. Though this number is small, it pulls down our overall vaccination coverage,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar, professor and head, department of community medicine, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS).Dr Bimal Karak, former medical superintendent of the Patna Medical College Hospital, had also flagged the issue of duplication of beneficiaries’ names on the portal last month.All Covid vaccinations have to be done through the CoWIN app, a digital platform used for distribution of the vaccine.“In some cases, health care workers, who have not yet completed 28 days since their first shot of the vaccine, have received SMS, intimating them to take the vaccine. Such problems have been witnessed on the portal in the last few days, but we have been cautious enough to detect them,” he added.“Another common issue was non-receipt of intimation about vaccination through SMS. This was common among the lower-level health care workers, who had either changed their mobile number or their mobile number fed into the portal was wrong. As a result, they neither receive any SMS, intimating them about vaccination, nor do phone calls mature on their given number,” said Dr Kumar.The IGIMS, where chief minister Nitish Kumar had launched the state’s vaccination campaign, had achieved 60% vaccination coverage.The Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) had also achieved 60% of its vaccination target of vaccinating 2,500 healthcare workers.“Though the vaccination coverage has gone up from 30% in the initial days to 60% now, there is still some hesitancy among healthcare workers to take the vaccine. We made every effort to encourage those who were reluctant. Friday is the last date for administering the first shot of the vaccine,” said NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh.The Guru Gobind Singh urban healthcare centre, a district hospital in Patna, had achieved 50.3% vaccination coverage till Wednesday, said its superintendent, Dr Pashupati Kumar Singh. Private healthcare facilities in its close vicinity, having less than 100 healthcare workers, have been tagged to the district hospital for the vaccination purpose.Executive director, State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, the state nodal officer for vaccination, did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/duplication-of-beneficiary-names-on-cowin-app-slowing-vaccination-drive-in-bihar-101612494364661.html
05-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to present budget today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will present the state’s budget statement and vote on account in the legislative assembly on Friday. This will be the last budget presentation during the second term of the Trinamool Congress government. Assembly elections could be held in March – April this year. It is usually the finance minister who reads out the budget statement. But this year the state finance minister Amit Mitra will not attend the assembly due to health issues. Also Read | Vitriolic slogans, sarcastic songs go viral in poll-bound BengalMitra who has been advised by doctors to stay at home due to the Covid-19 pandemic, had requested the West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and speaker of the legislative assembly Biman Banerjee if the chief minister could read out the financial statement. Dhankhar tweeted on Thursday that he has authorised Banerjee to perform all duties in the assembly related to the presentation of the annual financial statement for 2021-22 and the motion for vote on account. Meanwhile the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have decided to boycott the session on Friday as a mark of protest. “The ruling party is trying to stifle the Opposition. We are not allowed to speak, our questions are not being properly answered and the issues raised by us are not discussed,” said Abdul Mannan, veteran Congress leader and the leader of the Opposition in the assembly. Vote on account is done to seek a sanction for administrative expenditure. Although the budget announces a plan for the full year, this year because of the assembly elections, the expenditure approval will be sought over the next three months in the form of vote on account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-present-budget-today-101612493713632.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders remain closed; traffic likely to be affected||Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders remain closed on Friday morning as farmers continue their agitation demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws. As traffic remains diverted, motorists will have to face heavy traffic jams in parts of the Capital, specially in east Delhi, where roads leading to Ghaziabad also saw heavy traffic on Thursday. Delhi Traffic Police officers said Delhi and Ghaziabad would have to face traffic jams as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border has been completely closed. All the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut, NH-9 and NH-24 are also closed because of the UP Gate border blockade and vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to the alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, they said.Also Read | Will not enter Delhi, say farmers as police prepare for chakka jamHowever, they said, NH-24 road is kept open for traffic going to Delhi from Ghaziabad through Ghazipur roundabout. So, motorists entering Delhi from Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar or Apsara border can take a right turn from the Ghazipur roundabout and take NH-24 road from there to move towards south and central Delhi via Sarai Kale Khan and the Ring Road.“Also, commuters can take Vikas Marg after taking a right turn from under the Patparganj Industrail Area flyover from Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road. No traffic is being allowed on Delhi-Meerut expressway while NH-9 is kept open only during morning and evening peak hours when traffic remain heavy,” a traffic police officer said.Apart from the UP Gate border, Singhu, Tikri, Saboli and Piau Maniyari borders are also closed. Traffic police officials said that Jharoda and Auchandi borders are opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Pall toll tax borders are open for the traffic.As traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44, traffic police have asked motorists to avoid these routes and take the alternate or diverted routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-likely-to-be-affected-101612493473796.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality very poor, could improve over weekend||Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” zone on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 316. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Thursday was 316, in the “very poor” zone. This was, however, an improvement from Wednesday’s 330, also in the “very poor” category. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) forecast said that the air quality in Delhi will continue to improve over the weekend. Also Read | Light rain, thunder strike national capital“AQI is likely to further improve to the poor category tomorrow (Friday). May even touch moderate for a shorter period. The improved AQI is likely to stay for a couple of days; poor AQI is forecasted February 6 and February 7,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-very-poor-could-improve-over-weekend-101612492993749.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ agitation gathers momentum in Haryana, khaps back Tikait||The focus of the farmers’ agitation over the enactment of the three farm laws by Parliament has shifted to Haryana with farmers and khap leaders throwing their weight behind Rakesh Tikait, the BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh. The swing was evident at Wednesday’s mahapanchayat at Jind’s Kandela village, once the epicentre of a bloody farmers’ agitation over power bills waiver during the INLD rule, where farmers gathered in big numbers.Tikait will hold another mahapanchayat on Sunday at Dadri.In fact, farmers and khap leaders from Haryana are now holding the centre stage, literally overshadowing their counterparts from Punjab who were once spearheading the agitation. Emotional call was turning point As many as 115 khaps or clan-based bodies on Wednesday participated at the Kandela mahapanchayat. Tekram Kandela, head of the Kandela khap, who was the main organiser of the mahapanchayat, said 115 khaps out of Haryana’s nearly 160 bodies attended the meeting. “The agitation picked up pace on January 27 night when Rakesh Tikait gave an emotional call. In no time, Chandigarh-Hisar highway was blocked, and farmers started mobilising for Ghazipur. Since then, the numbers have been increasing,” Kandela said. Tikait emerging as face of agitation in Haryana A retired political science professor from Bhiwani, Anant Ram, said the farm agitation has picked up pace in Haryana in the last seven days once the khaps came out in support of Tikait. “In fact, Tikait has become the face of the agitation and Haryana’s khaps have come out openly in his support. The agitation has picked up momentum in entire Haryana, except parts of Ahirwal region. The farmers, mostly from Jat community, have made this agitation an issue of their pride and prestige after Tikait accused BJP’s Loni MLA Nand Kishore Gurjar of threatening the protesters to vacate the protest site at Ghazipur border. The Kandela mahapanchayat has proved that there is huge current among farmers against three farm laws and the BJP-JJP rulling government in the Jat heartland,” he said. Agitation turning into national agitation: Sampat SinghFormer Haryana minister and BJP leader Sampat Singh said the agitation got a shot in the arm after Tikait’s impassioned appeal. “I see it spreading out. Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are the new centres but it’s spreading to other states also. I would say it’s turning into a national agitation. It’s high time that the Central government acceded to the demand of the farmers. They should not be labelled as anti-BJP. Remember, they were the ones who helped BJP win 10 Lok Sabha seats in Haryana,’’ said Singh who as finance minister had negotiated with agitating farmers during the INLD reign. Congress leader Karan Dalal said 52 khaps from Palwal alone have lent their support to the agitation. “The agitation was on the brink of collapse after the January 26 episode. But it’s now spreading like a wildfire and will swallow the ruling BJP,’’ Dalal, a former minister, said. Rohtak-based political analyst Satish Tyagi said the agitators have gained sympathy from every section of society in Haryana. “Even women are turning up at large numbers. After the government stopped internet services, more people started gathering across toll plazas in Haryana. The farmers of central Haryana have accepted Tikait as their farm leader,’’ he said. Ruling combine leaders face boycott Farmers associated with 17 khaps in Jind had decided to socially boycott the BJP and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leaders. The Hooda khap had unanimously decided to restrict the entry of ruling party leaders. The Sarv Khap announced to send at least one person from each house to the protesting site.The Phogat khap has socially boycotted deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh and former Dadri MLA Rajdeep Phogat, who is a chairman in the BJP-JJP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-agitation-gathers-momentum-picks-in-haryana-khaps-back-tikait-101612491973737.html
05-02-2021||Lucknow||Farm stir: Priyanka Gandhi visits kin of deceased farmer||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday urged the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government to repeal the three new farm laws instead of calling the farmers protesting against the laws “terrorists”.“If there is any bigger wrong other than the three farm laws, which the government should take back but is not doing so, it is that martyrs are branded as terrorists and the farmers’ agitation is seen as a political conspiracy,” Priyanka Gandhi said.The Congress general secretary on Thursday met the family of Navreet Singh, who died after his tractor overturned during a tractor parade on January 26 in New Delhi, and attended a prayer ceremony for him at Dibdiba village in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur district.“I have come here to tell this family that you are not alone. Every single countryman is with you, be it of any religion, and farmers of every corner of the country are with you and we are with you,” she said.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress legislature party leader Aradhna Mishra accompanied Priyanka Gandhi on her visit to meet Navreet’s family.“Navreet was 25. My son is 20. You have young sons who went there to show their solidarity with farmers. He (Navreet) did not come back because of an incident. I want to tell Hardip Singh (Navreet’s grandfather) that we will not allow the loss of your grandson go waste. This agitation will continue till these black farm laws are withdrawn,” said Priyanka.Hitting out at the Congress leader, UP BJP vice president Vijay Patha, “The BJP government is doing a lot of work to double the income of farmers and bring about an improvement in the law and order situation. She should show large heartedness and speak about good efforts of government.”“By supporting the cause of farmers, the opposition wants to target the government. It’s opposition for the sake of opposition. Instead of siding with farmers, the Congress should point out the flaws in the farm laws,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farm-stir-priyanka-gandhi-visits-kin-of-deceased-farmer-101612477013992.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Light rain, thunder strike national capital||Delhi residents on Thursday woke up to light rain, followed by thunderstorm and strong winds in parts of the national capital. The swift winds proved a blessing as they helped reduce the pollution levels.India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings show that the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, received 0.5mm of rain till 5.30pm Thursday. The Palam observatory received 2.6mm rain, while Lodi Road received 0.1mm till 5.30pm.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said apart from light rain, many parts also saw thunderstorms in the evening. He said under the influence of a passing western disturbance, the temperatures also increased in the region. At the Safdarjung observatory, the minimum temperature on Thursday was 12.4 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 23.2 degrees Celsius.“Generally, during the passage of a western disturbance, temperatures tend to increase. From tomorrow (Friday), the mercury will start falling once again. But there will not be a drastic fall. The minimum temperature will remain around 7-8 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava said.As the temperatures rose and strong winds blew over Delhi-NCR, the pollution levels started abating. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 316, in the ”very poor” zone. This was, however, an improvement from Wednesday’s 330, also in the ”very poor” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-thunder-strike-national-capital-101612472495976.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Police asks DTC to review decision to recall buses||A day after the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) asked the police to immediately return all its buses taken on ‘special hire’ to maintain law and order in the city, the Delhi Police wrote to DTC asking it to review its decision as it may lead to obstruction in maintaining law and order.In the letter, special commissioner of police Robin Hibu said if any untoward incident happens in Delhi then DTC may be held accountable.A senior DTC officer confirmed that the corporation has received the letter after which DTC managing director met Hibu to resolve the issue. The DTC MD also raised the pending dues on the part of the Delhi Police amounting to about ₹10 crore with Hibu, officials said.Till Thursday, of the total 576 buses, over 350 buses provided to police and para military personnel were returned to DTC.Late Wednesday evening, the Delhi government issued a directive to DTC to seek prior approval before giving any of its buses on ‘special hire’ by the Delhi Police or any other organisation. The order came in the wake of 40 DTC and cluster buses getting damaged during the tractor rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day when the police used buses as barricades at several locations, including ITO and Akshardham.“As per direction of the authorities, 360 of total 576 buses provided to police and para military under special hire have been withdrawn to different depots. However, 216 buses are still with the security personnel in view of law and order situation,” said a senior DTC official.Normally, about 100 buses are provided by DTC to the police and para military forces. However, the number of buses went up to 576 after farmers started protest at Delhi borders, officials said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised the Aam Aadmi Party government on Thursday for withdrawing DTC buses given to the city police, saying chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is pushing the city into a state of anarchy for political gains, especially in Punjab and Delhi.The AAP which is the main Opposition party in Punjab has extended support to the farmer agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.Several BJP leaders such as party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, MPs Meenakshi lekhi, Parvesh Verma, Ramesh Bidhuri, Manoj Tiwari tweeted on Thursday with hashtag #KejriwalWantsAnarchy, criticising the decision to withdraw DTC buses.“India has a history of brave patriots from Prithvi Raj Chauhan to APJ Kalam & also has a history of Jaichand to Mir Jaffar. Recent action by Arvind Kejriwal to deny DTC bus services to police is a case in point which proves his anarchist credentials in support of Delhi seizure,” tweeted Meenakshi Lekhi, BJP MP from New Delhi.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta tweeted, “Delhi Police has always been a victim of cheap politics of Anarchist CM @arvindkejriwal. For their political interests, @aamaadmiparty has blamed Delhi Police for every act of violence in the city be it Jamia, JNU, Delhi Riots or Farmers protest violence. #KejriwalWantsAnarchy.”Gupta said Kejriwal was compromising with the safety and security of the people living in Delhi.Demanding immediate withdrawal of the order, BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also the leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly, said, “The buses are needed by security forces. This is not the time to do politics. For political gains in Punjab, he shouldn’t push the city into a state of anarchy. The order should be immediately withdrawn.”Bidhuri added, “It is regrettable that Kejriwal neither went to ask the health condition of 300 police personnel injured during the Republic Day violence nor uttered a word of sympathy for them.”Despite calls and text messages, the AAP did not comment on the allegations by the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-asks-dtc-to-review-decision-to-recall-buses-101612472241874.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||9,494 get vaccine jabs in city, trial for front line workers starts||Delhi administered 9,494 Covid-19 jabs, out of the targeted 18,300, on Thursday, registering a turnout rate of 51.88%, which is around 12 percentage points higher than the previous day, even as the drive was opened up on a trial basis for front line workers.The 9,494 beneficiaries who got the shots on Thursday, include both health care workers and front line workers. But the government did not share data for beneficiaries under each category.On Thursday, 13 cases of adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) were recorded, but none of them were severe in nature, senior government officials said.Health care workers are the first priority group for the inoculation drive, which was rolled out across the country on January 16. In Delhi, 240,000 health workers have registered for the vaccination.Front line workers come next on the priority list. They include police officials, fire officials, municipal staff, sanitation workers, schoolteachers and staff across all departments and agencies which were engaged in Covid-19 management. Delhi has an estimated 600,000 front line workers, of which around 350,000 have registered for vaccination so far, said data shared by senior government officials, who added that the registration drive for front line workers is underway.Last week, the Union government told states to consider starting vaccination for front line workers by the first week of February, following which the Delhi government scaled up its vaccination capacity on Tuesday by increasing the total number of vaccination sites from 106 to 183 and the number of vaccination days in a week from four to six“The trial run for vaccination of front line workers started today (Thursday) at least three vaccine centres in each of the 11 revenue districts. Few more centres will be roped in on Friday. We plan to start it full-fledged vaccines by Saturday. The front line workers will be eligible for shots in the same centres where health workers are being vaccinated. This is the reason why overall capacity for vaccination was scaled up,” said a senior government official.A senior official in the health department of the New Delhi Municipal Council said, “Registered front line workers will also be allowed for out-of-turn jabs, similar to the policy adopted for health care workers. The government is helping with the list of beneficiaries for all centres. The centres will have to ensure that records are properly maintained.”On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded the lowest vaccination turnout for a single day – at 40.25%. In Delhi, the highest single-day turnout was recorded on January 25, the fifth day of the drive, at 91.5%. Delhi had 81 vaccination centres then, which was increased to 106 on January 27.Government officials and experts attributed the recent decline in turnout to lack of awareness among beneficiaries about the new centres and decline in figures in several of the existing vaccination centres which, they said, suggest that they may have reached a saturation point. However, they said, the turnout is likely to go up once again now with doors opened for front line workers.Dr Namrata Makkar, deputy medical superintendent at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said: “The turnout numbers should increase. Now that thousands of health workers have already been vaccinated in Delhi, the confidence-building exercise should be easier for front line workers and eventually the masses. In its awareness drives, the government should clearly deliver the message that how the vaccine is the biggest preventive measure against a potential second wave of the disease, which several countries across the world have witnessed.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “More centres will open doors for front line workers on Friday as part of the ongoing trial. It was a good decision to start with the trial and assess management-related issues. With time, the turnout numbers should go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/9494-get-vaccine-jabs-in-city-trial-for-front-line-workers-starts-101612471643682.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Farm stir: Students miss online classes as internet remains suspended at Delhi, Haryana borders||For the past 10 days, 14-year-old Kunal Kumar, a Class 9 student of Government Senior Secondary School at Tikri border has not attended studies online as the mobile internet in the area remains suspended. While many school-going students in the area have turned to private tuitions in order to prepare for exams as only some of them have access to a Wi-Fi connection.Kumar, whose father works at a private firm, has not gone to school since the Covid-induced lockdown and had been studying online using his phone. But Republic Day onwards, following violent clashes between the protesting farmers and Delhi police, as the government snapped mobile internet services in several pockets of Delhi situated close to the borders where the farmers have been camping for the past 70 days, Kumar has not attended a single class.“Earlier, we used to take online classes from 8am to 1pm at our house, but now, because there is no network, I have not been able to attend classes for the past 10 days. We cannot download videos or study material. Now, students in classes 9-11 have been asked to come to school. Our final exams are scheduled to held next month. We are under pressure,” Kumar said.Prince Thakur, Kumar’s classmate, however, has made an arrangement. He visits his relative’s place nearby, who has a Wi-Fi connection. “With Wi-Fi, there are no problems. It is slow though but manageable. I only go there sometimes as my parents do not allow me to visit them daily,” he said.Both the boys and their friends who were playing in the neighbourhood on Thursday morning said their entire day is spent playing cricket, visiting protest sites, eating at langars there and loitering.Anil Kumar, a father of three, whose children study in class 6, 4 and in kindergarten, said they have no idea how things will turn out. “I have been regularly paying the fees, ₹500 per child for months. Throughout the year, there were only online classes and now, for the past ten days, they have also stopped. Left with no option I have to send my children for tuition so that they can prepare for their exams,” he said.Kumar, who runs a shop right next to the Tikri border agitation site, said because of the protest his earnings have also been hit. “To pay the school fee along with tuition fees and for the internet is difficult to afford,” he said.Adarsh Kumar, 17, a class 11 student who lives a few metres away from the agitation spot at Singhu border, hasn’t been able to attend his online classes for a week now. Due to the pandemic, Kumar’s offline classes at the nearby government school had been suspended since March and he was relying on worksheets as well as online learning.“The mobile internet here has been slow for the past few weeks but now it doesn’t work at all. We can send some messages on WhatsApp sometimes, but the signal is not strong enough to download files. So, I can’t access any reading material. I have been revising the old ones for a week now,” he said, adding that his sibling who is also in class 11 has to resort to the same.Though Kumar’s problems may resolve this week as the Delhi government on January 29 announced reopening of government schools for classes 9 and 11, many parents in Haryana are worried about the gap in learning that has been exacerbated by the mobile internet ban.Panipat resident Suman Malik, 38, mother of two who visits Singhu border agitation site at least four times a week, is one of them.“Not all schools have reopened in Haryana. While one of my sons has resumed his offline classes, the other one, who studies in a private school, cannot go for in-person classes. Online learning is the only option for him, and he has his exams next month. Besides, students cannot be expected to follow online classes for nearly a year and then just switch to offline classes after an internet ban. There has to be blended learning,” she said.While senior Delhi Police officers said mobile internet facilities were suspended on the orders of the ministry of home affairs (MHA), ministry officials said on Wednesday that there was no plan to further extend the suspension of internet beyond February 2. However, connectivity in areas near the protests sites continued to be poor on Thursday.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said, “There are so many students who are staying at the protest site, and who have to attend online classes. They have not been able to study since the last one week due to the government’s inhuman and abrupt decision. We request the government to restore the internet connectivity for the sake of students.”In the evening, Samyukta Kisan Morcha also demanded the immediate reinstatement of mobile internet services. “Along with the agitating farmers, media persons and locals are facing a lot of trouble due to internet ban. Especially students are facing a big problem as their exams are approaching.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tikri-border-students-miss-classes-as-internet-stays-suspended-101612470743604.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body reserves 20,000 Covid vaccination shots for round two||To counter a possible shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to reserve 20,000 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin on priority for the second jab to be administered to healthcare workers (HCWs) inoculated at the start of the nationwide mass immunisation programme on January 16.Along with HCWs, BMC started vaccinating frontline workers (FLWs) from Thursday. The civic body has around 70,000 HCWs who are yet to be vaccinated in the first phase. Additionally, more than 200,000 FLWs have already registered on the CoWIN app for vaccination. For simultaneous vaccination of both groups, BMC needs more than 500,000 doses. However, till February 2, the civic body has 220,000 doses, which can cover only 106,000 individuals given that two doses have to be given 28 days apart.Although the civic body hopes to procure the next consignment of vaccine doses from the Central government within the next few days, officers have decided to keep aside 20,000 doses for the second shot.“This [reserving dose] is just a precautionary measure since HCWs who were vaccinated on January 16 will need to be given the second dose. Calculating a gap of 28 days from the first dose, the process is likely to start by February 14,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) rules, beneficiaries of both Covishield and Covaxin will have to take two shots. The first dose helps the immune system create a response against Sars-CoV-2 which causes Covid-19. The second dose further boosts the immune response to ensure long-term protection.In the last 12 sessions of the immunisation programme, 58,590 HCWs of 79,344 targeted have been vaccinated. From Thursday, BMC started vaccinating FLWs at 12 vaccination centres. At present, the civic body has set a target of around 10,000 inoculations every day that will be gradually increased.Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said the Centre will provide the next batch of vaccine doses in due course, which will then be dispatched to all districts as per their requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-reserves-20-000-covid-vaccination-shots-for-round-two-101612471031050.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Centre wants to rule over Delhi through back door channel: Sisodia||Delhi’s Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday attacked the Central government for “stealthily” approving a proposal to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, which he claimed would give more powers to the lieutenant governor (L-G), undermining the city-state’s elected government.Addressing a digital press conference, Sisodia said the Union cabinet approved the proposal on Wednesday in an attempt to “snatch powers” from the elected chief minister and the Delhi cabinet and strengthen the authority of the L-G, who reports to the Centre. The Bill will now be tabled in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament, he said.The Centre’s move could lead to fresh friction between the office of the L-G and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government which have squared off several times in the past six years over the extent of each other’s powers. The battle of primacy ended up in the Supreme Court, where it is still pending.“The Union cabinet has stealthily approved amendments to give so much power to the L-G that he can now stall any project or work initiated by the elected government in the Union territory. As per the Centre’s proposal, the final decision-making power will lie with the L-G and not the elected government,” Sisodia said.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.Specifically, the proposed law will clearly spell out the functions of the Council of Ministers and the L-G by giving more discretionary powers to the L-G. The proposed amendments suggest that the L-G could act in his discretion in any matter that is beyond the purview of the powers of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi in matters related to the All India (Civil) Services and the Anti Corruption Branch.If the legislation is passed, all the incentives offered to the people of Delhi by the AAP government would be taken away by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government, Sisodia warned. Under the current arrangement, following an order by the Supreme Court on July 4, 2018, the L-G is in charge of police, land, and public order, and the state government, the rest.The proposed law is “nothing but a backdoor channel being created by the BJP-led Central government to directly rule over Delhi. If this happens, then all the freebies and subsidies given by the AAP government will be snatched away from the people of Delhi. The BJP-led Centre will revoke our free power, water and bus rides for women schemes. It will also revoke the free treatment in Delhi government hospitals which every resident of the city is entitled to,” Sisodia said.He added that giving such powers to the L-G means empowering the Centre to rule directly over Delhi. Because Delhi is a Union territory, the L-G is appointed by the Union ministry of home affairs.“The Centre’s attempt to reduce the powers of an elected government is not just against democracy but it is also against our Constitution. The Constitution of India clearly states that barring three subjects - police, land and public order - all other subjects and works will be under the direct control of the elected government, which currently is that of Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party,” he said.Sisodia said that in 2015, the Central government misinterpreted the Constitution to claim that the L-G would run the Delhi government. When AAP challenged the interpretation in the Supreme Court, a constitution bench clarified that the elected government had the right to take decisions on all subjects except matters related to the police, land and public order, with the L-G only having to be kept informed about the Delhi government’s day-to-day decisions, Sisodia said. The court is yet to rule on who has control over the subject of services, which deals with transfers, postings and annual performance reviews of bureaucrats.“Now that it has no way out, the Central government is now keeping aside and overlooking the Constitution and the observations of the SC to directly rule over Delhi,” the deputy chief minister said.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.Constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said all union territories are administered by the Central government through the L-G.“Delhi has very limited powers because of its nature as a union territory. It is something the Delhi government has to compromise with. The President administers it through the L-G and hence the assembly has very limited powers. But, it is true that it was unnecessary for the Centre to initiate such an amendment at such a junction when the Supreme Court has given a subject wise clarity on several issues. Maybe the central government is attempting to clarify the division of power further,” he said.The Delhi BJP said the Centre’s decision to amend the Govt Of NCT of Delhi Act is an important step to ensure proper governance in the national capital.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said repeated instances of conflict between the Arvind Kejriwal government and the lieutenant governor in the past six years have put the “prestige of the national capital and people’s lives and welfare at stake”.“The latest move by the Delhi government to withdraw DTC buses from police duty is a glaring example of why how national capital Delhi’s law and order and other serious administrative powers cannot be left to the state government. Steps being taken by Centre are important to maintain law and order and administrative control in the national capital,” he said.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said when the Congress was in power at the Centre, the focus was strengthening the state governments. “But the current BJP government is creating a dictator-like regime and weak state governments are unable to stand before it.”“Arvind Kejriwal, who portrayed hinself before the public as someone who would fight against the government, is now proving to be a weak leader who cannot safeguard the interests of Delhi and its people. I want to ask him (Kejriwal), why doesn’t he sit on a protest against the central government now? Why doesn’t he fight for the rights of Delhi? Since this government came into power in Delhi, we have time and again seen weak leadership from the AAP government, and the BJP at the Centre is taking advantage of this,” Chaudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-wants-to-rule-over-delhi-through-back-door-channel-sisodia-101612470510946.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||How commuters are exposed to pollution||Commuters in the national capital who walk to their destinations or those who take autorickshaws are exposed to more than thrice the pollution that people who take the Delhi Metro, according to the findings of a study conducted by researchers from three British universities and three Indian institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-commuters-are-exposed-to-pollution-101612469602775.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||January 26 violence: Soldiers, farmers... and now suspects||They live 120km apart in two villages of Punjab, and each owns a one-acre plot of farmland on which they grow wheat. Once soldiers in the Indian Army, the farmers now carry the tag of suspected criminals, having been picked out by Delhi Police as participants in the violence that marred Republic Day celebrations in the Capital.Until Saturday, the families of the two men, Gurmukh Singh and Jeet Singh, did not know each other despite them having served the army in the same regiment -- the Sikh Regiment -- for over two decades. Gurmukh Singh retired in 1984, Jeet Singh in 1989 after nearly two decades in the force.Events in Delhi on January 26, when a tractor rally by protesting farmers took a violent turn and chaos reigned on the streets of the Capital and at the Red Fort, brought them together.The two men are now united by FIR No. 31 registered at the Mukherjee Nagar police station for one act of violence that they were allegedly part of; they have been accused of assaulting police personnel and preventing them from performing their duty.Lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, Gurmukh Singh,80, and Jeet Singh, 70, are the oldest among the 122 people arrested by Delhi Police for the violence. Gurmukh Singh is also the oldest prisoner within the high-security jail.Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi borders for over two months, demanding a complete roll back of the three agricultural laws. The farm unions say there are more than 150,000 farmers from Punjab. Kulwant Singh Sandhu of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said several hundred army veterans are among them.When a team from HT visited the homes of the two men in Punjab on Wednesday, the families did not deny the two were part of the protest, but said they could not have attacked or stopped the police from doing their duty.“My brother has fought in the 1965 India-Pakistan war. He served the army for more than two decades. He would not have attacked men in uniform,” said Gurmukh’s younger brother Gurcharan Singh outside his house in Fatehgarh Sahib.On Saturday morning, a neighbour called one of the village elders with the news “Fauji fadya gaya (soldier has been arrested”. Gurmukh is now a local supporter of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann faction) and is known as Fauji in his Samaspur Singha village.A video clip of Fauji, who retired as a subedar naik, leading a march- past of ex-servicemen near Singhu on the Delhi border on the morning of January 26, is also being widely circulated on the WhatsApp group of the villagers.Divided neighboursSome say Gurmukh may have taken part in the rioting. Others believe the police saw him as a leader among the ex-servicemen protesting against the laws and arrested him.“He was an aggressive man for his age. Maybe this was because of his years in the army. We have been told that he fought against Pakistan and China. He joined politics and was a supporter of SAD (Maan). But considering his age, the police should have released him,” said a neighbour who did not wish to be named.Gurmukh Singh’s family members said he had left for Singhu about a month ago. He told his family he would only return once the farm laws were repealed.“A man who fought for the country is now behind bars. But we are not feeling sad or bad. This is Punjab. If one family member dies in the line of duty, arrested while protesting in this case, another will go and take his place,” his brother Gurcharan Singh said.In Sangrur district’s Khanouri Kalan village, retired lance naik Jeet Singh’s house has now become the new haunt of villagers. It is at this two-storey house that villagers come together to discuss the case of Punjab residents arrested by Delhi Police.Jeet Singh’s wife, Balbir Kaur, 65, prepares tea for the young men from the village who have been coming to her house since the news of her husband’s arrest.“I am sure, the other elderly soldier’s (Gurmukh Singh’s) wife must also be busy dealing with such charged-up youngsters at her house,” Kaur said in her kitchen on the first floor.Outside the kitchen, a group of young men have gathered and are standing on the stairs. They claim they are here to tell Kaur that they are proud of her husband and would willingly join the protesters.‘Travesty’Jeet Singh’s family too heard the news of his arrest on Saturday. A jail officer called Jeet Singh’s son Veer and explained that his father had been booked .“My father served the army till his retirement in 1989. At a time during the 80s when many (Sikh) soldiers had deserted the army (after Operation Bluestar in 1984), my father proudly served the country. Yes, he was there at the protest, but he could not have indulged in violence,” said Veer Singh, who works at the local sub-divisional magistrate’s office as a guard.Veer Singh’s friend, a clerk at the SDM’s office, who asked not to be named because he is a government official, said: “ We are ready. We will work for the Punjab government from Monday to Friday. But weekends will be spent in Delhi.”On Wednesday afternoon, the villagers held a panchayat to encourage more young people to join their elders in the protests on the Delhi borders.Advocate Amar Veer Bhulkar, one of the lawyers who visited Tihar jail to meet the arrested protesters and is helping them fight the cases pro bono, said: “Two elderly men aged 80 and 70, who may physically not be able to assault anyone and yet (being) behind bars for alleged assault, is a travesty of justice. We have formed a team of lawyers in each district and will fight their cases right till the end.”Deputy commissioner of police (north west) Urvija Goel did not respond to requests for comment.The two families are not worried about the police case. They say they will join the other farmers at Singhu this weekend and won’t return until the government repeals the three laws.But one thing upsets them. Veer Singh said: “Our fathers fought for this country in their youth. The government disrespected them by putting such veterans in jail. This doesn’t hurt much. We are a race of fighters but when the media calls us Khalistanis and terrorists, imagine the feeling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/january-26-violence-soldiers-farmers-and-now-suspects-101612468519089.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Green push: Delhi govt to lease only e-vehicles||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced that his government will, in the next six months, change its policy to lease only electric cars as part of an effort to accelerate the adoption of electric cars in the Capital.Kejriwal made the announcement at the launch of a new campaign -- Switch Delhi -- to spread awareness about the subsidies provided by the city administration on electric vehicles (EVs). The Delhi government currently leases more than 1,000 cars.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said vehicles are one of the main contributors of air pollution in the national Capital, which suffers from a chronic bad air problem. The Delhi EV policy, announced in August last year, envisages that 25% of all new vehicle registrations should be Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) by 2024.“We have to make EVs a jan andolan (mass movement) now. So, we are launching the Switch Delhi campaign today to create awareness about EVs. The idea is to convince people to switch from their current vehicles to EVs, which have zero emissions. I also urge the youth, who are looking to buy their first car or bike, to go for an EV as the Delhi government is giving huge subsidies and there is no road tax or registration charges,” Kejriwal added.The subsidies are based on battery capacity – ₹10,000 per kWh to the first 1,000 e-cars or electric four wheelers, with a cap of ₹150,000 per vehicle. Of the over 6,000 EVs (that include e-rickshaws, two-wheelers and cars) registered in the city since the policy was announced last year, only 2,653 have received the subsidies so far, data seen by HT showed. This data did not specify how many subsidies went to electric cars, but officials familiar with the matter said, “Due to the high cost involved, electric cars constitute the least of all EV sales in the city, and so, a significant proportion of subsidy on cars remains unused.”The government also announced a subsidy of ₹5,000 per kWh of the battery capacity up to a maximum of ₹30,000 for purchases of electric two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws, rickshaws and freight vehicles. The government also announced a scrapping incentive for those who make the switch -- essentially paying them for their old vehicles. The incentive, ranging from ₹5,000- ₹7,500, is offered subject to evidence of matching contribution from the dealer or (Original Equipment Manufacturer) as per the policy.The chief minister also announced that the government will soon ask for bids to set up 100 charging stations across Delhi.The Capital currently has 72 charging stations that are managed by the government, civic bodies and private power distribution companies.A senior transport department official said that a centralised tendering system will be adopted to hire an energy operator to run, maintain and upgrade charging stations. “Land-owning agencies will be required to provide land for the installation of public EV charging stations,” the official added.Kejriwal urged companies having a large fleet of vehicles to shift to EVs. “I request resident welfare associations (RWAs), market associations and delivery fleets to participate in the campaign to promote the use of EVs and switch to such vehicles. The Switch Delhi campaign also seeks to convince companies, malls, cinema halls, restaurants... to get charging stations installed,” he said.Kejriwal said around 6,000 EVs have been bought in Delhi since the city’s EV policy was announced. Thus far, the government has paid out ₹9 crore in subsidies.On August 7 last year, Kejriwal announced the Delhi EV Policy 2020, with a focus on increasing the adoption of electric vehicles by incentivising the purchase of EVs. The target was to register 500,000 EVs in the city by 2024. Currently, around 122,000 electric vehicles are registered in the Capital, of which the majority are e-rickshaws.There are 150 models of EVs available in Delhi, with the least expensive car starting at a price of around ₹900,000.“This zero emissions mandate is needed to cut air pollution... But firm milestones are needed for time bound implementation. This move is an important message for green recovery post pandemic,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/green-push-delhi-govt-to-lease-only-evehicles-101612468182551.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s Reasi to get the world’s tallest bridge in March||Two engineering marvels — the world’s tallest railway bridge over Chenab River in Kouri area and India’s first cable-stayed rail bridge — are coming up in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir. While the bridge over Chenab will be ready by March, the rail bridge will come up in December 2022. The Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL) is building the Chenab bridge over a challenging 111km-stretch under the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) project. The bridges will connect the Valley with the rest of the country through railways. The project is being built at a cost of ₹27,949. An official of the Northern Railways, requesting anonymity, said, “Covering a stretch of around 111km in Jammu’s Katra-Banihal section, the bridge is being constructed 359m above Chenab’s river bed. It will be 35m higher than the Eiffel Tower (324m).” The length of the Chenab bridge will be 1,315 metres with 17 spans, of which the span of the main arch across Chenab river will be 467m. The viaduct portion comprises a straight and curved portion. The curvilinear portion is located on a 2.74-degree sharp curve. “For the first time in India, continuous welded girder steel has been used in the curvature.For construction of the arch of the bridge, a novel method of construction, which used a cable car, has been designed and commissioned. Two cable cars with a capacity of 20 metric ton each and 37 metric tons in tandem run on the 54 mm cables laid across the river valley and are connected through a 127m high pylon (tower) on Kauri-end and a 105m pylon on Bakkal-end of the river. Both pylons are 927m apart,” said the official. Around 27,051 metric tonnes structural steel has been used to build the bridge. “The launching of the main arch is a noteworthy endeavour as it entails carrying heavy segments (up to 32 metric ton) from the Srinagar-end of the workshop with the help of the world’s longest cable crane arrangement and executing work from both ends (Bakkal and Kauri).” “So far, around 90% of the main arch has been built. Of 550m, only 58m is left and we are confident of completing this engineering marvel by March this year,” the official said. The bridge has also been designed to deter terror activities in consultation with the defence research and development organisation (DRDO). All geological challenges have been successfully negotiated. Anji Bridge The Anji Bridge will be the country’s first cable-stayed bridge.It is around 80km from Jammu. The bridge posed a considerable challenge to engineers. In view of site conditions, the bridge has been divided into three parts — a 120m-long approach viaduct (called ancillary viaduct) on Reasi side, main bridge, crossing the deep valley (473.25m cable-stayed portion) and central embankment (94.25m), located between the main bridge and an approach (ancillary) viaduct. Anji Bridge has a single main pylon at a height of 193m from the top of foundation. It stands at a height of 331m above the river bed. The total length of bridge is 687m. It comprises a main bridge with a length of 473.25m. It will be an asymmetrical cable-stayed bridge balanced on the axis of a central pylon. The deck width of the bridge is 15m. The Anji Khad Bridge has support of 96 cables and has a cable length varying from 82m to 295m. Micro piles of 40m depth around the circumference of the 20 metre hybrid well foundation was used in the main pylon construction. The Anji Bridge has been designed to handle heavy storms and strong winds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-reasi-to-get-the-world-s-tallest-bridge-in-march-101612467433522.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara International School launches multilingual communication system||Chitkara International School introduced multilingual audio circulars, called “Chitkara Infobytes”, last week. The inclusion of Hindi and Punjabi narrations within the school’s communication system is expected to overcome language barriers and allow easy flow of information among the school’s stakeholders. With this initiative, the school aims to bring a change to the communication mechanism of schools in North India which continue to be highly English-centric. The step is also believed to improve the reach, receptiveness, and impact of the school’s interaction with the community at large.Drawing inspiration from Chitkara University’s content and language integrated lab (CLIL), the school is focusing on promoting linguistic diversity and equitable education for all. With Chitkara Infobyte, the school has reinforced the university’s mission of reducing and limiting communication gaps. Further considering it to be a takeaway of the recently-announced National Education Policy, the school is set to fulfill the policy’s goal of promoting multilingualism along with the sustainable development goal related to quality, inclusive and equitable education for all. Principal Niyati Chitkara said, “Chitkara Infobyte caters to the varying linguistic needs of our stakeholders and thus, stands as an aspiration-turned-inspiration for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-international-school-launches-multilingual-communication-system-101612467434120.html
05-02-2021||Other||Patwari office in Ambala Cantt cries for attention||The patwari office in Ambala’s Cantonment area is in a shambles with labourers taking over the vacant rooms, stray animals occupying the open spaces and unkempt trees growing all over the walls at this 100-year-old British-era building. Surrounded by modern eateries and shops, with an upcoming football stadium just a stone’s throw away, this building in Haryana home minister Anil Vij’s hometown craves for a makeover. The place is now office to nine patwaris of the constituency and is regularly visited by locals as nearly five villages comes under a patwari. While most of the patwaris were not ready to speak, one of them, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We have already spoken several times to almost everybody, but no one cares. Many reporters visited this place when a roof collapsed on the entry and next to my room. Thankfully, no one was hurt.”A retired patwari, Dal Singh Rana, who has worked almost for a decade here, said that every local has to visit a patwari at least once in his lifetime. “As the president of the patwari kanungo association, we’ve taken forward our requests for maintenance to the higher authorities, but there has been no redressal yet. There is no facility for toilets and even the public has to urinate in open,” he said. Swaraj Singh, a farmer from Machhonda village, who came for some paperwork at the office, said, “I’m afraid that building could collapse anytime. People like me have to visit this place frequently for our land issues.”Built in 1926, the land was part of Behari Lal Trust and had a dharamshala at this space till it was taken over by the administration after a legal battle, locals privy with the details said. Former councillor Omkar Pruthi said, “The building should be repaired or the officials could be shifted to another building urgently because any mishap can happen here. Hundreds of locals spend hours here daily and the condition of the building is pathetic.”While secretary of the Ambala Sadar municipal council, Rajesh Kumar, said that he’ll forward any demand for maintenance to the department concerned, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “The issue is already in my notice. We’re analysing if the patwaris could be shifted to the new secretariat building nearby, or else we’ll start the maintenance work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patwari-office-in-ambala-cantt-cries-for-attention-101612467311306.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has low vaccination coverage, high Covid-19 positivity rate: Centre||Latest Covid-19 statistics paint a negative picture for the UT administration, as Chandigarh has been placed in the league of states and UTs where vaccination coverage is less than 30% and weekly Covid positivity rate is higher than the national average.According to the figures released by the Union health ministry on Thursday, only 22.5% vaccination coverage has taken place in Chandigarh so far, while positive cases versus tests carried out in the week gone by are 2.1% against the national average of 1.8%.“We are conducting almost 35,000 Covid-19 tests in a month, which has brought down the positivity rate from 20% last year to 2% now. We are satisfied with the testing as infection rate has gone down substantially,” Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services, Chandigarh said.In all, so far over 2,20,000 tests have been conducted in Chandigarh and over 21,000 people have tested positive for the infection.‘Hesitancy remains’On the poor vaccination coverage, UT health secretary Arun Gupta said, “The respective departments are trying their best to educate and cover all beneficiaries, but reluctance among workers remains.”Officials working on the ground said despite a number of steps taken by the authorities, including counselling sessions and discussions to counter hesitancy among workers, most were not willing to be vaccinated.“We have started long-term counselling sessions for the health workers and are utilising all resources to encourage them to take the jab. The department heads are meeting every employee to come forward,” said Dr Kang.According to Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the community medicine department at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, reluctance about new vaccines has always been a problem and correct information and long-term counselling are the possible ways out.“As threat perception regarding Covid has decreased, low turnout for vaccines may be its fallout. We surely need a better communication strategy to motivate the beneficiaries to take the shot. As time passes, more people will come forward,” Dr Kumar added. Below 40% turnout for second day in a rowLess than 40% of the targeted beneficiaries turned up for Covid-19 vaccine for the second consecutive day on Thursday, even as vaccination sessions have been started for the frontline workers from the municipal corporation (MC) and police department.Against the target of 1,002, only 383 people (38.2%) were inoculated on Thursday. Among them, 344 were health professionals, 20 police employees and 19 from MC. On Wednesday, against the 1,004 people expected, only 314 (31%) were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-has-low-vaccination-coverage-high-covid-19-positivity-rate-centre-101612467082002.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 157km of roads to be repaired in 2021-22, down from 289km last year||While the budgetary allocation for the road department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has remained almost the same in 2021-22 budget compared to the ongoing fiscal, the BMC has reduced its road improvement and repair targets by almost 45% this year. The BMC maintains around 2,055km of roads in the city, and every major and minor road is repaired or resurfaced using asphalt or concrete cement from the existing paverblocks. According to estimates presented in the budget on Wednesday, the BMC proposes to improve road network of 157km in the city and suburbs during 2021-22, which is less than the target of 289km set in 2020-21. In 2018-19, the BMC improved about 134km of road network, compared to 162km in 2019-20. As of December 2020, 123km of road network has already been repaired or improved. Prominent roads that were repaired are New Prabhadevi Road, Sagbaug Road in Andheri, LIC road in Borivli, Lake Road and Nrityanjali Road in Bhandup, Tribhuvan Road in Grant Road and road no. 25 in Sion. In 2021-22 while presenting the budget, the BMC proposed 157km of roads should be improved, of which 145km will be using cement and 12km asphalt. These roads include CP Tank Road near Marine Lines, Kallbadevi Road, stretches of Link Road, SV Road in western suburbs, Sion Pumping station road, St Anthony Road, Chembur etc. The roads and traffic department was allocated ₹2,279 crore in the ongoing fiscal of 2020-21, which came down to ₹2,231 crore in 2021-22. With the allocation coming down marginally, the number of roads to be taken for repair and improving also has gone down. The bridges department has got more attention owing to structural repairs proposed. The allocation was above ₹1,100 crore in 2020-21, compared to ₹2,200 crore in 2021-22. Rajendra Talkar, chief engineer of road department, said, “We have ongoing works that were stuck earlier and we are looking to complete them in the coming days. There is nothing like we doing less work, but we are just finishing all pending work, and have also proposed new work also.” Ravi Raja, Congress Corporator and leader of Opposition said, “The targets set by the BMC are always estimated, and there is a possibility of not meeting it exactly. The BMC should have realistic targets that can be completed.” Nikhil Desai, civic activist from Matunga, said, “We want to make Mumbai international financial hub and smart city, but we don’t give our citizens good roads. The BMC is maintaining around 2,000km of road network, and if they do their work diligently, Mumbai’s roads will last longer. But here our road repair work is done at a snail’s pace, and the quality is also poor.” P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “I do not know about the length going down, but we have increased our capital expenditure on road projects by around ₹250 crore. Our focus will be concretisation of roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-157km-of-roads-to-be-repaired-in-2021-22-down-from-289km-last-year-101612466951527.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole resigns as Maharashtra speaker, to be state Congress chief||Nana Patole, Congress leader and legislator from Sakoli constituency in Vidarbha, on Thursday resigned as the Maharashtra Assembly speaker and is expected to be appointed the state’s Congress unit chief soon. The development, however, may lead to friction within the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition as Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said the three ruling parties — the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — will collectively decide on the new speaker. The development also means there will be an election for the post of speaker, which will turn into sort of a floor test in the Assembly for the three-party coalition. Patole, 56, handed over his resignation to deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal at the central hall of Vidhan Bhavan on Thursday evening. Before that, he met former party president Rahul Gandhi and other key leaders in Delhi on Wednesday. The party leadership spoke to the heads of Sena and NCP as the replacement of the speaker has to be dealt with by the ruling alliance. Congress is also expected to replace five working presidents as most of the incumbent working presidents have been accommodated in the state cabinet.“I have resigned from the post as per instructions from the party leadership. I am not aware about any changes in the responsibilities of working presidents,” Patole said.Patole hails from Vidarbha and has influence in the peasant Kunbi community. In several parts of the region, the community supported Congress in the 2019 Assembly elections. Patole began as a Congress leader, but then shifted to the BJP. He was elected as BJP MP in 2014 from the Bhandara-Gondia constituency, but later in December 2017, quit the party after criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and returned to the Congress. He was elected to the state Assembly in 2019 and was made speaker when the MVA formed the government.Patole’s resignation has necessitated election for the post of speaker. The three-party coalition which has clear majority in the 288-member Assembly will have to ensure that none of its MLAs vote against its candidate. If that happens, there would be questions raised over the stability of the government. Opposition BJP has been insisting that the MVA government will fall due to internal contradictions. Observers feel that there could be bargaining within the MVA for the post in exchange for ministerial berths. Though there are reports that Congress demanded the post of deputy chief minister, Pawar vehemently rubbished them. “We have been informed about the internal changes in the responsibilities in Congress. After Patole’s resignation, the post has fallen vacant and three parties will collectively take decision over new speaker,” he said in Delhi.“Pawar has not clearly said that his party may claim the post, but by keeping it in limbo, he wants to assert his authority in decision-making in MVA. It is obvious that there could not be an appointment of the new speaker without taking him into confidence and at that time, Pawar may have his choice on the name of the speaker, even though he/she is from the Congress. He would not want someone like Prithviraj Chavan to become next speaker,” said political analyst Hemant Desai.The Congress leadership had begun the process of changing state leadership last month by speaking to legislators and key leaders in the state. Incumbent president Balasaheb Thorat holds three key positions, including revenue minister and party’s legislative leader. Besides Patole, Rajya Sabha MP and All India Congress Committee’s Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav and relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar were in the race.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-resigns-as-maharashtra-speaker-to-be-state-congress-chief-101612466651306.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Government authorities should be secular with work: Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) observed that government authorities including police are expected to work with a secular mind and avoid a general fear of inviting trouble if the case involves religious feelings. The court also directed the police to register offence against trustees of Jagadamba Devi Charitable Trust, Mohota in Ahmednagar for illegal acts that fall under the Black Magic Act.The trustees had allegedly buried around two kilograms of gold in the name of Suvarna Yantras since 2011 and had misappropriated at least ₹25 lakh for performing related ceremonies. On February 3, a division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar while hearing a petition filed by social activist and former trustee Namdev Sahebrao Garad, 52, was informed by advocate AS Kale that the petition sought registration of a first information report (FIR) against persons on the trust for alleged misappropriation of precious metals and funds under the garb of performing religious rituals. The petition sought to excavate the precious metals buried under the idols of goddesses at the temple to check their purity. It also urged the court to direct the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the alleged offences by the trustees and monitor the same. It also sought records and audit reports of the trust between 2009 and 2019. Kale further submitted that the petition by Garad also mentioned a police complaint registered in 2017 by Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti (ANS) over alleged illegal activity by the trust and stated that no action was initiated by the police. Senior counsel Rajendra Deshmukh for the temple trust, however, refuted the claims and said these were false allegations against the management. He said the management had earlier conducted an inquiry after complaints from Garad, but it was rejected. Since then Garad was resorting to pressure tactics, he said and urged the court to dismiss the petition.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that it was surprising that even the district judge, who was a member of the trust, accepted the proposals to construct structures for the ceremony involving burying of Suvarna Yantras. The court stated, “These days, complaints are received against many managements that they are not properly managing the trust and are spending the money and are disposing of the property of the trust illegally.” Referring to the instant case the court held that the activities of the trustees certainly fell under the prohibited acts mentioned under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013, and the same was not permitted by the Maharashtra Public Trust Act. The court then chided the authorities saying, “The record of so-called inquiry made by the clerical staff of the trust office, inaction on the part of deputy charity commissioner in the case, show of inquiry made by police into the matter show the authorities have no courage to take action even when such serious thing has happened.” Citing the general fear in the minds of authorities which led them to avoid taking steps, the court held, “The general fear may be of different kinds, like the possibility that they may invite trouble as the matter involves religious feelings and it can be viewed as an act against God. In view of Article 51-A of the Constitution of India, this court holds that the authorities are expected to work with a secular mind in such cases and they need to adhere to the truth.” Suggesting that the authority needed to have a scientific approach in such matters and adhere to the provisions of law, the court said the authority could not accept religious propositions like the one made in the present matter. While disposing of the petition, the court directed the police to register an FIR based on the complaint made by ANS and directed that the investigation under additional or deputy superintendent of police be completed within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/government-authorities-should-be-secular-with-work-bombay-hc-101612466412680.html
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu: Chicken price rises in Chandigarh as normal demand resumes||With no case of avian influenza getting detected in the city and people resuming their consumption of poultry items, the price of chicken products has started to rise in market. And, with a shortage in supply owing to culling operations in the poultry farms of the region, it is expected that prices can further soar.Confirming that a rise in price is on the cards, president of the Sector 21 Meat Market Association, Ashish Kumar, said, “The price of broiler had fallen down to ₹150 per kg and it has shot up to ₹180 per kg in just about two days. There is a shortage from the back-end, and within a day or two, the prices can rise even higher.”Prices of broiler meat in other retail shops has gone even higher. At Chawla’s Chicken in Sector 46, the rate of broiler meat had gone as high as ₹230 per kg and as per the staff, it is on the lines of what the price was in December. “The demand for chicken products is going up, but it is still not as high as it was before the bird flu,” said Ravinder Kumar, manager of King Broilers in Sector 46.The price for eggs, however, remains mostly unchanged as confirmed by Sector 21 Meat Market president. Nitish Singla, the proprietor of a grocery store in Sector 48, said, “The demand for eggs still hasn’t picked up with the grocery stores so a tray of 30 eggs still costs ₹150, which was over ₹180 before bird flu was confirmed in the region. A rise in price can be expected but in a few days, not immediately.”Saying that people had started ordering chicken dishes in restaurants again, the city head of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI)’s Chandigarh chapter, Sunveer Sondhi said, “Bird flu was more of a mental block with people, and once people realised that eating cooked chicken dishes is safe, our sale picked up.” He added that restaurants are still taking extra care and cooking chicken dishes at a temperature higher than 100 degrees for the safety of the customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bird-flu-chicken-price-rises-in-chandigarh-as-normal-demand-resumes-101612466411629.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: One city, one body must for growth, revenue?||Making the civic body the single planning authority for Mumbai – a proposal sent by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to the Maharashtra government – could impact redevelopment of buildings, vertical and infrastructure development, while bringing in considerable revenue to the civic body, according to urban planning experts. If approved by the state, it could change the face of development in parts of Mumbai, such as Andheri (East), Goregaon and parts of east coast, Chembur and Charkop, among others. The proposal was mentioned in the budget presented BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday. Currently, the city has multiple planning authorities such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) and BPT. There are many pockets in Mumbai where the BMC is not the planning authority. For example, the MMRDA is the planning authority for parts of Bandra Reclamation, Bandra-Kurla Complex and Nariman Point; many areas along the east coast of Mumbai are with Mumbai Port Trust, the Andheri East area is in the possession of MIDC, SRA is the planning authority for all slums in the city from Dahisar to Colaba, and there are 156 layouts of Mhada across the city. These authorities have to be approached for construction permits in these areas. Moreover, premiums and construction charges are paid to these authorities, at the time of new constructions or redevelopment. BMC’s Development Control and Promotion Regulations 2034 do not apply to these areas. Effectively, the Floor space Index (FSI) that these buildings can avail differs, and the mandatory open space requirement of a plot, at the time of construction, also differs. However, the BMC provides all civic amenities such as water supply, sewerage lines, roads, and fire no-objection certificate to buildings in these areas. Hussain Indorewala, assistant professor with Kamla Raheja Architecture Institute, said, “If Mhada is doing a redevelopment in its area, then BMC does not benefit from the premiums from construction, and other charges. But it is providing civic amenities, so perhaps the BMC is thinking that it should benefit financially as well. If you look at the DCPR, many parts of Mumbai were not included, as the planning authority for these regions rested with different bodies. So it will make planning more accountable, but the BMC seems to be thinking of this as means of raising revenue.”Indorewala added, “This means, when plans for infrastructure development and land use are being made in the city, the civic body will be able to plan land use and prescribe development regulations for the entire city. How this will translate on the field, in terms of details like transit-oriented development, remains to be seen. As execution of projects is likely to remain with the respective bodies, we can’t say the BMC won’t need to communicate with any bodies at all, if it becomes the singular planning authority.”Vilas Nagalkar, a senior city-based architect, said, “For example, the Oshiwara Business District had a higher FSI, meaning buildings in this area could be taller than buildings in the rest of Mumbai. After the DCPR 2034 was finalised, the BMC began to give higher FSI to commercial establishments, and the difference in FSI has now almost been neutralised, only now.” Moreover, bringing construction permits under one roof for all areas in the city will also impact the BMC’s rank in World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business, according to experts. Shirish Sukhatme, a senior city-based architect, said, “Many construction permits are delayed as their processes are not streamlined. We have projects that are stuck for three plus years because of delay in coordination between the respective planning bodies while giving us permits.”Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap said, “The Congress is opposed to the idea of making the BMC the single planning authority in the city. Other agencies such as the MMRDA and Mhada have also significantly contributed to the development of the city and their rights should not be taken away. If they are not doing a good job, they should be improved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaione-city-one-body-must-for-growth-revenue-101612466292047.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Most travellers prefer travelling to familiar spots in 2021, finds survey||Most Indian travellers, for their holiday, intend to visit a location they have previously visited for its familiarity, shows finds of Booking.com’s future of travel research. Around 57% of the 20,934 surveyed travellers said they preferred to return to a place they have already explored while 49% are aiming to hit a new destination within India. The survey also revealed that 52% Indian travellers plan to travel within the country in the next seven to 12 months. Commenting on the study, Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia at Booking.com, said, “While it will be some time before travel returns to pre-pandemic levels, all signs point to the fundamental and enduring role that travel plays in all our lives. Looking ahead, staying closer to home and becoming familiarists rather than tourists will continue to be at the forefront of travel agendas. Rediscovering India and travelling like a local is what 2021 is going to be about.” According to the survey, Srinagar, Digha, Manali, Goa and Alibag are some of the top trending destinations for Indians travelling from February 1 to February 28, with a surge in staycations to nearby destinations. “The popularity of holidaying with pets, travelling with furry companions has been top of traveller’s minds in recent months, with the use of Booking.com’s pet-friendly filter more than doubling since travel restrictions began. With no sign of slowing down, the trend to travel with pets is one that we are likely to see continue throughout 2021 and beyond,” read a statement on the portal. The survey also found that 25% Indian travellers intend to travel outside the continent by the end this year, as opposed 12% respondents in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-travellers-prefer-travelling-to-familiar-spots-in-2021-finds-survey-101612466171197.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Reconstituted parking authority makes a comeback in Mumbai civic body budget||The Mumbai parking authority (MPA), the apex independent body that will be formed as per the Development Control and Promotion Regulation (2034), to regulate the street and off-street parking in space-starved Mumbai, has yet again found a special mention in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) budget 2021, presented by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday. The roads and traffic department has been allotted ₹1,600 crore in the budget 2021. The MPA will utilise funds from this budget head.The MPA was reconstituted in January this year. BMC has appointed Tata Insitute of Social Sciences (TISS), as the agency from where urban planners, traffic planners, urban designers, and geographic information system (GIS) designers are being roped in, to help with MPA’s work. The first meeting of the body, after it was reconstituted, took place on January 18.A senior civic officer from BMC’s traffic department said, “The body has not yet been legally formed. We have sought legal opinion about it. Presently, it has been given the timeline of one year to complete tasks at hand, which include ward-wise survey and GIS mapping of street and off-street parking and formulation of the parking policy, fee structure, among other things.”Since many stakeholders will be involved in the working of the MPA, including BMC, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), private bus operators, Regional Transport Office (RTO), Mumbai Police, and traffic police, the civic body is examining how to make the MPA a legally strong body. The MPA will bring all these stakeholders together. In the coming year, BMC will decide on the legal structure of the body. It may set up the MPA under the BMC Act by making amendments to the Act. All functions of parking within the city implemented by different authorities are proposed to be merged into MPA. Personnel from other departments will work on deputation in MPA to carry out its functions.An expert associated with the MPA said, “So far, a lot of work has already been done by MPA, which will be carried forward. For example, we were in talking with residential complexes to use their parking spaces on a paid basis. A lot has changed during the work from home scenario. Now, residential complexes may not have as much parking space, but commercial complexes will. So we are fine-tuning these details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reconstituted-parking-authority-makes-a-comeback-in-mumbai-civic-body-budget-101612466051675.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court rejects claim over Dawood Ibrahim’s benami property||Mumbai city civil court dismissed a suit filed by Ahmed Vazir Parkar claiming ownership of Parkar Chamber building in Nagpada — a property listed by law enforcement agencies as benami property held by fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar, the mastermind behind the March 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai.The building was attached by the income tax (I-T) department in December 1996 to recover tax dues to the tune of ₹40.51 crore. The demand was raised by the department for assessment year 1990-1991. It claimed that the property was one of the benami properties owned by Dawood. According to central agencies such as the I-T department and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Dawood had acquired 23 properties Mumbai in the name of his family members, relatives and associates, who did not have any independent source of income.“It was alleged that Dawood had acquired the suit property (Parkar Chamber) as a benami property in the name of his brother-in-law Ibrahim Parkar, who ran a tea stall and did not have the financial capacity to purchase the suit property,” the agencies claimed while contesting Ahmed’s claim. Ahmed had, however, raised an objection before the I-T department claiming the property was owned by his family and that they had nothing to do with Dawood or his family. According to documents furnished by him, he was the only son of his parents and had inherited the property from them. However, his claims were rejected by I-T department. Meanwhile, in 2000, Dawood was declared as a proclaimed offender for his involvement in 1993 serial bomb blasts. The government had pointed out that in 2001 the property was added in the list of Dawood’s benami properties and was set to be auctioned. Before the auction could take place, Ahmed approached the city civil court in April 2001, relying upon documents related to transfer of rights in the property from 1937 onwards, whereby the said property was given on lease to one Abdulla Burhan for 999 years by the Municipal Corporation of the City of Bombay.It was claimed that the property was later transferred to Sahabzadi Anwar Jehan Begum, who transferred it to Haji Vazir Mahommed Parkar in 1951. This is how, the plaintiff claimed, the property came to be owned by his family. However, the government pointed out that he had not showed any income from the suit property in his income tax returns for assessment years 1999-2000 and 2000-2001. The court, after going through the records, observed that there was no evidence that Ahmed’s family owned the property. In fact, after perusal of the documents produced by Ahmed, the court noted that the property was given on lease as there was no document to show that it was sold or the deed of conveyance for transfer of ownership. The court noted that the document only showed transfer of leasehold rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-rejects-claim-over-dawood-ibrahim-s-benami-property-101612465873060.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body explore new sources of income||Financial reforms, exploring new avenues of income, and recovery of dues are Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ways of moving forward in cash strapped times. Looking at the budget trends of the past few years, the expenditure of the civic body has grown drastically, in the midst of a shrinking income.BMC’s capital budget in 2021 is 71% more than the previous year. In 2018-19, BMC’s capital expenditure was ₹5,432.24 crore, which was increased to ₹10,903.58 crore in 2020-21, and to ₹18750.99 crore in 2021-22. Similarly, BMC’s revenue expenditure has also increased to ₹20,276.33 crore in 2021, from ₹19,096.74 crore in 2020. On the other hand, in the past year, BMC saw a reduction of ₹5,876.17 crore in its estimated income, and received only ₹22,572.13 crore, instead of the estimated ₹28,448.30 crore. In light of its growing expenditure, BMC budget on Wednesday said “MCGM needs huge funds in future to meet the capital expenditure. Hence, it is a necessity of the time to seek other avenues of revenue.” These include new charges for municipal services (BMC is considering levying these charges and has not finalised it), financial reforms to make Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) more viable and creating a separate fee regulatory authority for timely revision of municipal taxes. BMC is also hopeful of recovering decade-old loans from state government and its various bodies.BMC is now looking at revising its scrutiny fee from the fire safety point of view and levying fire service fee, which will generate an estimated revenue of ₹140 crore and ₹20 crore respectively. Scrutiny fee will be levied for granting permission for providing fire and life safety measures in buildings, as per the Development Control and Promotion Regulation 2034, on the built-up area of the building. Considering the increase in the capital values of buildings, this fee will be revised. A fire service fee will be applicable for granting a no-objection certificate from the Mumbai fire brigade.BMC will also hire a consultant for financial reforms in BEST undertaking, to make public transport more viable, and revive the organization financially. This year, BMC has given BEST financial aid of ₹750 crore, and an additional ₹406 crore to pay pending gratuity of 3646 employees. In 2020-21, BMC had given financial aid amounting to ₹918 crore to BEST.BMC will also form a fee revision authority, an independent body for timely revision of all municipal charges and taxes. Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said on Wednesday, “We are loosing on a lot of revenue as municipal taxes and fees are not revised as per the requirement of the time. It becomes difficult sometimes, for elected bodies to take timely decisions about such revision. Along the lines of (Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission) MERC for electricity, BMC too needs to have a body that will take care of timely tax revision, that is binding on BMC.”Among expected revenue income, BMC is hoping to recover ₹1,600 crore from Slum Rehabilitation Authority, pending since 2008-09, as land premium and infrastructure development charges.The Maharashtra government also owes the civic body ₹5,274.16 crore, towards pending property tax dues, water charges and sewerage charges, and includes ₹3,629.83 crore as grant in aid from the education department. Chahal said, “We have been routinely following up with the state government and have received assurance that this money will be given to BMC soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-explore-new-sources-of-income-101612465871627.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nirav Modi’s sister, brother-in-law move court to dismiss NBWs||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi’s sister and a Belgian national Purvi Mehta and her husband Maiank Mehta, a British national, approached the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court for cancellation of non-bailable warrants (NBWs) issued for their arrest.The two were declared as approvers in connection with the money laundering case registered against Modi in connection with the ₹13,500-crore fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB). Modi is a prime accused in the case.The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing the money laundering case, claimed that Modi has diverted around ₹1,201.18 crore (USD 175.1 million) through Purvi. The agency had made Purvi and Maiank accused in the case and sought to issue NBWs against the two. The couple moved the special PMLA court for cancellation of the warrants against them on the grounds that they have now become approvers in the case.The court has asked ED to reply to their plea by February 11.ED, in its charge sheet, claimed that Purvi was an active participant in the generation of proceeds of crime and the activity of money laundering. It further claimed that Purvi was a director in Dubai and Hongkong-based companies which received funds obtained through letters of understandings issued by PNB in favour of Modi’s firms.Purvi has, however, maintained that she had no knowledge of the transactions. In a response filed before the designated court which is hearing ED’s plea for confiscation of Modi’s properties, she claimed she had nothing to do with the alleged proceeds of crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-nirav-modi-s-sister-brother-in-law-move-court-to-dismiss-nbws-101612465571694.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Delay in first-year law admissions after errors in seat allotment list||The state common entrance test (CET) cell on Thursday postponed the announcement of first seat allotment list for five-year Bachelor of Law (LLB) aspirants by a day after it received complaints of errors in students information. The CET cell has sought help from a third party, who audited the information shared by students at the time of registration. A new list will be released on February 6, said, officials. “The IT firm working with us to conduct admissions to law courses, both three years and five years, had stored all information of candidates based on the information shared at the time of registration. However, there were complaints of students’ information either going missing from the final form or showing wrong information, due to which we had to delay the seat allotment list by a day,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. He added that errors were rectified on Thursday and a fresh list for LLB (five-year law course) will be uploaded on CET website on Saturday morning. Work on LLB (three-year course) candidate information is still in process, and the seat allotment list will be released soon, said officials. Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months this year, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota. In December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make necessary changes to their admission form after the state government decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of the SEBC quota. “The state government is talking about bringing students back to college starting February 15, but are ignoring gross problems in the admissions process. The academic year is almost coming to an end, and CET cell has still not managed to start the seat allocation process for law. This is unacceptable,” said Sachin Pawar, president of the Student Law Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-delay-in-first-year-law-admissions-after-errors-in-seat-allotment-list-101612465391230.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: WR to install recording system to monitor local train crew||In a bid to increase safety of commuters travelling by the suburban railway network on the Western Railway (WR), crew voice and video recording systems will be introduced in the suburban local trains. The system will be installed in the cabins of motorman and guards with one camera installed inside cabins and one outside. Audio recording devices will also be placed inside both the motorman and guard’s cabin.The system will be placed in 110 trains. With this move, the zonal railway aims to scrutinise the operation of local trains. The system will monitor the actions taken by the motormen and guard including operations of train at speed restrictions, signal passed at danger (SPAD) when railway signals are red indicating a local train ahead, and also railway accidents.The ₹2.8-crore project has been approved by the railway ministry and has also been included in the Union budget 2021-2022. The Union budget has included installation and commissioning of video and crew voice recording system in driving cabs of electrical multiple unit (EMU) local trains. “The move will improve safety of passengers travelling by local trains and also let us inspect the local train while in motion,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR. Earlier, both the WR and Central Railway had held counselling sessions for motormen regarding safe operations of local train services. The sessions were operated after incident of SPAD occurred on the railway tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wr-to-install-recording-system-to-monitor-local-train-crew-101612465332299.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||60,000 kids in Mumbai still don’t have access to online learning: Data||After 10 months since schools in the city closed, over 60,000 students across the city still do not have access to online education, data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education department has revealed. The data, which consists of details concerning BMC schools along with primary aided and unaided schools that function under the civic body’s jurisdiction, reveals that 50% students who are unable to join online classes do not have Android mobile phones. Over 20,000-odd students, despite having smartphones, are unable to join online classes as they cannot afford internet. Details obtained by BMC also revealed that till February 1, more than 37,000 students had reportedly migrated from the city, of which nearly 40% were not connected to online learning. Mahesh Palkar, education officer, BMC, said while teachers have been flexible in using various online platforms like Zoom and Google Meet, some students are left out from the classes altogether. “Some say they have migrated from the city while others have reportedly stated the inability to afford a phone or a data pack. Teachers reach out to such students through phone and various personal contact initiatives of the department,” he added. The civic body had appointed Palak Mitra (friends among parents) to reach out to students who are not in the online learning mode. There are nearly 13,000 Palak Mitra appointed by the schools, who coordinate with nearby children and ensure their learning by passing on materials and instructions given by the school. Similarly, over 12,000 students are trained to be peer supporters for their classmates. In all, 1,700 students cannot be contacted in all these months, as per the civic body.With schools remaining closed for students for the past 10 months, principals are worried about the academic loss of students who are not able to access online learning. “Students from low-income families and especially those who are weak in studies are likely to suffer a lot. We are hoping that local authorities permit schools to reopen at the earliest,” said the principal of a BMC school in the eastern suburbs. A survey conducted by BMC in August 2020 found that, 15% students from BMC schools had no access to online learning. While schools across state have reopened, those in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane are yet to reopen. Total students: 621,685Students attending online live classes: 480,570Students not attending online classes: 60,945Breakup of students who have no access to online learningBMC: 40,888Private-aided: 4,958Private-unaided: 15,099Students without Android: 37,213Students without internet: 20,367Migrated students: 37,292||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/60000-kids-in-mumbai-still-don-t-have-access-to-online-learning-data-101612465211459.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor takes jibe at MVA govt over job to Kavita Raut||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has once again slammed the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for not providing a government job to athlete Kavita Raut, who has represented the country in the Commonwealth Games. State sports minister Sunil Kedar said they had offered her a job but she wanted one based on her qualification, for which the state will have to tweak its rules and regulations. Kedar further said that they have started the process to make the desired changes.“If the state government and sports minister Sunil Kedar are not able to provide a job to Kavita Raut, then something is wrong. What is Maharashtra government doing if there are no teachers in tribal areas and their vacant posts are not getting filled?” the governor said while inaugurating a newly constructed building of tribal cultural bhavan in Nashik on Wednesday.Raut had met the governor and informed him that she was not getting a job in Class-1 category despite an assurance from the state government. She had also said that she has been trying to get a job since 2014, but her efforts were in vain.Following this, Koshyari on November 30 last year wrote a letter to the sports minister saying Raut was eligible for Class-1 category job and that the benefit based on her qualification should be extended. “She has represented the country in the Rio Olympics in 2016 and also brought glory in the Asiad and Commonwealth Games by winning medals. She comes from a scheduled tribe community and enhanced the glory of the country at international level without any support. Considering her track record, she is eligible for a Class-1 job. She is unhappy that sportspersons even less qualified than her were extended similar benefits time and again, but she is yet to get a job despite her efforts since 2014,” states the letter.Citing that Raut was working with ONGC as a first class officer, the governor added, “Please extend the benefits by appointing her as Class-1 officer.”Raut is a long distance runner and won the bronze medal in 10,000-metre race at the 2010 Commonwealth Games, the first individual track medal by an Indian woman athlete at the Commonwealth Games. She also won the silver medal in the 10,000-metre race at the 2010 Asian Games. In 2012, she was conferred with Arjuna award, one of the most prestigious sports awards in the country.Raut was not available for a comment.The sports minister however said, “We offered her a job but she requested for another one based on her qualifications, which is not possible under existing rules and regulations for recruitment. We decided to move her proposal as a special case but was told that the rules should be equal for all the sportspersons, and thus decided to amend the rules. She will get a job of her choice once the process is completed.”This is the second incident in the past one week when Governor Koshyari chose to take on the MVA government. Last week, he had said that allowing physical classes for schools and not for colleges and universities seemed contradictory.The governor is yet to clear the 12 names recommended by the state government in November last year for appointing as the member of the legislative council under his quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-takes-jibe-at-mva-govt-over-job-to-kavita-raut-101612465151157.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices rise again in Mumbai: Petrol costs ₹93.20 per litre, diesel ₹83.67||Fuel prices in the city are at an all-time high with one litre of petrol costing more than ₹93 on Thursday. While one litre of petrol was available at ₹93.20, diesel was priced at ₹83.67.The increase in fuel prices comes after eight days. The prices had remained constant since January 27, when a litre of petrol was priced at ₹92.86 and diesel ₹83.30. The surge in fuel prices irked both transporters and citizens who demanded that the state look into the matter immediately and take measures to control the surge in prices. “As diesel prices continue to surge, there is a strong resentment among the transport fraternity of India and they clamour for a strong action to press for their demands. The governing council meeting will be convened this weekend and we will finalise decisions [on actions to be taken]. The budget has also failed to assuage the tattered souls of road transport sector of India which is already financially-strained post lockdown,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, core committee, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Citizens have also demanded immediate attention of the government. “If fuel prices are not controlled, they could soon reach ₹100 in the city. Residents are already suffering with financial constraints, and rising fuel prices are increasing their burden. The government should look into the issue immediately and reduce the prices,” said Dr Charu Jain, a Byculla resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-rise-again-in-mumbai-petrol-costs-93-20-per-litre-diesel-8367-101612464973150.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mangrove cell to act against debris dumping in Mahul following complaints||The state mangrove cell on Thursday visited Mahul in Chembur and found evidence of destruction of mangroves on government land. The visit was sparked by complaints by environmental activists of debris dumping and illegal construction on the protected land.“Following complaints from various agencies, our team visited the Mahul site on Thursday. We found debris dumped along the border of the forest. Some temporary structures have also been set up,” said Neenu Somaraj, deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Somaraj said the mangrove cell will hold a meeting with the collector, revenue officials and the state forest department. “We will soon take action on the matter. Since the land belongs to the state government, we have to discuss with all stakeholders and decide on joint action on the restoration of the mangroves and wetlands. All the debris will be removed. We are also constructing a boundary wall that will protect the mangroves from further destruction,” Somaraj added.On Wednesday, Vanashakti, a non-government organisation (NGO), wrote to the state government and the mangroves cell, highlighting ‘extensive destruction of mangroves, wetlands and buffer zones in Mahul’. Citing that Vanashakti had documented the destruction, Stalin D, founder of the NGO, said, “Close to 700 truckloads of debris and mud has been dumped on mangroves and wetlands in an area of around 10 acres or more. At some locations, the dumped material is over 15 metres high. Construction pillars are also coming up on the reclamation. Illegal road admeasuring almost half a kilometre has been made by dumping debris on Mangroves near SRA building.”Stalin has demanded that the state forest department take control of all mangroves and buffer zones in Mahul with immediate effect, in line with the Bombay High Court (HC) order.In 2005, in an interim order, the HC had directed all mangrove areas on government land to be handed over to the forest department. HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018. However, while district bodies are yet to hand over 1,592.8-hectare area (ha), state agencies such as JNPT have failed to transfer approximately 1,147 ha to the forest department falling under their jurisdiction.In December last year, Vanashakti had issued contempt notices to all Konkan district collectors, Konkan divisional commissioner, and state agency Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) for failing to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction to the Maharashtra forest department. In January this year, Vanashakti filed a petition in HC seeking immediate transfer of all mangrove lands to the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mangrove-cell-to-act-against-debris-dumping-in-mahul-following-complaints-101612464971875.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt replaces Jalyukt Shivar with 3-year water conservation scheme||After scrapping Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan — a flagship scheme of the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government for water conservation, the Maharashtra government on Thursday cleared a new water conservation programme for restoration of irrigation sources having a capacity of up to 600 hectare (ha) in the state. The three-year programme will be implemented at an expenditure of ₹1,340 crore and has been named Chief Minister Water Conservation Programme (CMWCP). The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday.Under the scheme, the state soil and water conservation department would complete repair and restoration of 7,916 structures in the next three years till March 2023. The work includes repairing small irrigation ponds, storage ponds, old malgujari ponds, village pond, percolation tanks, earthen nala bund, cement nala bund, storage bunds, setting up a pipe distribution system on non-repaired canals etc., said a senior official from the state soil and water conservation department.“The state government is expected to restore 806,985 TCM (thousand cubic metre) water storage and irrigate 166,184 ha land with the help of the new programme,” he added.Another official, requesting anonymity, said, “It is quite different from Jalyukt Shivar due to limited scope of work. No new irrigation work would be undertaken under the programme except those related to repair of existing structures. We would be repairing all the old and damaged irrigation sources in the next few years.”As of now, the duration of the programme is being determined only for three years. The state government will review the progress and decide whether they would like to extend it or not, he added.Launched in 2014, Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan was expected to help improve groundwater table and make villages water sufficient in five years. Fadnavis had also announced that Maharashtra would be made drought-free by 2019. It was a convergence of several water conservation schemes run by the state government.Last year, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government decided to discontinue the scheme over “irregularities”. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in its report tabled in the state legislature last year, pointed out deficiencies in planning and lack of provision of adequate funds for maintenance of the works, failure to achieve water neutrality in drought-prone villages and increase in ground water level as intended. After this, the state government announced a probe into the alleged irregularities in the scheme and formed a special investigation team for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-replaces-jalyukt-shivar-with-3-year-water-conservation-scheme-101612464798093.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Not six but 78 doctors lost their lives to Covid-19 in Maharashtra, IMA tells Centre||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), a national voluntary organisation of doctors, has said the Centre is underreporting the number of doctors who have succumbed to Covid-19. According to the Centre, six doctors died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, but the state chapter of IMA says 78 doctors lost their lives to the infection. On February 2, minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said in Rajya Sabha that according to the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) insurance scheme, Covid-19 had claimed the lives of 162 doctors till January 22. Of these, six are from Maharashtra. Last year in March, the Centre had announced that all healthcare workers could apply for insurance under PMGKP, which would grant claimants up to ₹50 lakh in case of death. IMA has been seeking approval for private practitioners to be considered eligible for PMGKP, but the Centre is yet to grant this. In a letter dated February 3 and addressed to Choubey, IMA said its data shows 734 doctors lost their lives to Covid-19 across the country. In Maharashtra, 78 doctors, including private practitioners, have died of Covid-19, according to IMA. The organisation has asked the Centre to constitute a high-power committee to study the data on deceased doctors. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, IMA-Maharashtra, said, “Firstly, when the national IMA sought information on doctors who died of Covid-19 infection, the Union health ministry told us they didn’t have any such data. Therefore, around three months ago, we submitted state-wise data for their consideration. The data provided in Rajya Sabha is completely incorrect,” he said. “When the pandemic started, we were threatened not to close down our clinics or our registration would be cancelled. So doctors kept screening patients even without proper personal protective equipment (PPE). Rather than honouring the deceased doctors, the government is hiding the data,” said Bhondwe. HT has reported multiple cases of families losing their sole breadwinners with the death of private practitioners who contracted Covid-19 while screening patients. At present, IMA is collecting funds through crowdsourcing and from registered doctors. “We have been able to raise a large sum with the help of our doctors and will soon disburse the money to families of the deceased doctors,” said Dr Bhondwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-six-but-78-doctors-lost-their-lives-to-covid-19-in-maharashtra-ima-tells-centre-101612464797075.html
05-02-2021||Mumbai||Phase 2: 58 frontline workers vaccinated in Mumbai||On Thursday, around 58 frontline workers were vaccinated as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started the second phase of the vaccination drive in which policemen, firemen and civic officials will be vaccinated. The civic body also added six new vaccination centres, which are in Kasturba Hospital, Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Shatabdi Municipal General Hospital, the jumbo Covid-19 facility in Dahisar, BARC Hospital, SK Patil Hospital, and Maa Hospital. There are now 18 vaccination centres in Mumbai. The turnout dipped to 54% on Thursday, with 4,331 beneficiaries being vaccinated against the target of 8,064. BMC said technical glitches in the Co-WIN app meant few received notifications of the trial run for frontline workers. Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said walk-in vaccination would be started soon for frontline workers to increase turnout. BMC plans to vaccinate around 180,000 frontline workers in the second phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phase-2-58-frontline-workers-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101612464670837.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||New wall-like structure at Tikri, police reposition nails at Ghazipur||On Thursday, a new wall-like structure came up at the Tikri border protest site, where hundreds of farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws for over two months. This structure was in addition to the existing multi-layered barricading, iron nails and barbed wires that have been installed by the police over the last one week in the area.While the police called it a “second layer of protection” to prevent the entry of farmers in the national capital, the protesters termed it as another attempt to “crush their movement”.The border that connects the Capital with Haryana already has multiple layers of concrete and metal barriers along with barbed wires to stop protesters from climbing up the barricades as well as nets to protect security personnel from stone-pelting.On Thursday, labourers were seen fixing wooden planks together on jersey barriers to construct a wall-like barrier. Police have also tied nets across the streets where the security personnel are stationed. The nets have been tied under the elevated Metro line covering both sides of the road.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said the metal barricades put together, between which concrete was filled, is one barrier and this will act as a second layer of protection. Joint commissioner of police (western range) Shalini Singh said that Delhi Police was committed to the safety and security of all people. “Accordingly, measures are being taken and the situation at the border is being continuously monitored,” she said.Preet Pal Singh, a farmer from Punjab, said the government may build hundreds of walls but that will only stop them from entering Delhi, bot withdraw their demands. “They cannot deviate us from our demand. We are here for our rights and for our lives. This government will have to understand that this will not help them get the matter resolved,” he said.Earlier in the day, police repositioned the nails that were hammered into the roads at the Ghazipur border protest site to keep farmers from entering Delhi. Explaining the reason behind the relocation of nails, DCP (east) Deepak Yadav said, “The nails were fixed initially at a spot where people wouldn’t venture earlier. But now that some people are moving around that point, we fear that the nails could become a hazard for them. So, just to ensure their safety, we are removing them and fixing them elsewhere.”At the Singhu border, security remained tight with multi-layered barricading and heavy police deployment on the Delhi side. Mobile internet services continued to remain suspended in and around the protest site for the sixth consecutive day on Thursday.The crowd at the protest site remained thin throughout the day. “It’s been 72 days since we (farmers) have been fighting against the three agri laws near the Delhi borders, leaving behind our homes, family and farming. But the government is not ready to fulfill our demands and hence our agitation will continue. We have been shuttling between our homes and the protest sites. It’s an eight-day rotation policy, meaning one person gets to stay for eight days at the protest site and spend the next eight day at their home,” said Gurcharan Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Bathinda.Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait also announced “One village, one tractor, 15 people and eight days policy” at the Ghazipur border on Thursday. “We need to make sure we have enough people here all the time. We need to prepare for the long haul. At least one tractor with 15 people should be here at the protest site from every village. They will stay here for eight days and then other people from their village will replace them,” he said.Several farmers were seen discussing the ongoing controversy after American singer Rihanna and Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg tweeted supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Sandeep Singh, a farmer from Meerut, said, “It’s embarrassing for the government that people from distant lands are supporting us while it (government) is not ready to listen to our demands. The government is treating us like terrorists by installing barricades and nails and expecting that none will react to this injustice.”On Thursday, local businessmen and factory owners held a meeting with farm leaders at the Singhu border and requested that they should give them space on either of the two carriageways for movement of heavy vehicles. “We will discuss the issues raised by local businessmen in our next meeting. Our agitation is not meant to create problems for the public or destroy businesses. We will certainly address their demands and do whatever is possible,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Doaba (BKU-Doaba) president Manjeet Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-wall-like-structure-at-tikri-police-reposition-nails-at-ghazipur-101612461310179.html
05-02-2021||Noida||Aqua Line metro trains to skip 10 stations from Monday||Aimed to improve train services and lessen travel time, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said it has decided to skip stations with lower ridership during peak hours on the Aqua Line from Monday. Of the 21 stations on the Line, trains during peak hours will skip a total of 10 stations which usually have lower ridership. This, officials said, will reduce travel time between Noida and Greater Noida by nine minutes.Ritu Maheshwari, NMRC’s managing director, said: “These trains will skip stations which have low ridership during peak hours.”According to Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, faster metro services will be available from the Sector 51 station in Noida and the Depot station in Greater Noida from 8am to 11am, and 5pm to 8pm from Monday to Friday.Stations where the metro trains won’t stop during peak hours are Sector 50, Sector 101, Sector 81, Sector 83, Sector 143, Sector 144, Sector 145, Sector 146, Sector 147 and Sector 148 . Officials said that QR tickets will not be sold at these stations during the peak hours mentioned above.The average travel time on the Aqua Line, from Sector 51 Metro to the Depot station and vice versa, is 45 minutes 43 seconds, which will be reduced to 36 minutes 40 seconds, thereby saving commuters around nine minutes. The travel time between Sector 51 and the Pari Chowk Metro Station is presently 37 minutes, which will be brought down to 28 minutes 30 seconds from Monday.Officials said the frequency of trains from Monday to Friday will remain the same, that is, 7.5 minutes during peak hours and 10 minutes during non-peak hours. On Saturdays and Sundays, the Aqua Line trains will continue to run at a frequency of 15 minutes, skipping no stations.The highest ridership seen this year so far on the Aqua Line was on January 11, with 11,511 passengers. The average daily ridership of Aqua Line before the lockdown was induced in March 2020 was 22,758, while the average daily ridership in December 2020 stood at 7,915.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/aqua-line-metro-trains-to-skip-10-stations-from-monday-101612460411776.html
05-02-2021||Patna||Bihar plans financial inclusion of rural women by scaling up Jeevika||Bihar has taken three initiatives aimed at financial inclusion of rural women associated with over 10.30 lakh Jeevika self-help groups spread across the state – the highest in the country – in the new fiscal.Last year, Bihar became the first state in the country to cross the 10 lakh mark for self-help groups of women under Jeevika, a World Bank supported poverty alleviation programme operational in the state since 2007 to make women self-reliant.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has been keen to use Jeevika as a tool of women empowerment since he became CM in 2005.In one of the big initiatives, Jeevika SHGs have been given the contract for supplying school uniforms to students from class 1-12 in state-run schools. Bihar has nearly 1.80 crore school children. While students of classes 9-12 get ₹1000 each annually for buying uniforms, those from classes 6-8 get ₹700 each, those from classes 3-5 get ₹600 each and students of classes 1 & 2 get ₹500 each.The education department last week issued an order that the uniforms – two sets for each student - would be purchased from Jeevika SHGs and clusters of the industry department at the local level in a phased manner from the next academic session. The funds given to the students in their bank accounts through direct benefit transfer (DBT) will be used for the purpose.This will give sustainable income generating opportunity to thousands of rural women, though officials admit that handling such huge quantities on a deadline would require close monitoring.Bihar’s Jeevika was a revolutionary model for women empowerment, and it would now get further fillip with initiatives for massive financial inclusion in the government’s Seven Resolves (Part-2) programme, said Bihar rural development minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary.With inclusion of over 50% women in the Panchayati raj institutions and schools as teachers, the government hopes to make Jeevika the nucleus of rural development, and involve the SHGs in a whole range of activities, viz animal husbandry, agriculture-related activities, tailoring, mask making, banking and running small enterprises among other things.“Apart from school uniforms, the government has also decided to settle ponds in the name of Jeevika SHGs for maintenance and fishery. This is another big step not only to boost income of rural women, but to also ensure their wholesome participation in the state’s ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’ campaign. The objective is to make them the engines of rural economy,” Choudhary added.The minister said the third initiative announced by the CM is to let Jeevika Didis run the kitchen for hospitals across the state and other institutions. “The orders for all the three path-breaking measures have already been issued. ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ is running at quite a few places, but it has to be scaled up to cover all hospitals and also in other institutions,” he added.Also Read: Bihar panchayat polls likely in 9-10 phases, starting mid-March; no 2 child normBihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society (BRLPS) chief executive officer (CEO) and National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) director Balamurugan D said that modalities would soon be worked out with the education department for the supply of school dress to children as it would involve close monitoring at the district, block and panchayat-level stitching units.“During the Covid-19 pandemic, we got masks made by Jeevika. We have made an assessment that there are over 25,000 ‘Didis’ with tailoring expertise. Besides, we will also use those who were involved in tailoring outside state and have returned,” he said, adding Jeevika Didis had given a good account of themselves in financial management, availing bank loans of over ₹14,000 crore.A detailed guideline regarding the supply of school uniforms would soon be issued following consultation among the education, finance, rural development and industry departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-financial-inclusion-of-rural-women-by-scaling-up-jeevika-101612423939300.html
