06-02-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay starts bringing back students affected by internet troubles||With Maharashtra government finally allowing colleges to bring back students to campuses in a staggered manner, many institutes have given first preference to students who are facing trouble with internet connectivity in their respective hometowns. Recently, students living in and around Haryana and Delhi were unable to attend online classes as there was an internet shutdown due to the ongoing farmer protests.The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) recently called around 200 of its students from across the country to return to the campus, especially those facing internet or broadband trouble. Students from affected areas in Haryana and Delhi have been asked to travel back to their campuses.“Students, who are having internet or power-related problems, have been allowed to come back to the campus. Those having broadband at home do not seem to have any problem. On top of that, if anyone points out any network interruption, the respective professors have also given them additional time towards submission of assignments, etc.,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute.The state government earlier this month decided to restart colleges and universities from February 15. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said colleges and universities will be able to restart physical classes after a gap of over 10 months. However, it has restricted the attendance in physical classes with only 50% students allowed to attend lectures physically at a time.The restriction on attendance will continue for a month. The state government will take further decisions after reviewing the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-starts-bringing-back-students-affected-by-internet-troubles-101612636179835.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Students submit answer sheets, PU puts off exams due to glitch Memes trolling Panjab University have again started doing the rounds on social media after the exams of environment and road safety education and violence against women and children were put off on Friday due to a technical glitch. Students had even submitted their answer sheets when the exam was postponed. An extension for Chandigarh MC commissioner? The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation special general house meeting on the budget was a speedy affair with some tense moments when BJP councillors and a Congress member exchanged barbs. But the members burst out laughing when former mayor Rajesh Kalia, while praising the budget, told mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and MC commissioner KK Yadav, “Aap dono ki jodi bani rahe (May this partnership continue).” Sharma was quick to respond, “Aap chahete hei commissioner sahab gets an extension (You want the commissioner to get an extension).” Yadav’s three-year term ends this May. High-flying Mohali mayoral nominee does not own a car Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother, Amarjeet SinghSidhu, who is the Congress mayoral candidate in the Mohali municipal corporation elections, has declared he does not own a car in an affidavit filed before the returning officer last week. Popular as Jeeti, he is a liquor contractor and runs a real estate business. A director in the SAS Nagar Central Cooperative Bank Limited, he is often seen travelling in style in a Toyota Fortuner. Incidentally, former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh, who heads the Azad Group in these elections, owns assets worth ₹248 crore but does not own a car either. He has only two two-wheelers in his name! Meet the real garbage collectors During a recent meeting with members of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (Crawfed), Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma shared an interesting perspective on garbage collectors. “We call them kudewalas (garbage collectors) when it is we who are the real kudewalas. The garbage collectors are swachhta walas (sanitation staff) who help ensure our homes and surroundings are clean.” The mayor assured the residents at the meeting that the garbage collectors will retain their jobs in the new system of collection and will continue to be posted in localities where they have been working. PGI’s Manju Dhandapani feted for role in neuroscience nursing To celebrate 2020 as the Year of the Nurse and Midwife, Manju Dhandapani, a lecturer at the National Institute of Nursing Education, a World Health Organisation (WHO) collaboration centre at PGIMER, and secretary, Society of Indian Neuroscience Nurses, is among the notable nurses and midwives doing extraordinary work in their field and communities. Dhandapani has specialised in neuroscience nursing and possesses extensive experience in critical care nursing, clinical research and education. She strives to make significant and lasting contributions to both neuroscience nursing research and practice in India, and has been instrumental in conducting in-service education, initiating a nurse-led neurosurgery clinic, and developing specialised roles for neuro nurses, such as neurosurgery nurse counsellor and stroke nurse. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101612635881158.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi should make phone call to resolve deadlock: MNS chief||Amid speculations that Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray is moving closer to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Thackeray on Saturday attacked the BJP over the ongoing farmer’s protest. He said that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi should make a ‘phone call’ to resolve the farmer’s stir. He also indirectly slammed PM Modi saying that if the Centre does not want non-Indians to give out opinion on issues of India, then he should not have campaigned for former United States president Donald Trump.Speaking to reporters on Saturday, the MNS chief spoke on varied issues including the Maharashtra government’s U turn on giving relief to consumers for inflated bills. He also targeted the BJP and Shiv Sena for playing politics over renaming Aurangabad to Sambhaji Nagar. He asked why the BJP did not rename the city when it was in power at the Centre and in Maharashtra between 2014 and 2019.In a bid to revive his party’s political future, the MNS has adopted the hard-line Hindutva stand — the space that fell vacant as the Sena no longer advocates stringent Hindutva lines after forming alliance with the Congress and NCP. Thackeray said he will visit the Ram temple in Ayodhya soon. The date, however, is not decided, he said. Political observers said Thackeray cozy-ing up to the BJP could be early signs of an alliance in the offing ahead of Mumbai civic election. The BJP would need the MNS to cut into the Marathi votes of the Sena. Thackeray said that if Union ministers are unable to break the deadlock in discussions with the farmers then PM Modi should intervene to resolve it. He, however, backed the Centre’s law and said there could be some shortcoming which must be rectified.He said the issue has stretched on for too long. “I have not seen such security at China or Pakistan border. There was no need for such arrangement for farmers,” he said. Referring to PM Modi’s statement in all-party meeting where he said he is a “phone call away”, Thackeray added, “I think that if PM has said he is a phone call away then he should pick up the phone and put an end to this. If his agriculture minister or any other minister cannot find a solution in talks, then the PM should pay attention to this issue.”The MNS chief further attacked PM Modi and said there was no need to for the Centre to issue clarification after pop singer Rihanna tweeted on the farmer’s agitation. “They say that outsiders should not get involved in matters of the country. Then by that same logic there was no need to hold rallies saying abki bar, Trump Sarkar; it was that country’s internal matter,” he said in an indirect reference to PM Modi’s Howdy Modi event in Houston.Meanwhile, taking on the Maharashtra government over on not providing relief to power consumers, Thackeray alleged that the “U turn” happened after a meeting between NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Adani. He alleged there would have been some “give and take” between power companies and the government.“First the minister said they would give relief to consumers. Governor asked me to meet Sharad Pawar. After I met him, he asked me to give letters in the name of the power companies like Adani, MSEB, etc. Then after five-six days, I got to know that Adani met Pawar at his home. I do not know what they discussed but after the meeting, the government said that there will not be any relief given to consumers,” Thackeray said.The MNS chief further slammed former allies — the BJP and Sena — on the issue of renaming Aurangabad. He said it is merely politics ahead of the civic elections in the city. “Why was the name not changed when the BJP and Sena were in power? Why are you politicising it now? The BJP and Sena must answer this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-should-make-phone-call-to-resolve-deadlock-mns-chief-101612635879449.html
06-02-2021||Other||Wildbuzz: Under the eagle’s jackboot||A gang of petty thieves runs away with a diamond. They are intercepted by a band of dacoits who snatch the diamond from the lesser thieves. A Dirty Harry cop takes on the dacoits and seizes the booty for himself. So went a mirror incident, staged in Nature’s arena and highlighting the power of a majestic Tawny eagle to pirate, ie forcibly grab or steal, the prey taken down by other hunters. It ended with the eagle placing its powerful leg and talons on the booty, a Neelgai calf. The eagle bore such an imperious, triumphal, ‘don’t mess with me, this is my possession’ look in the eyes that it was as if the proverbial jackboot had without remorse stamped out resistance. Or, as if a ‘ghamandi’ (proud) rajah had placed his boot on a tiger trophy to strike a pose for a palace wall portrait.Sandipan Ghosh, a Kolkata-based assistant professor of geography, is also a passionate wildlife photographer. He was reveling in his passion outside the famous carcass dumping ground in Bikaner (Rajasthan) where migratory/resident raptors alight to feed. “There were abandoned mines and I chanced upon stray dogs hounding a Neelgai calf the size of a Black buck female. The calf stumbled into a mine and broke a leg. The dogs pulled the wounded calf out but before they could start savaging it alive, four migratory griffon vultures landed and chased away the dog pack. The vultures were just about settling over the twitching calf when a Tawny eagle swooped hard on the vultures and chased them away. The lone conqueror proceeded to tear open the eyes and neck of the still-alive calf with its ruthless beak while pinning the prey down with its mighty talons. The eagle ate parts of the calf and soon crows descended to scavenge the remains. I was left spellbound by the sequence of Nature’s thriller,” Ghosh told this writer.The rolling stonesA ramble up the ‘choes’ or dry rivulets of the Shivaliks affords views of ‘flower beds cast in stones of many-splendoured hues and shapes’. Some are smooth and lustrous as if nature had leveraged its powers of attrition to act as an accomplished gem cutter and polisher. Others are holed through to assume forms that appear strange, curious and yet vaguely familiar to the human creative vision. For example, two holes set closely together in a rock that I chanced upon in a Siswan dam rivulet evoked an analogy to a human skull, though overall it appeared as an esoteric Ganesha statue!The effects of rain splash and water in spate are prime reasons for holes. “The rocks are carbonate rich and the white patches, veins and fragments are of carbonates which get dissolved in water on prolonged action of weathering. Sometimes, big fragments which are enclosed in the rock having a layer of carbonates, get loosened on removal of carbonate layer and come out leaving a hole behind,” Prof. RS Chaudhri, former Chairman and Director of Geology (PU), told this writer.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wildbuzz-under-the-eagle-s-jackboot-101612635759505.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Six Delhi hospitals declared ‘non-Covid’ facilities||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in the national capital fell to 0.19% on Saturday as the city reported 123 new cases of the coronavirus disease and added four more fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the state government’s daily health bulletin.The sustained drop in daily new infections led the Delhi government to declare six of its hospitals “non-Covid” facilities, which means these hospitals were removed from the list of dedicated Covid facilities, and paving the way for the resumption of complete non-Covid services there. These include Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital and SRC Hospital.Along with this, the government also decided to reduce the number of reserve Covid-19 beds in five government hospitals - Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Burari Hospital and Ambedkar Nagar Hospital.As per the Saturday bulletin, 63,322 tests were conducted in the preceding 24 hours, and 39,543 of these used the RT-PCR method, while the remaining used rapid antigen kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/six-delhi-hospitals-declared-non-covid-facilities-101612634193673.html
06-02-2021||Other||Witerati: What’s in a name? Fame and rename!||It’s the season of many a new name, rename and meme that might poke Shakespeare in his grave to do a rethink of his fabled phrase-ism, “What’s in a name?” The name game has tossed up tribes of Tweeple that have to do with a game, fame or even a meme. The adage alluding to “greatness”, holds true for the name game, too -- Some are born with a name fashioned for fame, some acquire name fame, some have name fame thrust upon them. To the manner born This tribe of Tweeple has a name destined for fame riding its DNA. Future name fame comes embedded in their chromosomes, the way instant noodles ‘deliver’ results the minute they’re barely out of the packet. The way Twitterverse erupts into a tizzy over tinsel town kids -- the latest ‘viral’ being the ‘Virushka’ baby name guessing game --- is something that was unimaginable in the age our Gen navigated the universe in knickerbockers, polka frocks or pigtails. Gone are the days when kids blithely lived in anonymity as “Pappu” or “Pinki” and even star kids were content being christened Chintu, Lolo or Bebo. Now, they’re content not with ‘following’ suit, but boasting a name that begets a 10K or more ‘following’. Poor new rich kid on the block, who has perhaps not yet even ‘batted’ an eyelid at the star status she’s born into, hardly knows she’s already in the eye of an internet frenzy. The Poster Boy of this tinsel town tribe is none other than ‘Saifeena’ offspring Taimur Ali Khan. Taimur has done for Junior India’s Fifteen Minutes of Fame what ‘Baby Bink’ did for cherubic childhood by giving it ‘Baby’s Day Out’ on Celluloid. Taimur is to desi cherubic celebrity-hood what Prince George is to British royalty-hood. It’s another story that Taimur’s trending hashtag-ism is tad threatened with the arrival of Baby Vamika and his sibling-to-be, prodding Twitterverse to stage a meme fest that spelt the threat thus: “Fame sankat mein hai!” The curious case of Baby Vamika poised to be the Princess Charlotte of Junior India’s Royalty-hood. To be or not to be a rename Move over Kamala. Enter Kamalam. Barely had Kamala (Harris) begun basking in newly anointed fame that there popped a phonetic rival (oops, or is it “phoney” rival?) name, which threatened to gobble her Time Out on Twitterverse, for better or adverse. Have you ever while tucking into an exotic fruit salad suddenly felt like choking? Nah, not because one of the specimens from Nature’s flora is unpalatable, but because its nomenclature is tad hard to swallow. That’s the taste Tweeple were dished out by India Redefining’s latest renaming. Riding the ‘Chini Kum” narrative, so hard was it to swallow the Dragon Fruit renaming as ‘Kamalam’ that the meme fest it did spark had a Netizen snark, “What if we renamed the Euro the rupee … What if we renamed coronavirus … Abanindranath. Would it give up and just do paintings?” When the whole Twitterverse dishes out a meme over the rename, can our Lollita ji & Co be far behind? Seeing the “Kamalam” rename blooming in ‘breaking news’, Lamba ji lands his muse. “How about it if I also get renamed?’ he preens pompously. Lollita goggles and glares as if his muse is cause for amuse. “How about …?” Lamba ji fumbles for fame-friendly renames. Lollita obliges caustically, “How about ‘Kum Akalam’!” The curious case of “What’s in a Name?” … A Meme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/witerati-what-s-in-a-name-fame-and-rename-101612635699849.html
06-02-2021||Other||A spoonful of the good old: Four pages of the handwritten word||Last week, I found myself in a quaint position. As a part of my writing routine, I wake up to a mug of chai, open my laptop, and glide straight into action. But no. Not this morning. Something pulled me away from my keyboard and the screen, the mouse pad and the wi-fi. I was in the mood to write but not in the mood to tap away on a digital medium. So, I reached out to the drawer, quickly picked a diary, and started to pen down my thoughts. The alphabets took shape. The pages began to fill up as the blue ink made twists and turns, crests and troughs, curves and lines, scribbles and crosses. Occasional unrecognisable drawings accompanied the readable words. They laid bare the atmosphere of my mind.Time passed like a flash. I help up the first draft of my thoughts. Four pages of the handwritten word moistened on the edge by an accidental drop of tea.Something felt different. I smiled.I could not just visualise but also touch my thoughts as they took shape on paper. Each sentence had an identity of its own. Not because the thoughts were unique but because when written, each word captures a thought that embodies the author’s personality. Slanted words, straight words, hastily written, fully formed letters, trailing off the margins, using crutches to join one with the other, hard-pressed words dark and bold, faint words with a light touch of the nib. Quite a change from the linear punching of words via keypads and keyboards every day. The pages in my diary didn’t look neat and clean or aligned. My alphabets did what they wanted. They were messy. The lines were asymmetrical. But they were real. And they were me. I was tempted to hide the tea stain by turning the paper inward only to laugh and hold back as I remembered my childhood memory of how angry it made my teachers when I made donkey’s ears!There is something so beautiful and connected about translating thoughts into handwritten notes, bringing with them an added element of permanence one aches to hold on to. Once the page is full, we have to move to a new base to write more. We can’t just press Control-A and Delete to use the same word document aka page again and again. We may choose to discard the page. Tear it. Crush it. Throw it in a paper basket. But is it that easy? Haven’t we experienced a sense of parting with our notebooks and marked textbooks, diaries and folders, even when we know the content in them is no longer relevant? Haven’t we been at the crossroads of a bittersweet feeling when we have to decide between throwing or not throwing an old diary or journal or even a piece of paper that holds our long-forgotten thoughts? One glance at those handwritten words and it is hard to miss how they bring alive what, why and how of the person we were, at that time, at that moment. And for me, that extends even to work notes from years ago. They open up to me incredible back stories of my evolution as a professional.In contrast, we wouldn’t take a second to decide whether we want to delete an entire folder of the written word from our computers, right? Let alone feeling a tinge of parting, we would happily go a step ahead and wipe off its existence permanently by emptying the Recycle Bin!Of course, we must use the power of technology and the virtual world to create and communicate in all forms digitally. In large volumes, across the globe. And I had to go back to my laptop and convert my four pages of the handwritten word into the digital format to email it to its destination. Yes, it was a double effort. But a tiny one for the experience of tasting a spoonful of the good old.Anusha Singh is a Mumbai-based corporate communications consultant and a columnist. She can be reached at anushasingh3@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-spoonful-of-the-good-old-four-pages-of-the-handwritten-word-101612635640771.html
06-02-2021||Other||Guest column: Covid-19 taught us the value of offline relationships||At the beginning of 2020, my new year’s resolution involved a lot more book reading and a lot less inane social media scavenging. Marching into the new year armed with a renewed sense of self, I boldly and successfully implemented a month-long exile from my Instagram account and significantly reduced my daily activity on Twitter to once in a couple of days. And then came March torpedoing all our best laid plans. While the novel coronavirus wreaked havoc outside of our homes, swiftly fracturing both our mobility and sanities and banishing us into an asylum of isolation, another kind of pandemic manifested itself within our homes. With connections to the offline world short circuited, the world clung to frantic and increased online connections, losing themselves unabashedly to the addictive dungeons of the World Wide Web. I found myself back on social media in no time. Between toddler tantrums, toilet training, marathon feeding, changing and cooking sessions, that felt like endless abysses in our home bubbles, a quick thumb-scroll on the device started to become the norm. With a spouse working late hours sequestered in the home office for the most part of the day, even the joyous company of a two-year old can start to give way to a subdued but lingering loneliness. I was glad to be able to reach out to old friends around the world while being shackled all the while to my sofa. Recipes and jokes with old friends from Abu Dhabi, Munich and India, zoom calls with the motley gang from Spain, Dubai, South Africa, USA and Germany, all raising a glass on the video call after their respective long days, and the welcoming WhatsApp calls with family back home in India – the soothing balms to our painful predicaments. It was heartening to note that in these testing times technology was able to keep our usual verbosity ventilated, albeit virtually. But we knew it was always going to be a band-aid fix until we could finally reach an airport, take a flight and embrace each other with real, offline, in-person hugs. It was especially heart-wrenching when the toddler would push isolated suitcases towards the door and announce that he was “going to fly in an airplane!” It has been a year and we still haven’t been able to fulfil that wish. And then during the course of the year, something happened. Having just moved to a new country in the midst of the unmitigated monster that the pandemic was turning out to be, we started to make some new connections. When the COVID numbers began to ease up a little towards the onset of July, we gradually started to allow ourselves some socially distanced and masked meetings. Strangers and neighbours started to become friends. The doorbell would often ring with a delivery from another floor of some home-cooked Indian delicacy -a box of Halwa, some Indian sweets like Laddoos and Rice Kheer and even some freshly baked Focaccia bread. It wasn’t the family we had been yearning for since months, but it was certainly starting to feel a lot like home. A tradition of frequently getting together on a different floor each time with good food and better company began on weekends. Whosoever was slated for a grocery run would text the others to ask if anything was needed urgently. A medical emergency would mean the kids would be dropped off for a play date instantly and without hesitation. For most Indians – home or abroad, the magnanimity of the festival of Diwali cannot be obscured even during an ongoing pandemic. The family back home had been sorely missed this year but this newly acquired surrogate family had kept the spirit of the festival alive and somewhat salved the pangs of yearning by hosting a small, homely Diwali dinner. A sense of online fatigue has now set in, both among children with their online classes and adults with home-bound work and increased social media usage as a result of restricted outdoor activity. Netflix has broken all revenue records this past year and the virulent Twitter army continues to scale new heights of intolerance and animosity. Living in “the audacity of hope” – a phrase I borrow from former president of USA Barack Obama (the title of one of his books) – with a vaccine hovering over the horizon but still no definitive end in sight, I have learned to find comfort in the little things. To shun toxicity in the online world and simultaneously appreciate and allocate more of my time to the small offline moments of joyous disruptions from the mundanity of our current routines. “Read the story again mumma”, pleads my son, his head on my arm as he leans in for the tenth story reading of The Little Red Riding Hood. There is no number of likes or followers on social media that will ever be worth giving up a moment like this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-column-covid-19-taught-us-the-value-of-offline-relationships-101612635639558.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Physical hearings set to resume at Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday named single benches, which would take up cases through physical mode from Monday.Physical hearing was suspended in March 2020 owing to the pandemic, and cases were being taken up through teleconferencing.As many as 18 judges have been assigned for physical hearing of cases between February 8-12. For now, only three courts have been readied for the purpose and three more are expected to be added by February 15. The HC has a total of 48 judges including chief justice RS Jha.The HC administration has also made the e-pass portal functional on the HC website and registrar grouping has been made the nodal officer for resolution of issues about issuance of passes. Two mobile numbers have been issued to help lawyers and other litigants regarding hearings: 7087218394 and 7087218395.Work remained affected this week for five days as lawyers boycotted virtual hearings demanding physical opening of the courts. The work was boycotted as the administration deferred hearing of cases listed in February to May-June. The lawyers had even decided to approach the Supreme Court and the Centre, seeking transfer of chief justice and boycott of his court. However, after a meeting on February 4 between lawyers and the HC administration, these resolutions were taken back.SOPs issued by HC admnAs per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) announced by the HC administration, e-passes will be issued to only one advocate in a case and his/her clerk. Senior advocates will be allowed only one assisting counsel.No litigant will be permitted unless there are specific directions by the high court. Advocates will have to carry their identity cards with them and at any given time, not more than five advocates should be present inside a court. The high court has installed glass/polycarbonate partitions on the dais and on the lawyers’ tables with microphones. The courts would be sanitised twice a day after a session of two hours of hearing.The HC authorities also said that lawyers would not need to make a mention of their case for listing and cases already admitted, where hearing had been deferred due to the pandemic, will be taken up on lawyers’ request with an application for urgent hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/physical-hearings-set-to-resume-at-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101612635519705.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 144 volunteers take part in phase 3 trial of Russian vaccine||After Covishield and Covaxin, Mumbai has started the clinical trial of a third vaccine — Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at the government-run St George hospital. Already 144 volunteers have taken the first shot of the vaccine in January for the third phase of the trial.In November 2020, the hospital had participated in the second phase of trial of the vaccine. During that, 18 volunteers had registered themselves for the trial. Out of this, six of them were doctors. Following which, in January, the third phase was initiated at the hospital.“We started the third phase of the trial on January 20 which was concluded on January 30,” said Dr Akash Khobragade, superintendent of the hospital.The trial was kept under the carpet to maintain its confidentiality. But despite this, the hospital received overwhelming response from volunteers, especially doctors from private hospitals.“Initially, we were given the target to vaccinate only 100 volunteers. But later, we started getting calls from the public and doctors from private hospitals who showed interest in taking part in the trial. Then the number rose to 144 volunteers. Of this, 25 of the volunteers are doctors from private hospitals,” said Dr Khobragade.The new analysis of data from 20,000 phase three trial participants, published in the medical journal The Lancet, claimed that the vaccine provides more than 90% efficiency against Sars-Cov-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. Sputnik V shots help the body produce antibodies which are specially tailored to the coronavirus which helps the immune system to fight coronavirus when it encounters it for real.“Sputnik V is one of the three vaccines in the world with efficacy of over 90%,” reads the official website of the manufacturer.Among the 144 volunteers, none of them reported any severe adverse effect of the vaccine. “Except a new developed minor fever which is common in any immunisation process,” said Dr Khobragade.Just like Covaxin and Covishield, this vaccine also has two shots. The second one is given after 28 days of taking the first shot. “From next week, we will start providing the second shot to the volunteers. But they will be followed up for the next seven months to check if anyone develops any adverse effect or get infected with Covid-19,” he added.However, unlike Pfizerand BioNTech vaccine, Sputnik V can be stored in a fridge rather than a freezer, which makes it easier to transport and distribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-144-volunteers-take-part-in-phase-3-trial-of-russian-vaccine-101612635399512.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinates close to half a million beneficiaries||Maharashtra has inoculated close to half a million beneficiaries in the nationwide vaccination drive, after 37,862 people received the shots on Saturday. A total of 472,805 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in 14 sessions since January 16. Of them, 444,448 are healthcare workers (HCWs) and 25,600 are frontline workers (FLWs). Maharashtra has around 800,000 HCWs and 580,000 FLWs registered on the CoWIN app, which has been developed by the Centre to manage the vaccination drive. The state had targeted 71,632 beneficiaries across 661 centres on Saturday, but achieved 53% of this target, according to the health department. Of the 37,862 inoculated on Saturday, 25,709 were HCWs and 12,153 were FLWs. There has been a steady rise in numbers since February 3, the first day of vaccination for FLWs, when 793 were vaccinated. Of the total vaccinated beneficiaries in the state, 4,601 across six centres have received Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, with the highest number of recipients at Nagpur (1,204), Amravati (1,173) and Pune (678). Across Mumbai’s 21 centres, 6,115 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday and the city achieved 78% of its daily target. A total of 75,751 people have been inoculated across the island city and suburban Mumbai till date. According to the health department, Yavatmal district reported the highest turnout (105%) in Maharashtra with 942 beneficiaries, exceeding its target of 900. High turnouts were also reported in Buldhana (83%), Nashik (80%), and Gondia (80%). Low turnouts were recorded at Latur (30%), Beed (31%) and Jalgaon (32%). “We are expecting a rise in turnout of FLWs from next week. We are still facing issues of doubt among people over vaccines, which is affecting our daily targets,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. “From next week, we expect to start giving second shots of vaccine to HCWs who got the first shot 28 days ago. This will also help increase the daily turnout,” he added. Each beneficiary is required to take two shots of the vaccine, with a gap of 28 days. On Saturday, Maharashtra recorded 2,768 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state’s tally to 2,041,398. With 25 new reported deaths, the total death toll stands at 51,280. Officials said 17 of the 25 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and eight were from last week. In Mumbai, 414 new cases were reported, taking the Covid tally to 311,433. Of these, 5,711 are active cases. Four deaths reported and the city’s total death toll from Covid-19 is 11,388.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinates-close-to-half-a-million-beneficiaries-101612635159426.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR peaceful as 40,000 security personnel keep vigil during ‘chakka jam’||Delhi-NCR remained peaceful on Saturday — with police and paramilitary forces covering every inch of the city, barricades coming up at all strategic points to deter protesters and some Metro stations shutting their gates for more than five hours — as thousands of farmers held a “chakka jam” protest to press for the repealing of three contentious farm laws that the Central government had passed in September last year.Police said at least 62 protesters were detained from outside Shaheedi Park near ITO in central Delhi on Saturday where they had gathered to hold a demonstration in solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. All the detained persons were let off in the evening and no first information report (FIR) was registered against them.On Saturday, the three-hour-long chakka jam protest called by farm unions concluded peacefully in Delhi amid heightened security and full-scale police deployment to prevent a rerun of violence that had taken place on Republic Day. On Saturday, nearly 40,000 security personnel from Delhi Police and from the paramilitary forces fanned out across the capital to maintain law and order on the streets.Authorities also suspended internet connectivity at three protest sites of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, as well as adjoining areas, for 24 hours till Saturday night. The entry and exit gates of at least 10 metro stations – Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Delhi Gate, ITO, Mandi House, Janpath, Central Secretariat, Khan Market, Nehru Place and Vishwavidalaya – were closed for nearly five hours as a precautionary measure aimed at avoiding arrival of agitators for taking part in the chakka jam protest. The stations were closed between 10-30 am and 11.30 am and were reopened by 4 pm, officials said.The three protest sites — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — where thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three contentious agriculture laws remained under a cloak of multilayered barricading, with barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, and nails boards being drilled onto the roads. Nets to block stones in case of stone pelting were also placed even as a heavy contingent of security personnel, armed with anti-riot gear, kept a watch at the barricades and patrolled the streets around the protest sites.Drone cameras were also used at the borders and Shaheedi Park for aerial surveillance and to capture the activities of protesters. From Friday evening onwards, checking of vehicles at the border points had been stepped-up to ensure that no miscreants or farmers entered Delhi for the chakka jam.“However, the checking was relaxed late Saturday morning, following intelligence inputs that the protesting farmers or groups were not entering Delhi for their agitation,” a police officer deployed at Anand Vihar border said, requesting anonymity.Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide “peaceful and non-violent” chakka jam on February 6, during which they would block national and state highways for three hours (between noon and 3pm) in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites; harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities.Even as the farm unions on Friday declared that “there will be no chakka jam inside Delhi”, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “Considering the violence that erupted on January 26 during the tractor rally, we did not want to take any chances. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place and a full-scale vigil was checked untoward incidents and traffic-related inconvenience. No violence happened and traffic remained normal.”At Shaheedi Park, over 60 protesters, mostly women and students of various pro-Left groups, arrived with placards and drums in two separate batches. The first group of 50 people arrived around 12.30pm and tried to enter the park. However, they were stopped at the barricades places 10 metres from the park’s entry gate. The police asked them to disperse. But when the protesters refused,and were detained, put inside buses stationed there and shifted to Rajender Nagar police station. The other group having 12 students arrived around 1.30 am and began beating drums. They were also removed in another bus.“All of them were released around 4.30 pm. No FIR has been registered,” said deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh.There were reports that the police had closed the India Gate lawns. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “We had not shut the lawns. No protester came to New Delhi district area. The security around the iconic structures and important buildings had been tightened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-peaceful-as-40-000-security-personnel-keep-vigil-during-chakka-jam-101612634206372.html
06-02-2021||Noida||Three burglars wanted in over 50 cases arrested in Noida||Noida: Police on Friday night arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in over 50 cases of burglaries across the national capital region (NCR). Police said that some stolen goods, two countrymade guns and an SUV, among others, have been recovered from their possession.The suspects were identified as Sanjay Pahadia, 35, from Agra; Javed, 40, from Nangloi in New Delhi and Suresh, 32, from Sangam Vihar in New Delhi. According to police, the gang, which was active since 2013, had recently committed burglaries in three houses at Jalvayu Vihar in Sector 25, and also in some houses in Sector 30. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the Sector 20 police had identified the suspects’ SUV -- a Mahindra XUV 500 -- which had entered the Jalvayu Vihar society a few days ago. “On Friday night, a police team was conducting check in Sector 6. The police received information about movement of burglars in the SUV. The team stopped the SUV for checking and recovered some silver and gold jewellery, a branded watch worth about ₹1.5 lakh, two countrymade guns, four live cartridges, and one knife, among other things,” he said.The police have also recovered one fake registration number plate, a toolkit to break locks, eight mobile phones and two wi-fi dongles from the three suspects. As many as 52 cases of burglaries are registered against the suspects, police said, adding that 45 cases are lodged in Delhi while seven in Noida. Explaining the gang’s modus operandi, police said that the suspects, Pahadia and Suresh, used to visit different societies on pretext of representatives of a water purifier company. “They used to knock the doors at different houses and enquire if they needed water purifier. This way they conducted recce of these houses. If they did not get any response from inside, they believed there was no one in the house,” the DCP said. Pahadia then used to call Javed inside the society with the SUV. Pahadia and Javed used to break the locks and conduct the burglaries while Suresh used to stand guard outside the house, police said. The DCP said the suspects used dongle’s wi-fi to connect each other instead of mobile phone to evade surveillance. They used to sell the stolen valuables to people at cheap rates in Delhi-NCR, and sometimes they also sold the jewellery to some jewellers, he said. Police said that Pahadia, a class 10 drop-out, is known as ‘super thief’ in his circle and speaks English fluently. “Pahadia had also bought a flat worth ₹60 lakh in a housing society in Greater Noida West using the stolen money. The police will charge the suspects under Gangster Act and also seize their properties,” the DCP said. The three suspects were produced in court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-burglars-wanted-in-over-50-cases-arrested-in-noida-101612634858736.html
06-02-2021||Noida||Forum orders bank to refund fraudulently made transaction||The Gautam Budh Nagar district consumer court levied a penalty on a private bank for using money in a customer’s savings bank account to pay for a fraudulent credit card transaction.The customer, and complainant in the case, Noida resident Vikas Govil said that had received an SMS in 2009 that said a payment of $828.18 ( ₹38,493.81) was made on his credit card. Govil said that he informed the bank of the fraud and blocked his card.But the payment was successful. Later, the complainant said, the bank deducted the amount from his savings account without his authorisation.The bank defended itself saying that there was no deficiency of service and that it had followed all rules.The court. however, saw otherwise.“The commission comprising president Anil Kumar Pundir and member Daya Shanker Pandey held that there was deficiency of service and directed the bank to pay ₹38,660 to the complainant along with 9 percent interest from the date of filing of the complaint. The bank will also refund the ₹ 2,700 to the complainant in lieu of full and final settlement. It will also pay ₹50,000 for harassment and mental agony besides ₹1000 towards legal expenses. The order was delivered last week,” Gunjan Sharma, representative District Consumer Court Advocates Association said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/forum-orders-bank-to-refund-fraudulently-made-transaction-101612634800614.html
06-02-2021||Noida||New 400 kV power station to start its operations by March-end||NOIDA: Nearly 40,000 power consumers residing in at least 10 sectors of the city will have an uninterrupted electricity supply by the end of March this year as the new 400 kV power station in Sector 123 is set to start functioning, officials said on Saturday. Constructed by the Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL), the power transmission company (transcom) of the state, the officials said that the new power station will benefit sectors 61 to 65, 49, 73, 77 and 78, among others. According to the officials, the transcom has also started construction of three 132 kV power sub-stations in the city which will supply electricity to the industrial units in different sectors.Punit Gupta, UPPTCL superintending engineer (transmission), said that Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), which had been awarded the contract to install two transformers of 500 MVA-capacity in the 400kV power station, has almost finished its job. “The new power house will start transmission of electricity to three 132 kV power sub-stations, which are being constructed in sectors 63, 67 and 115, and will be ready by end of the current fiscal 2020-21. These three sub-stations will ensure uninterrupted power supply to different industrial areas of Noida,” he said. Gupta also said that once the new 400 kV power station comes into operation, the load on two existing 400 kV power stations in sector 148 and Pali will automatically be reduced. “With three power stations operative, the electricity can evenly be transmitted to different power sub-stations,” he said, adding that the new power station will get electricity from the 765 kV power grid at Jahangirpur in Greater Noida. The superintending engineer further said the construction work for the new power station was halted on several occasions to check pollution. “But, with almost 80% work done, now we are sure to make it operational by March 31,” Gupta said.It may be noted that the construction for this power station had begun in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/new-400-kv-power-station-to-start-its-operations-by-marchend-101612634800041.html
06-02-2021||Noida||Tikait lashes out at Delhi Police for sending notices||The Delhi Police on Saturday sent out notices to several people who allegedly participated in the tractor rally on Republic Day, inviting the ire of several farmer leaders at the UP Gate protest site.The day, however started off very differently. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait praised the Delhi Police and thanked them with folded hands as the force brought the farmers’ plants planted next to the multi-level barricading under the barricades. But when he learnt of the notices in the afternoon, Tikait lashed out.Farmers at the protest site on Friday evening had offloaded soil from two dumper trucks and planned to sow crops at the barricades on the Ghazipur-Vaishali road. This was their mark of protest for what they called an unnecessary blockade that included heavy concrete blocks, concertina wires and nails studded to the road. So it was a surprise to them when the Delhi Police on Saturday morning included the farmers’ soil too within the barricade perimeter. When Tikait came to know, he rushed to the barricades.“We did pranaam (greeting with folded hands) to the jawans (referring to the security personnel at the barricades). We told them that you protect borders and should protect our soil as well. We will bring in more soil. There is no dearth of soil in the country. Jawan and kisan (farmer) have come together. They will protect our land. In a way we have given our farmland to our soldiers. No one will be able to snatch our land,” Tikait said. A group of farmers from the UP Gate later dug up a pavement where they sowed some plants and sugarcane. Tikait on Friday had called for farmers to bring in soil from their villages and offload it at the protest site. He had also asked them to take away some portion of the soil and sprinkle it in their farmlands. By the afternoon, Tikait rushed to barricades with copies of Delhi Police’s notices in his hands. They called on those who allegedly partook in the rally to join the investigation related to FIRs lodged in connection with violence reported in Delhi.“If someone comes here with his tractor, they are sending notices. Which law says that tractors cannot run on roads? If notices are not taken back, we will take a call and protests will take place at police stations,” Tikait said. Vinod Kumar, a farmer from Baghpat who received a notice from the Pandav Nagar police station in Delhi, said that he had followed the route issued by the Delhi Police for the rally. “I came back through the same route. They don’t want us to come here to attend the protest and are trying to intimidate us by sending notices,” he added. Delhi Police had issued the notices under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure over the events of Republic Day. One of the FIRs named Tikait and he was also served a notice which was put up at his camp at UP Gate by Delhi Police officials. “We are working on the basis of inputs and information we have. As of now we have served 10 notices asking these people to aid the investigation. More people have been identified who will be served notices gradually. These people are identified in states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Punjab,” said Deepak Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (East), Delhi. Sources in the Delhi Police said taking the soil dumped by farmers under the perimeter of the barricades was a precautionary measure and that the farmers had themselves removed some part of the dumped soil from near the barricading area.REPORTS OF INFILTRATION BY OUTSIDERS: TikaitOn Friday, the BKU had called off the “chakka jam” in two states – Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand – with Tikait alleging that he had received “inputs” that some “outsiders” had plans to indulge in violence during the blockade.Tikait and BKU-Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal on Friday afternoon had announced that the two states will not observe road blockades, but that the farmers will come in small groups and submit memorandums of their demands at respective district headquarters.The “chakka jam” call given by farmers’ unions was the first event after the tractor rally held on Republic Day, which had ended in incidents of violence in Delhi.“The decision to hold road blockades may have surprised many, but we had inputs that some outsiders will try to indulge in violence at five places ( in different districts) in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. We came to know that they had planned to come out holding tricolours and flags of farmer unions, wearing the caps usually worn by our supporters. They were planning to sabotage our peaceful movement. We never resorted to sabotage and unruly activities in our movement,” Tikait said on Saturday at UP Gate. When asked, however, he declined to reveal the identity of the “outsiders” and sources of the information he had. He said, though, that the call to abstain from road blockades will give much needed to farmers who have been attending panchayats and meetings in western UP and that they will be prepared to remain on “standby” in case they are needed at UP Gate.“We have already deployed our volunteers to figure out people who do not adhere to our thought-process. If we trace such people at UP Gate and hand them over to the police and will lodge FIRs. We found some people on January 26 as well. If anyone has such nefarious designs, they should leave the place. In our camps too, we will only allow people having Aadhaar cards or they must provide us a guarantee of at least five persons known to them. It is only after this that they will be allowed to stay here,” Tikait added.The call for the “chakka jam” ended at 3pm. Farmer leaders at UP Gate gave a call to farmers to blow the horns of their vehicles for at least one minute to mark the end of the road blockade. The blowing of horns, sirens in cars and sounds of modified silencers of motorcycles went on for about two-three minutes.District officials, meanwhile, said the day remained peaceful in Ghaziabad.“The day passed peacefully; a small group of farmers came to the district headquarters and submitted their memorandum. There was no road blockade put up anywhere (in the district). However, our police and security personnel remained deployed, and duties of sector magistrates had also been put in place beforehand at six locations,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.“Traffic was less on roads and national highways in the wake of the call and also due to it being the weekend. There were no road blockades put up by farmers in the district,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). BKU’s state vice-president Rajbir Singh said that the memorandum submitted to district officials included demands for rollback of the three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. “The other demands included release of pending sugarcane payment and reduction in electricity bills, as well as reduction in diesel rates. These are some of the state-specific issues we have been facing,” Singh, added.Tikait on Saturday also said that the farmers have a long agenda of various measures and that they will stay put at the UP Gate protest site till October 2. He added that the farmers will carry out rallies, besides a mega tractor rally across the country which will see participation of about 40 lakh tractors. “They are wrong if they think that they can take back the three bills without bringing any law on MSP. This will not be acceptable to us. We will not leave our protest. If the law is not made now, it will not be possible in future. This agitation is of the entire country and not of some states, as pointed out time and again,” Tikait said.For the rally of 40 lakh tractors, which he termed as “tractor kranti,” he said that farmers should get the slogan “Kisan kranti 2021 – January 26” painted on their vehicles. “We have a target of 40 lakh tractors, while only two lakh participated during the tractor rally on Republic Day. If the government understands this, they should roll back the three farm laws and come up with a new law on MSP. We have given a target till October 2. It may also happen that fathers of people who are working in defence forces and the police will be called here for sit-ins with pictures (of their wards in security forces),” Tikait said, adding that the “non-political” agitation will be carried across the country. The prolonged agitation will also compound problems for the commuters who use the Delhi-Meerut Expressway as it is now completely blocked due to heavy barricading, with one of its sides having been occupied by protesters since December 3, 2020.Tikait had spoken about the mega tractor rally on February 1 when he said that if the farmers win, he will first go to the Golden Temple in Amritsar and thereafter, plan for holding a mega tractor rally across the country which will witness participation of about 40 lakh tractors. “We will take our ‘Yatras’ as well and the dates will be revealed. Farmers have to maintain the gathering and should come in shifts here. The decision about the crops will be taken by farmers and decisions regarding the agitation will be decided by the panchayats,” he added further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tikait-lashes-out-at-delhi-police-for-sending-notices-101612634798777.html
06-02-2021||Noida||Noida: 100 people arrested for drinking at public places||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police Friday night arrested over 100 people for drinking at public places. Police said the arrests were made under a one-day drive conducted in different areas in Noida and Greater Noida.Some arrests were made following breath analyser tests while some people were caught consuming liquor in their cars, police said, adding that some others were found creating public nuisance. The Noida police in a press note said that the suspects were booked under Section 290 (public nuisance) of the Indian Penal Code.Ankita Sharma, assistant commissioner of police, Noida 1, said that the police had received information that people gather near different markets during the evenings and drink at public places. “This drive had been pending for some time, as most police personnel had been deployed at the farmers’ protest sites at the Chilla border and the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal. The drives were conducted at Brahmaputra Market in Sector 29, Ganga Shopping Complex in Sector 29 and the Sector 18 market, among others. We issued fines to 31 persons under the Sector 20 police station area,” she said.She said that a similar enforcement drive was conducted in different parts of Noida to make the city safe. The last such drive to check for drinking at public places took place in July 2019, when 474 persons were arrested. The drive had been named ‘Operation Clean’ and the exercise was carried out against persons consuming liquor at public spaces and outside liquor shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-100-people-arrested-for-drinking-at-public-places-101612634739286.html
06-02-2021||Noida||Two detained in Gwalior in elderly couple’s murder case||Noida/Bhopal: Two suspects were detained on Saturday in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, in connection with the murder of an elderly couple on Friday morning in Greater Noida, said police. “Acting on a tip-off, a team of the UP police detained the two suspects -- Kallu Bhadoria, a resident of Govardhan Colony, and Dev Sharma, a resident of Sainik Colony,” said Suman Gurjar, additional superintendent of police, Gwalior (east). The elderly couple -- Narendra Nath, 70, and his wife Suman Nath, 65 -- was found murdered at their home in Sector Alpha 2 in Greater Noida. The couple’s son Rohit lives with his wife Nidhi at AWHO Society in Greater Noida, while their daughter Sonu and her husband Jatin live in Sarita Vihar in Delhi. The family had said Friday that Narendra was a distant cousin of former MP chief minister Kamal Nath.Gurjar said that the UP police and MP police jointly interrogated the suspects before taking them to Noida on Saturday. The Gwalior police said the duo used to work for Narendra Nath and have also previous criminal records.However, the Gautam Budh Nagar police have not confirmed the latest development. “A team had visited MP and questioned some suspects. It is premature to comment on their arrest/detention,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.The GB Nagar police have formed five teams which are conducting searches at different places to arrest the suspects involved in the double murder case of the Nath couple in Greater Noida.The police complaint in the matter was filed by Nidhi, who stated that she visited her in-laws’ house on Friday around 8am and found Suman’s body in the drawing room. “My father-in-law’s body was found in the basement. A plumber, a carpenter, a painter and a person named Kapil frequently visited my father-in-law, who had also given loans to them. I suspect these people killed my father-in-law and mother-in-law,” she said.According to the GB Nagar police, the post-mortem report revealed that Narendra was killed by strangulation while his wife Suman died of a bullet injury in her chest. “The Sector Beta 2 Police have registered a case against four persons under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and launched an intensive search,” Pandey said.Police said they spoke to Sonu and other members of the family and found that Suman had called her son-in-law at 11pm on Thursday. She had informed him that Narendra had invited some people over and that they were having a party in the basement, even though she had objected.Police said Narendra allegedly used to party frequently at his house and used to invite local vendors, painters and carpenters and people of similar profiles. Police suspect the same people may have partied at the victim’s house on Thursday night and later killed the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-detained-in-gwalior-in-elderly-couple-s-murder-case-101612634678713.html
06-02-2021||City||Accused in Odisha BJP leader murder found dead under mysterious circumstances||A little more than a month after the sensational murder of a BJP leader and his associate in Odisha's Cuttack district by BJD goons, the prime accused of the case, absconding for over months, was found dead under suspicious circumstances.The body of Prafulla Biswal, the prime accused in the case, was found near Nua Bandal Chhak in Tangi area of Cuttack on Friday night. Police claimed that Biswal, absconding for over a month, died in an accident.“The accident occurred near Nua Bandal Chhak between 9.30 pm and 10 pm last night. We recovered the body and shifted it to SCB Medical College and Hospital in an ambulance. The deceased’s motorcycle, a bag containing a helmet, clothes and insurance papers of the bike were also recovered from the spot,” said Tangi police station inspector-in-charge Padarbinda Tripathy.Biswal was among the 13 accused in the murder case of Kulamani Baral, 75, BJP in-charge of Salepur mandal and his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral. Kulamani, who was also former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti in Cuttack district, was hacked to death along with his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village on the evening of January 2 this year while coming home on a motorcycle.The duo received grievous injuries on their face and chest. While Kulamani succumbed to death on the spot, Dibyasingh died while undergoing treatment at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack on January 3 morning.Odisha law minister and senior BJD minister Pratap Jena is among those who have been accused in the case though he has denied his role. Police have so far arrested 8 people including Bhikari Swain, a local BJD leader and former block chairman of Mahanga in Cuttack district over their alleged involvement in the case.However, BJP claimed that Prafulla was murdered apprehending that he would reveal the involvement of ruling BJD in the murder of former Mahanga block chairman and BJP leader Kulamani Baral along with his associate Dibyasingha Baral.“We have been saying since the beginning that Mahanga double murder case is a political conspiracy which is evident from the death of the accused. Biswal's body was found near Dushasan Jena transport office owned by the minister. The office belongs to Mahanga MLA who was named in the FIR filed in the case. He was kept hidden by the ruling party. As he would have revealed the entire conspiracy, he was eliminated in a well-planned manner,” alleged BJP district president of Cuttack Prakash Behera. He also questioned as to why all other accused involved in the case were nabbed, but the police had failed to arrest the main accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-in-odisha-bjp-leader-murder-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-101612633118967.html
06-02-2021||Gurugram||Apex court issues notice to HSVP on transfer of institutional plot||The Supreme Court has issued a notice to Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran(HSVP) for not passing a speaking order with regards to changes in policy related to transfer of institutional plots alloted by the authority. The directions were issued on the petition of a Delhi-based developer, who had first approached the Punjab and Haryana high court and later the apex court after the authority refused to permit the sale of an institutional plot owned by the developer. As per the details shared by the counsel of the developer, HSVP allotted a 4,050-square metre plot to Nehru Place Hotels and Real Estate in March 2013 for a sum of ₹14.95 crore. Occupation certificate was issued to the developer in 2014, he said. Two years later, the developer sought permission for the sale of plot and building but it was not granted. The authority held that institutional plots are sold with the condition that these can’t be sold or transferred to a third party. Sanjeev Alawadi, counsel for the company, said that the restraining order was incorrect as this condition of non transfer can remain only till the consideration was unpaid. “After making the payment, the allottee is the absolute owner of the plot and has absolute right to transfer it,” he said, adding that the company approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking relief and the court gave directions to HSVP that a fresh order be passed in the matter. Alawadi said that the HSVP has refrained from passing a speaking order in this matter and for the past one year they have been waiting for the same. “We approached the apex court in this matter and submitted that the authority was in contempt of High Court order following which a notice has been issued to the authority’s officials,” he said. A HSVP official, when asked about the matter, said that institutional plots are meant for specified use and cannot be used for speculation purposes. “A policy change is also being carried out for these plots whereby the allottee has to pay half the price of existing circle rates,” he said..Anil Grover, senior additional advocate general of Haryana, who is representing the HSVP in this matter said that directions issued by the apex court will be complied with. “As per directions issued by High Court and Apex Court, a fresh speaking order in this matter will be passed by HSVP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/apex-court-issues-notice-to-hsvp-on-transfer-of-institutional-plot-101612633718418.html
06-02-2021||Gurugram||Over 72% vaccination turnout reported on Saturday||Over 72.5 % of the 700 targeted front-line and healthcare workers took the Covid-19 vaccine shot on Saturday. Data available with the district health department showed that staff members from the police department contributed to almost 89% of the turnout as the vaccination drive for workers of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the revenue department was withheld for the day. It will resume on January 8 with a large-scale vaccination drive targeting over 8,000 registered beneficiaries in a day, said the official. On Saturday, at least 445 out of the 500 targeted police personnel turned up for the vaccination at the five session sites.However, out of 200 healthcare workers, only 13.5% (63) took the vaccine shot at the five locations. The proactive participation of Gurugram Police has led to the inoculation of 1,641 police personnel so far.“In the last three days, inoculation of police staff members remained high among all front-line workers. On Saturday, almost 89% of the police staff members took the shot,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “The inoculation for MCG and revenue department will start from January 8. A massive vaccination drive has been planned on Monday with a target of immunising roughly 8,000 front-line and healthcare workers. All departments have been informed about the drive to ensure the maximum footfall,” said Singh, adding that across the state, the target has been set for 35,000.According to him, the employees of panchayati raj institutions (PRI) will also be included in the vaccination drive from January 8 onwards. “Over 500 employees from three blocks, namely Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar, have been registered,” said Singh.For the MCG employees, the health department has planned to increase the vaccination sites from existing five to almost 15 on the vaccine drive day. MCG staffers have been reluctant in getting vaccinated considering their low turnout of merely 13% on Thursday and 32% on Friday.“The department has been gearing up for the vaccination drive to increase the overall footfall. The number of sites will be increased to almost 15 this time,” said Singh. On the other hand, the staff of Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CPRPF), Indian Reserve Battalion and National Security Guards (NSG) will also be covered under the ongoing vaccination drive, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-72-vaccination-turnout-reported-on-saturday-101612633719226.html
06-02-2021||Gurugram||‘Chakka Jam’ observed in the city by protesters||The Samyukt Kissan Morcha on Saturday held a symbolic protest at Krishna Chowk in Palam Vihar against the three farm laws as part of the ongoing nationwide farmers’ agitation. Around 200 protesters sat in the middle of road and shouted slogans against the union government and blocked the traffic for over 2 hours, leading to congestion. The protest took place between 12 noon and 3pm in the afternoon. Heavy traffic congestion was also witnessed at Sirhaul plaza between 11am to 12.30pm due to strict checking by Delhi Police. The traffic movement, however, eased after 12.30 pm, when the police relaxed border checks. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border also held a chakka jam (road blockade) at two places — one near the protest site on the National Highway-48 and the other at Bawal Chowk. At Bajghera in Gurugram, which was the main site of protest in the city, around 200 farmers, local political leaders and social activists sat on a sit-in protest for about three hours. Santokh Singh, president, Kisan Morcha, said that they held a peaceful sit-in protest and blocked the road to protest against the draconian laws passed by the government. “These laws should be repealed as these violate the rights of the farmers and are meant to push corporates into agribusiness,” he alleged. A large number of women also participated in the protest. They created a human chain on Bajghera Road and Palam Vihar Road, disrupting the traffic. The protesters also distributed anti-government pamphlets and shouted slogans. RS Rathee,councillor, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that protests will continue till the farm laws are repealed and the government realises its mistake. “Agriculture is backbone of economy and these laws will destroy it,” he said. Pradeep Zaildar, a local political leader, said that people across all communities have joined the protests. “This is a question of survival and we are in for a long fight,” he said.A large group of city police was deployed at the spot to manage traffic diversions and maintain law and order. City police officials said that all arrangements were made to maintain law and order and traffic diversions were carried out to minimise the impact of congestion. “Measures were taken to divert traffic from Palam Vihar Road and Bajghera Road. Traffic personnel at various points were deployed to prevent congestion. The situation remained under peaceful and in control,” said Rajiv Kumar, ACP, Udyog Vihar. Overall, traffic movement remained normal on the remaining part of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and KMP(Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border said their road blockade on NH-48 and Bawal was successful. Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that the blockade at both the places was successful. “The blockade took place peacefully without any disruption. We marched a little ahead from the protest site and sat down at an intersection. Emergency vehicles and local commuters were allowed to pass,” said Madhav.He added that protesting farmers from different states including Orissa, Kerala and Haryana sang songs in their native languages to voice opposition against the three farm laws. Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said farmers sat on the roads for nearly three hours and were joined by locals. “Farmers from Rajasthan held the blockade at Shajahanpur while we organised another protest at Bawal. The local administration had extended support and we were able to register our protest peacefully,” said Sohlot.In Nuh too, a blockade was held for three hours by farmers on the Naugaon-Mundka stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/chakka-jam-observed-in-the-city-by-protesters-101612633658490.html
06-02-2021||Gurugram||Police cautions residents on frauds relating to vaccination drive||The Haryana Police has advised city residents to remain cautious of fraudsters and criminals, who may try to dupe them on the pretext of registering for Covid 19 vaccine in view of the mass inoculation drive being carried out by the health department.Navdeep Singh Virk, additional director-general of police (law and order), Haryana, issued an advisory on Saturday, stating that cyber criminals never run out of new ideas to cash in on a situation of crisis. Such scammers may defraud citizens through phone calls, emails or even by WhatsApp messages, asking them their details for getting themselves registered for the vaccine.Referring to the modus operandi of fraudsters, he said that they are making phone calls to people, asking them to register their names for the vaccination drive. With this, they are collecting sensitive personal information, such as Aadhaar number and email in the name of Covid-19 vaccine registration. Along with these details, they may also ask to authenticate Aadhaar by sharing an OTP. The moment OTP is given, money is siphoned off from the Aadhaar-linked bank account.Virk advised the people to exercise caution and not to entertain any phone calls regarding the vaccine registration. “Don’t share your personal data with anyone and use only the government health department approved/issued mobile application for Covid-19 vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-cautions-residents-on-frauds-relating-to-vaccination-drive-101612633598443.html
06-02-2021||Other||Unusually warm January could be indirect result of global warming: IMD scientist||PUNE The average minimum temperature recorded in India during January 2021 was 1.09 degrees more than the month’s normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The average temperature in January is 13.6 degrees Celsius, whereas this year it was recorded at 14.7 degrees Celsius.DS Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, said that these are expected yearly climate variations.“This activity might be an indirect effect of climate change,” said Pai.“The main increase was in the minimum temperature, particularly in the northern part and southern part of the country. There was record rainfall at the start of January. This time in the north there were western disturbances and in the south, there were easterly winds. In some places, they interacted and there was clouding. So maximum temperature reduced and minimum temperature increased. Cloudy days are cooler than normal,” added Pai.The weather department also noted that the mean temperature in southern peninsular India was 1.07 degrees higher than normal this year. The mean temperature of the southern peninsula is 25.30 degrees Celsius and in January 2021, the recorded mean temperature was 26.36 degrees CelsiusThe average minimum temperature for central India in January 2021, which includes Maharashtra, was recorded at its third-highest since 1901. The average temperature for central India is 13.56 degrees Celsius whereas the reported temperature this time was 14.82 degrees Celsius, 1.25 degrees above normal.Speaking about the variations, OP Sreejith, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group, said the reason behind the variations is the Madden–Julian oscillation which the region experienced mainly at the beginning of January.The Madden–Julian oscillation is the largest element of the intra-seasonal variability in the tropical atmosphere.“We also recorded exceptional rainfall due to Madden–Julian oscillation. The minimum temperature is higher so the mean temperature is also on the higher side,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unusually-warm-january-could-be-indirect-result-of-global-warming-imd-scientist-101612633598981.html
06-02-2021||Gurugram||Shopkeepers told to remove encroachments in DLF Phase-1||An enforcement team from the department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Saturday conducted an inspection of a shopping mall in DLF Phase-1, after a number of complaints were lodged by residents regarding illegal encroacments in the area. DTCP officials, who conducted the inspection, said that after finding rampant encroachments in the mall, the manager and secretary of the market association were called and asked to remove violations on their own within two days. RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said that the team spent an hour in the market and interacted with shopkeepers and asked them to.clear the encroacments. “The association has assured us that the encroachments will be removed within two days. The team will conduct an inspection randomly next week and if required changes are not made by then, a sustained demolition drive will be carried out,” he said. Earlier on Friday, the enforcement team visited Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok and took stock of the situation. The department had carried out an anti-encroachment drive in the market few days back in which a number of vends were removed. “The situation in this market has improved and we have told shopkeepers not to repeat the violations,” said Bhath. In the last one week, markets and malls in private colonies have come under the scanner of the department, as several complaints have been lodged by local residents regarding encroacments and other similar violations, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/shopkeepers-told-to-remove-encroachments-in-dlf-phase1-101612633538947.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Markets unaffected by chakka jam, but turnout low||Market associations said all shops remained open across Delhi on Saturday despite a three-hour long chakka jam -- a blockade of state and national highways -- announced by farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws. However, traders said the turnout was lower than usual. Members of the New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) in Connaught Place (CP) said all shops were open throughout the day. “But, traders in the commercial and shopping hub of CP did say that the footfall declined by 50-60% compared to last Saturday. Clearly, there were fewer visitors as many people preferred to stay home to avoid any traffic inconvenience as was seen during the tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day,” said NDTA president Atul Bhargava.Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders association, said all shops operated as usual in the upscale market.Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarva Vyapar Mandal, said only around 25% of the usual business happened on Saturday. “There were much fewer shoppers and visitors as many are still apprehensive about coming to the area after the chaos and violence that happened in Red Fort on Republic Day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/markets-unaffected-by-chakka-jam-but-turnout-low-101612633478423.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Three protest sites at Delhi borders remain peaceful during chakka jam||Amid the large-scale police deployment and a host of steps taken to curtail the movement of farmers, the three-hour nationwide “chakka jam” — a blockade of national and state highways — called by farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, went off peacefully on Saturday at the three protest venues at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders.In view of the violence in the Capital on Republic Day during the tractor rally taken out by farmers, in which one person died and several others were injured, the Delhi Police had put in place a thick security blanket to ensure that no untoward incident takes place during the chakka jam. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “Considering the violence that erupted on January 26 during the tractor rally, we did not want to take any chances. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place and full-scale vigil was maintained to check any untoward incident and traffic-related inconvenience. No violence happened on Saturday and the traffic remained normal.”The blockade was not observed inside the Capital. Highways leading to Delhi were free from the blockade so that farmers could reach the protest sites. There was no blockade in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh either as decided by farmer unions, for the same reason.However, all three protest venues saw thinner crowds on Saturday with farmer leaders saying that a large number of protesters had returned to their respective states to take part in the chakka jam there.At the Singhu border, farmers did not stop any private or shared public vehicle from plying along the stretch where the protest has been taking place for over two months now. “These locals have supported us from Day One. They have already done more than their bit for our movement. So we decided not to impose the jam on them,” said Jagmohan Singh, one of the many volunteers there. At Tikri, farmer leaders on the stage continued to remind the participants to hold the chakka jam as a non-confrontational event. Several young farmers, who had been camping at Tikri border, went back to their villages and home towns to lead the blockade of state highways there.“We have been sending out messages to our brothers in other states that instead of coming to Delhi for protests, on Saturday they should support the movement by blocking their respective state highways and internal roads. The gathering here might be smaller than usual, but that is because the participation at the state level is immense,” said Sahil Kamboj, a volunteer.Despite peaceful scenes at the Tikri border, the security arrangements near the protest site were intense on Saturday. Between Friday and Saturday night, the Delhi Police had set up a multilayered security cordon comprising their personnel, paramilitary personnel, concrete barricades, barbed wire fencing, and nail boards drilled onto roads to stop farmers from entering the national capital.On the roadside near the police barricades in Ghazipur, farmers prepared a small patch of land for cultivation and planted sugarcane and potatoes. Lata Chaudhary, a farmer from Baruat, said, “The police have set up a multilayered barricading and have drilled nails onto the road to prevent our movement as though we are criminals. Today, we planted sugarcane here in front of them (police) to make them realise that we are just farmers and they should not wage a war against us.”On Friday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had planted flower saplings beside the police barricades. The police, on their part, added another layer of barricades on Saturday and allegedly removed the flowers planted by protesters. “The government fixed iron nails in our path, but we have planted flowers next to them, Tikait said.At 3pm, farmers gathered at the Ghazipur border site started honking their vehicles in unison. However, at Singhu border there was no such collective honking. “In the rest of the country, the jam was for three hours. Here, it has been going on for 73 days now. If the government can’t hear us despite so long, our involvement in the chakka jam won’t make a difference,” said Manmeet Kaur, a farmer from Gurdaspur in Punjab.“You can see that thousands of farmers have gathered here. The crowd is sitting for kilometres from here. If we wanted to cause trouble, their (police’s) barricades will not be able to stop us. Our movement was always meant to be peaceful. On January 26, some unruly elements tried to defame farmers and our movement but that was a political ploy,” said Daya Ram, a farmer from Mansa in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-remain-peaceful-during-chakka-jam-101612633359112.html
06-02-2021||Other||AAP, Congress name candidates for civic body bypolls||New DelhiThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress on Saturday announced their candidates for the bypolls to be held in five municipal wards of Delhi on February 28. The Arvind Kejriwal led-AAP has fielded two former MLAs from the city in the fray. The AAP’s political affairs committee selected former party MLA from Bawana, Ram Chander, for ward number 32N (Rohini-C), while the Delhi Pradesh Congress committee announced Mewati Barwala for the seat.Vijay Kumar, who has been the secretary of All India Safai Mazdoor Union will be fighting for the AAP in ward 2-E (Trilokpuri), whereas, Congress has fielded its local leader Bal Kishan from the ward.For ward number 08-E (Kalyanpuri), the AAP has fielded Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) who is a senior AAP leader from Kondli. “He has done remarkable work during the Covid pandemic. Bunty Gautam has been a part of the AAP from the time of its formation,” the party said in a statement. For the same seat the Congress has fielded Dharampal Maurya, while it has put Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad from ward number 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi. The AAP has fielded its former MLA from Seelampur Mohammad Ishraq Khan for the same east Delhi seat. For ward number 62N (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi, AAP has fielded Sunita Mishra who it said is the area’s mohalla coordinator and also is the secretary of AAP’s women’s wing in the Shalimar Bagh assembly constituency. The Congress has given the ticket to Mamta for the same seat. The bypolls will be held on February 28 from 7:30am to 5:30pm, and the last date of filing nominations is February 8.The bypolls will be held for two wards under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). The model code of conduct shall be in force in the above five wards and shall continue to be in force till the completion of the election. The Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007 is also being enforced and candidates are requested to strictly abide by it, the State Election Commission of Delhi had said on January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-congress-name-candidates-for-civic-body-bypolls-101612633358446.html
06-02-2021||Other||Over 100,000 get Covid jab in Delhi||New Delhi: Over 100,000 beneficiaries have received their first doses of a Covid-19 vaccine as on Saturday, three weeks since the start of the nationwide inoculation programme kicked off, according to state government data. Senior health officials said health care workers who got the first jab on January 16, the day the drive was launched, will start getting their second and final dose of the same vaccine from February 13. The programme was also formally opened up for a second batch of recipients on Saturday, with frontline workers now in the fray to receive a jab of either Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin or Serum Institute of India’s Covishield — the two Covid-19 vaccines currently approved for use in the country.Frontline workers, a category which comprises police personnel, municipal staff, revenue officials, teachers and so on, can get vaccinated at all centres across Delhi. On Thursday, only a few centres were opened to frontline workers, as part of a trial.Several district magistrates (DMs) and other bureaucrats took the jabs on Saturday, to instil confidence among the public about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines. However, the daily turnout stayed low on Saturday, as marginally more than 50% of the scheduled beneficiaries turned up for their shots. Of the 17,900 slated to receive the vaccine on Saturday, only 9,510 arrived at Delhi’s 179 vaccination centres on the day.While the turnout number included both health care and frontline workers, the state government did not share the numbers for each category separately.Senior IAS officers, including district magistrates of southwest Delhi, Naveen Aggarwal, and west Delhi, Neha Bansal, took the first dose of the vaccine on Saturday. G Sudhakar deputy commissioner of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) also took a jab on the same day.“Vaccination is the only way we can reach herd immunity. Right now, the fear of catching Covid-19 is lower than it was, but no one knows what lies ahead. So, I urge all front-line workers to come forward and take the vaccine at the earliest,” said Aggarwal after taking the jab. West district vaccinated 1,242 people on Saturday - the highest of all 11 districts in Delhi. The district has 19 session sites for the day. A total of five districts inoculated more than 1,000 beneficiaries on Saturday these also included south, east, central and northwest districts. The fewest vaccinations — 373 doses — were administered in north district. Of the vaccine recipients on Saturday, nine had adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI).“Delhi today (Saturday) has crossed the 100,000 mark in Covid-19 vaccination. We have also formally launched the vaccination of frontline workers now. DMs of many districts and police personnel also came forward for vaccination on Saturday to remove vaccine hesitancy among the people,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.The numbers also include vaccinations that have started in hospitals run by the three municipal corporations. The north Delhi municipal corporation vaccinated 132 beneficiaries on Saturday and till date it has administered 709 jabs in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-100-000-get-covid-jab-in-delhi-101612633299153.html
06-02-2021||Other||Police wait for Google to help them trace creators of ‘toolkit’||New DelhiThe Delhi Police on Saturday said they were waiting for a response from Google from which they have sought assistance in identifying the author/creator of a “toolkit” or document, which allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests associated with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Any concrete progress in the investigation into the toolkit case will happen only when the Google helps the investigating team with the IP addresses and details of the two e-mail accounts, through which the toolkit was created, a senior police officer associated with the probe said. “We are hoping that Google will share the desired information. As of now, we are collecting details of the social media accounts that posted the toolkit or screenshots of its content,” said the officer. On Friday, the cyber prevention and awareness detection (CyPAD) unit of the city police sent a letter to Google and asked for details of the people who drafted the toolkit, edited and circulated it. Separately, police are also trying to get details of the Instagram account mentioned on the original toolkit, through which a live session was screened. Apart from the toolkit case, police have registered 44 more cases in connection with January 26 violence and the incident of January 29 when a group of people, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police. Police on Saturday updated the list of arrested persons on their website. The new list has the names of 125 persons, three more than the previous list. The names of three persons, who were arrested by the Burari police station on February 3, also figure in the updated list. Their identification was done on the basis of video footage analysis. While two persons have been arrested so far in connection with the vandalism and violence at the Red Fort, investigators said that they have been conducting raids to nab eight key suspects, including actor Deep Sidhu and one Jugraj Singh, who were allegedly involved in the violence at the UNESCO World Heritage site. Police have identified Jugraj as the one who had allegedly hoisted a religious flag at the ramparts of the fort. The other six absconding suspects have been identified as Buta Singh, Iqbal Singh, Gurjant Singh, Gurjot Singh, Jagbir Singh and Sukhdev Singh. Police have already announced R6 lakh rewards – R1 lakh each for Deep, Jugraj, Gurjant and Gurjot while R50,000 each for the other four – for information leading to their arrest. Another officer who did not want to be named said that Iqbal has been identified as the one who had done a Facebook live from the Red Fort during the violence. Officials said they have identified over 100 suspects and notices are being sent to them for joining the investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-wait-for-google-to-help-them-trace-creators-of-toolkit-101612633178465.html
06-02-2021||Patna||Covid-19 vaccination info of defence personnel in Bihar to be kept under wraps||Details of defence personnel have been kept classified on the Covid vaccine intelligence network (CoWIN) software application, shared with the states for distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. Bihar on Saturday embarked to vaccinate 2.15 lakh frontline workers (FLWs) enrolled in the state so far.The Central government has set up an exclusive channel with the defence ministry for this purpose.Bihar has around 8,000 defence personnel across Patna, Gaya, Purnia and Darbhanga districts who are being vaccinated against Covid-19 in the second phase. Of these, Danapur (in Patna) and Gaya establishments are under the Army while Bihta (in Patna), Purnia and Darbhanga are under the Indian Air Force.“The CoWIN application does not contain the details of defence personnel as the information is perceived to be sensitive. We have been communicated only about the number of vaccine vials to be made available to defence establishments. The defence ministry will take care of the rest,” said an officer privy to the order.Also read: 'Glad to see enthusiasm' - PM Modi ahead of his visit to Assam, Bengal tomorrowDefence personnel will be vaccinated through the Army Medical Corps (AMC) which will also tackle adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), if any, said the officer requesting anonymity.“Our teams have found the section of vaccination at defence establishments to be up to the mark. We have supplied the required quantity of vaccines to defence personnel and they will do the inoculation internally,” he added.As many as 2.15 lakh FLWs have enrolled for vaccination against Covid-19 in Bihar. The state expects to enrol around 2.40 lakh FLWs for vaccination in the second phase as names in some districts were still being uploaded on the CoWIN portal. Frontline workers, under the ministry of home affairs, include personnel from police, prisons, central paramilitary force and disaster management, besides defence, panchayati raj, revenue, housing and urban affairs.Bihar will have a minimum of two session sites (vaccination centres) in each of its 38 districts for vaccination of the FLWs. It had 301 centres for the vaccination of 4.76 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) listed on the portal in the first phase. The state had completed the inoculation of 3.53 lakh HCWs till Friday since the pan-India launch of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-vaccination-info-of-defence-personnel-in-bihar-to-be-kept-under-wraps-101612631164278.html
06-02-2021||Patna||Cabinet expansion before budget session, says Bihar BJP chief||By Sandeep BhaskarThe protracted suspense over the Cabinet expansion in Bihar is set to come to an end now. BJP state president and Lok Sabha member from West Champaran, Sanjay Jaiswal, on Saturday said chief minister Nitish Kumar is set to expand his Cabinet before the budget session, which is scheduled to commence from February 19.“You all will come to know about the Cabinet expansion before the commencement of state Assembly (budget) session,” Jaiswal said at a press conference at his residence.He, however, refused to divulge information about the number of ministers to be inducted from BJP and its allies, including Nitish Kumar’s JD-U.“It will be known to all at an appropriate time,” Jaiswal said when asked how many faces would be inducted from BJP.Also read: ‘To uphold law’ - Centre defends power cut at farmers’ protest sitesAfter the installation of the Nitish Kumar government for the fourth consecutive term in November last year, the CM has been running his government with 14 ministers, as against the permissible 36 members of the state Cabinet.There are only four JD-U ministers besides Nitish Kumar. Mevalal Chaudhary was sworn in as a minister but had to resign for alleged involvement in corruption.At present, five ministers, including the CM, have five or more portfolios.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha member and former union minister Akhilesh Singh took a dig at the ruling dispensation for delay in Cabinet expansion. “It has left none in doubt that Bihar has suffered a lot owing to internal squabbling within the NDA,” said Singh.Congress leader and former Bettiah MLA Madan Mohan Tiwari sought to know if any Muslim face would be inducted in the Cabinet.BJP had not fielded any Muslim candidate in the 2020 Assembly polls while JD-U’s all 11 Muslim nominees lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cabinet-expansion-before-budget-session-says-bihar-bjp-chief-101612630513675.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||3 more held in connection with Red Fort violence on Republic Day||The Delhi Police has arrested three more people in connection with the Red Fort incident on Republic Day, taking the total number of those in its custody for the violence that took place across the national capital during the farmers' tractor parade to 126, officials said on Saturday.The three have been identified as Harpreet Singh (32), Harjeet Singh (48) and Dharmender Singh (55), all residents of Delhi, they said.They were nabbed by the special investigating team (SIT) of north district on Wednesday. The crime branch, which is also investigating the cases, formally arrested them on Friday, police said.Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26.Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day.Police said they have released pictures of over 70 people who were involved in the violence on January 26. Now their identification is underway, they said.So far, a total of 126 people have been arrested in connection with the Republic Day violence across the national capital, police said."We are constantly examining the videos and footage which we have received to get clear picture of the people involved in the violence. The process of identification is underway," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said.The objectionable videos on farmers' issue being uploaded from locations out of India are also being examined. The Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police is investigating the matter, he added.The Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) unit of Delhi Police has served around seven to eight notices."We have sent notices to around seven to eight people. However, only two of them have responded. They have asked for some time to join the investigation," a senior police officer said.The Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a man named Dharmendra Singh in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day.Earlier, the police had announced cash reward of ₹1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Deep Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act.A cash reward of ₹50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-more-held-in-connection-with-red-fort-violence-on-republic-day-101612630402345.html
06-02-2021||Kolkata||Nadda sharpens attacks on TMC ahead of PM Modi's 1st rally in poll-bound Bengal||Bharatiya Janata Party national president (BJP) JP Nadda, while flagging off the first Parivartan Rath Yatra on Saturday, upped the ante against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first public rally in poll-bound West Bengal.“The Parivartan Yatra starts from here. It is not just the parivartan (transformation) of the government but the parivartan of thinking. Mamata Banerjee came to power a decade ago with the slogan Ma Mati Manush (mother, people and soil) but down the line, the mother was looted, the people weren’t protected and the soil was disrespected,” he added.The BJP would be organising four more Rath Yatras in the next few days. The last one is likely to be flagged by Union home minister Amit Shah. It would end in Kolkata where PM Modi is likely to address a rally in March. Each yatra would run for at least 20–25 days and together they would cover all 294 assembly constituencies in February and March.“Why is she so much against Jai Shri Ram? This shows that they keep politics above culture. They won’t protect the culture. Because of vote bank politics, they won’t also let down their conscience,” Nadda said.Also read: ‘To uphold law’ - Centre defends power cut at farmers’ protest sitesIn December, Nadda’s convoy was attacked near Diamond Harbour, the parliamentary constituency of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who also happens to be the chief minister’s nephew.The prime minister would be visiting West Bengal for a little more than three hours to dedicate to the nation and lay the foundation stone of some infrastructure projects at Haldia. He is also scheduled to address a public rally in Haldia before attending the program.BJP leaders said that even though PM Modi had come to West Bengal on January 23, he didn't address any public rally to bolster the BJP's campaign ahead of the polls.Nadda sharpened his attack saying, “This government has to go. If they can attack me then I can understand what the common people are going through in West Bengal.”Just after his convoy was attacked, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had indulged in name-calling by mocking the name of the BJP president as "Chadda Madda Fadda Bhadda Nadda".“Mamata won’t be able to tackle the culture of Bengal which belongs to icons like Swami Vivekananda, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and Rabindranath Tagore, among others. The BJP will protect the culture of Bengal. The way you added adjectives before my name, it only speaks of your culture,” he added.The BJP chief also attacked the TMC supremo saying that all these years the state government had almost forgotten Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.“Today you are remembering him (Netaji) because Prime Minister Narendra Modi has remembered him,” he added.The TMC lashed back saying that local BJP leaders are misleading Nadda and that he is raising all wild allegations.“The TMC would hold a public rally at Nabadwip on Sunday. Every allegation would be countered. The crowd which was seen at Nadda’s rath yatra is usually seen at a block level meeting of the TMC,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.Nadda also attacked the TMC saying, “Mamata stood as a barrier and deprived people from getting benefits of the Ayushman Bharat and the people of Bengal. Now Mamata will go and the people will get the direct benefits of Ayushman Bharat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nadda-sharpens-attacks-on-tmc-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-1st-rally-in-poll-bound-bengal-101612626678829.html
06-02-2021||City||Tripura to receive permanent jetty for Indo-Bangla waterways route||Tripura will soon get a permanent jetty on the Gomati River at Sonamura for smooth movement of small ships on Sonamura(Tripura) - Daudkandi (Bangladesh) waterways that would enhance trade between Bangladesh and northeast region, said Union minister for port, shipping and waterways Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday.Sonamura is located in Sepahijala district, nearly 60 kilometres from Agartala. In his two-day tour to Tripura, Mandaviya is scheduled to visit Sonamura to review the available facilities there."A permanent jetty will be constructed on River Gomati. Foundation stone will be laid within two-three months. The Sonamura-Daudkandi waterways would increase the scope of employment. Besides, it will also boost the trade relations between Bangladesh and northeast region," Mandaviya told the media persons at BJP headquarters in Agartala.The Sonamura-Daudkandi route was included in the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol (IBP) routes and was signed by High Commissioner of India in Bangladesh Riva Ganguly Das and shipping secretary of Bangladesh Mohammad Mezbah Uddin Chowdhury at Dhaka in May last year.As per a survey conducted by the Bangladesh authorities, 89.5 kilometres out of 90 kilometres of the Sonamura-Daudkandi protocol route falls in Bangladesh and 500 metres in India.The Sonamura-Daudkandi waterways route became operational with the arrival of the first vessel at Sonamura port last September.A floating jetty was launched on Gomati river as part of the Indo-Bangladesh international inland waterways project last year.Currently, the ships ply from West Bengal's Haldia port to Daudkandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-to-receive-permanent-jetty-for-indo-bangla-waterways-route-101612625730038.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||AAP announces candidates for municipal corporation by-elections||The AAP has announced candidates for the upcoming municipal corporation by-elections to five seats which will be held on February 28.The names include Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) from Kalyanpuri ward 8E, Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri ward 2E, Mohammad Isharaq Khan from Chauhan Bangar 41E, Ramchandra from Rohini C32N and Sunita Mishra from Shalimar Bagh North 62N, the Aam Aadmi Party said in a statement on Saturday.All these leaders have done great work in their respective areas and the party selected them based on their performances, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-announces-candidates-for-municipal-corporation-byelections-101612623381785.html
06-02-2021||Lucknow||Farmers protest against farm laws in UP demanding repeal of legislation, submits memoranda to district authorities||Farmers staged protests in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday against the Centre's three farm laws and handed over memoranda to the respective district authorities demanding its withdrawal.We did not participate in the chakka jam (road blockade) but handed over memoranda to the district magistrates in different districts of the state, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Alok Verma said.Office bearers of BKU handed over memorandum to district magistrates concerning their demand, he said.According to a report, farmers associated with Bundelkhand Kisan Union held peaceful protests in all the seven districts of the region against the new agriculture laws and submitted memoranda addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind to the respective district authorities.In Banda, farmers held a symbolic protest on the Jhansi-Mirzapur National Highway in Attara town and handed over a memorandum to the tehsil officials, ASP Mahendra Pratap Singh Chauhan said.Similar protests were held in Hamirpur, Lalitpur, Mahoba and Chitrakoot districts among others with farmers raising slogans in support of their demands, officials said.National President of Bundelkhand Kisan Union Vimal Kumar Sharma said farmers staged protests for about three hours and handed over memoranda addressed to the President.In Ballia, farmers staged a protest at the district headquarters under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and demanded withdrawal of the legislations, legal guarantee to MSP among others.The Yuva Chetna Manch, a social organisation, said that it will hold a kisan mahapanchayat in all the districts of UP's eastern region. In Ballia, its national convenor Rohit Kumar Singh said farmers are seeking justice over the last 73 days and the Prime Minister has maintained silence over it.The farmers are standing for the country against the Narendra Modi government and the youth will also have to come forward, Singh said alleging that there is an undeclared emergency in the country.Similar protests were staged in Gauriganj and Tiloi areas of Amethi district and the agitators submitted memorandum to ADM Shailesh Pratap Singh, a report stated.Under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu faction) and led by its district president Shiv Kumar Pandey, farmers took out a march from Gauriganj Chowk to the DM's office. Women holding lathis protested against the government and raised slogans against the dispensation.In Tiloi, farmers of Tikait and Bhanu groups staged protests and submitted memorandum to SDM Yogendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmers-protest-against-farm-laws-in-up-demanding-repeal-of-legislation-101612621513929.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||FIR lodged after passengers caught with ammunition at IGI Airport||Two passengers were caught at the Indira Gandhi International Airport for carrying ammunition on Friday and FIR has been lodged against them under Section 25 of the Arms Act.One was a Gurgaon resident who was referred for a physical check at Terminal-3 of IGI airport on suspicion of ammunition. The accused has been identified as Mohar Singh Yadav, 65 years old, and a resident of Malibu Town, Gurgaon, is a retired Chief Public Prosecutor and an advocate in Gurgaon Court and was traveling from Delhi to the Maldives by Indigo flight.After checking, eleven cartridges of .32 bore were recovered. The passenger narrated that the recovered cartridges actually belongs to his licensed weapon and produced his valid arms license issued in his name with area validity just for Haryana state only. Hence, an FIR was lodged under Section 25 of the Arms Act at Police Station IGI Airport.The other was a passenger named Poonam Verma, 38 years old, a resident of Sirsa, Haryana was traveling from Terminal-3, Delhi to Goa by Air Asia flight.During the screening of her baggage, one live ammunition was recovered of which she failed to provide the valid documents. Hence, an FIR was lodged under Section 25 of the Arms Act at the Police Station of IGI Airport, New Delhi.Total 13 such cases under the Arms Act have been registered at IGI Airport Unit so far in the current year, in which passengers have been inadvertently or knowingly detected with ammunition while security screening at the Airport.It may be noted that last year too, 66 such cases under Arms Act were registered in this unit. As per the legal provisions, an FIR is registered against such passengers for the possession of ammunition illegally without a valid license issued for Delhi or All India and he/she has to face criminal proceedings before the court of law.Further such lapses affect the journey of the passenger badly in a way since he/she cannot embark on his/her journey and his/her co-passengers and family members also face awkward situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fir-lodged-after-passengers-caught-with-ammunition-at-igi-airport-101612619841229.html
06-02-2021||Pune||A much-needed change||Chaitanya Tamhane’s next “The Disciple” is set to release on Netflix sometime this year. This is a bit of good news because it means that cinema-lovers will be able to watch the next film by the maker of the much coveted “The Court”. Not just that, even before its release, “The Disciple” has already made waves at the prestigious Venice Film Festival, winning awards for best screenplay and also the FIPRESCI, which is the award for best film selected by the International Federation of Film Critics. The last Indian film to win it at the Venice Film Festival was in 1990 for “Mathilukal” by Adoor Gopalakrishnan. So, the film being picked up by the popular streaming platform comes as no surprise.When the pandemic started (it seems that no conversation can take place without talking about this event!) there was a shift by the audience of their time and attention, and money of course, to OTT (over-the-top) platforms. There was no other choice and they had to make do with whatever was available. The various platforms too jumped at this opportunity and the subscribers increased manifold. It was exciting for the audiences too, to watch new films on their personal devices, at their leisure, without shelling money for tickets. While this was all hunky dory, one thing that almost everyone noticed was that no films made in vernacular languages were picked up by these platforms. Especially, Marathi, Gujarati and Bengali films. In fact, they weren’t interested in even watching the films. I realise now that I had accepted this fact really quickly at that time. I have always believed that it is a business and like every business it works on demand and supply. I think this acceptance might have its roots in the quality of content on television and its consistency over the years. I have not been able to relate to it, either fiction or non-fiction, but have seen many others do. So, the rationalist in me had made peace with this simple economic fact.It is no secret that Marathi films don’t do well business-wise. They are front runners when it comes to critical acclaim and awards, but they don’t enjoy audiences as much as they should. Chaitanya’s previous film too was no exception. There are multiple reasons for this and I don’t want to delve into that topic right now. God knows every person working in this industry talks about it all the time! Since I had a lot of time during the lockdown, I began thinking about a fundamental question – don’t I call myself an “artist”? Or am I just a businessman? So shouldn’t “art” be important as well in making such decisions? And don’t the best of art pieces appeal to our irrational, emotional side? Don’t they provoke us in some way or the other? And very honestly, I do think that even the OTT platforms have been taken for a ride. None of the Hindi films that have been released directly on these platforms would have done well had they released in the theatres! None of them. And the film-makers have held on to those films knowing very well that they will do well in the theatres.So, it feels great to know that the world distribution rights of a Marathi film have been picked up by a platform. Of course, while we celebrate the fact that it is a film in Marathi, we cannot overlook the fact that it is made by a film- maker whose work is internationally recognised and that one of the executive producers of the film is none other than Alfonso Cuarón, the Mexican who dons many hats — film director, screenwriter, producer, cinematographer, and editor. But I think it is time that the people running these platforms start looking beyond numbers. Because even Charlie Chaplin had said - “I don’t believe that the public knows what it wants; this is the conclusion that I have drawn from my career”. Having said that, I look forward to watching “The Disciple” soon and hope it brings about a much-needed change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/a-much-needed-change-101612619977158.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi drops to 0.19% as city reports 123 new cases, four deaths||Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi went down to 0.19 per cent on Saturday as the city reported 123 new infections and four new fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin released by the health department. With this, the Covid-19 tally in Delhi reached 6,35,916 and the toll reached 10,877.The city reported 151 recoveries in the past 24 hours, taking the overall recoveries to 6,23,865. Also, active cases in Delhi currently stands at 1,174 patients, which fell from 1,206 reported on Friday.Also read: Delhi turns into a fortress as farmers call 'chakka jam'Delhi government has so far conducted 1,10,90,914 Covid-19 tests, of which 63,322 tests -- comprising 39,543 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 23,779 Rapid antigen tests -- were conducted in the last 24 hours. Tests per million count stand at 5,83,732 tests in Delhi and cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and the total infections, is currently 5.73 per cent, as per official data.With an overall death toll of 10,877 patients, Delhi’s case fatality rate (CFR) currently stands at 1.71 per cent. Only six states/Union territories, excluding Delhi, account for 81 per cent of the daily new fatalities in the country, the Union ministry of health said, earlier on Saturday. The ministry also confirmed that a total of 1,00,079 beneficiaries have received the Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi until 8am on Saturday.Delhi currently has 977 containment zones, according to the bulletin. On January 27, Delhi reported 96 new Covid-19 cases which is the lowest in over nine months and also the first time in January when the count was below the 100-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-drops-to-0-19-as-city-reports-123-new-cases-101612616574821.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||R-Day violence: Police examining Red Fort breach footages; reward announced for identification||After intensifying its investigation into the violence that broke out during the Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi, the Delhi Police said on Saturday that they were examining videos and footage of the incident. Earlier, the police had urged the general public to assist with the investigation by sharing any footage or photos of that incident. Identity of those providing details will be kept confidential, police had said.“We are examining the videos and footage with the help of advanced forensic software. Our team is working to get clear pictures of the rioters. Our next step will be to identify these people,” Delhi Police public relations officer (PRO) Chinmoy Biswal told news agency ANI. He added that pictures of 50 people were issued on Friday in order to identify them and the police announced a reward leading to the arrest of those that were identified.Also Read| 3-hour-long 'chakka jam' ends peacefully. What's next?The Delhi Police informed the Delhi high court on Thursday that a total of 43 FIRs had been registered regarding the January 26 violence, of which 13 were transferred to the special cell.With the farmers’ movement against the Centre’s farm laws gaining global attention, the Delhi Police wrote to Google on Friday where it sought the registration details and activity log by which a ‘toolkit’ related to the agitation was made and uploaded on social media platforms. Police have also registered an FIR against unnamed people in connection with the makers of the ‘toolkit’.We issued pictures of 50 people yesterday so that they can be identified. We've announced reward leading to arrest of those who have been identified. Our teams have continued their surveillance. They will be arrested soon: Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police PRO on 26th January violence https://t.co/VMVi2ho7ItThe ‘toolkit’- a document which gave details about the protest — was shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on Twitter and was replaced by another similar toolkit. Thunberg, along with other prominent global figures such as Rihanna and Meena Harris (niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris), has been vocal on this issue and have expressed their views on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-examining-red-fort-breach-footages-reward-announced-for-identification-101612614830191.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Govt contractor commits suicide after killing two children in Faridkot||A 37-year-old government contractor allegedly shot his two children dead and left his wife critically injured before turning the gun on himself at his house in Faridkot early on Saturday. Superintendent of police Sewa Singh Malhi said that the accused shot his wife, his three-year-old daughter and seven-year-old son with his revolver before shooting himself around 4am. “Both the children were declared brought dead at a hospital in Faridkot, while the husband and wife were referred to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana. The man succumbed to the bullet wound in the head while undergoing treatment. The condition of his wife is critical. The bullet pierced through her mouth,” he said. The police have recovered a suicide note but it simply says no one from the family should be held responsible for the deaths. It does not cite the reason behind the contractor’s taking the extreme step. According to police sources, the man had taken contracts to install streetlights in various districts of south Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-contractor-commits-suicide-after-killing-two-children-in-faridkot-101612614757705.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fraudsters duping people on pretext of Covid vaccine registration||In view of the ongoing coronavirus vaccination drive, the Haryana Police on Saturday cautioned citizens against fraudsters who could dupe them on the pretext of registration for Covid-19 vaccine. Additional director general of police, law and order, Navdeep Singh Virk said that cyber criminals never run out of ideas to cash in on the situation. “Such scammers may defraud citizens through phone calls, emails or even by WhatsApp and other social media applications, asking them their details for getting themselves registered for the vaccine,” the ADGP said. Referring to the way the fraudsters operate, Virk said that such fraudsters were found making phone calls to people, offering to register their names for the vaccine. With this, they were collecting sensitive personal information such as Aadhaar number and email on the pretext of Covid-19 vaccine registration. “They also ask unsuspecting people to authenticate the Aadhaar number by sharing an OTP (one-time password). The moment the OTP is given; money is siphoned off from the Aadhaar-linked bank account,” Virk said. The ADGP advised people not to entertain any phone calls on vaccine registration and refrain from sharing personal data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fraudsters-duping-people-on-pretext-of-covid-vaccine-registration-101612611757022.html
06-02-2021||City||AIADMK member donates 3.16 cr, land worth 20 cr to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam||All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) lawmaker from Tamil Nadu R Kumaraguru on Saturday donated four acres of land at his home town Ulundurpettai to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that manages the country’s richest temple of Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district.Apart from the land, which values around ₹20 crore, the AIADMK legislator, who is also a member of the TTD trust board, donated an amount of ₹3.16 crore to the TTD.He handed over the cheques along with the property's documents to TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy at a function held at Gubba Choultry in the morning.Subba Reddy said Kumaraguru had made such a huge donation for the construction of a temple of Lord Venkateshwara at Ulundurpettai under the auspices of the TTD to provide the darshan of the Lord to the devotees in his home constituency.The AIADMK member had already donated ₹one crore to the TTD during Vaikuntha Ekadasi festival held in December. “He also offered to provide for the expenditure towards the construction of the temple on the land donated by him,” the TTD chairman said.Also read: HT Interview IAF chief RKS Bhadauria says indigenisation key to military mightReddy said the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the temple would soon be performed after selecting a good muhurtam.He further said following the directions of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, the TTD had launched Hindu Sanatana Dharma propagation from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. “As part of the programme, the TTD will soon lay a foundation for the construction of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Jammu also,” Reddy said.Earlier, the TTD chairman said, now that the Covid-19 had been gradually subsiding, the TTD was planning to ease restrictions on pilgrim flow on the Tirumala hills and gradually allow more devotees, besides restoring all rituals.“During the Rathasapthami festival to be held on February 19, all vahana sevas will be conducted. Though the number of devotees seeking darshan of the Lord would be increased gradually, enough care would be taken toward the implementation of Covid-19 guidelines till completion of the vaccination process,” he said.He said the foundation for Sri Padmavati temple will be laid on February 13 in Chennai by the pontiff of Kanchi Mutt Sri Sri Sri Vijayendra Saraswati Swamy.The TTD is also planning to conduct Maha Kumbhabisekam at the current capital of Amaravati and administrative capital of Visakhapatnam in April, Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiadmk-member-donates-3-16-cr-land-worth-20-cr-to-tirumala-tirupati-devasthanam-101612610310537.html
06-02-2021||Pune||Bhimsen Joshi’s birth centenary programme to be held on Feb 6,7||Close relatives, friends, and family of Bharat Ratna Pandit Bhimsen Joshi held an informal interaction at the Sawai Gandharva Memorial in Shivajinagar on February 4, 2021, as part of his birth centenary celebrations, organised by the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal. Shrinivas Joshi, son of Pt Bhimsen Joshi, along with brother Jayant Joshi, daughter Shubhada Mulgund were present for the interaction. As part of the celebrations, on February 6 and 7, Abhivadan, a special musical program will be held at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch, Swargate. “The two-day program will include musical concerts as well as recollections of Pt Bhimsen Joshi,” said Srinivas Joshi, executive president, Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal. He added, “I have never forgotten him and as a father, he was a very gentle human being, and very down to earth. This program is to pay tribute to him and remember him. He always said, keep singing and let the tradition continue.” The program will be inaugurated and held in three sessions on Saturday, February 6 at 4pm and will be attended by Prakash Javadekar, union information and broadcasting minister, Sharad Pawar, NCP president, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Indian cultural relations council president and Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor. On Sunday, February 7, the program will be held from 9am to 12pm. The feature of this session will be that eminent dignitaries from outside the field of music will reminisce about Panditji. Dr Jabbar Patel, senior director, Sadanand More, veteran writer, Achyut Godbole, a renowned writer will interact with writer, director, and lyricist Shrirang Godbole. A special short film made on Panditji after his demise by Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal will be shown in the third session on Sunday. Anand Bhate, Pt Bhimsen Joshi’s disciple said, “I met him as a disciple at a very young age, so I used to be a bit under pressure in front of him. I remember the way he used to take care of his disciples. I have been surprised on many occasions to see his memory very sharp and intact.” During the programs, Pt Ajoy Chakraborty, senior vocalist, Pandita Dr Prabha Atre, veteran vocalist of Kirana Gharana, Ustad Shahid Parvez, senior sitar player, Kaushiki Chakraborty, famous classical vocalist, Panditji’s disciples including Pt Upendra Bhat, Anand Bhate and Srinivas Joshi and his grandson, Viraj Joshi will present their music to the audience. Viraj Joshi, grandson of late Bhim anna as he was lovingly known to his family and friends, said, “It is a great feeling, getting to sing in the centenary programs of my grandfather, it is a blessing for me, for whatever I sing, my music is inspired by his singing. I was too young, could not understand the importance of big a personality he is, and now I am performing a raga as a tribute to him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhimsen-joshi-s-birth-centenary-programme-to-be-held-on-feb-67-101612609357082.html
06-02-2021||Pune||Protest planned at Hadapsar to support farmer agitation||As part of nationwide chakka jam agitations, various organisations have planned an agitation on Pune-Solapur road on Saturday (February 6). Nitin Pawar, member of Farmers Bachchav Action Committee said, “Along with various organisations and political parties, we have decided to carry out a chakka jam agitation at Hadapsar on the Pune-Solapur highway. We would pay tribute to the farmers who died during the agitation in Delhi. We are planning to hold meetings this week to gather support for farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/protest-planned-at-hadapsar-to-support-farmer-agitation-101612609057069.html
06-02-2021||Other||Four Pune youths arrested for vehicle vandalism||PUNE The crime branch officials have arrested four youths who allegedly engaged in vehicle vandalism in Sasane Vasti, Wanowrie, on Thursday.Two four-wheelers and three two-wheelers were damaged in the area, said police.The accused arrested have been identified as Azar Rauf Shaikh (21), Kaif Mohsin Shaikh (19), Rahil Sadique Shaikh ( 22) and Akshay Dnyaneshwar Jagtap (22).According to the crime branch officials, the accused had picked up a quarrel with an auto driver who ran in one of the lanes of the area. The accused went behind him, but could not locate him. Frustrated on returning empty-handed, they damaged the vehicles parked along both the sides of the road.A case has been registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code against the accused at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-pune-youths-arrested-for-vehicle-vandalism-101612609056113.html
06-02-2021||Pune||City-based colleges gear up for offline lectures from February 15th||After the state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announced to reopen universities and its affiliated colleges from February 15, city-based colleges have begun preparations for the same. After almost a year, offline lectures in colleges will resume and students will return to universities and college campuses. Along with it, students from outside Pune are also concerned about accommodation, as hostel facilities too will be opened up for students after a long break. “The past year was really tough for all of us, and students were taught through online mode and even the exams were conducted online. But college campuses don’t look nice without students and so we all are happy that students will now return back to college from February 15. At the same time, we are taking all the necessary safety precautions related to Covid-19 protocols given by the state government. In the guidelines given by the state government, it is mentioned that up to 50 per cent of students can come to attend offline lectures. Accordingly, we are going to call one of three students every day, and the remaining students will attend the online lecture. So, it cannot be a sudden transit from online to offline, instead, it will be a blended model of education from now onwards,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar. SP College principal V M Solapurkar said, “We are all set to begin offline classes at our college. Accordingly, all preparations have begun to sanitise each and every bench, keeping sanitisers in college premises, thermal checking of each student will be done while entering into the college premises and several other safety measures are being taken as per government Covid protocols. We are following all guidelines given by the state government. Also, several medical pieces of equipment like thermometer and oximeter have been kept to detect any student with symptoms. Social distancing will be maintained in the classroom as students will be called in batches.” Similarly, students are also excited to return to the college campus after a long gap. “Being out of the college campus and that atmosphere was missing in my life. Until now, online lectures were going on we were not able to focus that much compared to a physical classroom. Also, all of us friends who meet inside the college campus, will take necessary safety precautions of face mask, hand sanitiser and social distancing.” said Shalaka Seth, second-year Bachelor of Arts student at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citybased-colleges-gear-up-for-offline-lectures-from-february-15th-101612608999168.html
06-02-2021||Pune||Second special round for FYJC admission begins today||After completing three regular rounds, two special rounds and one round of first-come-first-served (FCFS) of the first-year junior college (FYJC) admission process, the Deputy Director of Education (DYDE), Pune released the timetable for the second FCFS round starting from February 5. More than 34,000 seats are still vacant under the Pune division and all remaining students without an admission will be considered in this round. “All application forms of part-1 verified students with the following criteria are eligible for FCFS. Students who are not admitted to any college, in any round conducted so far or students who have cancelled their admission or rejected admission. The passed students of SSC supplementary exam conducted in December 2020, along with students who received an ATKT in March / December 2020 examination will be eligible for this second FCFS round,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department. From February 5th to 12th, new students’ registration and edit and verification of part 1 forms will be done. On February 8, the allotment list of this round will be declared and until February 13, the allotted students will need to confirm their admission seat in respective colleges from where they have received an admission. On February 14, the vacancy list for after completion of the special round two will be displayed online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/second-special-round-for-fyjc-admission-begins-today-101612608998429.html
06-02-2021||Pune||Demand to allow general public in local trains in Pune grows||With Mumbai local trains returning back to service, demand to allow the general public inside the Pune –Lonavla local train has been raised by passengers. Currently, the Pune-Lonavla train runs four times on both sides and services were resumed from October 12, but it is only for those working for essential services. Identity cards of passengers are checked at the railway station before boarding the local trains. When asked about when the local train services will be allowed to common people, Pune railway divisional manager (DRM) Renu Sharma in an online press conference held on February 4 said, “The orders related to this decision comes from the railway head office and we only implement it here. Once we get the orders, accordingly services will be allowed for the common public too.” Earlier to the countrywide lockdown which started in March 2020, there were eight local trains running to and fro from Pune to Lonavala from early morning 5am to 12 midnight. A total of 20,000 passengers would travel daily on this route which consists of students and officer-goers in a large number. Just like Mumbai local trains, the Pune-Lonavla local is a lifeline for thousands of office going people on this route. BJP leader Vikas Mathkari said, “If the local trains in Mumbai can start and be allowed for common people then why not in Pune? In comparison to Mumbai, the number of passengers travelling from local trains in Pune is less and following Covid guidelines and social distancing it can be allowed. Currently, the public transport bus service is ongoing, but the local train service is cheaper, faster and safer for common public.” Demanding to start the local train service immediately for people, Roshni Hiremath who stays in Talegaon and daily travels to Shivajinagar for office work said, “I work in a private finance company in Pune and travel daily from Talegaon by a public transport bus. Earlier I used to travel by local trains, like me there are thousands of other officegoers who want common people be allowed to travel by local trains. It saves our time and also is much cheaper than bus or sometimes hiring a private auto or cab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-to-allow-general-public-in-local-trains-in-pune-grows-101612608996213.html
06-02-2021||Pune||At ₹93.14 per litre, petrol crosses highest-ever price in Pune||On February 5th, the price of petrol crossed the mark of ₹93.14 per litre in Pune, the highest ever recorded in the city. The petrol price increased by ₹0.29 on Feb 5 and recorded ₹93.14 rs per litre, the diesel price also increased by ₹0.31 and recorded a price of ₹82.38 per litre which is also the highest rate ever. Ali Daruwala, spokesperson of All India Petrol Dealers Association claimed that the petrol price had reached to ₹93 per litre in 2013 though he could not remember the specific date. The price on Friday is highest since then. “Unfortunately, petrol has crossed ₹93 in Pune. In 2013, the petrol price had reached ₹93 in the UPA regime. Taxation is the main reason behind it. Our income has gone down because of Covid-19 pandemic and the government is getting income through taxation. I request the government to cut taxation and give relief to common people,” Daruwala said. Petrol prices have been steadily increasing in the last few months. On August 16, 2020 petrol prices were at ₹87.05 and diesel prices at ₹78.67 per litre. After price fluctuations in the following months, on Dec 7, 2020 petrol price reached to ₹90 and diesel price at ₹78.97 per litre. After remaining steady almost for a month, petrol and diesel prices soared on Jan 6, 2021 and reached to ₹90.25 per litre and ₹79.25 per litre respectively. The prices have been on the rise since then and on Friday, the petrol price finally crossed the mark of ₹93. According to experts, these are the highest prices of petrol and diesel ever in the city and the heavy taxation is responsible for it. “We are paying ₹32 excise duty on petrol imposed by the Central government. The government increased ₹10 excise duty on petrol in May 2020. If it withdraws the price, it will fall back in the range of ₹80. The best option is to bring petrol and diesel under GST,” Vivek Velankar president of Sajag Nagrik Manch and RTI activist. “The higher price of petrol will impact the lives of common people and the rising price of diesel will increase inflation. The government has to take immediate action,” added Velankar. The soaring price of petrol has started to impact the livelihoods of common people. “Our income margin has reduced because of the rise in petrol prices. First, we used to get ₹30-40 per home delivery order in the area of 8 kilometres. Now, we have to do delivery up to the area of 12 kilometres and are just making ₹15 per order. The increasing petrol prices are making it more and more difficult to survive. I don’t know how we are going to cope with it,” said Sagar Ghare who is working as a delivery person for Zomato in Pune. “Now offices have resumed, and travelling is a must. Due to the risk of Covid-19, priority is given to private vehicles for travelling. But because of increased prices of petrol and diesel we need to think before using our two-wheeler or four-wheeler vehicle. If this trend continues, I fear soon the prices of other essential goods will start to rise,” said Deepali Hatekar, a resident of Kothrud said. BOXXX Header: Rise in petrol prices For 07-12-2020 Petrol 90.00 Diesel 78.97 For 06-01-2021 Petrol 90.25 Diesel 79.25 For 07-01-2021 Petrol 90.51 Diesel 79.54 For 13-01-2021 Petrol 90.75 Diesel 79.80 For 14-01-2021 Petrol 90.99 Diesel 80.06 For 18-01-2021 Petrol 91.23 Diesel 80.33 For 19-01-2021 Petrol 91.47 Diesel 80.58 For 22-01-2021 Petrol 91.71 Diesel 80.83 For 23-01-2021 Petrol 91.95 Diesel 81.09 For 26-01-2021 Petrol 92.28 Diesel 81.46 For 29-01-2021 Petrol 92.52 Diesel 81.72 For 04-02-2021 Petrol 92.85 Diesel 82.07 For 05-02-2021 Petrol 93.14 Diesel 82.38 BOXX 2 Header: The previous highestOn 2nd April 2018Petrol 81.54Diesel 67.71On 7th Sep 2018Petrol 87.27Diesel is ₹75.237th Dec 2020Petrol 90.00Diesel 78.975th Feb 2021Petrol 93.14Diesel 82.38||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-93-14-per-litre-petrol-crosses-highest-ever-price-in-pune-101612608936984.html
06-02-2021||Other||Shiv Sena protests against rising fuel prices; BJP over inflated power bills||PUNE The office bearers of Shiv Sena held a protest in the city on Friday against the central government over rising fuel prices, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) agitated at the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Limited (MSEDCL) office and condemned the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi-led state government over inflated electricity bills.Sena held the agitation at Balgandharva chowk where office bearers Sanjay More, Ramesh Konde and Prashant Badhe were present.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised “Acche Din” to the citizens, but despite falling prices of crude oil, the fuel prices are rising. In one month, the central government hiked fuel prices 11 times and the price of petrol has reached an all-time high,” they said.BJP’s Kasba assembly constituency workers, meanwhile, held a protest at MSEDCL and condemned the MVA government over inflated electricity bills.“Citizens are already suffering due to Covid-19 pandemic, instead of easing their pain, MSEDCL is sending them notices to pay bills or face power cut. Ruling Maha Vikas Agadi is responsible for causing inconvenience to at least 75 lakh families,” said BJP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-bjp-over-inflated-power-bills-101612608936182.html
06-02-2021||Pune||Survey: 83% of IAS officers feel states must have autonomy to formulate own responses in crises||A survey conducted among 570 retired and serving IAS officers found that 83 per cent of them opined states must have the autonomy to formulate their own responses based on the needs and capacities and close to 85 per cent believed that effective communication works better than penal measures to curb people’s inherent tendencies towards indiscipline.The survey conducted by the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi through August and September 2020 last year asked civil servants to reflect on the decisions, actions and conduct of the Indian state, bureaucracy, citizens, and key non-state actors and agencies in response to the Covid-19 crisis and its management. The survey has found some interesting results based on the responses given by the participants, a striking 83 per cent agreed that states must have the autonomy to formulate their own responses based on their needs and capacities, this response was similar across seniority.Mahesh Zagade, retired IAS officer and former PMC commissioner said, “The protocols made by the Centre or state are also made along with IAS officers keeping in mind the ground situation. I think the example of the nationwide lockdown when it comes to giving states the autonomy, all I can say is that I know the laws and the provisions, the Centre had to take the step because the states did nothing. When I handled H1N1, I broke multiple WHO norms, but I took those decisions only because I knew the ground situation. Like for example WHO has said that there should be only one screening centre which was Naidu hospital at the time which I then increased to seven and then 49 as thousands of patients started coming forward. I was even criticised by the Central team and also the state but when they got to the ground situation, they understood my action. So, my comment is that protocols are not sacrosanct and so in this case when the states did not do anything the Centre took the drastic step.”In view of the nationwide lockdown imposed, the responses garnered interesting responses. 54.9 per cent of the respondents stated that the lockdown was successful because the public understood the need for the same and cooperated willingly. It was also found that IAS officers came across as highly motivated, placing public service commitment above personal risk as 72 per cent of serving officers felt the refusal to undertake assigned roles due to vulnerability and risk of exposure to infection should invite penal action. When it came to their preferred strategy for ensuring successful pandemic management over the long term, an overwhelming majority of civil servants (85 per cent) chose mounting an effective communication campaign to secure people’s understanding and cooperation over strict enforcement of penal measures to curb people’s inherent tendencies towards indiscipline.Majority of the respondents, 51.1 per cent, also found that the health system preparedness also increased reasonably in anticipation of a large number of infections while 27.6 per cent stated that the health system preparedness increased only marginally.The survey also found that fear of ostracisation was found to be a major culprit in the failure of people to self-report for testing which has been an impediment to the success of the government’s test-trace-isolate strategy.Followed by the inconvenience of quarantine options available, difficulty in accessing tests, exposure to infection from testing, time taken for testing, perception of poor treatment in hospitals and fear of loss of livelihood resulting from quarantine were some of the reasons for failure to self-report as per the respondents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/survey-83-of-ias-officers-feel-states-must-have-autonomy-to-formulate-own-responses-in-crises-101612608876122.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena expresses displeasure over Nana Patole's resignation||Nana Patole's resignation as Maharashtra assembly speaker on Thursday ahead of his nomination as the state Congress chief a day later has not gone down well with alliance partner Shiv Sena. An editorial in the Sena's mouthpiece Saamana said the Congress was given the Constitutional post for a full-term and not for Patole to resign in a year. It sought to caution Congress over Patole's appointment.The editorial said the Congress should not become "excessively" aggressive as the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi allies have pulled off a "miracle" by keeping the Bharatiya Janata Party out of power in the state.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is unhappy with the resignation, while his deputy, Ajit Pawar, said Patole should not have resigned weeks ahead of the assembly's budget session in March.The editorial lauded Balasaheb Thorat's tenure as the state Congress chief and for steering the party to success when nobody wanted to take up the role. It added that Congress is an "important partner" in the government and that the power has given it a new lease of life in Maharashtra."Now the way forward must be decided. What the Congress does within its party is its right, but they must ensure that their decisions do not have any impact on the government, Vidhan Sabha, and the majority mark," the editorial said.It dismissed talk of any threat to the government. "The election for the Speaker's post will have to be held. Again, the numbers will have to be arranged. We certainly have the majority and there is no concern over that. Avoiding elections to such constitutional posts is best for everybody."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-expresses-displeasure-over-nana-patole-s-resignation-101612606085560.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray gets bail in vandalism case||A local court on Saturday granted Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray bail in the Vashi Toll plaza vandalism case.The court last month summoned Thackeray over an alleged provocative speech before the vandalization in January 2014 by MNS activists.Thackeray said he merely made a speech and there was nothing criminal about it. The case will be heard next on May 5.Thackeray's lawyer, Akshay Kashid, said the MNS leader pleaded not guilty before the court. "Thackeray accepted that he made a speech but there was no crime committed. We also filed a bail application before the court.”Gajanan Kale, MNS leader from Navi Mumbai, said Thackeray will also meet the party workers in Navi Mumbai.MNS workers had put up posters welcoming Thackeray to the city, which is due to go to the civic polls this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-thackeray-gets-bail-in-vandalism-case-101612605386185.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers block roads across Punjab to drive home protest||The chakka jam call given by farmer unions got a good response in south Punjab on Saturday. A large number of villagers, including women, blocked national and state highways in Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and other adjoining towns. Also read: Farmers offer food, water to stranded commuters on Rohtak-Delhi highwayProtesting farmers parked their tractor-trolleys at Bhai Ghanaiya Chowk since noon. Several trade unions also come out in support of farmers. The protesters blocked roads at Malout, Ferozepur and Faridkot. In Bathinda, the farmer unions blocked traffic at five places, including Sangat, Maur and Rampura. Private bus operators have already announced suspension of services in solidarity with the farmer unions. Bathinda police chief BS Virk said the administration has made traffic diversions at 20 spots. “We are monitoring vehicular movement in the area and immediate support will be provided to commuters. A large number of police personnel have been deployed at the designated spots of protests,” he said. Blockades in border towns of Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran Farmers and their supporters blocked roads at key points in Amritsar and its neighbouring towns of Tarn Taran, Batala and Gurdaspur in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws and the internet shutdown at the demonstration sites on Delhi’s borders. Apart from Golden Gate, which is the main entrance to the holy city, the road was blocked at Gumtala Chowk, Rialto Chowk, Mirankot Chowk, Tarn Taran road, Bhandari Bridge and Fatehgarh Churian bypass. The farmers held up placards and banners against the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-block-roads-across-punjab-to-drive-home-protest-101612602816232.html
06-02-2021||Patna||Bihar’s organic corridor produce reaps rich harvest in Patna’s roadside markets||It was difficult to imagine that organically grown vegetables would one day become available in a roadside market in one’s neighbourhood in Patna.Till recently, the health conscious and fitness freaks in the city had to buy organic food from select malls and air conditioned stores. Now, they just need to visit the street market near the government secretariat on Mondays and Fridays for a variety of organic vegetables, being sold on carts and even inside vans.Such organic food selling points can also seen at Rajvanshi Nagar and Patliputra Colony vegetable markets in the city and many more neighbourhood markets are likely to be added to the list in the coming days as the agriculture department is motivating farmers in organic farming with selling their produce in city's street markets, offering them a bigger platform.Bihar government has created an 'Organic Corridor' covering 13 districts from Buxar to Bhagalpur in the third phase of agricultural road map 2017- 22.The first of its kind project in the country, aims for sustainable development in the agriculture sector in the state and seeks to help farmers tap the demand for organic produce in the country and improve the environment in areas along the Ganga river. It has a budget of ₹1.55 lakh crore.Over 22,000 farmers are engaged in organic farming over nearly 20,000 acre land in the state."We have been providing farmers ₹11,500 per acre to create organic fertilisers for farming. Initially, the response was lukewarm but the financial support provided by the agriculture department, has improved things. People are coming forward to join organic farming," Venkatesh Narayan Singh, the agriculture department official, who is handling the Organic Corridor project, said.There has been a global demand for organic, environment-friendly food products. But many farmers here have not been aware of its potential despite the availability of all kinds of natural resources in the region. The department motivated them to compete with the big farmers, he added. "The beginning has been made. Though at the initial stage, if pursued seriously, it may give big benefits," he said.The official said that yet another reason for the stress on the Organic Corridor was to stop water pollution in Ganga. "There were reports of fertilisers, used by the farmers along the river, causing water pollution," he said.This is why the Organic Corridor was initially planned along the shores of the Ganga River and in 2018-19, some other districts were also included in the project, he added.Considering the good response the agriculture department is now considering expanding the project to all the 38 districts of the state, he said."So far the market is concerned, the department is preparing for its branding," Singh said.Ravi Ranjan, one of the organic farmers from Fatuha, who sells his produce near the secretariat in the city, said the response has been very encouraging.Also Read: Impersonators held for taking Bihar police recruitment test"It seems the buyers wait for us. The moment we reach the selling point, buyers turn up in large numbers," he said. Things are really going good and farmers are planning to create such points in other areas also, he added.Rajiv Ranjan, another farmer from Patna district, said the city has a better market potential and it just needs to be tapped. "There are many big shopping points, malls and general stores in the city where sale counters for organic products can be created," he said. The agriculture department can help farmers in this direction and can arrange for collection and transportation of products from farms to selling points, he added.Farmers specialising in gram and lentil farming, said organic food sale points can also be created at big hospitals in the city. "Most of the doctors and other health workers prefer it. Even visitors may avail this facility," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-organic-corridor-produce-reaps-rich-harvest-in-patna-s-roadside-markets-101612601010627.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers offer food, water to stranded commuters on Rohtak-Delhi highway||Farmers parked tractor-trolleys and trucks to block the Rohtak-Delhi highway near Kharwar village for three hours on Saturday afternoon in response to the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s chakka jam call to protest the internet ban at the protest sites on the Delhi border. The farmers and their family members, including children, blocked the Rohtak-Panipat, Rohtak-Hisar, Bhiwani-Rohtak, Rohtak-Hisar, Hisar-Chandigarh, Hisar-Churu and Hisar-Sirsa national and state highways. They provided food, water, tea and fruits to commuters, including those travelling by Haryana Roadways buses or in their personal vehicles. While the farmers raised slogans, the women sang songs in protest against the Centre, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Deepika Kumari, a resident of Sirsa who was stuck with her family at the blockade at Kharawar blockade, said the farmers provided them food, water and lassi. “We will reach home three hours late but we are with the farmers. Some commuters joined the protesters and sat on dharna,” she said. Preet Kumar, a farm leader from Rohtak, said the roads were open for ambulances and police personnel. Police have been diverting roads but only personal vehicles such as cars are going through the diverted routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-offer-food-water-to-stranded-commuters-on-rohtak-delhi-highway-101612598435765.html
06-02-2021||Bhopal||Four former college students held guilty of abetting a junior student’s suicide||Bhopal district court on Friday held four women guilty of ragging and abetting suicide of an 18-year-old girl student and sentenced them to five years in jail, said a government advocate.Additional district judge Anil Ranjan Samadhiya pronounced the judgement against Nidhi Magre, 27, Deepti Solanki, 28, Kirti Gaur, 28 and Divyanshi Sharma, 27 under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The government advocate Khalid Qureshi said, “One of the faculty members, Manish Gupta, was acquitted by the court.”“A second-year bachelor of pharmacy student of RKDF College in Bhopal died by suicide on August 6, 2013. Police had recovered a suicide note in which she accused four senior students and a faculty member of harassing her,” said Qureshi.She had written that the four seniors had been ragging her for the past one year.“The four seniors used to force her to complete their assignments and also to write mid-semester answer sheets. The girl complained to Manish Gupta, a faculty member, but instead of taking action against the seniors, he asked her to obey her seniors. When the four girls came to know about it, they started torturing her mentally and also threatened to throw acid on her face and get her raped. This led to the girl taking her own life,” Qureshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/four-former-college-students-held-guilty-of-abetting-a-junior-student-s-suicide-101612597583145.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Drunk, ex-soldier kills daughter in fit of rage in Himachal’s Una||A retired soldier killed his two-and-half-year-old daughter and critically injured his wife in a fit of rage at Chalet village in Gagret sub division of Una district, police said on Saturday. Una superintendent of police Arijit Sen Thakur said the accused, Ravinder Kumar, who had retired from the army, was drunk when he came home on Friday night and had an altercation with his wife. He locked himself and his family in a room and beat up his wife and daughter. The incident came to light early on Saturday when the family did not open the door. “He would abuse and throw floor tiles on anyone trying to open the door. People then broke down the door and found the mother and daughter unconscious on the floor,” Thakur said. They were rushed to the Community Health Centre at Daulatpur Chowk, where doctors declared the child dead. The woman was referred to the Regional Hospital at Una and her condition is stated to be critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drunk-ex-soldier-kills-daughter-in-fit-of-rage-in-himachal-s-una-101612595555761.html
06-02-2021||Jaipur||4 killed in Rajasthan gang-war in broad daylight||At least four persons were killed in a gang war between notorious gangsters Sampat Nehra and Pradeep Swami in Churu on Friday, said police.Around six assailants from the Nehra gang, riding on two bikes, opened indiscriminate fire on members of the rival gang in Dhani Mauji village under Hamirwas police station area of Churu, resulting in the deaths of gangster Pradeep Swami and two villagers, identified as Isar and Nihal.In retaliation, the Pradeep Swami gang killed a criminal from Nehra gang, said Narayan Togas, superintendent of police (SP) Churu district. Togas added that the two villagers killed in firing had no affiliation to any of the warring gangs.The gang war took place around 4pm on Friday, followed by the deployment of a heavy police force in the village. Senior police officers including SP Togas and district collector Sanwarmal Varma were camping in the village, surrounded by armed policemen. Inspector general of police (IGP) Bikaner range- Prafull Kumar also rushed to the spot.While three persons died on the spot, another died during treatment at a hospital.The villagers also caught one of the assailants from Sampat Nehra gang, when they were on the run after the shooting, said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-killed-in-rajasthan-gang-war-in-broad-daylight-101612595201874.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Several Delhi metro station gates shut in view of farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ call||As a precautionary measure in view of the 'chakka jam' called by farmers on Saturday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has shut off entry and exits gates of at least eight metro stations in the national capital.In a series of announcements made via their social media accounts, DMRC said that entry and exit gates at Mandi House, ITO, Delhi Gate, Vishwavidyalaya, Lal Qila, Jama Masjid, Janpath, Central Secretariat, Khan Market and Nehru Place metro stations have been closed for public."The gates in these metro stations will only open where interchange facilities are available. Interchange will be allowed," a DMRC spokesperson said.The official also added that the stations were closed on the orders of the local police to prevent any unruly elements from reaching central Delhi.Also Read: Chakka Jam: Heavy police deployment in Haryana to deal with fallout"During the day if more station gates have to be shut down on police orders, we are prepared for it," the DMRC said.Meanwhile, there was heavy security presence across the city and at the three borders where thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the past 73 days. Police used drone cameras for aerial surveillance and were also monitoring social media feed to ensure that rumour mongers did not fuel tension during the farmers’ chakka jam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/several-delhi-metro-station-gates-shut-in-view-of-farmers-chakka-jam-call-101612592820650.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Entry, exit of several Delhi Metro stations shut ahead of chakka jam. Full list||The entry and exit gates of at least 10 Metro stations in Delhi were closed on Saturday ahead of the nationwide highway blockade called by farmers protesting against three agricultural laws enacted by the government in September last year. In a series of tweets, the Delhi Rail Metro Corporation (DMRC) shared a list of Metro stations closed due to security concerns. The entry and exit gates of Mandi House, ITO, Delhi Gate, Vishwavidyalaya, Khan Market and Nehru Place stations are closed, DMRC said. The gates of Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath and Central Secretariat stations are also closed, though interchange facility is available, it added.Follow latest updates on farm stir here"During the day if more station gates have to be shut down on police orders, we are prepared for it," the DMRC has said. The restrictions come in the backdrop of the three-hour ‘chakka jam’ between 12pm to 3pm proposed by farmers to protest against the ban on internet near the protest sites and alleged harassment by authorities. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmers' unions protesting against the farm laws, has said that there will be no disruption in the national capital due to their demonstration and have assured that emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped during the 'chakka jam'.So far, the vehicular movements in Delhi are normal since morning though the traffic is moving a bit slow at border points where the police have intensified checking because of the nationwide traffic blockade. "Traffic is normal across the city and we have so far not received any call regarding traffic jam from anywhere in the city," a Delhi Traffic Police personnel from the control room said at 10.30am. Also Read | Drones, high alert: Delhi turns into a fortress ahead of 'chakka jam'Despite farmers’ assurance that Delhi won’t be impacted, the Delhi Police have stepped up security measures with thousands of police personnel and paramilitary deployed across the city and especially at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders. Heavy deployment of police personnel seen at Red Fort, as a preventive measure to dispel actions resulting from the calls for 'chakka jam.'The tight security comes as a precautionary measure after violence broke out during the tractor rally called by farmers on Republic Day. On January 26, as part of their tractor rally, thousands of farmers stormed the national capital and even hoisted a flag at the Red Fort following clashes between them and the police. One farmer died and several policemen were injured during the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/entry-exit-of-several-delhi-metro-stations-shut-ahead-of-chakka-jam-full-list-101612591994139.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers block Chandigarh-Delhi highway in response to chakka jam call||Farmers blocked the Chandigarh-Delhi National Highway number 44 at Kurukshetra, Karnal and Panipat in response to the three-hour chakka jam call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha from 12 noon to 3pm on Saturday against the internet shutdown at the protest sites. Police, deployed in large numbers, diverted traffic via link roads to avert a jam. The protesters said that arrangements have been made for food and water for stranded commuters on one of the busiest highways of the country. Nearly 40,000 vehicles cross this highway daily as it connects Chandigarh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh to national capital Delhi. Farmers also blocked the Panipat-Rohtak highway near Panipat, the Hisar-Chandigarh highway at Kaithal and Pehowa, the Karnal-Jind highway near Assandh.Earlier, the state authorities tried to convince the farmers not to block NH 44 that is an arterial highway, but in vain. With farmers adamant on blocking all major national and state highways in Haryana, the authorities decided to divert traffic from NH 44 on link roads. According to Rakesh Bains, the national spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), “We have mobilised block level coordination committees and locations for the protests have been finalised. Local farmers have been asked to ensure that the protests are peaceful besides allowing the movement of ambulances, marriage party vehicles and journalists.” Police to avert traffic jams on highway Haryana additional director general of police (ADGP), law and order, Navdeep Singh Virk has asked all district superintendents of police to make security arrangements at all traffic junctions and important roads by deploying the maximum number of personnel. The district administrations have made arrangements to avoid any faceoff with the farmers, who are likely to protest at several locations in the state, including the 11 sites on the highway in Karnal district alone. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said the deployment has been made to avoid traffic jams. A traffic advisory so that commuters can take alternative routes. Traffic from NH 44 was diverted from Bastara toll plaza to Kutail and Gharaunda. The Kurukshetra district police also issued a traffic advisory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-police-deployment-on-haryana-highways-amid-farmers-chakka-jam-call-101612592615728.html
06-02-2021||Patna||Aspirants booked for having impersonators take recruitment test||Over 650 aspirants have been booked for allegedly having impersonators take the written test on their behalf for recruitment as constables in the Bihar police. A police officer said they were caught when their biometric credentials did not match during the physical efficiency test (PET).Police suspect the involvement of some racket in arranging the impersonators. A preliminary investigation suggested that they were paid between ₹2 to 5 lakh each for taking the test. Police have questioned the candidates for whom the impersonators were working.The Bihar Central Selection Board for Constables (CSBC) conducted the written exams on January 12 and March 8 for the recruitment of 11, 880 constables in 2019. Over 67,070 candidates cleared the examination.CSBC chairman K S Dwivedi said the impersonators might have managed to take the examination due to lapses at the exam centres. Some even appeared twice a day. "When they appeared for the PET, though, their thumb impressions and pictures did not match with those taken during the written exam."The PET was conducted at a Patna college where 24 CCTV cameras were installed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/impersonators-held-for-taking-bihar-police-recruitment-test-101612586473955.html
06-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan IPS extorted money from 27 corrupt cops, maintained register: ACB||A team of Rajasthan’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has recovered a register containing names of 27 allegedly corrupt policemen, whose vulnerability was exploited by suspended IPS officer Manish Agrawal, who extorted money from them, claimed ACB officials.The bureau claims to have recovered the register from the possession of suspended and jailed IPS officer Manish Agrawal. The register was maintained by one of Agrawal’s subordinates, say officials from the bureau.As per the register, seen by HT, one of his subordinates addressed Agrawal and said, “Jai Hind Sir! We should call these policemen separately. If you quiz them at your level, then definitely, they will definitely speak. None of them has any ground. If they are threatened, they will speak the truth.”An ACB official familiar with the developments said that these notes were submitted by one of Agarwal’s subordinates during his posting as superintendent of police (SP), GRP (government railway police) between October 16, 2019 and July 5, 2020. More than 10 police districts were under his jurisdiction.“The 27 policemen include policemen from constables to assistant sub-inspectors posted in Alwar, Jaipur, Bharatpur, Ajmer, Kota, Abu Road, Gangapur City, Hindaun Chowki, Bandikui and Jhalawar,” said the ACB official.He added that the notes point out specific details of the 27 policemen and the money extorted from people in different cases. The ACB suspects that the details were recorded by a policeman who was either posted at the intelligence or vigilance wing of the former SP’s office.“From complaints against constables to those against additional superintendent of police, vigilance and intelligence unit of SP, GRP keeps formal or informal record of the complaints. Agrawal exploited these details and used them to extort money. However, how much did he extract from these policemen is yet to be discovered,” the ACB official said on condition of anonymity.Another ACB official said that around half-a-dozen policemen, including some station house officers from Dausa have contacted the anti-graft bureau and shared how they were forced to partake in the extortion racket allegedly being run by Agrawal as SP Dausa.“These policemen told us that the accused IPS, who was posted as SP Dausa, used to give them daily targets to extort money. We are recording their statements too,” the second ACB official said.HT has also accessed an advisory by former director general of police (DGP) Bhupendra Singh to Agrawal, expressing dissatisfaction with the SP’s functioning.“It has come to the notice of the undersigned that as superintendent of police, Dausa district, your integrity is suspect and that you are indulging in conduct unbecoming of an IPS officer and which is also in violation of All India Service Conduct Rules. You are hereby advised to discharge your responsibilities diligently, without compromising on integrity and ethical standards, failing which the undersigned would be compelled to make such mention in your Annual Performance Appraisal System (APAR),” read the advisory written by Singh to Agrawal.Meanwhile, Agarwal was presented before a local court in Jaipur, which remanded him to judicial custody.Also Read: IPS officer Manish Agarwal suspended by Rajasthan govt; professes innocenceAgrawal’s lawyer has denied all the allegations levelled against him. “Neither my client was caught taking a bribe nor has the agency any evidence to prove he demanded a bribe. The so-called middleman Neeraj Meena used to meet him during the lockdown in connection with three instances of robbery,” he said.Agrawal, who had taken charge as the commandant of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in Jaipur last month, was arrested from his office on Tuesday.Earlier on January 14, two sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) Pinky Meena (Bandikui) and Pushkar Mittal (Dausa) and one Neeraj Meena, an alleged middleman employed by Manish Agrawal, were arrested in the same case.During investigation, it was found that the IPS officer was allegedly involved in a bid to extort money from a road construction contractor, in connivance with the SDMs named above and the middleman. The lid was blown off the racket after a complaint was filed against some of the accused officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-ips-extorted-money-from-27-corrupt-cops-maintained-register-acb-101612589932803.html
06-02-2021||Other||Disproportionate assets case: VB starts fresh probe against ex-Zirakpur naib tehsildar||The vigilance bureau (VB) has launched a fresh probe against former Zirakpur naib tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot into the allegations of disproportionate assets against him.The re-investigation directions were given by chief director vigilance BK Uppal after new facts emerged in the corruption case against Dhoot.In November last year, HT had reported that Dhoot faced another case of disproportionate assets which was pending with vigilance headquarters, after the Jalandhar VB “watered down” the investigation and recommended departmental action.Confirming the development, Jalandhar VB senior superintendent of police Daljinder Singh Dhillon said Dhoot is being reinvestigated over disproportionate assets charges as per the directions of vigilance headquarters.On November 2, 2019, Punjab vigilance bureau had arrested Dhoot and four others in a corruption case. The corruption case goes back to 2017, when Dhoot was Majri naib tehsildar. He, in connivance with subordinate revenue officials and private individuals, is accused of fraudulently selling 99 acres of shamlat land in Seonk village, causing loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer, vigilance had claimed.A senior vigilance official seeking anonymity said many suspicious cash transactions amounting to the crores of rupees were detected in the bank accounts allegedly linked to Dhoot or close aides, including his family members, during the probe of the corruption case.The official added that several transactions among builders, developers and Dhoot besides other vital facts also came to light regarding his alleged investments in two prime marriage palaces in Hoshiarpur district. The vigilance is also probing the source of funds for his house in Sector 8, Chandigarh.In 2017, Punjab vigilance bureau had started a probe into Dhoot’s alleged disproportionate assets. The department had accused him of buying prime properties, some in the name of his family members, spending crores of rupees on a palatial house and buying 25-acre land in Hoshiarpur district.In December 2017, a Jalandhar vigilance inquiry had revealed that Dhoot had amassed immovable and movable property, which was beyond his known sources of income, through corrupt or illegal methods. Vigilance had claimed Dhoot spent around ₹50 lakh more than his income between 2009 and 2015, with the total expenditure detected at ₹2.45 crore. Following this, the Jalandhar vigilance recommended an FIR against Dhoot to Mohali headquarters, after legal opinion.In October 2019, nearly two years after this recommendation, Dhoot filed a representation before vigilance headquarters seeking a re-probe into the disproportionate asset case of 2017. This was allowed, and the Jalandhar vigilance again prepared an expenditure report of Dhoot from 2009 to 2015 and calculated it at ₹2.25 crore. This was ₹18.6 lakh more than his income and fell within the government mandated guideline of less than 10%. Following this, the Jalandhar vigilance wrote to the state revenue department for departmental action.The vigilance sources said since then the matter was pending with the vigilance headquarters which has now ordered to conduct a fresh probe in the light of new facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/disproportionate-assets-case-vb-starts-fresh-probe-against-ex-zirakpur-naib-tehsildar-101612587754675.html
06-02-2021||Patna||3 labourers killed, 5 ill, after consuming spurious liquor in Bihar||Three persons died and five fell ill after consuming spurious liquor at Kurasan village under Bhabua police station of Kaimur district in Bihar on Friday.All the eight persons were labourers who consumed the spurious liquor before their condition started deteriorating late Thursday night.Lal Mohar Bind, 32 and Ram Keshi Kohar, 50 died at the village on Friday evening. Chandrika Paswan, 32, who was admitted at sadar hospital with complaint of breathlessness, too died.Dharmendra Kahar, 25, who was admitted to the sadar hospital in critical condition, has been referred to a higher institution, said Naga Paswan, husband of the village head.Jhanna Sah, 50, Santosh Gond, 35, Jitendra Musahar and Ram Krit Muasahar who had consumed less quantity of the illicit liquor, were out of danger after treatment, ex mukhiya Bhanu Pratap Singh said.Bhabua superintendent of police, Rakesh Kumar, however, said there were only two deaths in the illicit liquor consumption case and added that the exact cause of the deaths could be confirmed only after getting the post mortem examination report. Police was trying to trace the culprits who supplied the deadly liquor to the labourers, the SP said.District magistrate Navdeep Shukla and SP were camping at the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-labourers-killed-5-ill-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-bihar-101612587115696.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer leaders ready for talks with Centre but without any condition||Into its third month, the dogged farmer protests, centred on the three contentious central farm laws, have dramatically gathered a new momentum in the last one week following a surge in support from the Jatlands of Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. In the post-January 26 churn, Rakesh Tikait, 52, a cop-turned-farmer leader, and Balbir Singh Rajewal, 73, a veteran Bhartiya Kisan Union leader from Punjab, have emerged as the pre-eminent face of the agitation that has laid siege to Delhi’s key entry points, garnered international attention and put the Narendra Modi government to a severe test. While Tikait, the son of a tall farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, is the prime mobiliser, Rajewal stands out as a moderate voice of reason among ideologically disparate farm outfits from the border state. On Friday, a day before its nationwide ‘chakka jam (road blockade)’, Tikait and Rajewal dropped a conciliatory signal for resumption of talks with the Centre, while steadfastly swearing by their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and a legally backed minimum support price. In an exclusive joint interview with HT Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak at the Ghazipur border protest site, the two leaders announced the second phase of their stir up to October 2 and spoke about the protests, the negotiations, the January 26 tractor march, the chances of resuming talks with the government, and the way forward for the agitation. Edited excerpts:Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined his intent to resolve the farmers’ agitation by committing at the January 30 all-party meeting that the proposal to suspend the three farm laws and set up a committee still stands. What’s your response?Tikait: This is not acceptable to us. We will not talk with conditions. What the government offered after 11 rounds of talks has fallen flat. Now if they offer a new proposal, we will consider starting fresh talks.Which conditions are you referring to?Tikait: The one on the 18-month moratorium. If we take this and enter into talks, that will mean our acceptance of their formula. If they want to go beyond this, the doors to talks can open.What should the Centre do to bring the farmer unions back to the negotiating table?Tikait: They should give up their insistence that there will be no repeal of the three laws and say that there will be talks. Then, we will also vouch for talks. That will create a platform for negotiations. Earlier too, the negotiations were deadlocked for 20 days, but it was broken. I’m sure the talks will happen again.Farmers have taken a repeal-or-nothing stand. How will such an extreme position help create the negotiating space?Tikait: Obstinacy is on the part of the government. It is against the repeal of the laws and legal back-up for minimum support price (MSP). For us, these are the big issues.Rajewal: The government should fulfil its duty and invite us (farm unions). The government is not expected to sit silent and do nothing. Unhone ik baat ki zidd pakad li aur baat cheet ke table par aana nahin. Such a stubborn attitude will not help resolve the issue.Tikait: It’s possible that we may go to the first meeting to just put across our views and then come back to discuss it with our committee. But that would open the door for talks.So, you want the Centre to send an invite?Tikait: Let there be an invitation. Then, things will move forward. Talks are stalled since January 11. Our farmers are in jail, many are missing, and more than 400 tractors have been damaged. The government has put multi-layered barricades and spikes on roads leading to Delhi. People are inconvenienced. Sooner they (the Centre) respond the better. Otherwise, we will be holding meetings across the country. We will launch the second phase of the agitation from Saturday, and it will go on till October 2.The government says the farmers’ movement is based on misinformation that land will be snatched, and corporates will take over agriculture and the MSP will be discontinued.Rajewal: The government is creating such misgivings. In the meetings so far, farms laws were discussed clause by clause. We proved that these are wrong.How have the January 26 events changed the movement?Tikait: Three lakh tractors and 20 lakh people came to Delhi. Such a massive crowd could have done anything. But our agitation was peaceful except the wrong acts of certain elements, who infiltrated our agitation and did all in complicity with the authorities to defame and discredit our movement.The Prime Minister said the country was saddened by the insult to the national flag at Red Fort.Tikait: Will the PM tell us why Red Fort, which is the country’s pride, has been leased to private players? The national flag atop the ramparts was not touched. We even took out sadbhavna marches with the national flag. No one knows and upholds the honour of the Tricolour better than a farmer whose son is a jawan serving on the country’s borders. Before coming to power, the BJP never unfurled the national flag at its offices. The RSS never hoisted the national flag at its headquarters in Nagpur. How can they teach us the izzat of the national flag?The government says the stir is getting support from forces that aim to weaken the country.Rajewal: Who are these forces? Ek aadhi kaa naam batao (Tell us their names). We will deal with such forces. Agar koi desh ko kamzor kar raha hain, uska ilaaz tau hum hi kar denge (If they try to weaken the country, we will sort them out). We have not seen the tent of any such forces at our protest sites. All you see here are farmers from villages who bring their own food material and run community kitchens.As leaders of the movement, what lessons have you learnt from the January 26 episode?Tikait: We have been doing agitations for 35 years. Whosoever is in the Opposition raises slogans and lays siege to Parliament. But, in reality, the protests happen at Jantar Mantar. Has any agitator ever entered Parliament in all these years? On Republic Day, people who declared on the eve of our tractor march that their intention was to reach Red Fort were put up front by the police and given a free run to inner Delhi. The police and the authorities were complicit in this.But, is not it a fact that a section of protesters went out of your control?Tikait: What happened on December 6, 1992, in Ayodhya? All top BJP leaders were there, and the party was in power. Was the Babri mosque structure demolished intentionally? Their affidavits said it was done by a crowd that turned unruly.Many believe that the government’s proposal to stay the implementation of the laws for 18 months and set up a committee with the involvement of farm groups is a reasonable offer; it amounts, for all practical purposes, to the government retreating because this version of the law will be pulled back; it buys enough time to come up with a new framework. Why don’t you accept the offer?Rajewal: These laws are basically wrong and were rammed through Parliament in a high-handed manner. These have been enacted for trading, not agriculture. A farmer doesn’t trade; he takes his crop for marketing. These laws are not meant for farmers. Secondly, in the Constitution’s 7th Schedule, agriculture is a state subject, but they have taken the concurrent list route in which Schedule 33 is on food stuff. Farmers produce foodgrains, not food stuff. So, these laws cheat farmers. Nor do they pass the constitutional test.The farmers’ number has swelled at protest sites of late. There’s a law and order concern. How much control do you have on the crowds?Tikait: We have full control. Anyone who has joined the agitation and protests under some ideology other than the farmers’ cause can go back. We will shun such elements. Anyone involved in the breach of law and our protocol will be responsible for his own actions.As the face of the agitation, what role do you see for yourself to resolve the situation?Tikait: It’s a collective responsibility. Rajewal ji is our key leader. Let the government initiate talks. We also want resolution.The government says the farmers’ view on the laws and the MSP are based on fear and not on facts.Tikait: Even today, farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan sell foodgrains in Punjab and Haryana, which are the only states with MSP. Once there is a law-backed MSP, traders in the entire country will not dare to buy crop at lower than the MSP.Rajewal: Except Punjab and Haryana, the government has not put in place a marketing system in other states. We want a similar marketing system all over by opening 48,000 mandis so that all farmers benefit from the MSP.But there is wide consensus that the country urgently needs agri reforms to improve the farmers’ incomes and modernise agriculture.Rajewal: Of course, we need reforms. But we don’t want corporate agriculture. Reforms should not solely benefit traders at the cost of farmers.Tikait: In the reforms that this government is pushing, traders are trying to invade agriculture.The government has said MSP will continue.Rajewal: On MSP, the government says the existing system will continue. But that doesn’t apply to farmers except in Punjab and Haryana. We want a uniform legally guaranteed MSP for farmers of all states. They want to save the trader, not the farmer.The government at the highest level has repeatedly said that the laws are for benefit of farmers. Why don’t you trust that?Tikait: Farmers see through everything. The problem is that even the existing farmer-related laws are not implemented. Look at the Sugarcane Act that binds sugar mills and the government to pay the farmers’ due within 15 days of procurement, but the farmers get paid after up to two years. And the government do nothing. But these are dangerous laws, and these (farm laws) will be implemented. How can farmers trust the government?There is a trust deficit between Union leaders and the Centre?Tikait: We have full trust in the central government, but it is hell bent on dhokhe baazi (deception). Look at how they have levelled allegations against our movement to break it up by all means. Farmers are being labelled Khalistanis. They say we are getting funds from abroad. Attempts are on to divide us and entangle us on the lines of big versus small farmers and Punjab versus Haryana. This agitation will not break up. The government will have come to the table and talk.Would you talk to the Supreme Court-appointed expert panel?Tikait: We have already rejected that. If someone is studying Kannada, can he solve a question paper in Hindi?The government believes that farm leaders want to find a compromise but buckle under pressure of the radical mood of protesters. You fear being seen as too soft or selling out to the government? Is there a problem of radical competitiveness within the movement?Tikait: We have not backtracked from talks. But come what may, we can’t betray the trust farmers have reposed in us. We are standing for their rights.Rajewal: The constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha are free to give their opinion, but there are no pressures from any quarter. Ours is a collective decision. The government is floating the radical angle to discredit us. It is a ploy to avoid talks.It is Parliament’s prerogative to pass laws. Why should the government repeal the farm laws meant for all states?Tikait: Because the farmers for whom these laws have been made don’t want it.But protests are confined to Punjab, Haryana and western UP?Tikait: The protests are happening in Gujarat, too. More than 100 farmers there have been detained and their families don’t know their whereabouts.Rajewal: The protest sites around Delhi have farmers from Karnataka, Orissa and Chhattisgarh. In that sense, it is a pan-India agitation now.How challenging is it for you to steer an agitation of 32 ideologically diverse organisations?Tikait: If Atal Bihari Vajpayee could run a coalition government of so many parties, why can’t we manage this?Would you give an assurance that during the chakka jam on February 6, there will be no violence?Rajewal: Our agitation was peaceful, is peaceful and will remain so in future. It will be 100% peaceful tomorrow (on Saturday). We have full control over our farmers.In Punjab, there are apprehensions that the agitation may disturb peace and communal harmony. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh says Pakistan may exploit the surcharged atmosphere in the border state.Tikait: We won’t let that happen at any cost.Rajewal: Communal harmony will remain intact in Punjab. I can guarantee that.There is brewing local disenchantment because of the disruption caused by the protests. Is there a possibility of clashes with local communities in urban areas because of your prolonged sit-in?Tikait: We have not blocked the road. The police have barricaded them.Rajewal: Initially, the local people were apprehensive for a few days. But now they have opened their homes for farmers. They are supporting us fully.If no talks happen in the near future, how long will you be able sustain the agitation?Tikait: Second phase will last till October 2. We will decide the course after that.The government believes that the union leaders have a different agenda.Tikait: We are not tricksters. We have no hidden agenda. Our only agenda is that farmers’ ‘roti-roji’ (livelihood and income) should not go into traders’ ‘tijori’ (safes).The government says the opposition parties rallying behind farmers had supported the agri reforms when they were in power.Tikait: Political leaders have their own way when in power. But we are espousing farmers’ interests. We will fight anyone going against that.What will be the political fallout of the agitation?Tikait: We are not doing anything for votes or politics. Anyone who wants to exploit it politically can do it on his own.Rajewal: Voters will get educated and understand how to deal with politicians.What’s your relationship with the BJP now?Tikait: I have relations with all parties. We go by the government’s policies. If they are against farmers, we will oppose that to any extent no matter who is in power.Are there any back channels with the government?Tikait: Our manch (platform) and panch (representatives) will remain the same. Whatever talks happen will only be through them. Singhu will remain our platform.There is a view that the global outpouring of solidarity for farmers’ protest has hurt India’s image.Tikait: Then, let them repeal the laws. What comes first: The country or traders?What is your next course of action?Tikait: The next target is to involve 40 lakh tractors. From Saturday, farmers will bring soil and water from their villages from all over the country. While the government is putting spikes around the protest sites, we will sow flowers here. That will connect our agitation with rural India.The tractor will be the symbol of our agitation and gaon ki mitti and paani (soil and water from villages) will be its devta (presiding deity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-leaders-ready-for-talks-with-centre-but-without-any-condition-101612586014640.html
06-02-2021||Patna||'Nothing new': Bihar defends barring people with criminal antecedents from getting jobs||The Bihar government on Friday clarified that there is nothing new in barring those charged with creating a public nuisance, blocking roads, and destroying public property from getting government jobs or contracts. It added this is a part of the tendering process.Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani and police chief S K Singhal said the main objective was to prevent people with criminal antecedents from getting government contracts or jobs. They insisted it is mandated by the government orders of 2006 and 2020.On January 21, the state government made it mandatory for contractors to have character certificates from the police. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar. Subhani and Singhal also attended the meeting.“Police verification report (PVR) for character certificate is still a requirement for those applying for government tenders. The Supreme Court has also given directives in this regard. For government jobs, PVR is a necessity before joining. Even those taking sub-contracts have to mandatorily get character certificates from police and that needs to be fully enforced. For those taking sub-contracts for public utilities would also need to get their credentials verified by the police and get an identity card issued,” said Subhani.He said such checks and balances would help clean the system and restore public faith in it. “Public liberty will always be respected as it is of utmost importance for the government. The democratic rights of nobody will be affected in any way. This is not what the government wants. But unscrupulous elements will not be allowed to take advantage of it."Subhani said the police chief had only spoken about further strengthening PVR to ensure people with criminal antecedents do not get into the tendering process. “Even for jobs... [the police chief] has said it should be completed in a time-bound manner so that those joining government service do not face any hassles. If anyone has been convicted or charge-sheeted in any cognizable offence that also needs to be included in the PVR,” he said.Additional police director-general Jitendra Kumar said the PVR order does not bar anybody from getting a government job. “[The government order] no way impinges upon the right of a citizen to take part in any demonstration or procession, which is his or her democratic right." He added the order has referred to a person’s involvement in an activity that might be against the law. “We will be giving no opinions about a person in the PVR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nothing-new-bihar-defends-barring-people-with-criminal-antecedents-from-getting-jobs-101612583648123.html
06-02-2021||Jaipur||IPS officer Manish Agarwal suspended by Rajasthan govt; professes innocence||The Rajasthan government suspended IPS officer Manish Agrawal, who was arrested by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau on charges of corruption, as per a government order. The order issued by the department of personnel cited more than 48-hours in police custody as a ground for Agrawal’s suspension.Agrawal, who had taken charge as the commandant of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in Jaipur last month, was arrested from his office on Tuesday in a case of extortion racket, allegedly run by senior state government officials. Currently, he is in judicial custody.Earlier on January 14, two sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) Pinky Meena (Bandikui) and Pushkar Mittal (Dausa) and one Neeraj Meena, an alleged middleman employed by Manish Agrawal, were arrested in the same case.During investigation, it was found that the IPS officer was allegedly involved in a bid to extort money from a road construction contractor, in connivance with the SDMs named above and the middleman. The lid was blown off the racket after a complaint was filed against some of the accused officers.Also Read: Repeal farm laws, drop cases filed: Sachin Pilot in RajasthanManish Agarwal’s lawyer has denied all the allegations levelled against him.“Neither my client was caught taking a bribe, nor the agency had any evidence to prove that he demanded a bribe. The so-called middleman Neeraj Meena used to meet him during the lockdown in connection with three instances of robbery,” said Vipul Sharma, Agrawal’s lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ips-officer-manish-agarwal-suspended-by-rajasthan-govt-professes-innocence-101612583160264.html
06-02-2021||Ranchi||Domestic help kills self after assaulting CRPF commandant’s kin in Ranchi||A 45-year-old domestic worker employed at the house of a CRPF commandant allegedly took her own life after brutally assaulting the commandant’s seven year old son, 78-year-old mother and 80-year-old mother in-law on Thursday night in Ranchi, police said on Friday.All three members of the commandant’s family were admitted to a hospital for treatment. The incident took place at Edalhatu area under Ranchi’s Bariatu police station.“The commandant Jagat Surin is posted in Chaibasa and the domestic worker has been working in his house for the past nine years,” said Sapan Mahatha, officer in-charge of Bariatu police station.Mahatha said that Surin told the police that the domestic maid appeared to be mentally unstable for the past few days and had turned aggressive all of a sudden.Also Read: Former Jharkhand minister Haji Ansari’s son inducted in Hemant Soren cabinet“As per Surin's statement, some workers outside the house saw the maid beating family members. They then locked the maid in the garage in the house. When the door of the garage was opened at night, she was found hanging,” the officer in-charge said.“We are investigating if she was undergoing any mental problem or any trouble from the employer’s side. Anything concrete on the matter could be said only after investigation gets completed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/domestic-help-kills-self-after-assaulting-crpf-commandant-s-kin-in-ranchi-101612581174482.html
06-02-2021||Kolkata||Prashant Kishor backs welfare schemes to help TMC sail through Bengal elections||The Swasthya Sathi health insurance policy and other social welfare schemes of the Bengal government will help the Trinamool Congress (TMC) sail through the coming assembly election as long as its leaders stay focused and united, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist Prashant Kishor told the party’s Kolkata civic body councillors on Friday evening.Some of those who attended the meeting, held behind the closed doors of a south Kolkata auditorium, told HT that Kishor asked specific questions regarding the party’s organisation in some zones and asked if anyone needed any support from his team or the leadership.There are 144 civic administration wards under the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). Of these, 125 are controlled by the TMC. There are two Lok Sabha constituencies and 11 assembly seats in Kolkata and all were won by the ruling party in the last elections.Debasish Kumar, the TMC’s Kolkata district president and a member of the mayor-in-council of the KMC and Firhad Hakim, the city’s outgoing mayor and urban development minister, told the councillors to be vigilant about campaign strategies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said a TMC councillor who did not want to be named.Also Read: Mamata announces job creation, hike in farm aid ahead of elections“We were asked to be careful about what we say in public. The leadership does not want any sign of dissent to surface,” said the councillor from south Kolkata.Though the BJP could not win in Kolkata in the Lok Sabha poll in 2019, when it bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats, the TMC lost votes in several civic wards in the city. One of these wards is in the Bhawanipore assembly segment won by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Though BJP’s Chandra Kumar Bose, a grandnephew of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose lost the contest, he was ahead in one ward.The BJP has made Kolkata’s former mayor Sovan Chatterjee its election observer for the Kolkata zone. Chatterjee, who was once one of Banerjee’s closest aides, joined the BJP in August 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/prashant-kishor-backs-welfare-schemes-to-help-tmc-sail-through-bengal-elections-101612575479659.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Light rain chases away pollution, AQI moderate in Delhi||A day after the light rain on Thursday, when the minimum temperature in the city had climbed to 12.4 degrees Celsius, the mercury dropped once again on Friday to a minimum of 6.8 degrees Celsius -- two degrees below the season’s normal.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said the drop was primarily due to the cold, dry winds blowing in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. The city had recorded 2.1mm rainfall on Thursday under the influence of a western disturbance, which also led to widespread snowfall in the hilly regions.The Safdarjung observatory, which provides the representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6.8 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, on Friday as against 12.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature was 23 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said with the passing of the western disturbance, the wind direction over Delhi has changed to north-westerly.“Cold, dry winds from the mountains have started blowing over the plains, resulting in a dip in the minimum temperature,” an IMD official said, wishing not to be named.He said the temperature is likely to fall further over the weekend and settle at around 5-6 degrees Celsius. However, by February 8, the temperature will rise again.“There is another western disturbance that is likely to impact the Himalayas. Its impact on the plains will be a slight rise in the minimum and maximum temperature,” Srivastava said.Meanwhile, the light rain on Thursday, coupled with strong winds, improved the city’s air quality significantly. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi on Friday was 133, in the ”moderate” zone. On Thursday, the average AQI was 316, in the ”very poor” category.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said isolated rain observed under the influence of a western disturbance and high winds contributed to the improvement in AQI.“Surface winds are low in the morning but forecasted to improve during daytime. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and remain in the “moderate” or “poor” category Saturday. “Poor” to “very poor” AQI is forecasted for February 7 and February 8,” Safar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-chases-away-pollution-aqi-moderate-indelhi-101612559552380.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||All 184 centres now open for front-line workers to get Covid-19 vaccine||Front-line workers who have registered for the Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi can now go to any of the 184 vaccination centres and get a shot, senior government officials announced on Friday.On Thursday and Friday, several vaccination centres were opened to front-line workers on a trial basis and from Saturday, all existing centres will be opened to them, said officials.Delhi on Friday vaccinated 9,216 of a targeted 18,400 beneficiaries, reflecting a turnout of around 50% -- which is two percentage points lower than the previous day’s, shows data shared by the government.Friday’s 9,216 beneficiaries included both health workers and front-line workers but the government did not share the numbers for each category separately.On Friday, 12 cases of adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) were recorded but, senior government officials said, none of them was severe in nature.Health workers are the first priority group in the vaccination drive that was rolled out across the country on January 16. In Delhi, around 240,000 health workers have registered for the vaccination.Next on the priority list are front-line workers, which include police personnel, fire personnel, municipal staff, sanitation workers, school teachers and staff across all departments and agencies that are engaged in Covid-19 management.“I request all front-line workers to come forward and take the vaccine at the earliest,” said Pankaj Kumar, district magistrate (north-east Delhi), who took the shot on Friday.Jaidrath Chauhan, a police constable who took the shot on Friday, said, “I had no adverse reactions. I urge people to come forward and take the vaccine. Our job involves a lot of transmission risk. We should get ourselves immunised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-184-centres-now-open-for-front-line-workers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-101612557999824.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt reduces circle rates by 20% for next six months||The Delhi government on Friday reduced circle rates, the minimum price at which a property can be bought, for all categories of properties for the next six months, a move that experts said will boost the real estate market and boost revenue for the government.The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting on Friday. It was decided to reduce the circle rates by 20% for residential, commercial and industrial properties across all categories of localities.“… This decision is expected to make it substantially cheaper for people to do property transactions, revive the real estate sector which has been hit severely by the coronavirus pandemic and create new jobs,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.The statement further read, “A reduction of 20% in the circle rate would have an impact close to reduction by 1% in the stamp duty or registration charges… The economy by and large at the national level, in general, and the real estate sector, in particular, have witnessed huge slump due to the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. Lakhs of construction workers have lost their jobs. While the Kejriwal government has already provided direct monetary relief of ₹10,000 for construction workers of Delhi, there was a need to revive the real estate sector and get the lost jobs back. Today’s decision of the Delhi cabinet will help begin the long-term recovery in the real estate sector.”Circle rate is the minimum designated price per square metre or square feet for land or property fixed for a certain category of locality, at which transactions have to be registered. It varies with each state and is revised from time to time depending on demand, supply and other development indicators pertaining to the concerned area.Delhi broadly has eight categories of localities – from A to H. Category A being the most affluent ones and H being the most economically weaker ones. The circle rates are proportionate. For instance, in an A category locality, circle rate for a residential property so far was ₹7,74,000 per square metre and for one in an H category locality was ₹23,280.Neighbourhoods such as Golf Links, Vasant Vihar and Jor Bagh come under A category, those like Greater Kailash, Defence Colony and Safdarjung Enclave come under B and those in Tagore Garden and Subhash Nagar come under C. Categories D and E mostly have localities that were notified as regularised in the past, some old areas where low-income and mid-income flats were developed and resettlement colonies. Categories F, G and H comprise mostly of unauthorised colonies in which residents have recently availed the opportunity – through a central government scheme – to get their properties registered.For registration, there is a stamp fee on the transaction value – which is 6% for men and 4% for women – to be paid by the buyers. “In property transactions, people tend to keep the transaction value less on paper and essentially pay the registry fee on more or less the circle rate, which is the base rate for property transactions in a concerned area,” said a senior official in the government’s revenue department who did not wish to be identified.In 2018-19, the Delhi government earned around ₹4,459 crore through property registries. For 2019-20, the revised estimate was ₹4,897 crore and for 2020-21, the budget estimate was ₹5,297 crore, showed budget documents of the government.However, a senior official in the finance department said that between April 1, 2020, and November 30, 2020, the Delhi government earned ₹1,860.57 crore, against ₹3,258.47 crore for the corresponding period in the previous financial year.Mudassir Zaidi, executive director of real estate consultant group Knight Frank, said: “The real estate sector in Delhi was already witnessing a slump for several years now. The demonetisation in November 2016 came as a major blow. And then Covid-19 happened. The market is now showing slow signs of recovery. This decision by the Delhi government would significantly contribute to the market’s revival by boosting the volume of transactions, especially in the most affluent colonies in Delhi where market rates of properties had dropped below circle rates. The government’s decision is capable of rectifying such anomalies in the system.”Ritesh Mehta, senior director and head (west India) residential services at JLL India, said: “It is a positive move and will encourage the fence sitters to take the plunge. The cost of a house may not be directly impacted by the move as the cost is a function of many other factors like demand and supply but will give a positive push to the real estate market. In the residential segment, it will impact more in Category A which is categorised as posh and high-end, where typically the market rates are lower than the circle rate. It will boost luxury transactions as the monetary impact would be high.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-reduces-circle-rates-by-20-for-next-six-months-101612556086823.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt forms GoM under Sisodia to draw up new excise policy||The Delhi cabinet on Friday appointed a group of ministers (GoM) to finalise a new excise policy for the national capital.The GoM, under deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, will deliberate on a report submitted to the government by a committee of experts that was set up by Sisodia last year to augment the excise revenue of the city-state.HT had earlier reported on these recommendations, the primary ones being that restaurants, clubs and pubs be allowed to stay open until 3 am daily, instead of 1am; that these outlets be allowed to serve full bottles at the table; and that they be given permission to serve liquor in open areas such as rooftops and balconies.The committee has also said anyone over the age of 21 years should be able to get a drink at the bar or hotel. In Delhi, at least on paper, the minimum age to be served liquor at an establishment is 25.The same committee had also recommended that the number of dry days in the capital be reduced from 21, on average, to just three a year, and norms be relaxed for department stores to avail of licences for selling wine and beer.Other than Sisodia, who also holds the finance and excise portfolios in Delhi, the GoM will have as members health minister Satyendar Jain and revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, the Delhi government said.“The new excise policy of the Delhi government will ensure transparency, ease of doing business for taxpayers and business sector too, and ensure steady growth of government revenues… The group of ministers will examine all aspects of the current system -- of excise duty administration; the report submitted by the expert committee and its suggestions; and feedback and comments received from stakeholders and general public -- before making a final policy decision in the coming weeks,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-forms-gom-under-sisodia-to-draw-up-new-excise-policy-101612555742995.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Govt floats tender to select agency for setting up 100 e-charging points||A day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a campaign to promote electric vehicles (EV) in the capital city, the Delhi government on Friday floated a tender to hire an agency for setting up 500 e-vehicle charging points across 100 locations within a year, informed power minister Satyendar Jain.Jain said the charging stations will be for both two-wheelers and four-wheelers, both private and commercial. Most of the chosen sites are located outside Metro stations and at bus depots in the city, he said.Jain further said, “This is the largest tender for public charging in India… We are working relentlessly towards the vision of making Delhi the EV capital of India. For the charging station project, the full power infrastructure cost will be borne by the Delhi government. Some of these charging stations will also double up as battery swapping stations. At least 20% of them will have the slower variety of chargers and 10% will have the faster variety in order to cater to all kinds of e-vehicles,” said Jain at a press conference on Friday.In a press statement, the Dialogue and Development Commission, a think tank of the Delhi government, said, “The ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign launched by CM Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday is a mass awareness campaign to sensitise each and every Delhi resident about the benefits of switching to e-vehicles. Under the policy, the government has offered multiple financial and non-financial incentives to accelerate the adoption of EVs in the capital. Industry leaders continue to hail the campaign and they have shown tremendous support to CM Arvind Kejriwal’s appeal.”While launching the campaign on Thursday, Kejriwal had said that his government will, in the next six months, change its policy to lease only electric cars as part of an effort to accelerate the adoption of electric cars in the city.The government launched the campaign to inform, encourage and motivate every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission EVs. All the hired cars being engaged by various departments of the Delhi government will switch to EVs within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-floats-tender-to-select-agency-for-setting-up-100-e-charging-points-101612555505574.html
06-02-2021||Other||BJP, Shiv Sena trade barbs against each other over power bills, fuel price rise||Former allies, Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), staged protests against each other’s governments in the state and Centre. While BJP leaders took to the streets to protest against the inflated power bills issued by the state power distribution company, the Sena staged protests against the Centre over the hike in fuel and cooking gas prices. After backing the farmers’ stir in Delhi earlier this week, the Sena has now decided to take up issues that touch the lives of its core constituency: the middle-class. Sena leaders led the protests at Dadar, Byculla, Goregaon, Thane and Mira-Bhayander areas against the “loot of common man” by the Union government. Party legislators also staged protests and bullock-cart and cycle rallies in Pune, Aurangabad and Nashik districts. Protesters in Mumbai and other cities raised slogans against the Narendra Modi-government. At Mira-Bhayander, Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik led the protests, while legislators Sunil Prabhu and Ravindra Waikar were in the forefront of the agitation at Goregaon and Jogeshwari. Sena vibhag pramukh (division head) Ashish Chemburkar, who was leading protest at Byculla, said the fuel prices have been hiked since the lockdown was lifted, and soon, the petrol prices will reach Rs100 per litre. “The Centre has been looting the citizens for months by increasing the fuel prices and LPG cylinder prices. This has to stop. Sena will intensify protests if the Centre does not arrest the price rise,” Chemburkar said. Responding to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s attack on the state government to reduce its share of tax on fuel, Chemburkar said, “The price of petrol would be Rs92 [per litre] after reducing the state tax. Do the ones who seek the state’s tax believe that the price of fuel at Rs92 is less?” Ambadas Danve, Sena Member of the Legislative Council and party district chief of Aurangabad said the fuel price rise over the past few months have been “crushing” the common citizens. “Households are bearing the brunt of cylinder price rise. Cylinders that used to cost Rs300-400 some years earlier now cost double. The Centre has launched many schemes but they have not reached the common citizens,” he said. Former parliamentarian Chandrakant Khaire cited “corruption at the highest levels” as the reason behind the fuel price rise. “I have been on the committees in the Centre. I know how things work. The crude oil prices are at an all-time low, and yet, fuel [petrol] is Rs94 [per litre].” Meanwhile, BJP staged protests outside the regional offices of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) to oppose the disconnection of power over pending bills. The party has accused the state-owned firm of having sent inflated bills to consumers during the Covid-19 lockdown last year. In Nagpur, former state energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule led the protest march, while at Nashik, it was headed by legislator Devyani Farande. In Kolhapur, clashes broke out between BJP workers and the police as the protestors tried to lock the regional office of MSEDCL as part of their ‘Tala Thoko’ protest. At Mumbai, legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar led a protest march outside Adani Power’s Kandivli office over the inflated bills’ issue. Party’s former MP Kirit Somaiya and other workers were arrested by police after they tried to lock MSEDCL office at Bhandup. “The Thackeray government had announced to waive off the inflated bills issued during lockdown. The government did not keep its word, and has on the contrary has sent notices to 7.5 million consumers warning the disconnection of the supply for non-payments. Most of the bills are inflated and fake. The citizens are not in a position of paying these bills owing to the job and income loss during the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has been ruthlessly taking action against the citizens. We will continue our protest until the bills are waived off,” said Bawankule. Meanwhile, the Mumbai unit and BJP’s minority cell also staged a protest outside the party’s Nariman Point office, demanding the immediate arrest Sharjeel Usmani for his alleged provocative speech at the Elgaar Parishad conclave last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-shiv-sena-trade-barbs-against-each-other-over-power-bills-fuel-price-rise-101612553250576.html
06-02-2021||Other||Firefighter injured in major blaze at Mumbai godown||A major fire was reported in a godown at Kurla scrap compound in the Mandala area at Mankhurd (East) on Friday at 2.44pm. The Mumbai Fire Brigade pressed 13 fire engines, 11 jumbo tankers, a quick response vehicle and an ambulance for the dousing operations, which were going on till late on Friday night. No civilian injuries have been reported in the blaze but a 40-year-old firefighter, identified as station officer Harish Naskar, suffered minor injuries during the dousing operations. He was rushed to Shatabdi hospital and his condition is said to be stable. The fire increased in intensity and was declared a level-3 blaze at 2.47pm. Following this, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started three water-filling points at Chheda Nagar, Deonar abattoir and Ghatkopar Yard for jumbo tankers to refill. Ajit Narwade, assistant commissioner of the M-East ward, under whose jurisdiction the area lies, said, “The fire was reported in a scrap godown. The godown contained oil barrels and hence, it is taking longer to douse the fire. The fire did not break out near the Deonar dumping ground but around the creek. Fortunately, the spot is not close to any residential area, and all the nearby structures are also godowns.” Mayor Kishori Pednekar had visited the spot on Friday afternoon. Narwade said, “The collector will verify if the godowns were storing scrap material legally, as this is land owned by the Mumbai Suburban collector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/firefighter-injured-in-major-blaze-at-mumbai-godown-101612552830196.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Amit Shah to inaugurate Narayan Rane’s medical college in Maharashtra||Union home minister Amit Shah is slated to inaugurate the SSPM Medical College at Kudal, in Sindhudurg, founded by a trust chaired by the former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane on Sunday. The inauguration assumes significance as the tussle between Shiv Sena and BJP over the political control in the district is at its peak.After the multi-speciality hospital was inaugurated by the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in 2017, the medical college attached to it will be inaugurated by Shah on Sunday.The inauguration, which was originally scheduled for Saturday was postponed due to the nationwide chakka jam agitation announced by the farmers protesting against farm bills on the borders of Delhi.According to the BJP leaders in the state, Shah’s presence at the inaugural function is assumed significant in the backdrop party’s endeavour in resting control in coastal districts. “Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Uddhav Thackeray has been focusing on Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg since it has assumed the power for obvious regions. This has led to the stern political friction between Sena and BJP, who are fighting to wrest control over the region. Amit Shah’s maiden visit to Sindhudurg will help party strengthen its base,” said a BJP leader from Konkan requesting anonymity.Thackeray government recently announced a new government medical college at Oras in Sindhudurg. The move was reportedly to give Rane a tough time as the proposed medical college is just a few kilometres away.Rane said, “All the key party leaders from state and Amitji Shah are attending the inauguration function on Sunday. Our hospital and medical college is the state of the art structure with all facilities. Hospital has over 650 beds, while college has 150 seats.”When asked about the state government’s announcement of setting up a medical college at Oras, Rane said, “The government has not been able to run its existing hospitals, and have announced a new one for Sindhudurg. But we are ready to face the competition.”Rane built his pollical career in Shiv Sena and became chief minister for a brief stint of nine months in 1999. He joined Congress in 2005 and remained a minister in successive Congress-NCP governments. He lost the Assembly elections to the Sena in 2014. He quit Congress in September 2017 and floated his own outfit only to merge it with BJP in a few months. The BJP made him Rajya Sabha member of Parliament (MP) in 2018.Rane has been bete noire of Shiv Sena since his expulsion from the party in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-narayan-rane-s-medical-college-in-maharashtra-101612552530562.html
06-02-2021||Lucknow||UP govt asks lawmakers to buy iPads to facilitate paperless budget session||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked all state legislators to buy Apple iPads ahead of the state budget session that would begin on February 18. The move appears to be aimed at presenting a paperless budget for 2021-22. A sum of ₹50,000 each will be reimbursed to the lawmakers for buying the iPads.“Yes, the state government has asked the legislators to buy an Apple iPad before the budget session of the state legislature commencing on February 18, 2021. A sum of ₹50,000 will be reimbursed to them for buying the iPad,” finance minister Suresh Khanna said.Khanna said centralised procurement and distribution of the device would have taken more time and hence a decision to allow the legislators to buy the Apple iPad, which was found most useful for them, had been taken.As the state assembly would have to buy about 403 iPads for MLAs (members of legislative assembly) and about an additional 100 iPads for MLCs (members of legislative council), the state government would have required over ₹2.5 crore for the procurement. It may have to incur additional expenditure to buy the equipment for the staff of the two houses of the legislature.Also read: 4G Mubarak! tweets Abdullah with mobile internet services being restored in J-KKhanna parried a question about how the state government proposed to provide funds for the purpose. He also refused to answer questions about restoring the Vidhayak Nidhi (legislators’ fund like the MPLAD fund for MPs) before the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.The state government has also proposed a special training session for the legislators from February 11 to 13, 2021 to enable them to learn the use of iPad.“Besides lessons in the use of iPad, experts from the National Informatics Centre will also impart training to legislators in paperless proceedings of the House and submitting questions and other notices online,” said an official.“Yes, we have received a letter from the Vidhan Parishad secretariat. This is all about dual standards. The BJP used to oppose when former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was bringing information technology. It’s now coming in handy for everybody. The state government could have found a permanent solution to the issue of having paperless proceedings by setting up permanent (work)stations for the legislators instead of giving them just iPads,” said Congress MLC Deepak Singh.SK Dwivedi, former head of political science department at Lucknow University, said, “Digitisation in every sector is a welcome move. The legislators should, however, be properly trained to make them comfortable in the use of technology. As far as the Congress' reaction to the move is concerned, it’s not healthy. Instead of reacting as the opposition, all the parties should join hands to welcome the move, a major step towards good governance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-asks-lawmakers-to-buy-ipads-to-facilitate-paperless-budget-session-101612552352098.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price rise again in Mumbai; petrol now at ₹93.49||Fuel prices in the city soared for the second consecutive day on Friday. One litre of petrol now costs ₹93.49 and diesel is priced at ₹83.99 a litre.On Thursday, there was an increase in fuel prices after a gap of eight days. One litre of petrol was priced at ₹93.20, while diesel was priced at ₹83.67 in the city. The prices had remained constant since January 27, when a litre of petrol was priced at ₹ 92.86 and diesel ₹ 83.30.The transporters body have stated that in order to register their protest against rising diesel prices and increase in presumptive tax, they would extend their support to the farmers nationwide Chakka Jam on February 6. They have urged the transporters to voluntarily stop operating their vehicles.The body has also stated the decision regarding the agitation on the constant increase in fuel prices will be taken soon.“In view of the call given by the farmers’ unions for nationwide Chakka Jam on February 6 for three hours, we have advised our members to voluntarily stop running their vehicles during that period, in keeping with the solidarity with our farmers. This way we also intend to register our protest against the government’s callous approach to our road transport sector. We shall also be convening an emergency meeting this week to decide on deteriorating conditions of the road transport sector. A strong decision may be expected on the daily hike of diesel prices, e-way bill and other long pending issues,” Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-rise-again-in-mumbai-petrol-now-at-9349-101612552410789.html
06-02-2021||Kolkata||Nadda’s Bengal ‘rath yatra’ may run into TMC’s motorcycle rally; traffic chaos||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) first ‘rath yatra’ in West Bengal ahead of the upcoming assembly polls is likely to witness chaos in Nadia district on Saturday because the youth wing of ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) will also launch its biggest rally in the district with 10,000 two-wheelers and tableaus.BJP national president JP Nadda will launch the two-day roadshow, which the party has named 'paribartan yatra' (journey for change), at Nabadwip, one of the most sacred places for Hindu pilgrims, at 3.30 pm. The roadshow will pass through all 15 assembly constitutes in Nadia in two days. The TMC’s motorcycle rally, which has been named 'janasamarthan yatra' (journey for mass support), will pass through eight constituencies during the same period.A district police official, who did not wish to be named, said, “With so many people travelling from different parts of Nadia and possibly adjoining districts as well to take part in these two programmes, movement of traffic may be hit in several parts. We are especially worried about NH-34.”The BJP will take out four similar roadshows in other parts of the Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to attend the last roadshow later this month.Also read: Mamata Banerjee showers SOPs in budget ahead of crucial assembly pollsJayanta Saha, the youth wing president of the TMC’s Krishnanagar organizational zone in Nadia, said the route of the BJP’s 'paribartan yatra' may crisscross the one to be followed by his party’s rally.“Our programme was planned and announced in January. We took permission from the authorities long ago. It is the BJP which is following us. They informed the authorities a couple of days ago,” he told HT.“We announced this programme in January and carried out our 'samanyay yatra' (journey for unity) at Krishnanagar on January 14. On that day, we declared that on February 6 we will launch the 'janasamarthan yatra' across all eight assembly segments in the TMC’s Krishnanagar organisational zone. The BJP is following us, although it does not have mass support,” Saha said.Incidentally, the BJP wrested the district’s Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat in 2019.“The motorcycle rally will start at 10 am and 10,000 motorcycles and tableaus, carrying placards on the performance of the government, will start from Chapra and pass through eight constituencies in two days. This is going to be a historic event. Nadda is an outsider. Mamata Banerjee or senior state leaders need not come here. The youth workers of the TMC have enough strength to counter him,” said Saha.Asked whether the TMC's motorcyclists would change their route if they crossed the path of the BJP's roadshow, Saha said, "We believe that in a democracy, all parties have the right to carry out roadshows. Our rally will be gigantic. The BJP can always follow us."The TMC and BJP exchanged allegations for three days over police permission for Nadda’s roadshow. The matter even reached the Kolkata high court where a lawyer filed a petition which will be heard on February 9. The controversy started after the state government asked the BJP to seek permission from authorities in the districts where roadshows will be held. The Nadia district authorities gave it a nod on Thursday.The TMC said on Twitter that the state government did not deny permission to the roadshow but the BJP started a “malicious propaganda.”"GoWB has not denied permission to any Yatra, as claimed by @BJP4Bengal. They are indulging in malicious propaganda with neither substance nor truth. BJP must show material evidence of GoWB denying permission to their Yatra. This is BJP's attempt to claim victimhood," the TMC tweeted on Friday.The superintendents of Krishnanagar and Ranaghat districts in Nadia could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal BJP, said the onus will be on the district authorities if there is any trouble during Nadda’s roadshow.Some cars in Nadda’s convoy were stoned at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas on January 10 and the Centre and the state locked horns over alleged lapses in police arrangement since the BJP president is provided with Z-category security cover.“Let me first clarify that we did not seek any permission for our 'paribartan yatra'. We sent an intimation to the Nadia district authorities. Secondly, the TMC’s motorcycle rally is part of Mamata Banerjee’s recent reactive politics. Having realised that the BJP is coming to power, she has gone into a reactive mode and imitating everything that we are doing. The biggest example of this is her decision to contest from Nandigram from where Suvendu Adhikari was elected,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/naddas-bengal-rath-yatra-may-run-into-tmc-s-motorcycle-rally-traffic-chaos-101612551904553.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man booked for attacking live-in partner with blade||Oshiwara police have registered a case against a 36-year-old man for allegedly attacking his 40-year-old live-in partner in Oshiwara on Wednesday. The incident took place when the woman was shopping and the accused, Sagir Khan, approached her and slit her arm with a blade, said police.According to police, the couple were in a live-in relationship and lived in Lokhandwala, Andheri since the past two years. During lockdown, Khan allegedly suspected the woman of having an affair as she frequently used to get phone calls from a particular man. On Wednesday, when the victim left the house to go for shopping, Khan followed her suspecting that she was going to meet the other man. “When the woman reached a shopping centre at Oshiwara, Khan approached her from behind and attacked her with a blade,” said a police officer. Khan then fled from the spot, leaving the woman injured. A passer by called the police control room and took the woman to hospital. Based on the victim’s complaint, police registered a case of assault and attempt to murder against Khan, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-booked-for-attacking-live-in-partner-with-blade-101612552230066.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Congress appoints Nana Patole as chief of its Maharashtra unit||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Friday appointed Nana Patole, 56, its four-term legislator from Sakoli in Bhandara district, as its Maharashtra unit chief. The party also appointed six working presidents -- former ministers Shivajirao Moghe, Chandrakant Handore, Arif Naseem Khan, Basavraj Patil and young MLAs Praniti Sushilkumar Shinde and Kunal Rohidas Patil – instead of the existing five, most of whom have been accommodated in the state cabinet. Patole resigned as the Assembly speaker on Thursday evening. The party is now considering senior legislators KC Padvi, Sangram Thopate and Suresh Varpudkar for the post. The AICC has also appointed 10 new vice-presidents, including Ramesh Bagwe, Hussain Dalwai, Shirish Chaudhari and Mohan Joshi, among others. The party has replaced its parliamentary board under the new state president. The 37-member board comprises former chief ministers Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan, former cabinet ministers Shivraj Patil Chakurkar, Milind Deora, Mukul Wasnik, Vilas Muttemwar. Keeping an eye on the ensuing Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, the party has appointed two working presidents from Mumbai. Khan is the party’s Muslim face, while Handore is a prominent Dalit leader. Moghe is a tribal leader from Vidarbha, while Basavraj Patil, a Lingayat, has been appointed to represent Marathwada. He is the only working president from the outgoing team of five to be retained. Praniti, the daughter of Sushilkumar Shinde, and Kunal, son of former minister Rohidas Patil, represent western and north Maharashtra. Konkan has, however, been not given any representation. Patole said, “My aim is to take the party to the top position in the state. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government is stable and enjoys a thumping majority. There are no differences within the ruling parties. We have taken key Shiv Sena and NCP leaders into confidence while making the changes. Soniaji spoke to Sena chief Uddhavji Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawarsaheb.” Pawar on Thursday said the decision over the new speaker of the Assembly should be taken by the three ruling parties. This led to speculation over the other two parties staking claim to the post. The Congress has, however, asserted that the next speaker will be from the Congress. Congress’s former state unit chief Manikrao Thakre even said then the party should demand for the post of deputy chief minister. Patole, however, said: “It is his personal opinion.” Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said there was no question of the post going to any other ruling party. Among the frontrunners for the post, Padvi is the tribal development minister, while Varpudkar is a senior legislator and former minister from Marathwada. Thopte is elected from Pune district and is considered as a staunch rival of Pawar. Patole is seen as an aggressive leader from Vidarbha, an erstwhile stronghold where the party now faces strong competition from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He has influence in the peasant Kunbi community. In several parts of the region, the community supported the Congress in the 2019 Assembly elections. Patole began as a Congress leader and later shifted to the BJP. He was elected as a BJP MP in 2014 from the Bhandara-Gondia constituency, but in December 2017, he quit the party by criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and returned to the Congress. He was elected to the state Assembly in 2019 and was made Speaker when the MVA formed the government.Political analyst Pratap Asbe said Patole’s organisational skills are yet to be proved, but he enjoys mass support in parts of Vidarbha. “Not being part of the state Cabinet, unlike incumbent chief Balasaheb Thorat, will help him in asserting the party position on political issues.” According to a Congress leader, the new appointments have struck regional and caste balance and have given due representation to new and old leaders. “Leaders like Moghe, Khan and Basavraj Patil have been elevated after they lost the elections in 2019,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-appoints-nana-patole-as-chief-of-its-maharashtra-unit-101612552170005.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body budget: Ambitious projects kept on hold for now, says TMC chief||The revenue loss to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on the backdrop of the pandemic has affected many developmental projects in the city. The corporation has not allocated any budget for several ambitious projects like the waterfront development, Personal Rapid Transit System (PRTS), water transport and sports complex at Mental Hospital among others.The TMC chief, Dr. Vipin Sharma, informed that the budget was only allocated for important projects this fiscal year.Read more: Thane civic body budget ₹1.3K-cr less than last yearSharma said, “We have not allotted any budget to projects that are not immediately important or are still in the primary stage. We have, instead, shortlisted those projects that are halfway or 70 per cent to 80 per cent complete, and the work was delayed during lockdown. These mainly include flyovers, Rail Over Bridges or other transport projects that impact the residents. In the next six months, if we get enough revenue for these projects, we will allot it.”The corporation had earlier proposed ₹2154.02Cr for capital expenditure, which was cut down to ₹1,057.36Cr this year. The waterfront development and water transport were some of the ambitious projects of the corporation along with the PRTS.Read more: Thane corporators demand status of earlier budget, create ruckusSharma informed that some of the projects that will be taken up includes the third Kalwa Creek Bridge, Kharegaon ROB, Diva ROB, extended Thane station at Mental Hospital, Thane East Satis, Subways, Coastal Road, Road widening and Light Rail Transit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-budget-ambitious-projects-kept-on-hold-for-now-says-tmc-chief-101612551930122.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC suspends sentence of man convicted of raping minor cousin||The Bombay high court (HC), while observing that as the minor in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act case has resiled from her statement in the first information report (FIR), and as the forensic lab report to prove sexual assault was not available till the conclusion of the trial, has suspended the sentence and allowed bail to a 19-year-old man who was convicted for sexually assaulting his 15-year-old cousin who was staying at his home. The court observed that consensual sex with a minor has been in a legal grey area because the consent given by a minor is not considered to be valid in the eyes of law. It also considered that as the survivor had retracted her statement and her mother had also been unfriendly during the trial, the issues would be decided in the hearing of the appeal against the conviction. Till then, the sentence of the man would remain suspended and granted him bail. A bench of justice SK Shinde, while hearing an interim application in an appeal which challenged the conviction of the 19-year-old Sanpada resident, was informed by senior advocate MS Mohite that the statement made by the survivor of the sexual assault had been retracted and hence, the sentence should be suspended till the appeal against the conviction was heard. The court said that the contention of the prosecution that there was presumption of culpability and mental state of the convict while committing the offence, the same would have to be dealt with in the appeal and allowed the man to be released on bail. According to the complaint lodged by the teacher of the survivor in March 2018, the minor seemed depressed and disclosed to the teacher that her cousin had sexually assaulted her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-suspends-sentence-of-man-convicted-of-raping-minor-cousin-101612551870067.html
06-02-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee showers SOPs in budget ahead of crucial assembly polls||With an eye on the crucial assembly elections ahead, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, while presenting the state’s the vote-on-account in the legislative assembly on Friday, showered SOPs and made a series of announcements.The list included generating 1.5 crore new employment opportunities, hiking farmer’s aid, free ration and cooked food from common kitchen for the poor and pension for senior citizens and widows, among others.“With the permission of the Speaker, I propose a budget of ₹299,688 crore (net) for the year 2021-22 on behalf of the state government,” Banerjee read from the interim annual financial statement.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been targeting the ruling TMC over lack of employment in the state and depriving the state’s farmers from getting the financial benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.“The state should publish a white paper and initiate a probe on all contractual jobs done till date. It should make public the number of people employed through such contracts, when were they recruited and how. The entire process is shady and corrupt,” said Shamik Bhattacharya, BJP’s state spokesperson.Also read: Delhi Police write to Google, seek data on toolkit shared by Greta ThunbergThis was the last budget presentation during the second term of the Trinamool Congress-government which first came to power in 2011 and for the second term in 2016. Assembly elections could be held in March–April this year.Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where the party won 18 of the 42 seats, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-seated legislative assembly.The chief minister, even in the financial statement, attacked the BJP-led Centre saying, “Had the Central government provided some financial relief in this hour (cyclone Amphan, Covid-19 pandemic and the economic depression) of crisis, it would have helped us in meeting the challenges.”In the Union budget, the Centre had allocated ₹25,000 for road infrastructure development and renovation of roads. In a counter, Banerjee announced construction of 46,000 kilometres of rural roads and several other roads and flyovers and allocated nearly 3000 kilometres for the next financial year.With the crucial assembly elections just around the corner, the BJP and the TMC are virtually engaged in a tug-o-war over Bengal’s icons. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is hoping to unseat the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state, and the TMC have both laid claim to Bengali icons Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. In the budget, Banerjee stated that the state would construct Azad Hind Monument in respect of Netaji.As the CM read out the statement, BJP legislators trooped into the well of the assembly, demanding that Mitra, and not Banerjee, should be reading out the vote-on-account. Later, they walked out of the House. They staged a walkout and shouted ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans while going out of the assembly. Left Front and Congress MLAs also boycotted the session.Usually, the finance minister reads out the budget statement. But this year, state finance minister Amit Mitra could not attend the assembly due to health issues.Although the budget announces a plan for the full year, this year because of the assembly elections, the expenditure approval will be sought over the next three months in the form of a 'vote on account'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-showers-sops-in-budget-ahead-of-crucial-assembly-polls-101612551609629.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Fresh differences in MVA over making BMC single planning authority||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is facing a fresh round of differences over making the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) a single planning authority for Mumbai. The Shiv Sena, which is ruling the civic body, has supported the idea on the grounds that it would help in the development of the city. However, its ruling partners —the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — have opposed it. They are of the view that it would create issues among various government agencies and could hamper city’s development. They also suspect that the Sena wants to take complete control of the city through the move. The Sena has been ruling BMC, one of the richest civic bodies in Asia, since over two decades. While presenting the budget for 2021-22, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said they wanted BMC to be made a single planning authority for the city and a proposal has been sent to the state government accordingly.Currently, the city has multiple planning authorities such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) and Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT). These bodies have jurisdiction over certain areas in the city where BMC is not the planning authority. For example, MMRDA is the planning authority for parts of Bandra Reclamation, Bandra-Kurla Complex and Nariman Point; many areas along the east coast of Mumbai are with MbPT, Andheri East is in the possession of MIDC; SRA is the planning authority for all slums in the city from Dahisar to Colaba; and there are 156 layouts of Mhada across the city.“It appears that the Sena wants to take complete control of the city by giving all the powers to BMC, but it would create a mess in the city if anything of this sort happens. The problem is how the municipal commissioner can take such a decision of mentioning it in the budget book without any political deliberations. It is a coalition government and any policy decision must be deliberated among the ruling partners beforehand,” said a senior NCP minister, requesting anonymity.Citing the example of the structure of the state government, he said, “Going by the argument pushed by the Shiv Sena, why does the state need other ministers in the government when all the decisions have to be approved only by the chief minister as the head of the government. “The argument of the gap in coordination makes no sense,” he further said.State transport minister and senior Sena leader Anil Parab said they are of the same view as BMC as it would be in the interest of the city, but added that the decision would be taken only after holding deliberations with the ruling allies. “There should be only one planning authority for the city and it is our (Sena) stand. There are 16 different authorities in the city at present, some are related to the state government while others are associated with the Centre; hence lack of coordination create hurdles in city’s development works,” Parab said.Citing an example, he said, “The layout of 56 colonies of Mhada has to be prepared for redevelopment. BMC has enough manpower for the work, but they (Mhada) do not have enough manpower, which is delaying the redevelopment work. Similarly, works such as cleaning of drainages get delayed because of lack of coordination among many of these authorities.”He also clarified that no decision has been taken yet. “We will be taking a decision only after deliberating it with the allies,” Parab said.However, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad, who hails from NCP, strongly opposed the move on Friday. He said, “It was morally wrong on the part of the municipal commissioner to make such a demand without any sort of political deliberations. The issue is not limited to Mhada but also SRA and MMRDA which have played an important part in the development of Mumbai. Mhada is now constructing houses across the state. Decentralisation also helps in speedy implementation of development works.”Deputy chief minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar was cautious while making a comment. “The Sena has a clear majority in BMC and they are ruling the civic body for more than two decades. The decision of the civic body has been made by the mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chief, leader of the house; and the municipal commissioner implements the decision. Why would he want it to be done? The president of the party (Sena), which is leading the corporation, is also the chief minister. Every decision has to be approved by him. Can Chahal say anything without his approval?” Pawar told reporters in Pune.The Congress has openly opposed the concept with Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap saying that the contribution of other agencies in the development of the city cannot be overlooked. “The Congress is opposed to the idea of making BMC the single planning authority in the city. Other agencies such as MMRDA and Mhada have also significantly contributed to the development of the city and their rights should not be taken away. A detailed discussion was held before the formation of these authorities; it is not like the decisions were taken following someone’s whims and fancies. We will not let this happen,” Jagtap said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fresh-differences-in-mva-over-making-bmc-single-planning-authority-101612551750171.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s income from investments likely to drop by half this year||In the backdrop of Covid-19 lockdown the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is taking every measure to increase its revenue, but the falling income from investments parked in banks in the form of fixed deposits remains to be an area of concern. According to estimates made by BMC in the 2021-22 budget, it expects to earn over ₹975 crore as income from investments, which is half of what it estimated in 2020-21 ( ₹1,828 crore). BMC has maintained that falling interest rate and repo rate since five years have been affecting its income from its own reserves.In terms of exact quantum, BMC presently has ₹50,953.27 crore in reserves which are linked to various infrastructure projects and ₹26,682.95 crore locked in for pensions, provident funds and gratuity of its staff. The major sources of revenue for 2021-22 for BMC include grant-in-aid on account of compensation in lieu of octroi at ₹10,583.08 crore, income from property tax at ₹7,000 crore, income from development plan department at ₹2,000 crore followed by income from interest on investments at ₹975.56 crore, income from water and sewerage charges at ₹1598.08 crore. Overall, BMC expects a revenue income of ₹27,811.57 crore, which is ₹636.73 crore less than the budget of 2020-21.Commenting on dip in BMC’s revenue from investments, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in his budget speech said, “Repo rate is consistently reducing. In January 2015, it was 7.75% which reduced to 4% in December 2020. Consequently, the average interest rate on investment in term deposit is reduced, which has resulted in decrease in income from interest.”Explaining why the revenue from investments is going down drastically this year, Chahal said, “The falling repo rate is something that is happening countrywide, and this loss of revenue cannot be attributed to anything considering the rate is falling for all. Another reason we have to understand is that whatever revenue we get in the form of investments is not realised entirely. There is 42% tax to be paid to income tax department, and what we will get after taxation this year is around ₹975 crore. This is our estimate. If we get more, it will go into BMC’s kitty.”A BMC official from finance department said, “A part of the income from investments is diverted towards provident fund, gratuity. Considering all those factors, we have prepared an estimation of over ₹900 crore. According to BMC officials, another reason for income from investments going down is because the annual growth rate of the money parked in fixed deposits grew by 15% to 17% in the past, but it has come down to 6% and 3% in the past two years. Also, the income in the form of interest from fixed deposits has been varying year-on-year as BMC has in the past withdrawn funds from its reserves for completion of infrastructure projects and providing other civic amenities. BMC in this year’s budget has proposed several measures to increase revenue including introducing scrutiny fees for Mumbai Fire Brigade, a fee regulatory authority to review taxes relating to BMC from time to time. However, these are measures that will yield results in the long-term.Milind Mhaske from NGO Praja Foundation said, “The basic problem, if I may point out, is the practice to raise money from reserves. This year, in the form of internal loan, we are touching the principal amount that BMC has with it. In layman’s terms, BMC should stop this practice of taking money from the reserves and ensure taking steps where income from investments is increased rather than going down.”Commenting on the same, Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party (SP) corporator and group leader in BMC, said, “ BMC should give a proper explanation on why there is going to be drastic fall in revenue from investments as I feel it is not only due to falling interest rates. Apart from falling interest rate, what I understand is that BMC may also withdraw money from its reserves, leading to fall in its principal amount. This trend of withdrawing money from reserves should be stopped, considering it not only results in principal amount going down, but also results in income from investments going down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-income-from-investments-likely-to-drop-by-half-this-year-101612551511141.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Wall of Humanity has no takers in Kalyan||A Wall of Humanity set up at the backside of the Acharya Atre auditorium in Kalyan (W) is of no use as it is not visible to anyone. This wall, which is supposed to help the needy, is filled with clothes and no one has picked them up.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has set up several such walls with racks across the city since the last month, where one can drop wearable clothes or any other items for the needy, and those in need can simply pick up any of their choice anytime.“This is a great initiative by the civic body but the one which is kept backside of the auditorium is of no use as it cannot be seen. Only if it is placed at a proper place can one make use of it. The clothes which are dropped by people are yet to be taken away,” Sanket Joshi, 38, who lives nearby.Presently, the racks are overflowing with clothes and they are not picked by anyone. KDMC initiated the Wall of Humanity with the help of Helping Hands, a Kalyan-based NGO. The wall at Karnik Road, Syndicate, Kalyan (W) has got good response from the needy as the wall is visible and several needy reach there to pick the clothes or other items.Read more: ‘Wall of Humanity’ set up to help needy in KalyanRamdas Kokre, deputy commissioner of KDMC, said, ”What we can do is change the location of this wall in the coming days if there is no response. Firstly, we will ask the security guard there to create awareness among people. Following this, if the situation is the same, we will change the location.”So far, the civic body has managed to set up eight such walls across Kalyan-Dombivli, with most of them having a good response.Kokre had set up such a wall in Karjat and it gained popularity. The same idea was implemented in the KMDC limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wall-of-humanity-has-no-takers-in-kalyan-101612551510036.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Budget: Mumbai may not get respite from flooding at 97 spots||During this year’s monsoon, 97 flood-prone spots are likely to remain in the city, while 118 will be tackled before the season begins, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) budget for 2021. Of the 97 spots that are expected to remain, BMC plans to tackle 40 before 2022’s monsoon and 44 are not on civic-owned areas, but on government or private-owned property. The latter will be tackled in coordination with the owners. According to BMC’s budget 2021, the total number of waterlogging spots in the city has increased to 386 this year. HT had reported in June 2020 that waterlogging spots had increased to 336 during last year’s monsoon, compared to 273 spots in the monsoon of 2019. Last February, BMC had listed 273 flood-prone spots while presenting the budget and the then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi had said work on 69 spots was pending. “Micro planning of every flooding spot is carried out and various works have been completed to tackle 171 number of flooding spots. Remedial works to tackle 118 number of flooding spots are taken in hand and the same are expected to be completed before onset of monsoon 2021,” said BMC’s budget 2021. BMC also plans to install mini pumping stations at JK Chemical nullah at Sion; Kharu creek nullah in Bandra (East); and Mallet Bunder in Ferry Wharf. With these, gate pumps will be provided at outfalls to eliminate tidal effect on the stormwater drain network. A senior civic official said, “This will bring relief to waterlogging in low-lying areas where it is seen when high tide comes at a time of very heavy rainfall. In Mumbai, there is space constraint. The gate pumps can be put inside the nullah and will not need additional space.” In this way, BMC aims to eliminate land acquisition and the need to cut mangroves for pumping stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/budget-mumbai-may-not-get-respite-from-flooding-at-97-spots-101612551331182.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body budget ₹1.3K-cr less than last year||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) tabled a budget estimate of ₹2,755 for the year 2021-22, a whopping ₹1,313Cr less than the revised estimate of ₹4,068Cr for 2020-21.With the corporation elections slated next year, new projects were to be expected. However, the budget has no new project this year. The civic commissioner informed that the focus was merely on improving revenue and maintaining the assets already created in the city. The budget will be reviewed mid-year when, depending on the financial and Covid-19 situation, the budget will be allotted for new projects. The budget also has no new increase in taxes as the corporation had increased the water tax the previous year.Read more: Thane corporators demand status of earlier budget, create ruckusDr. Vipin Sharma, TMC chief, has termed it a realistic budget wherein the capital expenses are cut down by over 49 per cent.Sharma said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the revenue this year. We will get a clear picture on Covid situation in the next few months. As of now, the budget is tabled on the present revenue situation. There are no new projects undertaken this year. We will only focus on maintaining the assets already created and allot budget for works that are important.”The budget has allocated ₹935.37Cr for capital expenditure and ₹1,819 for revenue expenditure. The corporation has also allotted funds of ₹122.50Cr for Thane Municipal Transport (TMT). The opening balance this year is merely ₹55Cr.Sharma added that the focus will be on generating revenue in these challenging times without increasing taxes. “We have not increased taxes. Our plan is to limit expenses, increase existing income sources and plug the gaps in revenue collection by improving tax collections.”The corporation had taken a loan of ₹500Cr last year, out of which the present liability is ₹164Cr. No new loan will be taken this year while Sharma informed that 75 per cent bills of the contractors too are cleared. The state, too, has not yet paid ₹214Cr of stamp duty since 2019.Budget to be revised mid-termFor the first time, the administration has come up with the concept of mid-term review of the budget for the fiscal year 2021-22. At present, the budget has no provision for developmental works.Sharma said, “Depending on the Covid situation in the next six months, we will review our expenses and revenue generation. Most shops, malls and multiplexes have reopened, so we expect better revenue generation in the coming months. Around August-September, we will revise the budget as per the situation. If the income is more, some part will be allocated for developmental projects.”Slack in real estate hits budgetThe slowdown in real estate has hit the budget as the corporation had to face losses of more than ₹800Cr, as the revenue of the town planning department plummeted in the year 2020-21. The previous year budget estimated a revenue of ₹984Cr for the town planning department, though the revenue earned till date is merely ₹164Cr. Similarly, the revenue of fire department, which also depends on allotting fire NOCs to the new construction, decreased to ₹48Cr from the estimated ₹100Cr.No decision on property tax waiver The ruling Shiv Sena, though, has assured to waive property tax on flats less than 500sqft area, there is still no implementation of the same in the city. With elections merely a year away, the announcement was expected in this budget. However, no decision has been taken yet. Sharma said, “When the focus is on increasing revenue, the decision on waiver might not be taken soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-budget-1-3k-cr-less-than-last-year-101612551271405.html
06-02-2021||Other||Man kills wife, later dies in road mishap in Chandigarh||A 35-year-old man killed his wife, 34, following a heated argument at their rented house in Punjab’s Mohali district, and later died in a road mishap in Chandigarh in the wee hours of Friday.The couple belonged to Bhopal and had a love marriage three years ago. They were to travel to Europe on February 16. They have been identified as Waris Quameruddin and Varsha Chauhan.Waris was working as a consultant with a multinational company in Gurugram and lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He along with his wife moved to Kharar in Mohali a month ago and took up a rented accommodation in Sunny Enclave, said Ravjot Kaur, superintendent of police (rural), Mohali.According to police, the couple had a heated argument late at night, following which Waris allegedly attacked Varsha with a knife and pair of scissors. He them allegedly locked her in a washroom and fled in his Renault Duster around 3am. House owner Ruchi Dogra heard all the commotion and informed police.As Waris reached Dhanas, Chandigarh, he rammed his car into a truck. The local police received information around 3:45am. Waris was rushed to hospital, where he died during treatment.Meanwhile, police reached the couple’s house and found the main door open. According to the cops who responded to the landlord’s call, things were scattered in the house and the washroom was bolted from outside.On opening it, they found Varsha’s body lying in a pool of blood. The landlord told police that she had heard loud noises from the couple’s house around midnight and the accused was apparently beating up his wife. Later, he was seen leaving the house at 3am. She further said that Varsha had told her that they were going abroad and had even booked the tickets for February 16.Police have informed the couple’s families in Bhopal, and a case of murder has been registered. A separate case of rash driving and causing death by negligence has been registered against the truck driver in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-kills-wife-later-dies-in-road-mishap-in-chandigarh-101612551269994.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 400,000 Covid vaccinations||Maharashtra on Friday crossed the landmark of 400,000 vaccinations, of which nearly 97% are healthcare workers (HCWs). On Friday, the state inoculated 42,609 beneficiaries, of which 33,880 were HCWs and 8,729 were frontline workers (FLWs). The state had targeted 71,456 beneficiaries across 593 centres on Friday, but achieved only 59.62%, the health department data showed. So far, the state has immunised 432,186 beneficiaries, including 418,739 HCWs and 13,447 FLWs. Maharashtra has around 800,000 HCWs and 580,000 FLWs registered in the centralised CoWIN app. Mumbai saw inoculation of 5,883 beneficiaries, including 5,130 HCWs and 753 FLWs, across 20 centres on Friday. Mumbai achieved 78% of its daily target to inoculate HCWs and 43% of its target to immunise FLWs on Friday. Both the districts in Mumbai – island city and suburban – have inoculated 67,799 beneficiaries so far. Of the total vaccinated beneficiaries, 4,382 beneficiaries received Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, across six centres in the state. The highest numbers are at Amravati (1,151) followed by Nagpur (1109) and Pune (644). On Friday, Jalna reported 102% turnout with 815 beneficiaries getting the jabs against the targeted 800 across 11 centres in the district. Jalna was the only district to record in excess of its target, followed by Akola (97%), Osmanabad (92%), and Nandurbar (88%). Meanwhile, Latur, Beed and Gadhchiroli districts had a poor show with 30%, 37% and 42% turnout, respectively. “We are achieving our daily target of 40,000 vaccinations, however, we expect the numbers to go up on the FLWs from next week. Over the last three days, there has been a significant increase in the number of FLWs being inoculated,” a health department official said. On February 3, the first day of vaccination for FLWs, there were 793 beneficiaries, which increased to 3,925 on February 4. Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 2,628 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 2,038,630. The active cases in the state stood at 33,936. Mumbai added 415 fresh cases to take its tally to 311,019. The active caseload in the city stood at 5,750. The state added 40 fatalities on Friday to take the death toll to 51,255. Mumbai reported four fatalities on Friday to take the death toll to 11,384. Of the 40 deaths reported in the state, 16 occurred in the previous 48 hours and seven in the last week. The remaining 17 deaths are from the period before last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-400-000-covid-vaccinations-101612551211190.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Stations on Mumbai rail network to get 80 escalators, 50 lifts, 15 FoB||To improve passenger amenities on the suburban railway, Central Railway (CR) will be doubling its escalators and lifts on the local train network by 2022.Suburban railway stations will get 80 escalators and 50 lifts. Ten escalators and five lifts will be constructed by March 2021 and 166 escalators and 95 lifts will also be installed by 2022. Presently, 76 escalators and 40 lifts are available at the railway stations. CR will also construct 15 foot overbridges (FoB) on the suburban railway stations. Construction of escalators, lifts and FoB was considered under safety items by the railway ministry after the Elphinstone Road station stampede that occurred on September 29, 2017. In the 2020-2021 Union Budget, ₹295.6 crore was allocated for passenger amenities.In the 2019-2020 Budget, ₹284 crore was allocated and in the Budget of 2018-2019, ₹204 crore was allocated.The escalators and lifts will be constructed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, Ghatkopar, Kurla, Sandhurst Road, Parel, Sion, Tilak Nagar, Chembur, Mankhurd, Panvel and Nerul railway stations. “Focus on passenger amenities throughout the year will be done. Escalators and lifts will be constructed on the suburban railway network,” said Sanjeev Mittal, general manager, CR.Further, CR has stated that local train services will resume in full capacity as the number of passengers increases.“We will be operating local train services in full strength as there is an increase in passenger count,” added Mittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stations-on-mumbai-rail-network-to-get-80-escalators-50-lifts-15-fob-101612551210003.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane corporators demand status of earlier budget, create ruckus||For the first time, the Thane Municipal Corporation’s budget presentation for the year 2021-22 was amidst complete chaos as the NCP and Congress corporators in the standing committee created a ruckus.They demanded that the corporation should first give a status of implementation of the earlier budget before playing to the gallery. The members stood on the table, gave anti-administration slogans and refused to allow the budget to be presented.The entire budget was read in this chaos after the standing committee chairman, Sanjay Bhoir, asked the commissioner to proceed despite the protests. The presentation was completed within 10 minutes.Hanumant Jagdale, NCP corporator, said, “Every year, we merely attend the budget presentation and approve it. After that, we have no clue on its implementation. The situation has been the same since 2014, wherein mega projects which make good headlines are promised. However, no one knows their status after the budget is tabled. Moreover last year, there was budget allocation for corporator’s funds. However, none of it reached us.”He was seconded by Congress corporator Vikrant Chavan, who added, “The administration has tabled a list of ₹455Cr new civic works before the committee. However, none of the work orders of the projects in the previous budget have been approved yet. We are clueless as to from where these projects have come or who decided them. We do not want any big, false promises in the budget. The administration should give us the actual estimate of revenue loss last year and status of budget implementation.”TMC chief, Dr. Vipin Sharma, refused to comment on the incident. “The allegations are administrative matters and not a part of the budget. We have been implementing the same budget, which the standing committee had approved last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-corporators-demand-status-of-earlier-budget-create-ruckus-101612551030351.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Three major roads around Panvel railway station concretised||Panvel residents can now heave a sigh of relief as the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has concretised three major roads around the Panvel railway station. The civic body allocated a budget of ₹19Cr for the project.So far, 90 per cent of the work has been completed and the remaining work will be completed by March, 31, a senior officer said.Sanjay Katekar, executive engineer of PCMC, said, “These three roads have been playing a crucial role in terms of transportation to and from Panvel railway station, which is the busiest station in Navi Mumbai. However, they were in bad shape for several years. Therefore, we started concretising them early last year and have finished around 90 per cent of the work.” Katekar added that the first road that has been concretised is around 400m long. It starts from the railway station and goes towards the Panvel town behind the ST bus depot. The second road, which is around 500m long, connects the railway station to the NH 4.“The length of the third road is 1.3km. It too starts from the railway station, runs parallel to the NH4 and finally merges with it. We completed the concretisation of the main roads a few weeks ago. We are now working on the drains and the pavements along them. We are confident of finishing all the work by next month,” he said.Apart from the trains of the harbour lines, nearly sixty long-distance trains going towards Pune, Goa and the southern states pass through Panvel railway station. According to the railway sources, the station sees around one lakh footfall every day.Vishal Mane, 49, a resident of Takka area in Panvel, said, “These roads were in pathetic condition and the commuters faced a lot of trouble, especially during monsoon. From now on, they will be able to reach the railway station from Panvel city without any trouble. There are, however, several other roads in Panvel that are not in good shape. I hope PCMC will take efforts to concretise them too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-major-roads-around-panvel-railway-station-concretised-101612550610416.html
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to start next fiscal with ₹670-cr budget deficit||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will start the coming fiscal with a deficit of ₹670 crore. The MC General House in a special meeting on Friday approved ₹1,641 crore budget for 2021-22, even as the civic body has only ₹971 crore in its kitty.The MC budget has pegged the grant-in-aid from the Chandigarh administration at ₹1,202 crore, despite only ₹502 crore allocated in the Union Budget recently. Meanwhile, ₹469 crore is estimated to be generated by the MC on its own through property tax, water tariff and other avenues. For the current financial year, too, the MC had prepared a deficit budget of ₹650 crore, and had to depend on the administration’s aid for even paying salaries to its employees after failing to achieve the revenue targets. Against a target of ₹402 crore for 2020-2021, it will be able to garner only ₹317 crore through its own receipts. Also, this fiscal, against a demand of ₹1,073 crore in grant-in-aid, it has so far got just ₹325 crore from the administration and anticipates another ₹275 crore by March end.At ₹1,197 crore, even the revenue expenditure (recurring expenses, such as salaries) for the coming fiscal is more than the total funds that the MC estimates to get. “Capital works like upgrade of sewerage system, stormwater drainage and roads are unlikely to be taken up unless the administration releases additional funds,” said a senior MC official, not wishing to be named.During the discussion on the budget, Congress councillors questioned as to how the MC planned to bridge the gap between the receipts and planned expenditure. “The MC must ensure that civic works do not suffer due to paucity of funds, as seen in previous years,” said councillor Gurbax Rawat. “This year, there has been a meagre increase even in the administration’s own allocation by the Centre. How will it be able to help the MC?”Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said no work will be stopped for lack of funds. “We already have ₹ 971 crore. Another ₹300 crore will be released by the administration from registration and licensing authority collections. We will push for additional aid from excise collections. We have also been assured that two additional petrol pump sites will be given to us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-start-next-fiscal-with-670-cr-budget-deficit-101612550250035.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||3 women philanthropists help Murbad Adivasis with sanitary napkins||Three women from Murbad have been saving 10 per cent of their monthly income to provide sanitary napkins to the women in Adivasi padas of Murbad.Though Murbad is almost 20km away from the city, women in Adivasi padas struggle to get basic menstrual hygiene products. Also, they are from the lower economic strata and cannot afford to spend on menstrual hygiene.The three women, and friends, Urmila Late, 32, Suvarna Thakare, 34 and Yogita Shirke, 36, do not have any political or social connection but have been helping these tribal women since the lockdown by either educating them or providing basic facilities.Late, along with her husband, operates a family business of selling and servicing inverters. She informed that the three have distributed sanitary napkins to over 680 women from twenty tribal hamlets in Murbad.Late said, “We save at least 10 per cent of our family income every month to use it for these women who are deprived of basic hygiene and education. We had distributed sanitary napkins last year to all the migrant women who walked for miles to reach their home towns. We also provided clothes to the migrant women and those in the tribal hamlets.”Thakare added that they started distributing the sanitary napkins on January 26 and made sure that the women have stock lasting up to two months.“These hamlets are 15km-20km away from the city. Women use soiled clothes during menstruation, leading to infection. We have provided them napkins for two months and will visit two months later for the next lot. Last time, when we provided them in bulk, a few men sold these napkins to earn money. So, this time we did not provide them in bulk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-women-philanthropists-help-murbad-adivasis-with-sanitary-napkins-101612550130130.html
06-02-2021||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput drug case: NCB arrests two more||As part of its investigation into drug links to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday night arrested two more accused in the case – British national Karan Sejnani and celebrity manager Rahila Furniturewala – both of whom were arrested by the agency in a separate case.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed that the two were arrested in connection with the alleged drug nexus linked to Rajput’s death. The number of arrests made by the agency in the case has now gone up to 33.NCB had earlier arrested Sejnani and Furniturewala on January 9 in a separate case after the agency raided their residences in Khar and Bandra, respectively, and seized around 200kg of imported strains of marijuana.NCB claimed that Furniturewala was in touch with alleged drug supplier Anuj Keshwani, who was arrested in the Rajput case on September 6 last year. The agency had raided Keshwani’s house in Khar and had seized 590gm of hashish, 0.64gm of LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) sheets, 304gm marijuana, ₹1.85 lakh and some foreign currency.Sejnani allegedly supplying imported strains of marijuana to Furniturewala and Keshwani, said NCB officers. He was arrested following a specific input, after NCB officers seized around 340gm of marijuana from three parcels during raids at the office of a courier company in Bandra. After arresting Sejnani, the agency also raided Furniturewala’s home and seized 5kg of marijuana. During the interrogation of Sejnani, the agency found the link to Sameer Khan, son-in-law of Maharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik, in connection with a drug case, and he also was arrested. NCB allegedly found Khan’s bank account transactions, in which ₹20,000 was sent to Sejnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-drug-case-ncb-arrests-two-more-101612550009834.html
06-02-2021||Pune||73% get vaccine jab; rural Pune continues to lag behind||On Friday, the district reported overall 73% of targeted beneficiaries got vaccinated against Covid, which was led by Pune city as 98% of the targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated while rural Pune continued to lag behind with only 59% vaccination.A total of 4,035 beneficiaries got vaccinated on Friday of which 260 were frontline workers (FLWs).The city led the way in Covid vaccination as 1,956 beneficiaries got the jab of the targeted 2,000 beneficiaries at 20 sites.However, no frontline worker was vaccinated in the city. Pune’ satellite city PCMC reported 61% achievement with 605 beneficiaries vaccinated, including 28 FLWs of the 1,000 target beneficiaries.Pune rural reported the least achievement percentage with only 59% vaccinated, 1,474 including 232 FLWs, of the target 2,500 beneficiaries. Zero incidents of adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) were reported in the district on Friday.In the state, 42,609 beneficiaries were vaccinated on the day taking the progressive count to 4.32 lakh.The state recorded an average percentage of 60% on Friday as 42,609 beneficiaries got vaccinated out of the targeted 71,456 at 593 session sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/73-get-vaccine-jab-rural-area-continues-to-lag-behind-101612541727853.html
06-02-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 10 deaths, 449 fresh Covid cases||Pune district reported 5,222 active Covid cases as per the state health department on Friday. As on Friday, 449 new cases were reported with 10 deaths in the last 24 hours. Nine deaths were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one in Pune rural on Friday. Zero deaths in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) were reported on Friday. As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 199,540 Covid cases and 4,542 deaths till Friday. PCMC sees 97,524 cases so far and a total of 1,317 deaths due to the virus infection. Pune rural has reported 93,510 total cases so far and 2,139 deaths. In Pune district, there are a total of 390,574 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 377,312 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,040 deaths in the district, besides 5,222 active cases. As per the state health department, 3,513 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 1,952,187. The recovery rate in the state is 95.76%. Across Maharashtra, 2,628 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 40 Covid deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.51%. According to the state health department, of 14,875,633 laboratory samples, 2,038,630 (13.7%) have been tested positive till Friday. Currently, 177,560 people are in home quarantine and 2,025 people in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-10-deaths-449-fresh-covid-cases-101612538607543.html
