07-02-2021||Noida||Teams of NDRF’s eighth battalion rushed to Uttarakhand for search and rescue||Ghaziabad: At least five teams of the eighth battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were dispatched for search and rescue operations in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which was hit by flash floods when a portion of a glacier broke off in the Tapovan area on Sunday morning. The eighth battalion is based at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad; more teams have been asked to remain on standby. A major relief and rescue effort is on in Chamoli where a flood was triggered in river Dhauliganga after the glacier burst. The NDRF’s officials from the eighth battalion said that one of their teams, comprising about 40 to 45 members and a dog squad, was initially rushed from their regional response centre in Dehradun, while the second team departed Sunday afternoon from Ghaziabad.“This team was sent by road in vehicles while three teams were airlifted from the Hindon airbase. In all, five teams were pressed into service and more teams, which include those from other NDRF battalions, have been asked to remain on standby, to be pressed into service as and when the need arises,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth battalion. Teams of NDRF are equipped with sophisticated equipment and teams of specialised canines which help in search and rescue.“The teams are equipped with about 310 sophisticated equipment which are used during floods, building collapses and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear emergencies. Since a flash flood has occurred, we will also be using our team of divers and equipment such as sonars and boats which will be used for detection and rescue. Our teams have also taken away relief material for people affected,” Tiwary added.The eighth battalion were also a part of search and rescue operations carried out during the 2013 flash floods that had hit Uttarakhand. Sunday’s disaster has endangered the lives of the thousands of people living along the riverbanks, besides causing massive destruction. An alert has also been sounded by authorities in Uttarakhand in several districts including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun.Teams of the Indo Tibetan Border Police were also rushed to the site near Raini village. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted that the state government is standing with the Uttarakhand government for any help or assistance. “The situation of water level in areas along the river Ganga is being constantly monitored in the state. In case there is a rise in water levels, people near the banks will be shifted, as the situation demands. Directions have been issued for relief and rescue,” the office of the CM said in a tweet. The UP police tweeted, “We are in touch with our counterparts. Border districts of Uttarakhand have been alerted. NDRF, SDRF (State Disaster Response Force) & flood company of the PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) have been instructed to be on highest alert. Evacuation of people shall be done wherever required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/teams-of-ndrf-s-eighth-battalion-rushed-to-uttarakhand-for-search-and-rescue-101612721569207.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Woman’s phone snatched outside Noida high-rise||Noida: Two unidentified men on a motorcycle allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a woman outside a high-rise in Sector 75 on Saturday afternoon. The incident was captured in a CCTV camera, police said.The footage of the incident was shared widely on social media from where it came to the notice of Noida police. In the footage, two women are seen standing outside a residential society in Sector 75 when two persons on a motorcycle snatched a phone from one of them before fleeing the spot. Police have taken cognizance of the matter. “We saw the video after it was brought to our attention, but the victim has not come forward yet. No complaint has been filed in this regard. We are working on identifying the woman. The incident seems to have occurred in Sector 75,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Residents in the area said that the spot is near another snatching point in Sector 77. “A snatching incident was reported from just outside our society gate a few days ago. That incident was also caught in the CCTV cameras. There is a probability that the same men were responsible for both the incidents,” said Amit Gupta, president, Apartment Owners Association, Prateek Wisteria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/womans-phone-snatched-outside-noida-highrise-101612721568674.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Schools, parents express concern over SOP clauses issued for resuming classes in UP||Ghaziabad: The basic education department of the Uttar Pradesh government has issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOP) for schools and parents to be followed for the reopening of schools in the state.The state government had last week directed for the opening of schools for classes 6 to 8 from February 10, and classes 1 to 5 from March 1.The SOPs have mentioned that parents’ consent is must for sending a child to school and that it will not be the responsibility of the school if the student contracts Covid-19.The list of SOPs have been issued by UP’s basic education directorate and will pave way for the opening of schools for classes 1 to 8 in a phased manner.District officials said the conditions of the SOP will be applicable to all schools, whether government or private.“All sets of schools are covered under the SOPs, irrespective of education board. These will be applicable for private as well as government schools and they will have to make arrangements for sanitisation, social distancing and other guidelines already defined under the appropriate Covid behaviour,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. The district has 455 government schools with the district basic department under the UP state education board, while 147 schools are affiliated to the CBSE board, apart from private schools. The SOPs add that if children wish to study from home, they should be allowed to do so. The consent form, which is to be signed by parents, however, has several conditions. It says that although schools are to ensure all safety procedures, the institutions cannot guarantee that no child can contract Covid-19 in the future.“Parents have to ensure that the child has no symptoms such as cough/cold, fever or respiratory issues and will not send the child if he/she portrays any such symptoms. The schools will not be held responsible in case the students or their family members or friends get Covid-19. In case parents hide details of any positive case, they shall be solely responsible,” the SOP stated. The schools’ association has, however, objected to the clause of “parents’ consent” which they say will hinder attendance.“While opening classes 9, to 12 (in October last year) they inserted the clause of consent and are continuing with it. In classes being operated currently, only 20% attendance is being seen, with 40% in case of pre-board examinations. If this clause continues with other classes (1 to 8), the attendance will remain very low as parents are still not willing to send their children to schools,” said Subhash Jain, president of Independent Schools Federation of India.The SOPs have also stated that schools should maintain a maximum capacity of 50% students on the first day while the rest of the students should attend classes the next day. Besides, on any of the days, student capacity should not be more than 50%. It added that schools having a high number of students in a single class must hold classes in two sessions in order to maintain the occupancy limit and to ensure social distancing norms.Further, it has detailed that classes 1, 5 and 6 will be held on Mondays and Thursdays while class 2, 4 and 7 must be held on Tuesdays and Fridays. It added that class 3 and 8 should be held on Wednesdays and Saturdays.“It will be quite cumbersome for schools to operate in such a manner and they will have to rope in additional staff and also prepare separate study materials for online and regular classes and examinations as well. There are issues for schools as many parents have not paid the fee for the past 11 months and may continue to do so in case the consent clause remains,” Jain added. Members of parents’ associations said that the opening of schools should be deferred till the start of the next session. “We think that they are allowing opening of schools just to make parents pay up the fees of the entire year, whereas the majority of the sessions have been held online. Instead, they must promote students of classes 1 to 8 to the next class,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of the Ghaziabad Parents’ Association. He added that still the pandemic has not gone. “The coverage of the Covid-vaccination is still very low. Further, neither the government nor the schools will take responsibility in case the child contracts Covid-19. Instead, they are asking parents to sign the consent letter in which the entire onus is on parents. So, they will still not take the risk of sending children to school,” he added.The Noida parents’ association echoed similar views. “The state government has taken the decision in a haste. Despite tall claims, the implementation of the standard Covid-19 protocols could never be ensured in rural areas by the state government. Imagine what would happen in areas where schools lack safe portable water and furniture? How will the government ensure adequate availability of sanitisers and masks there? The state government must ask teachers of government schools, particularly in rural areas, not to compel children to attend classes. As per a survey done by the Noida Parents’ Association recently, almost 90% of the parents were unwilling to send their children back to schools for regular classes,” said Yatendra Kasana, president, Noida Parents’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/schools-parents-express-concern-over-sop-clauses-issued-for-resuming-classes-in-up-101612721508697.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Recovery certificates against defaulting builders: Only 13% of ₹296 crore realised in Gautam Budh Nagar||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has so far been able to retrieve only about 13% of its target for the current fiscal from builders against whom recovery certificates had been issued by the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP Rera).According to district magistrate Suhas LY, all tehsildars have been asked to speed up the process, so that the money can be returned to buyers. “A recovery notice is issued after an individual or firm refuses to pay the default amount. We have received recovery certificates from the regulatory authority to the tune of ₹296.68 crore. We want to ensure maximum recovery so that buyers who have invested their hard-earned money and approached the court with hopes can be given some relief,” he said.Vandita Srivastava, the additional district magistrate (finance and recovery) said that for the 2020-2021 fiscal, the district administration has so far recovered nearly ₹39.55 crore from builders declared defaulters by the Rera. “The recovered amount will soon be credited to the UP Rera’s accounts,” she said.She added that it is not an easy task to recover money from defaulters. “Recovery certificates are orders issued by the regulatory authority asking builders to clear buyers’ dues if the builders have failed to deliver projects within deadline. We have already started recovery operations against defaulters in all tehsils. We’ll soon intensify the crackdown so that relief can be provided to the harassed lot of buyers and their faith in the judiciary remains intact,” she said. When contacted, Rajive Kumar, the UP Rera’s chairman, said that once the amount is credited in UP Rera’s accounts with details of defaulters, the authority will begin the process of reimbursing buyers. “It is not a time-consuming exercise. There are simple formalities for buyers such as submitting affidavits and bank account numbers. After that, the money is credited to their accounts,” he said. The Allahabad high court had recently asked the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to ensure that recovery certificates issued by UP Rera are honoured by defaulters “preferably within three months”. In a reply to an RTI query, it was revealed that the UP Rera, since its inception in May 2016, has so far disposed of 74% of the total cases in the state, but only 16% of the recovery certificates issued by it have been realised so far. Since its inception, recovery certificates to the tune of around ₹1,000 crore have been issued by the regulatory authority against different builders in the Gautam Budh Nagar district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/recovery-certificates-against-defaulting-builders-only-13-of-296-crore-realised-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101612721448638.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Very few PhD students in top Indian institutes from SC, ST category: Data||The representation of students belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Other Backwards Classes (OBC) categories in the PhD programmes of premier science institutions remains poor, according to data released by the ministry of education (MoE) in Rajya Sabha, on Thursday.At the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru, only 2.1% of candidates admitted to the PhD programmes between 2016 and 2020 were from ST category, 9% from SC and 8% from OBC categories. In the integrated PhD programmes at IISc, 9% of the total admitted candidates were from SC, 1.2% from ST and 5% from OBC categories. In the 17 Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs), barely 1.7% of total PhD candidates were from ST category, 9% from SC category and 27.4% from OBC categories. The representation is equally skewed against reserved category PhD candidates between 2017 and 2020 at the 31 National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and seven Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs). This is against a 27% reservation of all seats in government institutes for OBC candidates, 15% for SC category and 7.5% for ST category.The alarming under-representation of reserved category candidates in PhD programmes of these institutes was revealed on Thursday in Rajya Sabha by Ramesh Pokhriyal, Union minister of education. The admission figures were provided in response to the questions raised by two members of the upper house Elamaram Kareem and Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya.In November 2020, HT had reported a similar trend of under-representation in the PhD programmes at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), despite receiving applications from SC, ST and OBC category candidates. Between 2015 and 2019, only 1.6% of all PhD candidates at IIT-B were from ST category, 7.5% from SC category and 19.2% from OBC category. Pokhriyal’s responses on Thursday also included data on dropouts from PhD programmes in these institutes. Of all the institutes, seven IISERs had the worst record with 13.3% of all dropouts from the ST category. Following the revelation in Rajya Sabha, the central executive committee of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), a national student body, issued a statement: “The persistent violation of reservation norms in the nation’s premier technical institutions has contributed to the underrepresentation of teaching faculty from the marginalised and backward groups at the same institutions. This has proven to be a major hindrance in achieving an inclusive learning atmosphere.” “We demand immediate intervention from the President of India on the issue. SFI also appeals to all members in the parliament to take up this alarming issue in the ongoing parliament session and also join with the democratic sections in the fight for social justice,” said VP Sanu, president, SFI. Pokhriyal has informed the Upper house that several measures were being taken to address the under-representation of SC, ST and OBC category students in PhD programmes. However, experts said that while access to quality education at primary and secondary school levels was poorer for reserved category students, institutional prejudice against reservations cannot be ruled out. “One cannot rule out the bias of caste and class in the admission processes of institutes. The reservation policies have been resisted by higher education institutes, particularly in the science and technology streams, on the basis of the argument that reservations will bring down merit,” said Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson of Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai. Meanwhile, the reduction in the overall intake capacity of PhD candidates across institutes has further reduced the representation of reserved category candidates, Ramaiah added. On July 5, 2016, University Grants Commission (UGC) issued a notification stating that a research supervisor/co-supervisor, who is a Professor, cannot guide more than eight PhD scholars. An associate professor as research supervisor can guide up to a maximum of six PhD scholars and an assistant professor can guide up to a maximum of four PhD scholars. “The government does not want an intellectual class that can raise a voice against its policies. The reduction in intake capacity of PhD programmes is a clear indication of this,” said Ramaiah.“Initially, the number of applicants from reserved categories in higher education institutes were few. However, the situation has improved now with more applications coming in. While the lack of representation has to be understood in the context of the number of applications, the lack of representation at IIT-B is concerning, irrespective of the reasons behind it.” Sukhadeo Thorat, former chairperson of UGC and author of Blocked by Caste: Economic Discrimination and Social Exclusion in Modern India, said that higher education institutions must have a sympathetic attitude towards reserved category students while admitting PhD candidates. “Institutes must practice relaxation of criteria to ensure proper representation of students, even within the limited intake capacity,” said Thorat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/very-few-phd-students-in-top-indian-institutes-from-sc-st-category-data-101612721331846.html
07-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar aims to inoculate left out health workers on Feb 15||NOIDA: Concerned over the lukewarm response to all six sessions of phase 1 of the Covid-19 vaccination, the Gautam Budh Nagar district health department has decided to launch a mop up round on February 15 to cover remaining 10,510 health workers who could not get the vaccine shots. The GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that the health workers, who missed the jabs in the first phase, will be included in the list of beneficiaries for the mop up round. “As per the instructions issued by the state government, directions have been given to all the centres to open the Co-Win portal for 50 hours (from 10 am on February 8 to 12 pm on February 10), to upload names of the left out health-care workers, so that they could be vaccinated in the mop up round,” he said. Ohri further said that the failure of potential beneficiaries to get vaccinated in the mop up round will automatically push them to age-appropriate vaccination category. “The second dose of the vaccine is also scheduled to start from February 13 for people who were vaccinated on January 16 in the first phase,” he said. It may be noted that after the six sessions for first phase of Covid-19 vaccination that ended on February 5, the overall turnout for the phase in GB Nagar district was nearly 57% as 13,943 health workers took the jabs out of enlisted 24,453 beneficiaries. After the first phase, GB Nagar district has been ranked 68th, out of 75 districts, in the state in terms of the turnout.When asked about the reasons behind the lukewarm response to the vaccination drive, the CMO said that while some of the beneficiaries remained sceptical about the efficacy of the vaccine, others claimed that they do not need it as their bodies have developed immunity against the virus. “Many clerical and hospital administration staff, besides some medical students, were reported to give the vaccination a miss deliberately as they claimed that since they were never on active Covid-19 duty, they didn’t want to get vaccinated,” he said. Ohri said that the health department officials are informing the beneficiaries, two days ahead of their stipulated date of vaccination. “We have also informed the departments concerned of the beneficiaries about their presence or absence during the vaccination. We are also trying to improve turnout in coming sessions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-aims-to-inoculate-left-out-health-workers-on-feb-15-101612721329894.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Family alleges man tortured at de-addiction centre in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A family has filed a police complaint alleging their ward was tortured at a de-addiction centre in Greater Noida.The complainant, Satyapal, is a resident of Biharipur in Delhi. He stated that his elder brother, Deependra, was addicted to liquor for some months. “In September 2020, I contacted the de-addiction centre in Greater Noida who promised to cure my brother in four months. They told me that they have developed a specialised course for de-addiction. They brought my brother from Delhi to Greater Noida,” he said. Satyapal said he had paid ₹50,000 as fee to the centre.He alleged that for the last ten days, he had been trying to talk to his brother over the phone but the de-addiction centre’s staff did not facilitate a phone call. “On Saturday evening, a friend and I visited the de-addiction centre and demanded to meet my brother. However, I could not find my brother there. I spoke to the centre’s staff members and they facilitated a phone call. However, it appeared that someone else was talking to me on the phone pretending to be my brother,” he said.Satyapal then filed a complaint at the Sector Beta 2 police station. Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer, Beta 2 police station said a case was registered against two persons under Section 364 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.Upadhyaya said the police team conducted a search and recovered Deependra from the de-addiction centre.Satyapal alleged that on the pretext of de-addiction therapy, the staff had tortured his brother. “My brother has a burn injury on his abdomen. It appears someone threw hot water on his body. He also has injuries on his right toe,” he said.The de-addiction centre staff were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/family-alleges-man-tortured-at-de-addiction-centre-in-greater-noida-101612721328663.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Seven cops suspended over extortion allegations||Noida: Seven police officers, including a police post in-charge, were suspended by the commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, on Sunday following allegations of extortion from commercial vehicles.On Friday, a video on social media surfaced purportedly showing police personnel extorting money from drivers of commercial vehicles coming into Noida from the Kalindi Kunj route. The video was purportedly shot at night but in the audio, a driver was heard telling a police personnel near the Okhla Barrage that more vehicles of the same transporter were coming from behind. In the video, the police personnel purportedly asked the driver to “pay” for them as well. The police personnel could purportedly be heard asking for ₹300 as entrance fees for large vehicles, allegedly saying that it was in accordance to rules.The police personnel and the driver then purportedly went on to “negotiate” and settled at ₹200. After taking the money, the police personnel allegedly told the driver to leave soon and move ahead.After the video started doing the rounds on social media, senior officers took cognizance of the matter.“We got to know about this demand through the video. Among those suspended is the police post in-charge of the Okhla Barrage, under the jurisdiction of the Sector 39 police, and other personnel posted at that post who might have known about the operation. Police deployed at the PRV stationed in that area were also suspended,” said additional commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.He said that the suspension came into effect immediately and that a departmental inquiry in the matter is underway, following which further action will be taken against the police personnel allegedly involved.Police said that it is unclear at the moment for how long the alleged extortion bid had been going on, whether anyone else was involved in it and how much money was allegedly minted by police personnel in this manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seven-cops-suspended-over-extortion-allegations-101612721329220.html
07-02-2021||Other||Akali candidate for Nayagaon MC polls booked for attempt to murder||Ranjeet Singh Nagra, a Shiromani Akali Dal candidate for the Nayagaon municipal council elections, and his son were booked on Sunday for making a murder bid on an independent candidate.Ranjeet Singh and complainant Kuldeep Singh’s brother Garcha Singh are in the fray from ward number 12 in Nayagaon. Kuldeep Singh is contesting from ward number 14 and his wife is also vying a seat from ward number 13. Kailash Bahadur, station house officer (SHO), Nayagoan, said Kuldeep Singh has alleged that when he was standing in the front yard of his house, Nagra along with his son Rajveer Singh arrived there in an SUV and tried to run over him. However, Kuldeep managed to save himself, he said. The complainant further alleged that even earlier the father-son duo had threatened to kill him, said the SHO. Nagra, his son and an unknown woman have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder ), 452 (trespassing ), 506 (criminal intimidation), 279 (rash driving ) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akali-candidate-for-nayagaon-mc-polls-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-101612721209258.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Call research, final-year students for physical class; online class for rest: Mumbai univ||Days after the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that state universities and colleges can reopen starting February 15 with not more than 50% attendance on campus at any given time, the University of Mumbai (MU), on Friday, released a circular along with guidelines to be followed. The colleges have been asked to give first preference to PhD and research candidates and final year students to attend physical lectures while continuing online lectures for the rest of the batches.Following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) made public by the University Grants Commission (UGC), MU has shared a host of general and specific guidelines with affiliated colleges. “Institutes should plan to open the campuses in phases and ensure that not more than 50% of the total students are present. All research and postgraduate students in the science and technology programs, as well as final year students, may be allowed to join for academic and placement purposes,” states the guidelines. Other than these batches, online classes will have to remain functional for the other batches, states the circular. It further states that online teaching-learning arrangements must also continue for international students who cannot join classes physically due to travel and visa restrictions. “Residential students should follow the mandatory 14-day quarantine and self-evaluate their health regularly before being allowed to attend physical classes. Students and staff residing in containment zones should not be allowed on campus.”Other basic safety measures include ensuring that everyone wears masks at all times on campus and maintains a six-feet distance between each other. Screening of staff and students at the time of entry to the college as well as queue management inside and outside the premises have been suggested. “There should be mandatory and regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces in all classrooms, laboratories and other common areas before the beginning of the classes and at the end of the day. At least one seat should be left vacant between two seats,” highlights the safety measures. The guidelines also mention collection and proposer disposal of face masks, gloves, tissues etc. “Following the state government order for reopening of colleges, and keeping in mind guidelines prescribed by the state as well as UGC in November 2020, colleges are requested to follow all the guidelines to ensure the safety of staff and students,” said the circular. Colleges, however, are still worried that conducting physical as well as online classes every day might become stressful for the teachers. “Also how are we supposed to keep the washrooms sanitised through the day? The government specifically asked us not to charge library and laboratory fees from students this year and is now asking us to open all for all students. Sanitisation through the day will be a financial burden for many colleges,” said the vice-principal of a suburban college on condition of anonymity.BOX:Guidelines for before reopening of campuses—*Only university/colleges outside containment zones to be allowed to open*Students and staff living in containment zones should not be allowed to attend classes*Self-monitoring of health by all staff and students and ensuring that any illness is reported in advance*Faculty and students be encouraged to download and update Arogya Setu appSpecific measures to be taken—*Reopen colleges in phases with not more than 50% present at the college at any given time*Research and PhD candidates as well as final year students be given first preference to start physical classes, while online classes be continued for the rest of the batches*Students may visit their respective departments in small batches after seeking prior appointment for faculty consultations*Online learning arrangements should be made for international students unable to attend class due to travel and visa restrictionsSafety measures to be followed—*Crowding must be avoided at entry/exit points. Staggered entry timings with limited strength for different programs to be followed*Ensure queue management; specific markings on the floor with a gap of six feet to be made and followed*Screening of students and compulsion on wearing masks, sanitising hands must be ensured at all entry points*Mandatory and regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces in all classrooms, laboratories and other common areas before the beginning of the classes and at the end of the day. Teaching materials to be disinfected regularly with disinfectants*At least one seat should be left vacant between two seats*Cultural activities, meetings be avoided. Extra-curricular and sports activities could be allowed with proper social distancing norms in place*Collection of used facemasks, PPE, hand gloves and tissues and their disposal as per safety norms should be ensured*Hostels may be allowed to open in cases where necessary and residential students should follow the mandatory 14-day quarantine and self-evaluate their health regularly before being allowed to attend physical classes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/call-research-final-year-students-for-physical-class-online-class-for-rest-mumbai-univ-101612721090069.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad robbery: Three children survive murder attempt as suspect’s pistol got jammed, say cops||Ghaziabad: After shooting the 32-year-old woman and a teenaged tutor during the robbery in the woman’s house at Saraswati Vihar on Saturday night, one of the suspects had tried to open fire at woman’s three minor children, but his pistol got jammed, police said on Sunday.The two deceased were identified as Dolly Thakur and Anshu Kumari,16. Dolly’s three children -- twin girls, Gauri and Minakshi aged nine years, and son Rudra aged five years -- suffered severe injuries, but survived, police said. The three children are admitted to a private hospital, police said, adding that condition of one of them is critical. Police have arrested two suspects in the case -- Uma Singh, a resident of Lal Quarter area of Ghaziabad, and her male friend Mohammad Sonu who allegedly shot dead Dolly and Anshu.“The suspect had brought a .32 calibre pistol with him and he shot dead the woman and the teenaged girl. Later, when he tried to open fire at the three children, the pistol got jammed. He then inflicted severe injuries to the three children with a knife and grinding stone kept in the kitchen. Assuming that all were dead, he fled the house with his woman accomplice,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).After the incident Sonu left Uma at her house and picked up another .315 calibre pistol and fled the house, police said, adding that it was with the second pistol that the suspect opened fire at the police near Dasna on late Saturday night and sustained a gunshot to his leg as a result of retaliatory firing by the police. “They (suspects) inflicted severe injuries to the throat of my three children and also hit them with a grinding stone. We rushed the children to a hospital for treatment,” said Mahesh Thakur, Dolly’s husband. “One of my daughters told me that ‘Amma’ who stays at Lal Quarter locality had come to the house on the night of the incident. My children are still in hospital and one of my daughters is on ventilator support while two are stable,” he added. The doctors at Yashoda Hospital in Nehru Nagar where the children are admitted said that Minakshi was on ventilator support. “Her condition is critical, and we have put her on ventilator support. She has injuries to her throat and head,” said Dr Sangita Garg, chief medical superintendent of the hospital. Police said that they initially suspected a carpenter who had visited the house on Saturday evening. “One of the two injured girls (Gauri) told us that it was their relative from Lal Quarter locality who came to the house with a man and introduced him as a tailor. Once the child gave us clues, we conducted a raid at the house and the woman was arrested and her accomplice was later nabbed from near Dasna,” SP said. “Dolly was granddaughter of my mother-in-law and her children called me ‘Amma’. We had been planning the robbery for long. Saturday night we went to Dolly’s house and also had tea there. Sonu later locked them in a room and he first shot dead the teenaged girl and then Dolly. Then, he picked up knife and grinding stone from the kitchen and hit the children,” Uma said in her video-recorded statement issued by the Ghaziabad police on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-robbery-three-children-survive-murder-attempt-as-suspect-s-pistol-got-jammed-say-cops-101612721088602.html
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Segregated waste collection across Chandigarh in a week||Even as teething problems persist after the Chandigarh municipal corporation took over door-to-door garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30 in December, it plans to kick off the second phase of the project to cover the remaining sectors within a week.“We have received all the 390 garbage collection vehicles, and will be taking over garbage collection in the rest of the city in a week’s time,” said mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Sunday.On December 23 last year, the MC had deployed its 93 garbage collection vehicles in Sectors 1 to 30 to replace informal cart-based waste lifting. The MC has also deployed 99 vehicles for villages and some commercial areas of the city. However, even after a month and a half, residents complain of a plethora of problems with the civic body’s attempt.Also, the MC had invited informal garbage collectors to register with it and join the vehicles as helpers. However, a section is still opposing the MC takeover and staging protest outside its office for the past more than a month.Rajesh Kalia, who is a former mayor and chairs the MC sanitation committee, said: “More than 80% garbage collectors have agreed to join MC vehicles. In a couple of days we will even start signing of memorandums of understanding with individual garbage collectors.”Kalia said the garbage collectors will be share the total number of houses covered by them at present, based upon which the share of user charges collected from residents will be directly deposited into their bank accounts.All’s not well with MC takeoverWhile in some areas, the MC has been able to smoothen the operations, residents in most sectors complain that the situation is yet to improve.Supriya Goyal, treasurer, resident welfare association, Sector 28A, said: “Currently, most people in our locality are giving garbage to cart-driven waste lifters, as the MC vehicle does come, but it has no fixed time.”In most sectors, residents say MC vehicles and cart-based collectors come to pick the garbage and it is creating confusion as to who should be paid user charges. The MC has issued public notices declaring that it would add user charges in the water bills.“Whoever comes first takes away the garbage. We don’t know whom to pay the charges. As the informal garbage collectors are working, they can’t be denied their dues,” said Surender Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 15.Kuldip Singh Gill, president, Bright RWA, Sector 21B, said: “Nowadays, MC vehicles are parked at a central location in the sector. Informal garbage collectors lift the waste from houses and then dump it in the MC vehicle. When the MC is not picking garbage directly from houses, then why should it demand user charges?”Residents also complain that even though the MC promised garbage collection from houses, particularly on the first and second floor, yet it is not being properly implemented. Working couples and elderly people are at the receiving end.“The MC is not yet ready to implement the project all over the city. It is struggling to implement it effectively even in Sectors 1 to 30, where the population density is low. With only around 450 vehicles for the entire city, the civic body would struggle,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation.The mayor said all the issues of residents and protesting garbage collectors will be resolved soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/segregated-waste-collection-across-chandigarh-in-a-week-101612721030139.html
07-02-2021||Noida||Woman, 16-yr-old girl shot dead during robbery in Ghaziabad; two suspects arrested||Ghaziabad: A 32-year-old woman was shot dead and her three minor children were seriously injured during a robbery incident at their house in the Saraswati Vihar locality on Saturday night. The children’s tutor, a 16-year-old girl, was also killed by the suspects, police said. Hours after the incident, the Ghaziabad police arrested a 35-year-old woman and her 25-year-old male friend for the double murder and robbery, senior officials said, adding that cash and jewellery were recovered from the two suspects. Police have also recovered the pistol that was allegedly used in the crime.The deceased were identified as Dolly Thakur and Anshu Kumari, who was also Dolly’s former tenant, police said. The suspects have been identified as Uma Singh, a resident of Lal Quarter area of Ghaziabad, and her friend Mohammad Sonu, a native of Badaun who stayed in the same locality. Police said that the female suspect is a distant relative of the deceased woman and she, along with her friend, hatched a conspiracy to rob the victims. Police said that Uma and Sonu visited Dolly’s house at Saraswati Vihar, which comes under the Masuri police station area, around 8.30pm on Saturday. Dolly was in the house with her three minor children while Anshu, a resident of the same locality, was teaching the children. Police said that Anshu was a student of class 9 at a private school in Ghaziabad. “The two suspects entered the house of the victim (Dolly Thakur) where they had tea and then overpowered those present in a room at gunpoint. Sonu shot Dolly in the abdomen and the tutor in the head. Thereafter, he inflicted severe injuries to Dolly’s three minor children with a knife and grinding stone. Leaving them for dead, both fled the house,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Dolly’s three children -- twin girls, Gauri and Minakshi aged nine years, and son Rudra aged five years -- suffered severe injuries, but survived, police said. The incident came to fore when Dolly’s husband, Mahesh Thakur, and her father-in-law returned from their work around 9.30pm on Saturday. They run an eatery joint at Chopla Market in Ghaziabad and had shifted to their current residence at Saraswati Vihar during Diwali last year. “The suspect woman had estranged relations with her husband who now stays in Aligarh. She had come to know that Thakurs were planning to sell their house and received some initial amount while their business was also doing well. So, she planned the robbery with her friend,” said a police officer investigating the case. Mahesh Thakur, Dolly’s husband, said, “The suspect woman is in our relation. We had no enmity with her, and she was trying to get money with the help of her friend. She had come two days ago to our shop and also enquired about the shop’s opening/closing timings. She knew that we will be at the shop during that time. They took away about ₹5 lakh in cash and some jewellery items from our house.” Police deployed five teams to trace the suspects after Dolly’s family lodged a complaint against unidentified persons for murder, attempt to murder and robbery. “The most important clue was given by one of the two girls who told that ‘Amma’ had visited the house. The children used to call the suspect woman with this name. When we visited her house, she was present and revealed the plot to us,” the SP said. “Meanwhile, her friend (suspect Sonu) was trying to flee the city and was spotted near Dasna by one of the police teams. He opened fire at police personnel and sustained an injury to his leg in a retaliatory firing by police,” Raja said, adding that the case will be fast tracked in court and testimony of children will be of prime importance against the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-16-yr-old-girl-shot-dead-during-robbery-in-ghaziabad-two-suspects-arrested-101612721028653.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality improves on Sunday as temperatures rise||Air quality improved significantly on Sunday as minimum temperatures in the city witnessed a marginal rise. Mumbai recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 173 on Sunday, which was in the moderate category. Over the past two weeks, the air quality had persisted in the poor category. On Saturday the AQI was 210. The AQI of Mumbai is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. “Rising temperatures and breeze from the sea have cleared up the air in and around Mumbai. It is likely to remain in the moderate category for two to three days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR. Of the 10 locations, Mazgaon had the worst air quality with an AQI of 303, followed by Andheri with an AQI of 269 and Malad with AQI of 249. Meanwhile, the city woke up to a warm morning. On Sunday, the Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 22 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degrees above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature rose from 19.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday to 22.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 2.7 degrees above normal. Maximum temperatures, too, remained on the higher side on Sunday, with Santacruz recording 34.6 degrees Celsius, 3.5 degrees above normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 33.6 degrees Celsius, 3.7 degrees above normal. “The minimum and maximum temperatures remained high on Sunday owing to warm easterly winds and the delayed setting of sea breeze. As the sea breeze set in late on Saturday, minimum temperatures also remained high as the air couldn’t cool off well enough,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-air-quality-improves-on-sunday-as-temperatures-rise-101612720729331.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||50-year-old man arrested by Mumbai Police for robbing mother’s gold||Mulund police arrested a man for allegedly threatening and robbing his 70-year-old mother of her gold ornaments and then advising her to file a fake police complaint claiming that two persons hypnotised her and stole her jewellery when she went out shopping. The offence came to light when the mother registered a complaint with the police but could not offer a sold story during the investigation. She then revealed the truth and police registered a case of robbery against her son and arrested him.According to police, the arrested accused, Hitendra Rathod, 51, lives in Thakurli, Kalyan, while his mother and his two younger brothers live in Sarvodaya Nagar, Mulund. Rathod used to come to visit his mother often, and as per her complaint, he allegedly took money from his mother on several occasions.Last month, when Rathod demanded more money from his mother, she refused to give him any, stating that he had taken all her savings. Rathod allegedly threatened his mother and snatched her 25gm gold ornaments worth ₹1 lakh, said a police officer. Later, he realised that if his two other brothers found out about the theft they would create an issue. Hence, he decided to cook up a fake theft, added the officer.Rathod asked his mother to make up a false story and file a police complaint. “His mother then approached the Mulund police station on January 23 and submitted a false story alleging that two people stopped her when she was out shopping and after hypnotising her, they took her gold ornaments,” said Santosh Kamble, assistant inspector, Mulund police station.The mother could not hide the truth for long, and she later revealed the facts. “As per her statement, we registered a case on charges of robbery and arrested Rathod on January 3. He is currently in police custody,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/50yearold-man-arrested-by-mumbai-police-for-robbing-mother-s-gold-101612720669318.html
07-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand flood: Raini villagers had raised alarm before HC around 2 years ago||Nearly two years ago, residents of Raini villagers told Uttarkhand High Court that the construction of the Rishi Ganga hydel project could cause huge damage to them. On Sunday, their worst fears came true.The entire hydel project, just a few meters from their homes, was washed away in the sudden flash flood triggered by a glacial lake burst. The incident claimed about seven lives while another 170 are feared missing.The huge pile of muck which was not disposed upstream of the project, as per environmental norms, came gushing down with water creating havoc in the region. “The only bridge connecting the village separated by the river has also been washed away,” said Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. Four other bridges in the area are also gone.In the summer of 2019, the villagers had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Uttarakhand High Court which directed the state government to check what was going on in Raini village of Chamoli concerning the construction of the hydel project.Also read: Night ops to continue in Uttarakhand, says ITBP; alert in UPThe High Court had directed the district magistrate of Chamoli and member secretary state pollution control board to constitute a joint team to inspect the Rishi Ganga Hydroelectric Project site in the district concerning the allegations levelled in the PIL and the impact on the environment and the locals due to the blasting and the stone crushing activity. The court had also stayed the blasting in the project area till further orders.The project site in Raini village area falls under Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, just a few kilometres from Nanda Devi National Park. The protagonist of the Chipko movement, legendary Gaura Devi hails from Raini village and it was in this area where she had started the Chipko movement in March 1973.The PIL was filed by one Kundan Singh on behalf of the scheduled tribe villagers from the village. The PIL alleged that stone crushing and blasting activities in the terrain there caused wild animals to flee and enter Raini village.The Rishiganga Hydroelectric Project (RGHEP) is a run-of-river hydroelectric project proposed for the development on the Rishiganga river, a tributary of the Alaknanda River in the Chamoli district. The project site is located close to the Raini village, approximately 27 kilometres from Joshimath.River Alaknanda and its tributaries, which flow through Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Pauri Garhwal districts, have been dammed at many points. Some of the main hydel power projects (HEP) on Alaknanda and its tributaries include Rishiganga HEP, Vishnuprayag HEP (400 MW) near Joshimath, Peepal Koti HEP (444 MW) near Peepal Koti, Srinagar HEP (330 MW) and Tapovan Vishnuprayag HEP (520 MW).Several environmentalists, such as Bharat Jhunjunwala and Ravi Chopra of People’s Science Institute, had objected to back-to-back dams in Uttarakhand saying it was killing river Ganga and the local ecology. “Anyone can come and blast the hills here for building a hydel project in name of development. Nobody cares for ecology and impact of its devastation on the locals,” Chopra said, adding that several Supreme Court orders have highlighted the devastation being caused. “Today’s incident is just another example of what we have done to our hill ecology,” he said.Abhijay Negi, counsel of Raini village, said the project proponents of Rishi Ganga project since 2005 started practising environmentally hazardous activities such as stone crushing on the river bed and undertook blasting in the terrain there that forced wild animals to flee from the adjoining Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve and enter Raini village.In 2019, he said, the matter of muck removal near Raini village also came up in the hearing. “The deputy advocate general appearing for the state requested that the matter be taken up on August 1, 2019, to enable him to ascertain whether any action has been initiated against the respondent no.6 (Rishiganga Power project) for their failure to clear the muck stored near the barrage and powerhouse,” the July 2019 order stated.Negi said that villagers of Raini village had raised an alarm much in advance, warning that things were not fine in their area. Even the court issued two orders, but nothing much was done by the government. “I got a call from my petitioner in Raini village telling me that what we had been worried has finally come true and Nature has replied to the apathy of the government,” he said.Officials said it was too early to estimate the damage caused to hydel projects at Raini village and Tapovan where the NTPC is building 530 MW project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-flood-raini-villagers-had-raised-alarm-before-hc-around-2-years-ago-101612720348122.html
07-02-2021||Other||Govt focuses on two wheeler EVs in first week of Switch Delhi campaign||New Delhi: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday that in the first week of the ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign – which was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to promote electric vehicles (EV) in the city – the government will focus on outreach concerning the two-wheeler EV segment.“The first week of the campaign will focus on outreach regarding the two-wheeler segment including electric bikes and e-scooters to accelerate its adoption. Delhi’s EV Policy especially focuses on incentivizing the purchase of two wheelers, which comprise two-third of all vehicles in Delhi and cause maximum pollution. Incentives up to ₹30,000 can be availed upon the purchase of two-wheelers listed under the policy along with scrapping incentives,” said Gahlot in a statement.He further said, “Under Delhi’s EV policy, 23 two-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives across seven manufacturers. By switching to electric two-wheelers which have very low operating costs, an individual can make annual saving of approximately ₹22,000 as compared to using petrol scooter and ₹20,000 as compared to a petrol bike. An average electric two-wheeler provides a life time savings of 1.98 tonnes of carbon emissions as compared to an average petrol two wheelers, which is equivalent to planting 11 trees.”‘Switch Delhi’ will be an eight-week campaign to sensitise Delhi residents about the benefits of switching to electric vehicle, Gahlot added.While launching the campaign on Thursday, Kejriwal had said that his government will, in the next six months, change its policy to lease only electric cars as part of an effort to accelerate the adoption of electric cars in the city. On Friday, Delhi’s power minister Satyendar announced that the government floated a tender to set up 500 EV charging points across 100 locations in the city in the next one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-focuses-on-two-wheeler-evs-in-first-week-of-switch-delhi-campaign-101612720489775.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||68-year-old alleges police harassment, seeks Bombay HC intervention in ‘false’ drug case||A senior citizen from Sion Koliwada has approached the Bombay high court (HC) seeking constitution of a special team to investigate “false” allegations against her after she and her daughter were arrested by Pune’s Bhosari police under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The woman was charged for allegedly being in possession of 320gm of brown sugar (poor quality heroin). The senior citizen has submitted that while the police allow notorious drug suppliers to operate, people like her are harassed, and are not given a hearing. The HC has asked the state to respond to the petition. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing a petition filed by Kala Rani Perisami Devendra, was informed by her advocate Anand Jondhale that the petitioner was a senior citizen residing and operating a small tobacco shop at Sion Koliwada. The petition was filed after Devendra was falsely implicated by Bhosari police station, Pune, on March 23, 2019, for possession of narcotics substances. The petition claimed that Devendra’s daughter, who was also taken into custody when the senior citizen was picked up, was let off the next day after she paid a large sum to the police team to not be implicated in the case. In light of these allegations, and the fact that police failed to take action against bigwigs like those involved in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the petitioner sought an investigation into the alleged crime by a special investigation team (SIT) of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers, so that the facts of the case are unearthed and informed to the court. After the court was informed by the state that the petition had not been served on them, HC directed Jondhale to serve the same with tangible proof of service. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/68yearold-alleges-police-harassment-seeks-bombay-hc-intervention-in-false-drug-case-101612720489293.html
07-02-2021||Other||Thane couple suffers severe burns in fire due to LPG cylinder leak||A Thane-based couple suffered severe burns in a fire at their flat on Saturday, around 11.15 pm. As per the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) regional disaster management cell (RDMC), the fire took place at Mitir Society, Puranik Rumah Bali Park, in Ghodbunder, Thane (West). According to the RDMC, there was a leakage in the liquid petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder and the inflammable gas ignited when it came in contact with the flame of an oil lamp in the shrine inside the flat. “Following the incident, our team visited the house. As per the inspection, it is ascertained that there was a leakage in the regulator of the LPG cylinder and the oil lamp ignited the gas, and the couple were caught in the blaze,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC. Mahesh Kadam, 39, and his wife Priti Kadam, 34, both suffered 60% burns and their condition is critical. “At the time of the incident, the duo was having dinner and they were caught in the blaze. They were rushed to a hospital by neighbours and we were also informed,” added Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-couple-suffers-severe-burns-in-fire-due-to-lpg-cylinder-leak-101612720429767.html
07-02-2021||Other||A Delhi village that celebrates Subhas Chandra Bose like no other||New Delhi: It is a balmy afternoon and Ran Singh is sitting in the courtyard of his house. The octogenarian’s eyes sparkle as one mentions Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “ I was in class 3rd when Netaji delivered an impassioned speech in our village, his fist clenched, his hand pushed forward like this,” he says, standing up and striking a pose similar to that of many Netaji statues. “You will not get azadi until you make supreme sacrifices,” he told the villagers. Ask Singh about the year Bose came to the village and he goes silent for a while, trying to dredge up his memory, his eyes closed, and then says, “ I think it was 1944.” Singh is not the only one with a Netaji story in Tikri Kalan, a village on the western fringes of the city, which celebrates Subhas Chandra Bose like no other. Locals believe that Netaji delivered his last known speech in India in their village, though no one seems to know the year when he did so. While some say that Netaji visited the village in 1941 when he travelled to Berlin incognito via Peshawar; others claim that Netaji addressed INA (Indian National Army) soldiers in 1944 in their village—both the possibilities not supported by historical facts. “This is local folklore which cannot be historically substantiated. The only INA soldiers who came back to India in 1945 were the PoWs (prisoners of war) taken by the Allied Forces largely in Burma (now Mynamar). By then the real story of the INA, founded originally by Captain Mohan Singh and later revived by Bose, was over,” says Anirudh Deshpande, a historian who has authored many books on Indian military history. He adds that Netaji making a stopover in the village in 1941, when he escaped from his home in Kolkata to Berlin via Peshawar, too is highly improbable. “Because Bose escaped house arrest incognito and travelled straight to Peshawar from where he crossed into Afghanistan prior to his escape with the help of Italians. He would not have risked getting off at Delhi to address a village.” But the lack of historical evidence has not come in the way of Tikri village flaunting its ‘historical relationship’ with Netaji. The village organises a gala full-day event on his birth anniversary on January 23 that includes rousing speeches, cultural events and blood donation camps inspired by Netaji’s iconic slogan tum mujhe khoon do, main tumhe azadi doonga, his pictures adorn houses and shops, elderly women in the village sing folk songs in Haryanvi hailing Netaji and make and distribute sweets. The village prefers to call itself ‘Azad Hind Gram’, also the name of a six-acre complex in the village that houses a museum to INA and a memorial to Subhas Chandra Bose, built by the Delhi government. “We love Netaji like no other national leader and live by his ideals and that is what has earned us the sobriquet of Azad Hind Gram,” says Balwan Singh, a para Asian Games medalist, pointing to a small bronze statue of Netaji on his desk. Every year, he organises Netaji Subhas cross country race in the village. The walls of this mostly urbanised village — though dozens of families here are still engaged in agriculture -- are plastered with posters of the recent 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Bose at Azad Hind Gram. The Netaji memorial, the villagers say, is built on the spot where Netaji had delivered his speech under a tree. Before the memorial was built in 2000, the locals had been organising a ‘havan’ on the spot every year on January 23 , Bose’s birth anniversary. This year too, the villagers organised a mega full-day programme to celebrate mark his birthday. “Funded by the villagers, it is one of the biggest programmes organised anywhere in the country to celebrate Netaji’s birthday,” says Jaipal Drall, who heads a village committee which organises the annual event. “We revere all national leaders, but Netaji holds a special place in our hearts as our elders told us he had visited our village and gave a speech here.” Like most villagers, Yashpal Drall, president of village RWA, was quite amused by the recent controversy where people tweeted a picture of a portrait of Bose unveiled in the Rashtrapati Bhawan claiming it showed actor Prosenjit Chatterjee from a film in which he played the national leader, and not Netaji. “Netaji is the most recognisable national leader here; not even a child can fail to recognise him,” he says. He too has his own Netaji story, which again defies history. “Many village women had donated their jewellery for the INA.” He proudly adds that the village is home to many families whose members had served in the INA. One of them is the family of late Sube Singh. The wall of the house has ‘freedom fighter Sube Singh INS Veteran’, scrawled in big bold letters. Sunita Devi, the daughter of Sube Singh, brings out a sheaf of documents, including certificates of service issued by All India INA Enquiry And Relief Committee set up by the Congress, confirming his date of joining the INA in 1941. “We would not have got freedom without Netaji,” she says, then breaks into a song in Haryanvi in praise of Bose. Sunita Devi, has, in fact, learnt by heart several songs hailing the leader. On his birth anniversary, she makes and distributes kheer . “This has been a tradition in our house for almost seven decades now; earlier my mother used to do it, and now I do so.” Not far away from her house lives another INA veteran, late Sarup Singh’s family. Like most elderly villagers, her 103- year- old wife recounts the story of the Netaji’s visit to the village, adding that her husband served in INA in Singapore. “I had been married only for a couple of years when he left and villagers said that he would not return. But thankfully, he did come back after six years, ” says the centenarian sitting on a charpoy in the open courtyard of her house surrounded by her family, including great-grandchildren. Age may have shriveled her figure but has failed to dampen her enthusiasm for Bose stories. Like Sunita Devi, she too has a whole repertoire of Netaji songs. What villagers regret most is the pathetic state of Azad Hind Gram, built, they say, on their demand by the government to honour Netaji and as a symbol of their relationship with him. It boasts a domed Dilli Chalo Museum to the Indian National Army. The musty hall’s discoloured walls are hung with pictures of related historical events such as INA trials, INA’s March to Delhi, women’s role in INA and a provisional government of Azad Hind. The sprawling complex, painted in peach, also has a Netaji memorial in another hall, where rusting iron gate has almost come off its hinges. Inside, the walls have relief sculptures in black telling the story of different episodes in Bose’s life. None of the exhibits, though, has any mention of Netaji’s visit to the village. “The place hardly has any visitors and has been financially unviable. This location was chosen because locals believe that Netaji had delivered a speech in the village. We are trying to get a grant from the government for the renovation of the complex. Hopefully, we will be able to do so during the Bose’s 125 birth anniversary celebrations,” says Sanjay Goel, managing director and CEO, Delhi Tourism. It is evening, and Yashpal is in the Azad Hind Gram complex, offering to give us a guided tour. “ This is where Netaji had stood on a platform under a tree to deliver his speech,” he says, pointing to a corner. “We all bow before the Netaji statue in the complex every time we pass||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-delhi-village-that-celebrates-subhas-chandra-bose-like-no-other-101612720248784.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Never promised sharing of CM’s post in Maharashtra to Shiv Sena, says Amit Shah||Mumbai
07-02-2021||Other||AAP, BJP accused lock horns over tours by party leaders||New Delhi: A war of words broke out between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday with leaders of both the parties accusing each other of going on personal tours, within India and abroad, on government money.Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs, accused Delhi BJP leaders of going on trips at the expense of the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) and demanded a probe into it. The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back, accusing AAP leaders of going on foreign trips on government’s expense.While the AAP is in power in the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three MCDs.“Several BJP councillors including Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, mayors and officials have taken several trips inside and outside India on MCD’s expense. On one hand, employees of the BJP-ruled MCDs are starving because they have not been paid salaries and on the other hand BJP leaders are using MCD funds for their trips,” said Pathak in a press conference at the party’s head office in central Delhi.He said, “The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled MCD must publish a white paper declaring all such trips taken by the BJP councillors or mayors within 48 hours and set up a probe into the matter.”Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the allegations were baseless. He said it was an attempt by the AAP to malign the image of BJP-ruled MCDs.In a statement issued later, the BJP said, “Trips by ministers of Delhi government or mayors of MCDs to other cities is a normal protocol affair. The fact of the matter is that the Delhi government is bearing expenses of many political tours of AAP ministers including Manish Sisodia to several states like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand under the garb of study tours of schools in those states. MCDs are in deep financial crunch due to Arvind Kejriwal government’s withholding funds since 2020.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said two trips taken in 2018 and 2019 by former MCD mayors were marked as “disputed”. “Here, it is pertinent to mention that in 2018-19, the then-mayor got the permission and financial clearance to attend a conference in London which he himself cancelled in view of hefty expenses… Mr Pathak is misleading people with his claims that there are several such unpaid trips in the last financial year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-accused-lock-horns-over-tours-by-party-leaders-101612720189111.html
07-02-2021||Other||40 slum clusters gutted after blaze in Sanjay Colony, none hurt||New Delhi: At least 40 slum clusters were gutted after a fire broke out in Sanjay Colony, behind Harkesh Nagar Metro station in the early hours of Sunday. While no person was injured, firefighters said at least six animals were killed in the fire. A truck parked nearby was also gutted in the blaze. The Delhi Fire Services (DFS) said the cause of the blaze is yet to be established.The fire broke out around 2.30am, when the DFS received a distress call reporting the incident. Senior officials said seven fire tenders were initially rushed to the spot to contain the fire, but as the blaze was in a cluster, 19 more were used to prevent it from spreading and to douse it completely.DFS director Atul Garg said firefighters who reached the spot found that a truck parked nearby had been burnt. “The blaze was controlled after two hours, but the cooling operation continued till morning. While no person was injured, six animals were found dead in the fire,” Garg said.He said the cause of fire is not yet established, but is believed to have sparked from a stove or a brazier lit inside one of the slum clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-slum-clusters-gutted-after-blaze-in-sanjay-colony-none-hurt-101612720188569.html
07-02-2021||Other||Man from Chandigarh arrested for violence at Red Fort on Republic Day||New Delhi: Delhi Police said on Sunday that they have arrested a man from Chandigarh who was allegedly leading a group of protesters that barged into the Red Fort during the Republic Day’s tractor rally. Senior officers who declined to be named identified the man as Sukhdev Singh, “a prominent face” among those who were involved in the violence and vandalism at the fort. Last week, the police announced ₹50,000 for any info leading to Singh’s arrest. Singh, 59, a resident of Karnal in Haryana, was arrested in connection with the first case registered on January 27, after the violent clashes between the farmer groups and police at the Red Fort on Republic Day. He has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, rioting, dacoity, theft and under Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and under Arms Act for illegal possession of weapon.Investigators said they have identified various people involved in the violence through pictures, video footage from the local residents and the media; and CCTV camera recordings from the fort and nearby areas.“Singh was one of them. He has been identified as a farmer leader. He was seen leading a group of violent protesters inside the Red Fort premises. He was identified as one of the prominent faces behind the violence after which search for him was initiated and a cash reward was announced on information that may lead to his arrest. From the evidence gathered, it was also established that he had spent ample time inside the Red Fort on January 26,” the investigator said.The police are awaiting response from Google after they had written to the technology firm on Friday seeking assistance in identifying the author/creator of a “toolkit” or document, which allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests associated with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The investigators said any concrete progress in the probe is only possible when Google helps with the IP addresses and details of the two e-mail accounts, through which the toolkit was created. The police are also trying to get details of the Instagram account mentioned on the original toolkit, through which a live session was screened, they said. The Delhi Police have also issued notices to nine people from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh to join investigation into the violence at the fort. The notices were issued under 12 different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.The notices were issued in cases registered at eas Delhi’s Pandav Nagar police station and Seemapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-from-chandigarh-arrested-for-violence-at-red-fort-on-republic-day-101612720129669.html
07-02-2021||Other||North civic body to give permanent licences to food vans, e-food carts||New DelhiThe cash-strapped North Delhi Municipal Corporation — in an attempt to generate more revenue — has decided to give permanent licences to food vans and e-food carts in its jurisdiction. Food vans will be approved for places where space is available and footfall is abundant. A proposal for allowing food trucks had been passed by the north civic body last month.Officials of north civic body said that other than increasing revenue of the municipality, the initiative will also create jobs for a lot of unemployed youths. A senior official of the north corporation said that modalities of the scheme are yet to be worked out. The official, however, said that other than issuing licences to existing food carts, people belonging to economically weaker sections would be given preference and discount in setting up their food business in empty lands of the municipality. Mayor of north corporation, Jai Prakash, said that there are a number of eateries already functioning at different locations in north Delhi but the civic body does not get any revenue from such establishments. “This scheme will pave a way to legalise such food carts after paying a licence fee, which will be decided later. Other than this, we will also promote setting up food vans in empty lands of the civic body at various locations in north Delhi. We will allocate these food vans to those people whose annual family income is less than ₹25,000. We will provide them special discounts to set up movable eateries in empty lands and at places where footfall is high,” Prakash said. He said that officials have been given instructions to start a survey to identify empty lands and places where such food vans can be set up in the jurisdiction of north corporation. “Though the fee for the licence is yet to be decided but it is likely to be kept dynamic, which means that those who wish to set up their food vans in busy markets or at prime locations, will have to pay slightly higher prices for a licence. People belonging to EWS category with less than ₹25,000 annual income are likely to get a nearly 25% discount,” the mayor said. A senior official of the north corporation also said that applicants will have to produce a no-objection-certificate from the traffic police as well as from the road owning authority if they wish to set up food carts on any road side. “Initially, we are planning to allow one to two food vans per ward. But this number can be increased later if required. This move will create employment for weaker section and they will not have to pay illegally to any other agency or local authorities. This initiative will also help the civic body in augmenting its revenue collection and make it financially stable,” the official said. A similar move was passed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) in the beginning of this year. In its proposal the south civic body had proposed that it would provide licences to five smart food eateries, including food trucks, vans, e-carts in each municipal ward in its jurisdiction.KS Mehra, former commissioner of the unified MCD, said that the initiative will help in boosting revenue of the corporations.“It is a very good move and such efforts are required to be taken by the authorities to augment revenue collection, especially when it is undergoing a huge financial crisis. This initiative will bring additional funds to the corporation as illegally running food vans will be brought under the tax net of the MCD,” Mehra said.He added that the civic body should ensure that all areas are tapped under the scheme for maximum revenue realisation. However, the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) said they were against the proposal. Arbind Singh, national coordinator NASVI, criticised the move and termed it “anti-street vendors”.Singh said that the civic body was yet to implement Street Vendors Act 2014, which speaks about regulation and welfare of the street vendors.“It is an effort to snatch livelihood from the street food vendors. Through allocation of e-food carts and other such special type of eateries, the municipality only wants backdoor entry of capitalists. They should first regulate the existing street food vendors who set up roadside stalls . They should implement Street Vendors Act 2014,” he said. Singh added that the clause of giving priority and discount to EWS people “merely seems to be a lip service”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-civic-body-to-give-permanent-licences-to-food-vans-e-food-carts-101612720129109.html
07-02-2021||Other||Covid vaccine jabs for people aged above 50 likely from mid-March||New Delhi: The Delhi government is likely to open the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive up for people aged over 50 and individuals with comorbidities in mid-March, pending the Centre’s approval, senior government officials said on Sunday.People aged over 50 years and individuals with comorbidities irrespective of age have broadly been categorised as the third priority group for vaccination, after health care and front line workers, for whom the vaccination drive is currently open.On Friday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in the Lok Sabha had announced that the third phase of the vaccination drive for people aged over 50 will begin after the second week of March.“In the first phase, the target was to vaccinate around one million health care workers both in the public and private sector... In the second phase, an estimated two million frontline workers were to be vaccinated, and that also began at many places in the country on February 2. After completion of the first and second phase, the third phase will begin wherein everyone above 50 will be vaccinated. It may not be possible to provide an exact date, but it is likely that the process will begin anytime in the second, third or fourth week of March,” said Harsh Vardhan. In Delhi, around 240,000 health workers and 450,000 front line workers have so far registered for the vaccination programme. Of these, 109,478 have so far received their first doses of the coronavirus vaccines, according to government records.“The protocols and deadlines have seen several changes since the vaccination drive was launched on January 16. We are now capable of vaccinating multiple priority groups at the same time, as against the earlier plan in which specific windows were charted out for each group one after another. The provision to allow out-of-turn shots to registered beneficiaries is helping increasing turnout across the country,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.The official added, “Considering all these factors, at this stage, we expect to start with the vaccination of the third category by mid-March. The Centre’s approval will be required for this. The matter was taken up in few meetings over the last two weeks. Registrations for eligible beneficiaries in third category are likely to be open on the CoWin app from March 1.”The government has so far estimated that 4.2 million in Delhi are aged over 50, a number arrived at largely through the use of electoral rolls. Government officials are still ascertaining the number of people with comorbidities through survey findings, departmental data and hospital records.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said: “The more people across different categories get vaccinated in the early stages, the better it is. Covid management will become much easier for potential spikes in futures and mutant strains. Also, there will be less burden on the health care infrastructure system. At this stage, several states are preparing to start with vaccination of the elderly and those with comorbidities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccine-jabs-for-people-aged-above-50-likely-from-midmarch-101612720128578.html
07-02-2021||Other||No net, no problem: How farmers at Delhi borders worked their way around internet shutdowns||New Delhi: A day after farmers organised a nationwide “chakka jam” for three hours on national highways demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and protesting the arrests of farmers, frequent internet shutdowns and barricading at the agitation spots, farmers at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur said network connectivity had improved on Sunday. However, the Internet blackouts made it difficult for protesters to access and disseminate information, and stay in touch with their families across Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, forcing agitators to devise workarounds to ensure information flowed unrestricted.Internet services at Delhi’s borders were suspended following the violence that ensued during the tractor parade on January 26. Following this, internet connectivity at agitation spots remained poor. Another set of orders were passed to snap the services between 11pm on January 29 (when a group of persons claiming to be locals had entered the protest area and clashed with locals) till February 2. Another ban was imposed on February 6, when farmers undertook their chakka jam, but Internet services were restored at midnight that day.Gurjant Singh (36), a resident of Bari village in Mohali, who returned to the Singhu protest site on Sunday after spending three days in his village said his family was relieved after he shared messages on WhatsApp with them.“Following the Republic Day violence, it became difficult to stay in touch with my family, who want to know what is happening here. There are so many rumours floating around but we can’t counter them because we don’t even have Internet access. We tried to get a WiFi connection, but internet service providers told us that the authorities were not allowing new connections at Singhu,” he said.In the absence of mobile internet, the only source of current information was around 5,000 copies of regional newspapers, which were paid for by the organisers. Even the press conferences by farmer groups that were broadcast live on social media platforms, had to be first recorded and then uploaded later using WiFi hot spots set up by some farmer groups nearly a month ago. Several volunteers at the protest site travelled a few kilometres away from the protest spot to get connectivity and access news of the day using social media.Sukhwinder Singh, 28, a farmer from Roopnagar district in Punjab who volunteers at the library-cum-cultural centre at Singhu border, said, “Some of us have motorcycles, so we travelled to an area where we could get network and access news on the protests. There are a few areas at the protest spot where we could access WiFi that locals residents had opened up for us to use.”“After collecting the information, we passed the messages on verbally during our evening dialogue sessions, when farmers from various trolleys would gather at our centre,” he added.Volunteers from their team are also visiting various districts of Punjab, including Bhatinda, Patiala, Roopnagar, and Anantpur Sahib to get inputs from the villages, and to provide them verified information related to the protests.Sukhwinder also said that the farmers largely relied on social media platforms for verified information after several instances of alleged “biased coverage by media outlets” during the past two months.“Social media has been the only way for these families to get correct information. The more the government tries to suppress us, the more ways we will find to keep the movement alive,” he said.Jatinder Pal Singh, 27, a resident of Mohali who is a security volunteer at Singhu, said, “We have arranged for tractors and other vehicles with loudspeakers that share information with the other protesters towards the end of the day as not all farmers come to the stage area daily.Showing his notebook which carried names of international celebrities who recently led support to the farmers’ movement on social media, Singh said, “We had to devise alternative techniques to raise awareness, spread information, and quell rumours in the absence of the internet, which had so far empowered farmers to stay updated on their own.”Navkiran Natt, 29, a student-activist at Tikri border and also one of the editors of Trolley Times (a bi-weekly newspaper started by activists to share information on farmers’ protests) said the mobile internet ban had affected their work as well.“Since most of the volunteers stay at the protest sites, it was difficult to coordinate, and our edition was delayed because of the Internet shutdowns. In the absence of other platforms, we too used open-jeeps to circulate information among protesters to counter panic as well.”While the situation remained peaceful at the three borders on Sunday, heavy security deployment continued at the agitation spots. “We are continuing our protest peacefully. No untoward incident was witnessed here today. Our fight against the three black farm laws will continue as more people from Punjab and Haryana are expected to join us from tomorrow (Monday),” said Darshan Singh, a farmer leader from Punjab who has been camped at Tikri border.The crowd at Ghazipur, however, was thinner in comparison to the previous days, as several protesters had accompanied farmer leader Rakesh Tikait who was in Charkhi Dadri for a mahapanchayat along with farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Balbir Singh Rajewal.Thousands had gathered at the mahapanchayat where farmer leaders passed five resolutions including demands of repealing the three farm laws, a legal guarantee of MSP, and releasing farmers arrested following January 26 violence and vehicles seized after the incident.(With inputs from Ashish Mishra and Anvit Srivastava)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-net-no-problem-how-farmers-at-delhi-borders-worked-their-way-around-internet-shutdowns-101612720069688.html
07-02-2021||Other||R-Day violence: Delhi Police issue notices to 9 from UP’s Baghpat||Meerut: The Delhi Police have issued notices to nine people from Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh in connection with the ongoing investigation into the violence during the tractor rally taken out by the protesting farmers on Republic Day in the national capital, people aware of the matter said on Sunday.The notices were issued under 12 different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.Thousands of farmers who are protesting against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September took out a tractor rally on January 26. The agitation descended into chaos as farmers broke barriers while deviating from the approved routes, clashed with the police and vandalised property at Red Fort. The notices were issued in cases registered at eas Delhi’s Pandav Nagar police station and Seemapuri police station. Among those who were issued notices are Desh khap’s thambedar (local chief) Chaudhary Brijpal Singh, Baljor Singh Arya of Malakpur village, Vishwas Chaudhary, who runs a school in Baraut, former Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) MLA Veerpal Rathi, councillor Ashutosh Tomar, and Vinod of Khera village, said officials who declined to be named. Arya said that the police may be targeting those who were leading the protest but were not actively involved in the violence. “If they want to do an investigation, then they should come here to verify facts,” said Arya. “I will not go there and send a reply to them,” he said.Chaudhary Brijpal Singh said that he was at a dharna in Baghpat district on January 26 and flagged off tractors with instructions to reach either the Ghazipur border or the Singhu border. “I don’t know on what basis they have sent me the notice,” he said.Vishwas Chaudhary said he has filed the response to the notice through his lawyer. He also said that the thambedar was with him on January 26 and it seems that notices were issued to those who were active in the Baraut dharna which started on December 17 and dispersed by the police on January 26 night.“It seems the list was provided to the police without verification,” said Chaudhary.Farmers, who were staging an indefinite dharna along the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Baraut since December 17, were allegedly lathicharged by the police on January 26 night to disperse them from the protest site.Later, during a mahapanchayat convened by the Desh khap in Baraut on January 31 in protest against the lathicharge, additional district magistrate (Baghpat) Amit Kumar Singh and additional superintendent of police Manish Mishra regretted if anyone had been injured in the police act of removing protesters. A notice issued to one of the people read, “In exercise of the powers conferred under 160/91 of CrPc I hereby inform you that during the investigation of FIR no 66/2021, U/s 144/147/148/149/307/186/188/353/332/395/397/120B IPC, 3 Epidemic Disease Act and 51/58 (1) Disaster Management Act at Pandav Nagar Police station, it has revealed that there are reasonable grounds to ascertain facts and circumstances from you. Hence you are hereby informed through this notice that you have to appear before the undersigned at 1pm on dates 07/02/2021 for the purpose of investigation of the above said case.”The notice was signed by sub-inspector Niraj Kumar and SHO Pandav Nagar.Baghpat police officials were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rday-violence-delhi-police-issue-notices-to-9-from-up-s-baghpat-101612720068569.html
07-02-2021||Other||Protester at Tikri border dies by suicide||Rohtak: A 52-year-old man, who was protesting with farmers at Tikri border, died allegedly by suicide, police said on Sunday.The man was a farmer from Singhwaal village in Jind’s Narwana. He is survived by his wife and three daughters. Police said the deceased was protesting at Tikri for the past 20 days. Bahadurgarh City police station SHO, Sunil Kumar said they have found the man’s body hanging from a tree near Tikri border.“The farmers told us that the man, a resident of Jind district, was protesting there for the last several days. We have received a suicide note from him. It seems that he had killed himself late Saturday night. We have started proceedings under section 174 of the CrPc,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protester-at-tikri-border-dies-by-suicide-101612720069150.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||13,550 litres of illegal diesel seized by Mumbai Police, 1 held||The economic offences wing (EOW) and crime branch control of the Mumbai Police on Sunday busted an illegal petrol pump operating on a footpath at Dharavi, and seized 13,550 litres of diesel stored in drums. The supervisor of the petrol pump has been arrested and case has been registered relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Essential Commodities Act and clauses of the Motor spirit High speed diesel (The regulation of supply and distribution and mal practices) order. According to crime branch officers, on Friday they received a tip about fuel-filled shipping containers on a footpath at Dharavi. The fuel was being sold at a lower price than available at petrol pumps. Based on the information, the officers of EOW and crime branch control conducted a raid and seized 13,550 litres of diesel stored in containers, diesel dispensing machines and pumps. Police also arrested the supervisor of the illegal petrol pump, Indrasing Rathod. Nitin Patil, police officer at crime branch control said that a private company had taken a contract from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to supply 100 clean-up vehicles. The company directors, who are wanted by the police, had charged BMC ₹83 per litre of diesel used for the clean-up vehicles, and had been filling diesel from the illegal petrol pump at ₹50 per litre. They were also selling the diesel illegally to private vehicles in the night. “During investigations, we found that the fuel was of low quality and since BMC vehicles are not checked, the company managed to cheat the civic body,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13550-litres-of-illegal-diesel-seized-by-mumbai-police-1-held-101612719949208.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena workers assault BJP leader in Pandharpur for criticising CM Uddhav Thackeray||A local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader was allegedly beaten up by Shiv Sena workers on Saturday over his objectionable statements against chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. The assaulters blackened the face of the victim, Shirish Katekar, and paraded him on the streets.The police said they tried to stop the parade but were unsuccessful in their attempt.Justifying the attack, Sena leader from Solapur Purshottam Barde blamed Katekar for provoking Shiv Sainiks. “It was Katekar who used objectionable words against our chief. For Sena workers, Uddhavji is a revered figure and we will not tolerate anything said against him. We take responsibility for this attack and are ready to go to jail for our action,” said Barde.Katekar had, in his speech, said that Thackeray was unfit to rule the state. He also said that Thackeray had earlier claimed that he would make an ordinary Sena worker the CM, but later decided to assume power himself. The BJP called the incident a classic example of “jungle raj”. “No one is safe in this Sena rule. Anyone who criticises them has to face music as Sena workers have become arrogant and bash up their opponents even in the presence of police personnel. They know that the administration is not going to act against them,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.In September last year, a retired Navy officer was beaten up by Shiv Sainiks in Kandivli for allegedly sharing a satirical cartoon of Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-workers-assault-bjp-leader-in-pandharpur-for-criticising-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101612719829301.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Allow schools to conduct Class 10 and 12 exams, urge principals||City principals have requested the state government to allow schools to conduct Class 10 and 12 board exams at the school level in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Brihanmumbai Association of Heads of Secondary Schools, in a letter sent to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has requested the government to allow flexibility in the conduct of exams this year. “We suggest schools be allowed to conduct exams at their levels, either online or offline, as per their convenience. Similarly, we urge the government to not fail any students this year considering that students have not got enough time and practice to study as schools in the city remain shut,” said Prashant Redij, secretary of the association. The association has also urged the government to allow schools and junior colleges in the city to reopen. “Not all students have access to online learning, hence if we want to avoid the learning losses, it would be best to start schools soon,” states the letter. Officials from the education department said the decision concerning school reopening and conduct of exams will be taken by the state government in consultation with the board. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct the HSC (Class 12) examinations between April 23 to May 29, 2021 and SSC (Class 10) examinations between April 29 to May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allow-schools-to-conduct-class-10-and-12-exams-urge-principals-101612719770293.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Congress demands probe to check if celebrities were forced to tweet in Centre’s support||Maharashtra Congress has demanded a probe by the police into the tweets posted by celebrities in response to the global criticism of the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest. The party sought the investigation to find out if the celebrities were pressure by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to take to social media in support of the Central government. State Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant is set to meet state home minister Anil Deshmukh with the demand of the probe. Sawant said he would hold a virtual meeting with Deshmukh on Monday demanding a thorough probe. “There is a similar pattern behind these tweets by the celebrities including Akshay Kumar, Sunil Sheety, sportspersons Sachin Tendulkar, Saina Nehwal. The contents of the tweets by Nehwal and Kumar are same while Shetty had tagged a BJP leader. This shows that there was a communication between the celebrities and the ruling party leaders. It needs to be investigated if there was any pressure from the BJP on these national heroes for such advocacy on the social media. If so, these celebrities need to be given more protection,” he said. Celebrities including Tendulkar, playback singer Lata Mangeshkar and hosts of Bollywood actors took to Twitter on February 3 after international personalities such as Rihanna and climate change activist Greta Thunberg expressed support for the farmers’ protest in Delhi. The tweets from the celebrities came with hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether, whih are framed by the ministry of external affairs. Maharashtra BJP’s media head Vishwas Pathak said, “These are dignitaries and have their independent views over international affairs. Raising doubts over their expressions and ability to think independently is an insult to them. They have spoken about Indian sovereignty. Does the Congress expect them to say that international celebrities can poke their nose in the internal matters of India?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-demands-probe-to-check-if-celebrities-were-forced-to-tweet-in-centre-s-support-101612719589181.html
07-02-2021||Other||₹427-crore bogus GST billing racket busted in Ludhiana, two held||The central GST commissionerate, Ludhiana, has busted a nexus of 32 bogus firms that fraudulently claimed ₹65 crore as input tax credit (ITC) via fake bills worth ₹427 crore. According to officials, the nexus is being managed by Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal. His two accomplices, Sandeep Kumar, alias Puri, and Rajinder Singh, have been arrested. They operated some of these 32 firms for Gurbax and also handled bank transactions for all the bogus entities.Giving details, Ashutosh Baranwal, principal commissioner, CGST commissionerate, said Rajinder had created two fake companies in his name and claimed ITC worth ₹3.43 crore on the basis of GST invoices worth ₹21 crore.In addition to being the operator and controller of the two fake companies, Rajinder was also engaged in performing banking operations, including RTGS entries and cash withdrawal for the other 30 firms controlled and operated by kingpin Gurbax. Through this, he had been daily withdrawing cash up to ₹40 lakh since May 2018.The second accomplice, Sandeep, used to create the fake firms using ID proofs of unwary people and provide GST registration details to Gurbax.Besides, Sandeep also had been operating five fraudulent firms under Gurbax’s supervision in exchange for monthly payment of ₹60,000. Like Rajinder, he too performed banking operations for the 32 firms.A case has been registered against Gurbax and his two accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/427crore-bogus-gst-billing-racket-busted-in-ludhiana-two-held-101612719349157.html
07-02-2021||Other||Woman found murdered at vacant plot near Ludhiana’s Dhandhari Bridge||An unidentified woman, who appeared to be in her 30s, was found murdered at a vacant plot near Dhandhari Bridge on Sunday morning.Police said a muffler was wrapped around the victim’s neck, which indicated she was strangled to death.No identification document was found near the body, which was first discovered by a passer-by around 10am, following which the police were informed.Besides the muffler, police found two toothbrushes, bindis, a pair of men’s shorts and rice in a polythene bag near the body. No sign of struggle“The woman was wearing a brand new sari and sporting sindoor. There was no sign of struggle, pointing at the involvement of her husband or lover in the murder,” said sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sahnewal police station.He said either the victim had eloped with her lover, who murdered her after things went awry, or her husband brought her out on the pretext of moving into a new accommodation and killed her following a conspiracy.“The victim doesn’t appear to have been sexually assaulted. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for autopsy for more clarity. A forensic team has also collected evidence from the spot. Police have made announcements in surrounding areas to identify the deceased,” the SHO said.According to police, the vacant plot belongs to a Delhi resident, who has erected a compound wall and a gate. But, pedestrians have broken down a part of the wall for illegal passage.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-found-murdered-at-vacant-plot-near-ludhiana-s-dhandhari-bridge-101612719109681.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Naval sailor, who was burnt alive in Palghar forest, had taken loans, say cops||Days after a leading seaman of the Indian Navy, Surajkumar Mithilesh Dube, 27, died after being burnt by kidnappers, investigation has revealed that he had taken ₹8 lakh as personal loan and ₹5.75 lakh loan from his colleague, allegedly to invest in stocks and shared. He also had three mobile phones, one of which was exclusively used for stocks and shares transaction. His family members were unaware of the third phone. Dube had also taken ₹9 lakh as loan from his in-laws to invest, said Dattatray Shinde, superintendent of police (SP), Palghar on Sunday. “We still do not know the motive behind the murder. We have formed 10 teams to probe the matter,” he said.The colleague, who gave Dube the money, was allegedly asking him to return the money, following which Dube said he would pay back the amount through a cheque or online transaction. Dube, who was on leave, was allegedly went to Chennai on January 31 where he was kidnapped. He was then allegedly held captive for three days, following which he was brought to Gholwad in Palghar by three unidentified men. The three accused then poured petrol on him and set him on fire in Vaiji-Vejalpada jungle for refusing to give ₹10 lakh ransom. Locals found him in a burnt state, and admitted to a hospital. He died on Friday night while undergoing treatment at INS Aswini of the Indian Navy.His father Mithilesh, however, has claimed that did not receive any calls for ransom. In addition, bank account details of the victim revealed that he had only ₹392 in his two bank accounts. The money from the accounts were transferred to a share trading firm, said Shinde. Sources said that Dube had received 13 calls from a certain number asking him when he will fly to Chennai. He had also withdrawn ₹5,000 from an ATM in Chennai, and we are examining the CCTV footage from the spot to get some clues, said Shinde. Dube left Ranchi and reached Hyderabad by a night flight and then took another late night flight to reach Chennai airport from where he was kidnapped and eventually burnt alive in Gholwad jungles on Friday.According to Shinde, the victim was burnt alive atop a hill in the jungle. After suffering 90% burns, Dube climbed down the hill and sat on the roadside when he was spotted by locals in a charred state. Dube joined the Indian Navy in 2013 and was first posted at INS Chilika, Orissa and then transferred to Mumbai, and since 2019 was posted at INS Agrani, Coimbatore.“We are investigating all possible angles including whether the victim had self-staged the kidnapping and sought ₹10 lakh ransom so as to clear the financial mess and creditors,” said Shinde.“We have registered case under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 364 (kidnapping for ransom), 392 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act against unknown persons and are investigating further. The body has been sent for post mortem,” said a police officer, adding that they were also probing as to why the victim was brought to Gholwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/naval-sailor-who-was-burnt-alive-in-palghar-forest-had-taken-loans-say-cops-101612719049143.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Fungal infection on rise among those who recovered from Covid-19: Docs||Mumbai Among the complications emerging in individuals who have recovered from Covid-19 is a rare black fungal infection – mucormycosis – which causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death, if not treated in time, according to doctors, who are seeing a gradual surge in such cases across the city.A case in point could be Shaila Sonar, a resident of Dhule, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 on August 1. After fighting the virus for 15 days, she successfully recovered from the infection. But soon, she complained of pain in her mouth and developed a swelling. She dismissed it as cold and took treatment from a local doctor. When her condition deteriorated, in December, the family travelled to Mumbai in an ambulance and got her admitted to Global Hospital, Parel, on December 1. She was diagnosed to have sinonasal mucormycosis and surgery was the only option to save her. “The fungal infection had spread inside her mouth which infected her palate. To stop the spread of the infection, we had to partially remove the palate. Otherwise, it could have reached her brain and proved to be fatal,” said Dr Milind Navalakhe, senior consultant ENT surgeon at the hospital. However, it has her face disfigured and she will now require a plastic surgery after a few years. “We never thought that a fungal infection could cause such harm to my mother. Although she has recovered completely, she still has problems talking. Her pronunciation isn’t clear,” said her 20-year-old daughter Sakshi? Mahale. Sonar’s case is not an isolated one. Dr Amol Patil, senior consultant, ENT, at Nanavati Hospital had to remove the eye of a 30-year-old patient to clear the fungus that had infected his sinus – the small air pockets located behind forehead, nose, cheekbones, and in between the eyes. Later, doctors implanted the eye back. Patients who already have underlying conditions, like diabetes, are more susceptible to the infection. Dr Navalakhe said, “Mucormycosis is a fungal disease that usually occurs in patients with a compromised immune status. Within the past three months, around 50 Covid-19 recovered patients with low immunity and conditions such as diabetes or on steroids have been detected with the fungal infection.” It does not cause significantly different symptoms than a cold or nasal block. Initially, blackish discoloration on the inside of the nose and palate is seen. Hence, it goes unnoticed to an advanced stage. By the time patients seek medical attention, it is already in the advanced stage called sinonasal mucormycosis. For early diagnosis, the Global Hospital has recently launched Mumbai’s first Mucormycosis clinic. “Most patients came to us with sinus infection, but in advanced cases, we observed eye involvement causing vision loss and spread of the infection to the brain, with life threatening sequelae (after-effects of a disease),” said Dr Patil who has treated five Covid-19 recovered patients with mucormycosis in three months. According to the doctor, the infection kills tissues causing necrosis (death of a tissue). Treatment requires the removal of dead tissues and even the tissues surrounding it to curb the spread. Dr Ravikiran Vernekar, senior ENT surgeon at LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, said, “The most common presentation is a sinus infection that is accompanied by nasal congestion, nasal discharge and sinus pain.” “It is also necessary to get diabetes under control to reduce chances of infection,” said Dr Vasant Nagvekar, head of the department, infectious diseases, Global Hospital, Parel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fungal-infection-on-rise-among-those-who-recovered-from-covid-19-docs-101612718809060.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Soon, Mumbai civic body to inspect 13 shortlisted hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start inspection of the 13 shortlisted private hospitals before granting final approval to innoculate the public with Covid-19 vaccines, on their premises in the third phase of the mass immunisation programme.Last month, the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a forum of private hospitals approached the civic body seeking permission to allow them to inoculate the public in their hospital premises. Following which a questionnaire seeking information about the infrastructural capacity required to run the mass vaccination programme was sent to private hospitals.As HT reported earlier, around 100 private hospitals filled up the online form showing interest to be part of the immunisation process of which 13 have been shortlisted. The list includes the major private hospitals like Bombay, Lilavati, Hinduja hospitals, among others.“In the form, we had asked them to submit details of their immunisation department. Depending on it, we have shortlisted 13 of them. Now, we will have to inspect the hospitals to cross-check if they have the adequate infrastructure to run the immunisation programme,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. “Only if they fulfil the criteria, approval will be granted.”However, hospitals haven’t been officially informed about the planned inspections. “We have got to know about it through the media, but we haven’t received any official confirmation from the civic body,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital who had initially approached BMC with the proposal.In the third phase, BMC will immunise the elderly above the age of 50 years. As per an initial estimation, over 30 lakh people are residing in Mumbai who falls into the category.“To make vaccination centres more accessible to the public, private hospitals will pay a key role,” said Dr Bhansali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/soon-mumbai-civic-body-to-inspect-13-shortlisted-hospitals-101612718329062.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||HSVP to carry out large-scale drive against encroachments||Taking a cue from the department of town and country planning(DTCP), which has carried out large-scale demolition drives against illegal colonies in recent times, officials of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) said that it will also start a similar concerted drive against illegal encroachments on its own land as well as against violations carried out by plot owners. As a part of this campaign, HSVP on Thursday removed encroachments from a vacant plot in Sector 52. The department also said that it has been able to make 1,000 plots free from litigation in sectors 52 to 57 and added that it will be removing encroachments from these plots as well. The authority has also asked allottees to take possession of their plots at the earliest. Vivek Kalia, estate officer 2, HSVP, said that a detailed survey was carried out last one month in which plots, green belts and sites owned by authority that have been encroached upon or illegally occupied were identified. “We have decided that properties owned by HSVP would be cleared from such encroachments on a priority basis. This week, we carried out anti-encroachment drives at two spots and will carry out more such drives in the coming weeks,” said Kalia. The authority has also asked the sector residents to share information regarding encroachments in their areas so that action can be taken against such violations. “The encroachments along the roads and on the green spaces would also be removed,” said Kalia.As part of this anti-encroachment drive, the enforcement team of HSVP removed illegal encroachments on its land in Sector 52, where a house was being constructed illegally, said officials. An enforcement team on Thursday stopped the construction work being carried out on the plot of land and sealed all the walls and gate of the plot. HSVP officials said that around 400 square yards of land adjacent to the plot was lying vacant but it was being encroached upon and a house was being constructed on it. Kalia said that the matter came to light when the owner of the adjacent plot constructed a house and applied for occupancy certificate. “The property has been sealed and detailed probe is being conducted into the registry and other documentation. We are probing this matter so that such incidents are not repeated,” he said. SK Rana, sub-divisional officer, HSVP, said that the site has been sealed as the structure was being built on HSVP property. The enforcement team of the authority also cleared a plot of land in Sector 46, on which a cow shelter was being operated illegally. Officials said that illegal shops had also been constructed at the site. HSVP official said that around 2,000 square yards plot was encroached upon for the last several years and the site was cleared from encroachments with the help of a large police team. Before taking action, the cows present at the shelter were shifted. The shops constructed on the site were also demolished along with other illegal structures, said officials. Officials added that they have also asked the police department to keep a close watch on the authority’s properties so that these plots are not encroached upon illegally. “We will work closely with residents’ welfare associations and the police department to identify and remove encroachments,” said Kalia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-to-carry-out-large-scale-drive-against-encroachments-101612717910406.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||35-yr-old executive of five-star hotel robbed in car on pretext of lift||A 35-year-old executive of a five-star hotel was assaulted and robbed of his belongings at knifepoint by robbers in a car who offered him a lift last Wednesday night. He was later thrown out on an isolated stretch in Rewari, the police said.Robberies of passengers on the pretext of offering lifts have been a cause of concern for the police, especially at Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk and Rajiv Chowk, located along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, with more than a dozen people being arrested last year. However, the gangs seem to have resurfaced, the police said.The victim in the Wednesday’s incident, Ved Prakash, lives at a rented accommodation in Delhi’s Dwarka and works at a five-star hotel near Dronacharya Metro station. The police said that after completing his shift, Prakash left the hotel and flagged down a private car at Iffco Chowk around 1am on Feb 4. He asked the driver to drop him in Delhi, near the Dwarka crossing.“When he boarded a white car, four people, including the driver, were already inside. After driving a few kilometres, one of the passengers in the rear seat asked Prakash to sit in between, claiming that he was feeling suffocated and nauseated,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime).Prakash told the police that after a few kilometres, when the car reached the Rajokri underpass, the two men, seated to his left and right, held his hand and asked to hand over his belongings.“One of them took out my wallet from my rear pocket and snatched my mobile phone. All this happened while the driver ignored him and kept driving towards Rajasthan,” Prakash said in his complaint.The police said that the suspects took his debit and credit cards, assaulted him to make him reveal the PINs and also took ₹3,000 that was in his wallet.Sangwan said the victim could not resist the attempt as he couldn’t understand what was happening. “It all happened within a few minutes and I could not even retaliate,” Prakash wrote in his complaint.The accused then drove the car towards Rewari and pushed him out of car, after which he took public transport and reached home in Delhi. Prakash said he narrated his ordeal to his family members, following which he filed a case at the Sector 17/18 police station. He is still in trauma, said police.The police have lodged an FIR against four unidentified people under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/35yrold-executive-of-five-star-hotel-robbed-in-car-on-pretext-of-lift-101612717909738.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||Over 15,000 turn up for mahapanchayat at Sunehra||Highlighting the need for communal harmony and amity among farmers agitating against the farm laws, farmer leaders from different states on Sunday addressed a crowd of over 15,000 people during a “mahapanchyat” at Sunehra, near the Haryana-Rajasthan border. The call for the mahapanchayat was given by the Meo community of Rajasthan and Haryana that has been protesting against the farm laws under a common banner since last December.Mahapanchayats or village gatherings are being held in various parts of the country against the backdrop of a call given by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Rakesh Tikait to strengthen the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Farmers across the country are protesting against the three farm laws that were passed in September last year. Farmers fear that the new laws will put an end to the maximum support price (MSP) for important crops and leave them open to exploitation by corporate interests.Sunday’s mahapanchayat was addressed by a host of farmer leaders and Congress MLAs from Nuh. These included BKU’s Gurnam Charuni, BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh, farmer-leader Ghulam Mohammad Jola, Rakesh Tikait’s nephew, Gaurav Tikait, AIKSC’s Amra Ram and Bhim Army’s Chandrashekhar Azad, among others.Greeting the impressive crowd with “assalamualaikum” and “namaskar”, Charuni said the overwhelming turnout of people indicated that the farmers’ agitation would grow substantially in the coming days. He said that the government had unintentionally brought people from different communities together in the fight against the laws. “Today, Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs are standing together under a common banner of farmers,” he said.Calling the agitation against the three farm laws a fight for survival, he said, “The fight today is for livelihood. Our people will die if these laws are implemented. The government will take money from your pockets and give it to corporates. We need to defeat these law s together since hunger doesn’t see religion or caste.”Emphasizing the danger posed by the three laws, Charuni said that the laws will benefit corporates, whereas small shopkeepers will suffer. “Corporates are benefitting while the poor people are suffering,” said Charuni. Exhorting people to join the agitation, he said that the fight against the laws was a long one but needed to be seen to the end.Ghulam Mohammad Jola, a farmer leader from Muzaffarnagar, said that Mewat, a land of revolutionaries, was playing a crucial role in strengthening the farmers’ agitation. Jola, who quit BKU in the aftermath of 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots, recalled his recent meeting with Rakesh Tikait and said that the two communities have set aside their differences. “They invited us to the panchayat and now, we have set aside our differences. Muslims will make sacrifices and ensure that the three laws are defeated,” he said.Siddique Ahmed Meo, a social activist from Nuh, said that the mahapanchayat had been called to demonstrate that the people of Mewat stood in solidarity with the protesting farmers. He said while farmers from the Mewat region in Rajasthan and Haryana had been participating in a sit-in protest since the last month, Sunday’s mahapanchayat was the biggest gathering against the three laws in the region. “People from Mewat have been participating in various protests, including an indefinite sit-in protest. Today’s gathering will give a momentum to the protests. Farmers’ leaders from different states also appreciated the role being played by Meos in this historic movement,” said Meo.The mahapanchayat saw the participation of men and women from Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Maulana Arshad Meel, of Bharatpur in Rajasthan who had started the protest at the Haryana Rajasthan border and had given the call for the gathering, said, “The mahapanchayat today decided that our protests will continue till the three laws are rolled back. We will continue the ongoing protest at the Haryana-Rajasthan border.” Gaurav Tikait, the nephew of Rakesh Tikat, said that the farmers’ agitation would only end with the repeal of the three laws and implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee report. Referring to the events that transpired on January 26, he said that genuine farmers would never disrespect the tricolour. “We can give our lives for the honour of the country. The government should go after those who hoisted the religious flag on the Red Fort and not all farmers,” said Tikait. He also emphasised on the importance of defeating the government’s alleged divisive agendas. “When the government tries to divide you on the basis of caste and religion, you should identify yourself only as farmers,” said Tikait. Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Haryana spokesperson, Jawahar Yadav, said that the crowds at mahapanchayats would have no bearing on the farm laws. “We have always maintained that this is a political movement, and many people are working behind the scenes. These things will become clearer with time and people will start weaning away from the protests. Genuine farmers will start breaking away from these protests as they understand the politics taking place in the garb of the farmer’s movement,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-15-000-turn-up-for-mahapanchayat-at-sunehra-101612717909099.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG to be audited over irregularities in contract works over last two years||A special audit of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram has been sanctioned by the Urban Local Bodies (ULB) minister, Anil Vij, to check for irregularities in the agency’s operations, officials said on Sunday.Officials said that Vij was apprised of the irregularities on Thursday, when he turned up without warning to the MCG’s House meeting, in which agendas approved last year were being discussed. Vij, who is also the state health minister, was in the city on Thursday for the start of the second phase of Covid-19 vaccinations.Following conversations with the councillors — who apprised him about several instances wherein the MCG officials had paid total project cost to contractors but failed to ensure the start of work on the ground or where work was in initial stages — Vij announced that an audit of the municipal body would be carried out.“The ULB minister was present at the review meeting for a short duration. He lent his support to the concept of reviewing House meeting agendas and later, also announced that a special audit would be carried out for both the MCG and the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) by the auditor general,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG.A special audit is one which only looks into the specific, selective workings of a public body and does not provide comprehensive coverage. For instance, in the special audit ordered by Vij, only irregularities in sanctioning funds to contractors would be looked into, rather than all civic dealings.There were several major cases last year wherein the MCG’s engineering wing officials had flouted norms and paid money to the contractors. As per MCG councillors, they brought the matter to Vij’s notice which prompted him to announce for a special audit.“There have been several cases in the MCG last year where irregularities were highlighted on part of MCG officials, who seemed to have colluded with contractors and paid them the entire project cost or a significant sum even though work on-ground was yet to start or still at an early stage. We had a brief discussion with the ULB minister on this, where he informed us about this audit,” said a councillor, who had attended the meeting held at the PWD rest house.In December last year, the charge of an MCG executive engineer (XEN) was withdrawn over alleged irregularities. In November 2020, the MCG had floated tenders to fix potholes and re-carpet roads in Ward 34, at an estimated cost of around ₹47.50 lakh. The XEN had allegedly paid the entire project cost even though work had not started on the ground.In September last year, a contractor was paid ₹50 lakh, nearly a quarter of the total project cost of ₹2 crore, for laying pavement tiles in Ward 25. However, after it emerged that only 10% of work had been executed on the ground, an investigation was initiated into the matter.In February 2020, a local politician had alerted the MCG that ₹1.67 crore — the total project cost for building a two-kilometre road in Ward 1 — had been paid to a contractor even before construction had started. It resulted in a vigilance probe.In December 2019, the MCG’s engineering wing had paid ₹35 lakh to a contractor for constructing a 1.7-kilometre track between Khushboo Chowk and Bristol Chowk along the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road despite work having been done on only 600 metres, totalling to ₹11 lakh. The contractor was later blacklisted by the MCG.In July last year, Vij had made a similar announcement and an order for a special audit of both MCG and MCF was also issued by the Haryana government. However, officials privy to the matter said that the special audit could not be conducted due to government officials being caught up with the coronavirus outbreak.Despite repeated attempts, the commissioner of MCG could not be contacted for comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-be-audited-over-irregularities-in-contract-works-over-last-two-years-101612717908441.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||Laptop, documents stolen from executive’s car; case filed||Unidentified persons broke into the car of a 30-year-old executive on Sohna Road near Subhash Chowk and fled with a laptop, documents and credit and debit cards. According to the police, the thieves smashed the rear window of the car parked near a roadside medical shop on Friday evening, and fled with the laptop bag kept on the rear seat. After preliminary investigation, a case of theft was registered at the Sadar police station on Saturday, the police said on Sunday. Kuldeep Sharma, a resident of Sector 38 who works in an automobile company, told the police that while he was returning from office, he stopped near Eldeco Mansion on Fazilpur Road and went inside a medial shop to buy medicines. “When I returned, I found the window glass of my rear seat broken. The laptop, which was kept on the rear seat, was also missing. My debit and credit cards, along with my wife’s driving licence, were inside the laptop bag, which was missing,” he said. Sharma said he informed police control room regarding the theft. He received a call from a taxi driver from South City 2 who informed him that his documents were lying on the road near the main gate. “The driver worked with a local taxi service agency. He found all the documents and cards, but the bag and laptop were missing,” said Sharma. A case under section 379 (theft) was registered at Sadar police station on Saturday. This is the second such incident this year. Last year, more than 35 similar cases were reported and six gangs members were arrested, said police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that a new gang is presently operating across the city and is targeting parked cars, which are left unattended. “We are scanning the CCTV footage of all suspected locations and have formed teams to keep a watch on various stretches across the city,” he said. The police said they are conducting an investigation and have not got any leads in the case yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/laptop-documents-stolen-from-executive-s-car-case-filed-101612717848442.html
07-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand disaster: Locals feared Kedarnath-like tragedy||By Ankur SharmaForty-two-year-old Rakesh Dhimri, a resident of Raini village, was sipping his tea of Sunday morning when he suddenly got up on his chair to enquire about a loud sound of water gushing down.On coming out of his house, he saw a huge amount of muck flowing towards the under-construction Rishi Ganga hydel power project, enough to remind him of the memories of 2013 Kedarnath tragedy which killed thousands of people.Like Dhimri, many other residents of the small village of Raini near the dam got out of their houses staring down at the river in shock and fear, breaching the dam where at least 40 workers are missing."The first thing that came to my mind after seeing the swollen river was the Kedarnath tragedy which swallowed thousands of lives. My family and I were just praying to God to protect us from similar possible tragedy. Fortunately, we were saved but the workers on the dam site were not so lucky," said Dhimri.Also read: Night ops to continue in Uttarakhand, says ITBP; alert in UPMahendra Prakash Semwal, a resident of Chamoli town, about 24 kilometres from Rishi Ganga project said, "We were informed by the authorities about the dam breach and just are praying to God while many of us are shifting to safe places from the riverside.""We were just holding our breaths with all our eyes on the Alaknanda river in which the water level was increased due to the glacier burst. We continued in the same state till the water level receded in the river and gave us a sigh of relief," said Semwal. "We would, however, not sleep tonight out of panic and fearing a much bigger disaster at night like Kedarnath," he added.There was panic all around as the news of the disaster spread in the thinly populated mountainous region, close to China-Nepal border. Many people living close to the river could be seen running out of their homes with whatever belongings they could take. Fortunately, there was not much water in the river to reach their homes.The massive disaster had claimed seven lives till Sunday evening. Twelve had been rescued and about 190 were still missing after damage to two dams, Rishi Ganga and Dhauli Ganga. Many residents of Chamoli questioned the government on setting up the two projects there despite resistance by locals and environmentalists."The disaster had caused huge loss of life and property in the area. The government should have assessed all the aspects, including scientific, before setting up the projects in the area which probably destroyed the Rishi Ganga valley completely," said Pradeep Farswan, a resident of Chamoli.He added, "The government should help to provide the basic needs to the affected people including the labourers working in the Dhauli Ganga project as some of them, who were not present at the time of the incident, are wandering restlessly like the lockdown times."State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel were among the first to respond to the tragedy by initiating a rescue operation."Initially, the people of the area were in panic. They feared that Kedarnath-like tragedy may happen again," said an SDRF personnel who was rushed for relief work at Rishi Ganga hydel project.NK Joshi, Chamoli district disaster management officer said, "As the disaster was considerably big, the residents of the area were in panic. However, we tried to handle that by making announcements in the area, urging people to stay away from the river and get to safety.""We also took to social media platforms actively urging them not to pay heed to any rumours about the incidents including some old unrelated videos. Despite that, many were still in panic which subsided only after the water level in the river went down to normal," said Joshi.Informing about the casualties and other loss in the disaster, he said, "So far, the rescue agencies have recovered seven bodies and saved 12 workers from a tunnel in Dhauli Ganga project. Efforts are on to rescue others who are stuck in another 250 metres-long tunnel which is completely filled with muck.""God has saved me," said a worker as he came out from a make-shift trench dug inside the river muck. "I cannot believe I am alive. Inside the tunnel, we were working at some distance and got no time to respond to the water. I was saved as I hooked myself into a corner," an unidentified worker who was rescued by SDRF personnel at Tapovan hydel project said.On the number of total missing people, Joshi said that the exact figure could not be ascertained. Other officials, however, claimed that about 190 workers are missing who were working in the two dams at the time of the incident."Luckily it was a Sunday due to which many workers didn't come. Had it been a working day, the feared loss of life would have been much bigger," said Joshi.Earlier in the day, as soon as the incident was reported, state leadership, including chief minister and state chief secretary, got into action mode to monitor the situation with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat later flying off to Tapovan to assess the situation and monitor rescue operation.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah also spoke to him on the situation while assuring every possible help in the rescue work.The rescue operation is still on with personnel from the SDRF, the NDRF, the ITBP and the Army involved along with choppers. It will continue on Monday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-disaster-locals-feared-kedarnath-like-tragedy-101612717085318.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||Constable arrested in connection with ₹57-lakh graft case||The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau arrested one more constable of Gurugram Police in connection with ₹57-lakh graft case and the illegal detention of a Delhi-based call centre owner. The former station house officer (SHO) of Kherki Daula police station and a head constable had already been arrested in this case, said the police.A senior vigilance officer confirmed the arrest of the constable and said he was produced before the court on Thursday and was taken in two days police remand. “He is likely to become an approver and more arrests are underway,” he said on condition of anonymity.The constable has been identified as Jagbir Singh. He was posted at Kherki Daula police station and was allegedly involved in kidnapping and extortion of the call centre owner. Singh, along with head constable Amit, had allegedly kidnapped Delh-based businessman Naveen Bhutani from a restaurant on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway in and took him to Kherki Daula police station. Later he was taken to a farmhouse in the Pataudi area.The owner of the farmhouse Krishan Yadav was arrested on January 7 and former SHO inspector Vishal Kumar had surrendered before a local court on January 12. The head constable Amit was arrested by the vigilance bureau allegedly on December 29 while accepting a bribe of ₹5 lakh from Bhutani, following which a case was registered against cops.The police said Bhutan was held hostage, kidnapped by the SHO and his team in the last week of December, who then demanded ₹ 3 crore, but later settled for ₹1 crore before setting him free after collecting ₹57 lakh.Mayank Raghav, counsel for Naveen Bhutani, said the vigilance bureau has arrested one more personnel who was part of the crime. “Amit and Jagbir had picked up Bhutani from the restaurant. Amit was arrested in December and Jagbir was arrested on Thursday and was remanded two days of police custody,” said Raghav adding many more arrests are expected in the case.According to the vigilance department, Bhutani, who runs a call centre and sells religious products in the UK and Australia, had approached the senior officers of the department with a complaint against two officials of the Kherki Daula police station for allegedly extorting ₹57 lakh from him and demanding ₹10 lakh more.Bhutani said that SHO Vishal Kumar assaulted him in his office and got his laptop data scanned for information on his business. He allegedly asked for ₹1 crore for his release but agreed on ₹57 lakh after negotiation.Later Bhutani approached senior vigilance officials and narrated his ordeal, following which a case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections 384 (extortion), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the police officials.Later Bhutani approached senior vigilance officials and narrated his ordeal, following which a case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections 384 (extortion ), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/constable-arrested-in-connection-with-57-lakh-graft-case-101612715988327.html
07-02-2021||Kolkata||PM Modi’s 'match-fixing' remark draws criticism from TMC, Left and Congress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday drew criticism from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Left and the Congress for accusing the three parties of getting into a “match-fixing” arrangement to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the assembly polls due in April-May in West Bengal.“Our fight in Bengal is with the TMC but also with their hidden friends. You must have heard of match-fixing in sports. The TMC is also into a match-fixing with the Left and the Congress. They meet secretly behind closed doors in Delhi and make plans. In Kerala, the Left and the Congress come to power for every alternate five years. They say to each other ‘You loot for five years and we will loot in the next five.’ We have to be careful about this. We have to warn everyone,” PM Modi said at a BJP rally in Haldia in Bengal’s East Midnapore district.The Prime Minister came to Bengal for three-and-a-half hours to inaugurate some important road and gas projects. He made the remarks at a BJP rally that he addressed before heading for the government programme.PM Modi also held the three parties responsible for the woes of the people and lack of development in Bengal.“The Congress regime in Bengal was marked by corruption and the Left added atrocity to this when it came to power. Violence and corruption reached a peak during the Left regime. At that moment, Mamata Banerjee raised a cry, seeking a change in the regime. This drew the attention of the nation and gave birth to hope among people. But the state became a victim of her politics. The very first year of her regime proved that there was no change. It was a rebirth of the violent regime. It was an attack on democracy. Hence, poverty increased, old industries shut down and new projects never came up,” said PM Modi.Also read: U'khand flood live updates - ITBP says 30 people trapped in tunnel being rescuedTMC’s senior Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy dismissed the allegation of “match-fixing.”“What Modi said is baseless and impossible. On the contrary, I have proof that the BJP had a secret arrangement with the Left in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Some CPI(M) leaders took the money and transferred their votes to the BJP,” said Roy, referring to the BJP’s win in 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, marking a record, and the CPI(M)’s vote share going down to 6.34 per cent.CPI(M) legislator and leader of the Left parties in the Bengal assembly, Sujan Chakraborty dismissed all the allegations, saying PM Modi’s comment at a political rally proved that the BJP is scared of the Left-Congress alliance.“The Left parties are supposed to have been reduced to a nothing according to the BJP. Why in that case is the Prime Minister talking about the Left and the Congress? Is it a proof of the BJP’s fear? Is the BJP scared of the Left-Congress alliance? We are aware of the secret arrangement the BJP has with the TMC. It is TMC that helped the BJP rise in Bengal in exchange for favours,” said Chakraborty.Congress legislator and leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Abdul Mannan also accused the BJP of having a pact with the TMC.“It was I who moved the Supreme Court in 2014, seeking CBI probe into various chit fund scams in which many TMC leaders are accused. Why didn’t the BJP government at the Centre take action against them in seven years? This is the real proof of the arrangement the two parties have,” said Mannan.Political commentator and columnist Suvashsis Maitra said, "By putting the TMC, Left and BJP in one bracket Modi tried to project the BJP as the only party against which all are united. It is also a way of showing the BJP as the sole force fighting for Hindutva."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-modi-s-match-fixing-remark-draws-criticism-from-tmc-left-and-congress-101612714175271.html
07-02-2021||Dehradun||'Cause of Chamoli glacier tragedy to be studied by experts': Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the cause of the tragedy in Chamoli will be studied by experts. The chief minister said that at present the state government is focussed on saving the lives of people. A glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district caused a massive flooding in the Dhauli Ganga river.“When I was going to attend a function in the morning around 11.20 am, I came to know through social media that a tragedy had struck in Chamoli,” Rawat said.“I immediately called the district administration to confirm. I came to know that due to glacier breaking, a tragedy had struck. There are two parts of Raini village, one on this side of the river and the other on another,” he added.Rawat said the Rishiganga dam project is located near this village which was commissioned in 2020 with 35 workers engaged there and four cops posted for security. “Two were on leave and two were there and are now missing. Around 30 workers working on the project are also missing”.Also read: No threat to other Uttarakhand villages, says Centre; alert in UPCM Rawat said around 5 kilometres downstream at the NTPC’s under-construction hydel power project at Tapovan, around 176 workers were working. “There are two tunnels there. Around 15 people were deployed on one tunnel while around 30 to 35 workers were working on the other. 35 to 45 came back and were rescued, one is injured. The rescue work is being carried out with much difficulty with ropes and digging of the muck that has filled the tunnels. No contact could be made with the trapped workers inside the tunnel. Seven bodies have been recovered so far,” he added.Rawat said he conducted the aerial survey of the area and later visited Raini village by road to take stock of the situation. “One main bridge and 4 small other bridges were damaged, cutting off the right side of the Raini village and 11 other villages”.He said Army’s three helicopters and one of Indian Airforce have reached the affected areas. “Our choppers are also engaged and ready for rescue and relief operations," he said.The chief minister said PM Modi called him and assured him of all possible help. He said the Centre will provide all possible help to the state. “Home minister Amit Shah and President of India also called and expressed concern and spoke about all possible cooperation,” he said.Rawat also announced compensation of ₹4 lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lived in the tragedy.“We have made all arrangements for rescue and relief operations and providing healthcare facilities to the affected people,” he said.Rawat said water has cleaned up close to Chamoli town and the situation concerning water level has almost stabilised. “We had removed water from Srinagar Dam so that there is no risk. The railway project was stopped and an alert was sounded all along the river downstream. River rafting has been stopped up to Haridwar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cause-of-chamoli-tragedy-to-be-studied-by-experts-uttarakhand-cm-101612709734139.html
07-02-2021||Dehradun||Flow from Uttarakhand's Tehri dam stopped in view of flood situation||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday said that the flow from the Tehri dam was stopped to facilitate the smooth passage of rising waters on Rishiganga and Alaknanda rivers in view of the Chamoli flood situation."Flow from Tehri dam was stopped to facilitate the smooth passage of rising waters on RishiGanga and Alaknanda. All the villages and low lying areas on the banks were vacated and water flow from Srinagar dam was increased to manage higher water flows due to disaster," Rawat tweeted.He further said that the water flow in the Alaknanda River has become normal past Nandprayag and the water level of the river is now 1 meter above normal but the flow is decreasing.Rishiganga Power Project has been damaged due breach of a glacier in the Tapovan area. People living on the bank of the Alaknanda River are advised to move to safe places at the earliest by the Chamoli Police.100-150 people are feared to be dead in the flash flood in Chamoli following an avalanche near a power project at Raini village in the Tapovan area, Uttarakhand Chief Secretary OM Prakash said.Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that Chief Minister has spoken to him regarding the natural disaster in Uttarakhand. All officers concerned are working on a war footing to rescue people.Chamoli district magistrate has instructed officials to evacuate people living in villages on the bank of the Dhauliganga River. The district magistrate and the superintendent of police have left for the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/flow-from-uttarakhand-s-tehri-dam-stopped-in-view-of-flood-situation-101612709787939.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Amit Shah calls Maharashtra's MVA govt a 'three-wheel autorickshaw'||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday termed the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra as a "three-wheel auto-rickshaw" and accused it of failing on all fronts.Speaking after inaugurating a private medical college at Kankavli in Maharashtra's Sindhudurg district, Shah said all wheels of this auto-rickshaw were moving in different directions."This is a unholy alliance made by betraying the people's mandate which was for a BJP-Shiv Sena government led by Devendra Fadnavis," he said.He alleged the alliance was made for the lust of power, and asserted that no promise was made before the 2019 Assembly polls about sharing of the chief minister's post in the state by the then allies BJP and Shiv Sena.The Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena parted ways with the BJP after the Assembly polls in 2019 over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post in the state, and later forged an alliance with the NCP and Congress to come to power.Thackeray had claimed that Shah, who was then BJP president, assured in 'Matoshree' (Thackeray's home in Mumbai's Bandra area) that the CM's post would be shared by the two parties, but the BJP later went back on the promise.However, Shah on Sunday reiterated that no promise was made to the Shiv Sena on sharing of the chief ministers post."I don't make promises in closed rooms. Whatever I do, I do it openly...I don't do politics in closed rooms," the Union minister said.It is being alleged the BJP broke the promise, Shah said and stressed that his party honours its promises."We don't speak white lies. We are the ones who honour commitments. In Bihar, we said if the NDA gets more seats, Nitish Kumar will continue to be CM," he said.The BJP got more seats than the JD(U) and Nitish Kumar said the BJP should have its chief minister, he noted."But, we said the BJP has already given its word that he (Nitish Kumar) will remain the CM," Shah said.Hitting out at Thackeray, Shah said the Sena president addressed rallies with him and Prime Minister Narendra Modi before the Maharashtra Assembly elections.In the posters of Shiv Sena candidates, PM Modi's pictures were bigger than Thackeray's, he said."We sought votes for the BJP-Sena led by Fadnavis, why didn't you speak out that time? You just took votes in the name of Modiji," Shah said.The BJP made "no promise" to the Shiv Sena on sharing of the CM's post, he asserted."For the lust of power, all (late Sena founder) Balasaheb's ideals were dumped in the Tapi river," he said, and accused the MVA government of failing on all fronts.Shah also said the Ram temple will be constructed at Ayodhya in Uttar Padesh in two years.He said the "BJP is in politics for its ideals, and not for politics like the Shiv Sena".He said during a cyclone in the state (last year), Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray did not visit the affected Konkan region while Fadnavis visited the area thrice.He claimed that sugar cooperatives held by BJP leaders are being victimised by the state government."If we would have followed your path, your party would have lost its relevance," he said.Shah praised BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane's efforts for the construction of the medical college which was inaugurated on Sunday at Kankavli, the political turf of Rane.The Union minister further said under the leadership of PM Modi, India effectively tackled the COVID-19 pandemic which the world considers as a "model".Everyone wondered how the country with a huge population and weak health infrastructure would control the pandemic but "effective steps were taken at the right time", he said."Efforts were made, like janta curfew, lockdown, boosting morale of health workers, starting testing labs, manufacture of ventilators, masks and PPE kits," he said.India's line of treatment during the pandemic is being followed by 170-odd countries, Shah said.The big difference was that in India, the central government, state governments, doctors, health workers and 130 crore people together handled the situation, he said."Our COVID-19 death rate is low, our recovery rate is the best," he said.Through the janta curfew, PM Modi prepared people for the lockdown, he said, and also referred to initiatives like clapping, beating of 'thalis' and lighting lamps to encourage doctors and health workers.Shah said during the pandemic, the health infrastructure was boosted at a rocket-speed.He said the world's largest vaccination programme was recently launched in India."We have rolled out two vaccines...four more are in the pipeline," he said, adding that India is set to supply 70 per cent of world's vaccine needs.The vaccines are being exported to 14 countries, the Union minister informed.In the last six-and-a-half years, the Centre has invested heavily in health infrastructure, he added. PTI MR GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amit-shah-calls-maharashtra-s-mva-govt-a-three-wheel-autorickshaw-101612708544837.html
07-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand flood: State govt to provide ₹4 lakh financial assistance for families of those killed||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday announced ₹4 lakh compensation for the families of those killed due to the flash flood caused by glacier burst in the Chamoli district.The chief minister was addressing a press conference after returning from a review of the affected area. “State government will provide financial assistance of ₹4 lakh each to the kin of the deceased,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister also said that he has spoken to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and said that he has been assured of full support from the Centre as well as the Indian Army.Rawat said, “PM Narendra Modi assured all possible help, he called twice. I also got calls from home minister Amit Shah and President Ram Nath Kovind.” The Prime Minister’s Office also said that PM Modi has approved ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 for people who have been injured seriously.The chief minister also said that the number of people missing due to the avalanche and flood caused by the glacier burst could be higher than previously assumed. He also said that several locals with their livestocks also disappeared in the incident. He said, “Experts can tell the reason behind the glacier outburst but our government is right now focused on saving the lives of people. Five locals including shepherds with their 180 sheep and goats swept away in the flash flood. We are assuming that around 125 people are missing. The number can be higher.”Several teams of the Indian Army, National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force are present at the site. Earlier on Sunday, a glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni region which caused a flash flood causing at least 150 casualties. Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Sunday rescued 16 people trapped in a tunnel near the Tapovan area in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand. 9 bodies have been recovered so far at the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) site in the Tapovan area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-flood-state-govt-to-provide-rs-4-lakh-financial-assistance-101612707828806.html
07-02-2021||Pune||Misbranded wires worth ₹43 lakh seized; one arrested||The Pune police crime branch officials raided a godown and arrested one man after they found misbranded electrical wires worth ₹43 lakh from a vendor. The arrested man was identified as Dineshsingh Rupsingh Rajpurohit, (42) a resident of Shukrawar peth, Pune, according to a statement issued by Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta received information that a store owner in Budhwar peth who was selling misbranded electric wires of a Polyback company. The police sent a fake customer to Rajpurohit and asked for wires of Polyback company. “There are watermarks on the right products and under UV lights the watermarks can be seen on the boxes. There are other markers too which are telling if you know what you are looking for. When he got the wires, we checked them under UV lights,” said senior police inspector Rajnish Nirmal of Unit 4 of crime branch. The police are now on a lookout for the middlemen and the manufacturer of these wires, according to Senior PI Nirmal. “Upon interrogation, the accused revealed that he acquired these wires from, and the material required for packaging them from electric markets in other states and sold them to construction businesses from his shop, Pavan electric shop. Since there are no GST bills for these wires, all transactions happen through hawala,” read a statement from Unit-4. The police are in the know of 12 other dealers who are involved in the trade of misbranded electric wires and are preparing to apprehend them too, according to the police. The man was remanded to four days in police custody by the local court and will remain with the crime branch officials until February 10. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/misbranded-wires-worth-rs-43-lakh-seized-one-arrested-101612697507379.html
07-02-2021||Other||Three co-operative society staffers held for involvement in ₹6.78 crore fraud||PUNE The officials of economic offences wing of Pune crime branch have arrested three staff members of Dhankawadi-based credit co-operative society for alleged involvement in ₹6.78 crore fraud.The arrests were made by Bhagyashree Navtake, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), economic offences wing, Pune crime branch and Anita More, senior police officer, on Friday.The fraud took place at Adarsh Nagri Sahakari Patsanstha, Dhankwadi, between 1999 and 2018 wherein at least 161 depositors were cheated.The arrested accused have been identified as Kashinath Kerba Bansode, manager; Gautam Nana Jogdand, cashier and Shankar Satva Jogdand, clerk.A first information report (FIR) was lodged after Vilas Katkar, divisional special auditor, co-operative department, filed a complaint against the credit co-operative society staff.A special sessions court under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act, 1999 had earlier rejected the anticipatory bail applications of eight accused in the case. The case was then transferred to the economic offences wing.The five others accused in the case are identified as Krishnarao Bandal, director, secretary; Madhukar Bandal, director; Mohan Shinde, director; Kusum Deshmukh, director and Swati Umrani, accountant.According to the complaint, the bank directors, chairman and their relatives allegedly committed the fraud between 1999 and January 2018.The FIR lodged at Sahakarnagar police station states that the accused withdrew bank funds for their personal use and purchased lands at different places and misappropriated a total of ₹47,09,81,758 crore belonging to the account holders.The FIR has been lodged under Sections 420 (cheating) and 465, 466, 467, 468, and 471(forgery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act against a total of 63 people.The police have also invoked Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act against the three accused who are currently in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-co-operative-society-staffers-held-for-involvement-in-rs-6-78-crore-fraud-101612697447295.html
07-02-2021||Pune||Raut: Police will have to rethink allowing Elgar Parishad in the future||Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut and Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar have slammed Sharjeel Usmani for his speech at the Elgar Parishad held in Pune last week. Raut said police will have to rethink whether to allow Elgar Parishad in the future while deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has hit out at the organisers of the event for not stopping the speech of Usmani. Pawar said those present at Elgar Parishad should have immediately stopped Usmani’s speech. Raut, while speaking after inaugurating Shiv Sena’s medical cell centre of Nashik said AMU student leader came to Maharashtra from Uttar Pradesh where he could have been stopped. “But there is time to decide whether to give permission or not to Elgar Parishad in the future. The police will have to take a stand on this,” Raut said. Earlier this week, Pune police booked Usmani, a student leader from Aligarh Muslim University, under section 153(a) of the Indian Penal Code for an allegedly derogatory comment on Hindu society. Reacting to the speech and police action, Pawar while interacting with reporters said, “It was not at all correct, police are investigating it. Action will be taken as per law.” On being asked about why police gave permission, Pawar said, “When Usmani was delivering the speech, there were big personalities present. Even those who have worked as a judge were present. If someone said something wrong, it should have been stopped immediately. Those present there could have asked him that the speech was not in a good taste for India where people from various communities reside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/raut-police-will-have-to-rethink-allowing-elgar-parishad-in-the-future-101612697271922.html
07-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli glacial burst: Army, NDRF, ITBP begin rescue operations on a war-footing||Indian Army officials on Sunday said that 600 Indian Army soldiers are en route to the flood affected areas in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli to assist in rescue and relief efforts, news agency ANI reported.Army officials also said that choppers have been deployed to assist rescue and relief operations which are being carried out by the State Disaster Relief Management and National Disaster Relief Management teams at the flood site.“Indian Army has deployed choppers and troops supporting the Uttarakhand government and NDRF to tackle the flood. Military station near Rishikesh actively involved in coordination of rescue and relief operations with local administration. Army headquarters monitoring the situation,” army officials familiar with the developments were quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Indian Army officials are also performing aerial reconnaissance over the Reni village in Tapovan area of Chamoli. The army officials have said that four columns of army officers, one engineering task force and two medical teams are currently deployed at Reni village. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had also reached the site and is currently being briefed about the situation by NDRF, SDRF and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) officials present at the site.Earlier on Sunday, a glacial burst triggered a massive flood in the Rishi Ganga river which led to the SDRF declaring a flood alert across all districts of Uttarakhand. More than 150 people are feared to have lost their lives due to the flash flood caused by the glacier burst. ITBP officials have recovered 3 bodies so far near the NTPC project on river Dhauli Ganga near Tapovan. ITBP officials have also said that due to the glacier burst the water level in the river rose which led to the devastation. They also said that due to the flooding the Rishi Ganga Hydro Project and the BRO bridge on Joshimath highway have been completely devastated.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Union ministers Sitharaman and Goyal have assured full support to the affected and to all citizens of Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand chief minister TS Rawat has also shared phone numbers for people to reach out in case of emergency and has requested people to not spread any rumors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-glacial-burst-army-ndrf-itbp-begin-rescue-operations-on-a-warfooting-101612692942797.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 drug peddlers held, 47 kg ganja seized||Kandivali Unit of Mumbai's Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) on Saturday arrested 2 drug peddlers and seized a total of 47 kg of ganja from their possession.The total worth of the recovered drug consignment is estimated to be about ₹9 lakhs and 40 thousand.Deputy Commissioner of Police ANC Datta Nalawade said, "Mumbai Anti Narcotics Cell had arrested a 30-year-old woman with 24 kgs of ganja and a 42-year-old man with 23 kgs ganja in two separate incidents."Also read| ‘Kidnapped, imprisoned for 3 days’: Navy sailor killed, father demands justice"The accused male is a resident of Orissa and the accused woman was arrested from Malad area. Both of them were presented in court on Saturday and the court has sent the accused to police custody till February 12," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-drug-peddlers-held-47-kg-ganja-seized-101612668420948.html
07-02-2021||Delhi||Over 20 shanties gutted in fire in Delhi||More than 20 shanties were gutted after a fire broke out near Harikesh Nagar Metro Station in southeast Delhi's Okhla Phase II in the early hours of Sunday, police said.No injuries were reported, they said, adding the cause of the fire is being ascertained.The blaze broke out in a katran (waste cloth cutting) and later spread to the shanties following which approximately 20-22 shanties were gutted. A truck present at the spot also caught fire, a senior police officer said.According to Delhi Fire Service, a call about the fire was received at 2.23 am following which seven fire tenders were initially rushed to the spot. In total, 26 fire tenders were deployed and the blaze was brought under control, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/over-20-shanties-gutted-in-fire-in-delhi-101612668515946.html
07-02-2021||Delhi||Over 20 shanties gutted in fire in Delhi's Okhla, no injuries reported||More than 20 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out in Delhi's Okhla Phase II early on Sunday, reported news agency PTI, and quoted the police as saying that no injuries were reported in the incident. The cause of the fire near the Harikesh Nagar Metro station is yet to be ascertained, the police said. The blaze broke out in waste cloth cutting and later spread to the shanties following which approximately 20-22 shanties were gutted and a truck in the area also caught fire, a police official told PTI. "We got a call at 2am about the fire. The fire has been categorised as a medium category fire,” news agency ANI quoted a fire officer as saying. According to the Delhi Fire Service, 26 fire tenders were deployed and that the blaze has been brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-delhi-s-sanjay-colony-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-101612661807535.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Disquiet in Maha ruling coalition over Patole’s resignation as House speaker||The Congress’s decision to replace state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat with Nana Patole and the latter’s resignation as Maharashtra Assembly Speaker has triggered disquiet in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition. Appearing to disfavour its ally’s decision, the Shiv Sena on Saturday said re-election of such constitutional post should have been avoided.While the Congress party said the post of Assembly Speaker will remain with the party even though Patole has resigned, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Saturday that the three parties will decide the next Speaker after discussion. “It is pretty clear that the position is with the Congress party but in a situation when those working at the position of Speaker or the chief minister has to be changed, then going by the procedure, names of the contenders should be discussed with the ruling partners before a decision,” the NCP chief said.Echoing Pawar’s opinion, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, “Like Sharad Pawar saheb said, there will be discussion on the [Speaker post] again.”The Shiv Sena cautioned the Congress through an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana that it should ensure that the new state president must not become “excessively” aggressive.“After Nana (Patole) was relieved of the Speaker post [by the party] and given the responsibility of the party, it meant that Maharashtra Congress needed an aggressive face. Certainly the Congress must have thought that this aggression should not turn excessive,” the editorial said in a cautionary tone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/disquiet-in-maha-ruling-coalition-over-patole-s-resignation-as-house-speaker-101612644747860.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar advises Sachin Tendulkar to exercise caution||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday advised Bharat Ratna awardee and former international cricketer Sachin Tendulkar to be cautious while commenting on issues outside his field. He also said that the common people have fiercely reacted to the stance adopted by Indian celebrities to counter tweets from foreign celebrities on the farmers’ agitation. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also took on the Centre for dragging Bharat Ratna awardees Lata Mangeshkar and Tendulkar into its campaign to counter tweets from celebrities such as singer Rihanna. He slammed the Centre, saying that the issue was with the government’s policy and not a national issue to use legends to garner support. “They (Indian celebrities) have taken a stand but the common people have fiercely reacted to the position taken by them. I would also advise Tendulkar to exercise caution while speaking about any other field,” Pawar said.Thackeray, who was speaking to reporters, said that the union government should have not exposed Mangeshkar and Tendulkar to social media trolling. “The government should not have asked Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet and put their reputation at stake. This is an issue of the government’s policy and not of the country’s like some threat from China or Pakistan. Now they have to face the wrath of social media trolling.”“The government should have limited its use of celebrities in its campaign to actors such as Akshay Kumar,” he remarked.He further said, “They (Tendulkar and Mangeshkar) are legends in their fields, and they are very simple people. They should not have been asked to tweet with the same hashtag. They tweeted what the government asked them to tweet, and now they are at the receiving end.”Thackeray also slammed the Centre for issuing clarification to Rihanna’s tweet supporting the farmers’ stir.Reacting to comments from foreign celebrities on farmers’ protest, the former union agriculture minister also said that farmers are protesting despite all the odds since the last over two months and people were sympathetic towards them in the country. “Now, similar views are expressed abroad for the farmers, which is not good for the country. The government must take them seriously,” he suggested. Linking these reactions over farmers’ protests with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support to the candidature of Donald Trump as Presidential candidate for the second term, he said, “I remember when the Prime Minister was on a US tour, he declared that Trump will be elected for a second term and a few sections have appreciated him. Today, people from abroad are also reacting the same way because of the same reason,” he said, blaming Modi for interfering in the internal matter of the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-advises-sachin-tendulkar-to-exercise-caution-101612644827626.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s eateries, bars can remain open till 1am||Within 24 hours of restricting restaurants and bars from operating beyond 11.30pm, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday rolled back its decision. It has now allowed them to remain open till 1am, owing to requests from owners, who said the 11.30pm deadline had “no logic”.The BMC had earlier in December 2020 imposed a night curfew in the city, wherein restaurant and bar owners were allowed to operate till 11.30pm, in view of New Year celebrations. However, the state government, while extending the lockdown till February 28 last week, allowed restaurants and bars to remain open till 1am as part of its “Mission Begin Again” — a staggered plan to lift coronavirus-enforced curbs. But the BMC on Friday evening restricted the timing to 11.30pm. Restaurant and bar owners across the city complained that there was a lot of confusion post the BMC move on Friday, despite the state allowing operations till 1am. In a statement issued on Saturday, the Hotel and Restaurant Association Western India (HRAWI) said, “Many restaurants expressed discontent over the last-minute notification issued by the BMC, which caused chaos and disruption of last evening’s [Friday] business as well as a lot of confusion. Quite a few restaurants did not receive any official notification, while others complained about having received the notification over WhatsApp and were unsure of its legitimacy. Based on information received from its restaurant members, the HRAWI sought clarification from the BMC and requested for withdrawing the notification with immediate effect.”Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, HRAWI spokesperson said, “We immediately appealed against the notice and presented the facts, and thankfully the notification has been withdrawn with immediate effect as per a fresh circular issued this morning. We hope the implementing agencies have been also adequately informed. We thank the BMC and excise departments for understanding our predicament and for immediately acting on it and taking back an order, which would’ve hurt an already ailing industry even further.”A restaurant owner, not wishing to be named, said, “There was no logic in the notification issued by the BMC on Friday. It is difficult to understand the logic of making changes in the timings for service of liquor or food. How is that going to help control numbers? Are we saying that coronavirus gets activated between 11.30pm and 1.30am?”Meanwhile, as per the notification issued by the BMC on Saturday, restaurant, bar, banquet halls and food courts can remain open in the city between 7am and 1am, followed by other shops and establishments that can remain open between 7am and 11pm. Lastly, shops selling liquor in the city have been allowed to remain open between 10am and 10.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-eateries-bars-can-remain-open-till-1am-101612644522690.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Special CBI court closes attempt to murder case against Chhota Rajan||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Saturday accepted closure report in a case registered against gangster Chhota Rajan for conspiring to kill senior journalist Baljeet Parmar in 1997. CBI had sought closure of the case for want of adequate evidence to prosecute the gangster.It is alleged that on June 12, 1997, two unknown persons riding a motorcycle came and fired four shots from a revolver at Parmar with intention to kill him. A case was registered with Antop Hill police station and was later transferred to Ghatkopar police.Police had arrested Mahendra Rajaram Shelar, Wilson Charli George, Akhtar Mohammad Khan Mahadik alias Chiknya and Sajeed Mohammad Rafiq Shaikh alias Sikandar in connection with the case.They were later convicted by the session’s court in April 2000. However, Rajan, the key conspirator who had allegedly ordered to carry out the attack and another accused Rohit Varma alias Dharmendra Ramkripal Pandey, were wanted in the case.CBI last year filed a closure report against Rajan claiming that during further investigation no additional evidence has emerged against accused Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje alias Chhota Rajan.Further, the court was informed that another wanted accused Varma dead in Bangkok in 2000.The court in its order further noted that, “IO (Investigating officer) of CBI, did not find any link to connect the accused with guilt. The IO is unable to collect the vital evidences like CDRs, CAFs, etc. This court has made an attempt to call the informant - Baljeet Shersingh Parmar, but he is not traceable on the given address.”It added, “Accordingly, CBI submitted unserved report. Even otherwise, there is no sufficient material to proceed against the accused - Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje alias Chhota Rajan and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-cbi-court-closes-attempt-to-murder-case-against-chhota-rajan-101612642902183.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar hamlet students now have a roof over them||Thirty students from Ulhasnagar’s Ashele pada hamlet who were attending their daily classes in an open space have now found a new place to study with a roof above them.This, after a social worker from Ulhasnagar, Prafful Kedare decided to provide them his room for the class. Sunil Ahire, 39, another social worker, from Ulhasnagar had started classes for these under-privileged children during the lockdown, though the classes were held in the open.However the number of students are increasing and there is a need for bigger space in the coming days, claimed Ahire. This room, donated by Kedare, is named as ‘binghantichi boruchi shala’ (school without bell) and was inaugurated on the day of Savitribai Phule Jayanthi on January 3. Kedare is associated with a social group that takes personality development courses for students and professionals including doctors and advocates.These students were deprived of education during the lockdown as classes went online and they did not have digital access. Ahire had taken up the task of teaching these children. “There was always a requirement of a class for the students. Kedare asked to take his room for conducting the classes, which is a big help for us,” said Ahire, who has completed his master in sociology. These students, from Class 1 to 7 of semi-English and Marathi-medium schools, were left with no option but to skip their daily classes during the lockdown as they were conducted online. This new classroom is around 5-10 minutes away from the earlier open space. Ahire said that more parents and children were approaching him to take classes for them. But he felt that one classroom would not be enough if the count of students increases.“The students were likely to increase to 45-50, and in that case I’d require more classrooms. It will be good if someone voluntarily helped us with rooms. I am eagerly willing to take classes for more students. Also, it will be good if someone voluntarily takes lectures for the students. Otherwise, we will again have to go to an open space for the daily lectures if the students’ count increases,” said Ahire. Kedare said that the room which was given to the students is the one where personality development classes were held. “I came to know about Ahire and his students, and decided to provide a roof to them,” said Kedare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-hamlet-students-now-have-a-roof-over-them-101612641401621.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Complaints by men against spouses rise during lockdown||Thirty per cent of the total complaints received by the women redressal cell of the Navi Mumbai police department in 2020 was filed by men against their spouses. The most common among these were that the wife does not cook on time, the wife is busy on social media and doesn’t pay attention to the family or is having an extra-marital affair.The cell usually receives complaints from women who are abused, subjected to domestic violence or in marital discord with their spouses. The police claimed that the complaints by men increased with most people working from home.The lockdown last year had forced everyone to be at home, stuck with social media and other little means of entertainment. While some couples managed to sail through the tough times, some others ended up reaching the police stations and courts.Senior police inspector Meera Bansode of the women’s cell said, “In 2020, we received a total of 633 applications. While it is commonly believed that a women’s cell is for women, around 30 per cent of the total cases that came to the cell were from men against women. Of the 633 applications, around 180 complaints were from men who had issues against wives and were facing problems.”Another officer from the cell added, “Most of the complaints from men were about fights over wife not doing household chores, not cooking on time, spending too much time on social media or having an extra-marital affair.”The main aim of the cell is to solve the domestic disputes and help the couple to be back on amicable terms. Bansode added, “We do not justify or take sides. We only counsel for their better future. The maximum cases that came up during the lockdown had issues which were driven by social media. Either the husband was spending too much time on social media or the wife was glued to it.”During the lockdown period, people were mostly busy with WhatsApp, Facebook and other apps. On other days, the spouses were away from home and hence they do not know what was happening in each other’s life, she added.In 2020, of the total 633 cases, 625 were resolved by various means. While 169 were successfully counselled, 81 of them went to police stations and 383 approached court. “When the counselling does not make any difference, the couple either goes to the police station, where again an effort is made to solve the differences or else a case is registered. Otherwise, they approach court for a divorce,” Bansode added.Meanwhile, in 2019, a total of 721 applications had been received at the women’s cell, of which all were resolved via various means. While 308 ended in successful counselling, 134 approached police stations and 477 approached court.The women’s cell is headed by Bansode and has a total of six staff that includes five females and one male. This, Bansode felt, was understaffed for the number of applications they receive daily.Of breakfast at noon and ‘touch me not’**A Nerul-based businessman filed a complaint that his wife did not cook food on time. The woman, a homemaker, as per her husband’s complaint made breakfast at 12 noon, lunch at 4pm and dinner past midnight. An officer said, “The husband often ordered food as their kids aged 12 and 15 were hungry in the morning after waking up. He also frequently visited his aunt’s house for meals, which his wife never liked. After a few sittings of counselling, they mutually agreed to adjust,” the official added.**A professional driver in his thirties from Ghansoli made his wife do his B Ed after their marriage and also helped her get a teacher’s job. While studying B Ed, she met her senior and started having an affair. Slowly, she started avoiding her husband, told him she was in a relationship and hence he should not touch her but should look after her and her child, and that she would also continue to stay in his house. “We counselled the couple but the wife did not cooperate. She approached court for divorce,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-complaints-by-men-against-spouses-rise-during-lockdown-101612640981240.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Koparkhairane is first ward in Navi Mumbai to be garbage bin-free||Koparkhairane has now become the first civic ward in Navi Mumbai to be free of any public garbage bin. NMMC is aiming at making Navi Mumbai a garbage bin-free city in its attempt to rank atop in the country in Swachh Survekshan 2021.Navi Mumbai civic chief Abhijit Bangar has started ward-wise review of work being undertaken for Swachh Survekshan 2021.Bangar said, “There is no garbage bin at any public place in Koparkhairane anymore. It is an important milestone in making our city garbage bin-free. However, we need to ensure that the residents do not throw any garbage in the areas from which the bins have been removed or where beautification has been undertaken. I have issued strict instructions to our officials on the issue.”He added that instructions have been given to other wards to follow Koparkhairane’s example.Bangar said, “Steps are taken to ensure segregation of dry and wet garbage at the household level itself. Just as it is being done in housing societies, the segregation should happen in slums and gaothan areas as well. Garbage collection vans will make regular trips and ensure the mandatory segregation and collection of garbage. Local residents are being informed about the timings while red colour garbage boxes have been placed in gaothans and slums for garbage collection.”NMMC has asked the residents to make use of a compost basket for scientific disposal of garbage. The natural fertilizer can be used in flower pots in the house.Bangar added, “I have asked my officials to ensure that housing societies generating over 50kg of garbage have a composting project within their premises. It is very important that the residents actively participate in the cleanliness drive. It will ensure Navi Mumbai gets the first rank in Swachh Survey 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/koparkhairane-is-first-ward-in-navi-mumbai-to-be-garbage-binfree-101612640621170.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Pipeline work to discharge effluents into Kalyan creek to be ready by May 2022||Work on the 17.5km-long pipeline, which will carry treated effluents from the factories to be released in the creek, will be completed by May 2022, assured the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) officials.The pipeline will curb the rampant pollution in Waldhuni and Ulhas rivers as most effluents, which are now released in rivers and drains, will be released in Kalyan creek through this closed pipeline.The work, carried out by the Ambernath MIDC, on around 6km stretch from Forest Naka in Ambernath to Vadolgaon has been completed but the remaining section from Vadalgaon to Kalyan Creek is in progress.This project was planned in 2018 following complaints of pollution in Waldhuni and Ulhas rivers caused by the discharge of untreated effluents. Effluents are now discharged into nullahs within the city limits, thus polluting rivers as these drains meet the Waldhuni and Ulhas river.An officer from Ambernath MIDC requesting anonymity said, “This is a major project taken up after we received directions from the pollution board to end the practice of discharging effluents directly in the nullahs. The new pipeline will be used to carry treated effluents into the creek. This will eliminate chances of air and water pollution. The work is being conducted on time without delay, we will complete it by May 2022.”As per the officials, a total of 4km stretch on shore and 2km offshore (under water) is completed.As per a report submitted by Kalyan MPCB to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in 2014, there are four MIDC areas in Badlapur and Ambernath city — all of them have around 400 effluent-generating units. The pipeline will help in carrying the effluents released by these units.There are four Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP) in the areas — three in Ambernath and one at Badlapur. Effluents treated at these CETP are discharged into the nearby drains and nullahs that connect Waldhuni and Ulhas river.Environmentalists alleged that despite having their own treatment plants, industrial units fail to treat effluents efficiently and discharge partially-treated chemicals into nullahs.“The residents have complained of foul smell thrice in the last two months. This will keep on increasing until there are proper measures taken. This pipeline will resolve the problem to some extent,” said Shashikant Dayma, founder of Waldhuni Biradari NGO.The MIDC also has plans to keep a tab on the effluents released from the CETPs to the pipeline in order to ensure the effluents are treated before they are released. This will make sure the creek in which the effluents are discharged altogether is not polluted too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pipeline-work-to-discharge-effluents-into-kalyan-creek-to-be-ready-by-may-2022-101612640501499.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli police nab brothers for stealing 2-wheelers||Manpada police in Dombivli arrested two brothers involved in 11 two-wheeler theft cases. The police have recovered 11 two-wheelers that the siblings had planned to sell to a garage owner to modify them.The duo, identified as Yogesh Bhanushali and Mukesh Bhanushali, residents of Netivali village, Kalyan, confessed to committing more vehicle thefts in the past.According to a police officer, the accused did odd jobs and started stealing bikes over the last few months. They had worked in garages and hence knew how to unlock bikes parked on the roads.An officer said, “In the last one week, we have received three complaints of bike theft from a few societies. We formed a team and studied CCTV footage of several roads. We got an image of the accused with a stolen bike. We followed their trail and on Friday arrested them in Kalyan. The recovered two-wheelers are worth ₹4 lakh. We are looking for one more accused involved with these two. The three have stolen bikes from Nashik, Kalyan, Dombivli and Thane.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-police-nab-brothers-for-stealing-2wheelers-101612640321553.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi should make phone call to resolve deadlock: Raj Thackeray||Amid speculations that Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray is moving closer to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Thackeray on Saturday attacked the BJP over the ongoing farmer’s protest. He said that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi should make a ‘phone call’ to resolve the farmer’s stir. He also indirectly slammed PM Modi saying that if the Centre does not want non-Indians to give out opinion on issues of India, then he should not have campaigned for former United States president Donald Trump.Speaking to reporters on Saturday, the MNS chief spoke on varied issues including the Maharashtra government’s U turn on giving relief to consumers for inflated bills. He also targeted the BJP and Shiv Sena for playing politics over renaming Aurangabad to Sambhaji Nagar. He asked why the BJP did not rename the city when it was in power at the Centre and in Maharashtra between 2014 and 2019.In a bid to revive his party’s political future, the MNS has adopted the hard-line Hindutva stand — the space that fell vacant as the Sena no longer advocates stringent Hindutva lines after forming alliance with the Congress and NCP. Thackeray said he will visit the Ram temple in Ayodhya soon. The date, however, is not decided, he said.Political observers said Thackeray cozy-ing up to the BJP could be early signs of an alliance in the offing ahead of Mumbai civic election. The BJP would need the MNS to cut into the Marathi votes of the Sena.Thackeray said that if Union ministers are unable to break the deadlock in discussions with the farmers then PM Modi should intervene to resolve it. He, however, backed the Centre’s law and said there could be some shortcoming which must be rectified.He said the issue has stretched on for too long. “I have not seen such security at China or Pakistan border. There was no need for such arrangement for farmers,” he said. Referring to PM Modi’s statement in all-party meeting where he said he is a “phone call away”, Thackeray added, “I think that if PM has said he is a phone call away then he should pick up the phone and put an end to this. If his agriculture minister or any other minister cannot find a solution in talks, then the PM should pay attention to this issue.”The MNS chief further attacked PM Modi and said there was no need to for the Centre to issue clarification after pop singer Rihanna tweeted on the farmer’s agitation. “They say that outsiders should not get involved in matters of the country. Then by that same logic there was no need to hold rallies saying abki bar, Trump Sarkar; it was that country’s internal matter,” he said in an indirect reference to PM Modi’s Howdy Modi event in Houston.Meanwhile, taking on the Maharashtra government over on not providing relief to power consumers, Thackeray alleged that the “U turn” happened after a meeting between NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Adani. He alleged there would have been some “give and take” between power companies and the government.“First the minister said they would give relief to consumers. Governor asked me to meet Sharad Pawar. After I met him, he asked me to give letters in the name of the power companies like Adani, MSEB, etc. Then after five-six days, I got to know that Adani met Pawar at his home. I do not know what they discussed but after the meeting, the government said that there will not be any relief given to consumers,” Thackeray said.The MNS chief further slammed former allies — the BJP and Sena — on the issue of renaming Aurangabad. He said it is merely politics ahead of the civic elections in the city. “Why was the name not changed when the BJP and Sena were in power? Why are you politicising it now? The BJP and Sena must answer this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-should-make-phone-call-to-resolve-deadlock-raj-thackeray-101612639169150.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Ranchi sailor held hostage for ₹10 lakh, burnt alive in Palghar forest||An Indian Navy’s leading seaman, from Daltonganj, Jharkhand, was allegedly kidnapped from Chennai and held captive for three days. He was then brought to Vaiji-Vejalpada jungle in Gholwad, Palghar by three unidentified men who burnt him alive, after he refused to pay them ₹10 lakh. The locals found the victim Surajkumar Mithilesh Dube, lying, and reported to the Gholwad police. He was admitted at Sion hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries, on Friday night. Indian Navy in its statement has confirmed that Suraj Kumar Dubey, L/S, age 26 years of INS Agrani, Coimbatore,Tamil Nadu was on leave from the unit and was found with 90% burns in Palghar on 5th February. He was brought to INHS Asvini and declared dead on arrival. A case has been registered at Palghar police station and the SP, Palghar is investigating the matter.Sarjerao Kumbhar, the assistant police inspector said, “The victim was called to Chennai on January 31, and then held captive for three days and later brought to the Gholwad jungle. He was burnt alive at gun-point for refusing their demand of ₹10 lakh ransom. Locals alerted us and we admitted to Cottage Hospital, Dahanu. He was later shifted to Sion hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Before his death, he narrated the incident.”“We have registered a case under sections of 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 364 (kidnapping for ransom), 392(robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act, against unknown persons. We are investigating further,” said Kumbhar. He further added, “We are also going through the CCTV footage from nearby areas and also checking the call record, to get clues in the murder case. The body has been sent for post-mortem and its report is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ranchi-sailor-held-hostage-for-10-lakh-burnt-alive-in-palghar-forest-101612638700287.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Intervention by PM Modi may resolve farm bills issues, says Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that the highest level intervention from the Central government may help in resolving the deadlock between the Centre and farmers organisation over contentious farm bills which has resulted in over 70-day long protest, by the agrarian community. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the defence minister Rajnath Singh should intervene and resolve the impasse.He also slammed the Centre for failing to handle the farmers’ agitation properly and taking extreme steps against the protestors, which have never happened in the country post-independence.“In my opinion, the central government should take an initiative and a senior-level minister should intervene. I don’t want to disrespect Narendra Singh Tomar (Union agriculture minister) but the Prime Minister or defence minister should intervene then the issue may be resolved. If it happens then those leading the protest should also look for a resolution,” Pawar told reporters.“To stop protestors, roads were cemented with nails. It has never happened in the country since independence. The government took extreme measures which also shows their attitude. Whenever farmers come out on streets like this then the government is expected to show some consonance,” he said.Pawar alleged the BJP is defaming the ongoing agitation of farmers by calling them “Khalistanis” or “terrorists”. “The ruling party has taken a stand to defame farmers by calling Khalistanis and terrorists. These agitators are farmers who have made the country self-sufficient in food production. Calling them with names is not a quality of civilized culture,” the veteran leader said. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, peasants, along with social activists and political leaders participated in the nationwide chakka jam called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday in Maharashtra. Farmers in many parts of the state blocked national highways and state highways to show their opposition to the three laws passed by the Centre.Except for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), prominent parties including Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party, Congress, Swabhimani Sanghatna, Left parties and its affiliated bodies All India Kisan Sabha and All India Centre for Trade Unions (AICTU) participated in the agitation across the state. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the protests are not political, but the party stands for the demands of the farmers’.Reacting to comments from foreign celebrities, Pawar said that farmers are protesting despite all the odds since the last over two months and people were sympathetic towards them in the country. “Now, similar views are expressed abroad for the farmers which are not good for the country. The government must take them seriously,” he suggested.Linking these reactions over farmers’ protests with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support to the candidature of Donald Trump as Presidential candidate for the second term, he said, “I remember when the Prime Minister was on a US tour, he declared that Trump will be elected for a second term and a few sections appreciated him. Today, people from abroad are also reacting the same way because of the same reason,” he said, blaming Modi for interfering in the internal matter of the United States.Swabhimani Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti led a protest in Kolhapur. Shetti slammed the Centre for making celebrities tweet in support of the farm laws. He said that the government has forgotten that “crores of common people” have brought them to power, but once they dump them no celebrities will ask them.Kishore Tiwari, president of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission, led a protest in Yavatmal district blocking the national highway. Tiwari, who is associated with the Shiv Sean and holds MoS rank, was detained by the district police.In Mumbai, Samajwadi Party, NCP, Left parties protested in Kurla. NCP spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik participated in a protest near Kurla station. Malik, who is the party’s Mumbai unit chief, said that the three laws are an attempt to get industrialists in the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-intervention-by-pm-modi-may-resolve-farm-bills-issues-says-pawar-101612637980056.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||A unified body is need of the hour, say Mumbai civic body chief||Against the backdrop of the war of words between the alliance partners of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition over the proposal to make the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) the city’s single planning authority, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told Hindustan Times said this proposal was aimed at integrated development for Mumbai, rather than expanding the civic chief’s powers. What is the idea behind the move to make BMC the single planning authority for Mumbai? The plan to make BMC the entire city of Mumbai’s single planning authority is for integrated planning and development of the city in the immediate future. Today, BMC does not know what is happening in Cuffe Parade, Bandra Kurla Complex or other areas like Mumbai Port Trust land, where it has no power to be the planning authority. There are multiple agencies today in the city — like Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA), Mumbai Port Trust, and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) — planning development and infrastructure independently. It should ideally be done by a single body. Is the current arrangement not working? There are multiple agencies in the city making their own plans. For example, a citizen residing in MHADA wants a garden in their area. They approach their corporator… Now, the corporator despite wanting to spend money from the corporators fund cannot build a garden as Mhada is the special planning authority in the area. So, technically, the corporator becomes helpless and citizens have to approach multiple agencies. A unified body is the need of the hour, which means BMC can plan in a better way. Within the MVA government, there is strong opposition to the idea of BMC being the single planning authority. What I am proposing for Mumbai is for its betterment. Mumbai has to have a single planning authority if it wants to become a world-class city in the coming years. There are issues like where a school has to come up, where to construct hospitals, where to build a road. All this all has to be integrated… look at cities like Paris, Los Angeles and Barcelona, London. How do you respond to the allegation that Shiv Sena-ruled BMC wants more power by being the single planning authority? It is not about power. It is not that the BMC commissioner wants more power. It is not like BMC does not have work. We have tremendous workload here, but a city like Mumbai should have one authority to plan its growth and future development. Different agencies play different roles. By concentrating these powers, does BMC want to take on the work of building infrastructure like MMRDA or mass housing like Mhada? My proposal does not mean other agencies’ work …. be taken over by the BMC. These agencies can do their own work. What I meant is that the BMC should have the powers for planning and execution can be done by the.same agencies as per the current arrangement. Also, I have just proposed it to the state government, and not implemented the same yet. If the state government doesn’t think my proposal is good, it will reject the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-unified-body-is-need-of-the-hour-say-mumbai-civic-body-chief-101612637499924.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||No premium on FSI-free areas on rehab units of Mhada colonies: Bombay HC||Holding that no premium is payable on floor space index (FSI)-free areas like staircase lobby, lift lobby of rehabilitation components in the redevelopment of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) colonies for economically weaker sections (EWS), low-income group (LIG) and middle-income group (MIG) categories, the Bombay high court on Friday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to refund ₹27 crore accepted by the civic body from a city developer towards premium.The division bench of justices RD Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar passed the order on a petition filed by the developer, SD Corporation, which is redeveloping Samta Nagar colony at Kandivli (East) that is spread over 2,13,867 square meters area and comprises 165 buildings of 65 cooperative housing societies.The developer had moved HC in 2016 after the deputy chief engineer of BMC’s building’s proposal department rejected their plea for exemption from payment of premium on certain FSI-free areas in terms of Regulation 33(10) and some other provisions of the development control regulations (DCR) for Mumbai.The deputy chief engineer had rejected the plea in April 2016 on the ground that there was no provision in the DCR which exempted reconstruction from payment of premium towards FSI-free areas.On October 12, 2017, HC admitted the petition for final hearing and by way of interim order directed BMC to grant occupation certificate to four wings of a rehabilitation building, whose construction was completed by then, subject to the developer submitting an undertaking that they will pay the premium if their petition failed.BMC had then carried the matter to the Supreme Court and under the orders of the Apex Court, the developer had to deposit amount of ₹27 crore, which was later allowed by the Court to be withdrawn by BMC.As regards the exemption from paying a premium, it was submitted on behalf of the developer that under Clause 6 of Regulation 33(5), all the relaxations, exemptions or benefits enumerated under Regulation 33(10) of the DCR in respect of slum rehabilitation projects were also available to the redevelopment of Mhada colonies, under Regulation 33(5) of the DCR.HC accepted the argument and held that the developer was not liable to pay the premium. “Clause 6 of Regulation 33(5) begins with a non-obstante clause which makes it clear that notwithstanding anything contained in DCR, the relaxation incorporated in Regulation 33(10) shall apply to the housing schemes under Regulation 33(5) for construction of tenements under EWS or LIG and MIG categories,” said the bench.The bench added that the rejection of the developer’s application for exemption from payment of premium was “ex-facie untenable and contrary to the plain reading of Clause 6 of Regulation 33(5) read with other regulations of the DCR.“Unless a specific provision for levy of premium under any provision of the Development Control Regulations is made, the respondent no.1 (BMC) could not have demanded any such premium from the petitioners without the authority of law and in violation of Article 265 of the Constitution of India,” said the bench. “On the other hand, since there was a specificprovision for relaxation in payment of premium, the respondent no.1 could not have refused the said relaxation by interpreting the said provision differently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-premium-on-fsi-free-areas-on-rehab-units-of-mhada-colonies-bombay-hc-101612637323100.html
07-02-2021||Other||Vashi suicide: Woman may have killed son, say cops||The 31-year-old woman from Chembur allegedly killed her one-year-old son and then died by suicide near Vashi creek bridge, on Thursday night, said GRP officers. The woman jumped off a Panvel-bound train near the Vashi creek around 10.30pm, with the bag that contained her son’s body. According to police, the woman is suspected to have killed her son at her parent’s house in Pune and returned to Mumbai on Thursday. She was staying with her parents in December. A GRP officer said, “Around 2pm on Thursday, her mother went out for some work leaving her with the baby boy at home. When she returned at 3.30pm, she found that the door was latched from outside and that her daughter and her son were missing. A CCTV footage from the nearby area showed the woman coming out with the bag in which we found the baby’s body. Since the child was not in her lap, we suspect that she may have killed the child inside her parents’ house by slitting its throat. She later put the body in the bag, and then came to Mumbai.” “Her husband and her parents have confirmed that she suffered from depression and was undergoing treatment for the same for the past four years,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vashi-suicide-woman-may-have-killed-son-say-cops-101612637140374.html
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine achievement rate on decline in Chandigarh||Belying the expectations that Covid vaccine hesitancy will decrease with time, figures show that fewer people are turning up to take the shot in Chandigarh as the drive enters the fourth week. The vaccine was rolled out across the nation on January 16, with healthcare workers being covered in the first phase. It has been extended to frontline workers from other departments, and Chandigarh operationalised more vaccination sites this week.However, in the past three weeks, the percentage of people who got the jab against the number targeted has been on the decline from 52% (January 16-22) to 43.5% (January 23-30) and then to 42% (January 31-February 6). Meanwhile, Chandigarh vaccination coverage stands at just 27.7% and it is among five states and UTs faring the poorest, according to figures released by the Centre on Saturday.“Most people who were enthusiastic about taking the shot have come forward voluntarily. Now, others have to be counselled and motivated, which takes time,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health department.Kang said that based on inputs received from the Centre, all department heads have been told to personally interact with each health worker and form support groups of the vaccinated population to motivate and counsel the remaining ones.“We are increasing counselling material through internal social groups in institutes and also through local TV and FM radio stations. We will also take up the issue in the state task force meeting in the coming days,” she said.On Saturday, the target achievement rate saw a jump to 62%, as 253 of the 411 identified beneficiaries were inoculated across 10 sites in the city. PGIMER director Jagat Ram, who along with his wife Asha Kumari, was among those vaccinated encouraged people to go for it as it is “safe, with minimal or no side effects”.“Mild reaction after vaccination is a good sign, because it means the immune system of the body is reacting to the vaccine and creating antibodies,” he said, adding that mild fever, body ache or joint pains could occur for a day or two, which will subside automatically, and people are free to contact the medical experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-achievement-rate-on-decline-in-chandigarh-101612636599596.html
07-02-2021||Delhi||Markets unaffected by chakka jam, but turnout low||Market associations said all shops remained open across Delhi on Saturday despite a three-hour long chakka jam -- a blockade of state and national highways -- announced by farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws. However, traders said the turnout was lower than usual. Members of the New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) in Connaught Place (CP) said all shops were open throughout the day.“But, traders in the commercial and shopping hub of CP did say that the footfall declined by 50-60% compared to last Saturday. Clearly, there were fewer visitors as many people preferred to stay home to avoid any traffic inconvenience as was seen during the tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day,” said NDTA president Atul Bhargava.Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders association, said all shops operated as usual in the upscale market.Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarva Vyapar Mandal, said only around 25% of the usual business happened on Saturday.“There were much fewer shoppers and visitors as many are still apprehensive about coming to the area after the chaos and violence that happened in Red Fort on Republic Day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/markets-unaffected-by-chakka-jam-but-turnout-low-101612634179666.html
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chakka jam brings traffic to a halt on highways around Chandigarh||Long queues of vehicles was a common site on highways around the tricity as farmer unions blocked them during a three-hour chakka jam against the contentious agriculture laws on Saturday. The protests largely remained peaceful, and successful as the farmers did not allow movement of vehicles in Mohali district, leaving many people with no option but to walk back to their destination holding their luggage. Buses, trucks and private vehicles lined up on the Chandigarh-Delhi and Chandigarh-Patiala highway, as farmers had blocked the traffic using tractors, two-wheelers and other vehicles at the Dappar toll plaza and Banur toll plaza besides McDonald’s Chowk and Chhat light point in Zirakpur. Hundreds of farmers also gathered at the Chandimandir toll plaza and Barwala toll plaza in Panchkula, bringing to a halt vehicles moving from and towards Shimla and Yamunanagar. The chakka jam that started at 12 noon was finally lifted at 3pm, with farmers blowing horns of their vehicles for a minute, signalling the clearing of national and state highways. Chandigarh borders sealedChandigarh Police had barricaded all entry points. Traffic moved within the city without much disruptions, though protests were held by resident groups at the Hallomajra light point, Matka chowk and other intersections. “I had to go to the PGIMER, but no vehicle was allowed beyond the Mullanpur barrier. I had to walk for about five kilometers as no local transport was available.Some farmers protesting at the site did offer to help me cross the barrier,” said Sikander Sharma, a resident of Nalagarh who was on his way to the PGIMER to see a relative. “I had a job interview and was returning home. The bus was stopped at the McDonald’s light point (in Zirakpur), so I decided to walk home,” said Rudraksh, a resident of Sector 21, Panchkula. “We allowed ambulances to pass, but no other vehicle movement was allowed for three hours,” said Jasbir Singh, a resident of Rani Majra village in Mullanpur, who was among the protesters at the Mullanpur barrier. After the chakka jam was lifted and commuters rushed to their destinations, massive traffic snarls were witnessed at both the Zirapur-Chandigarh barrier and Mullanpur barrier. It took about another hour for traffic flow to smoothen.Satish Kumar, assistant commissioner of police, traffic, Panchkula, said: “Around 300 farmers had blocked the two toll plazas in the district. Additional manpower was stationed to divert the traffic to alternative routes. We also had additional force in case of any emergency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chakka-jam-brings-traffic-to-a-halt-on-highways-around-chandigarh-101612636479956.html
07-02-2021||Gurugram||Interview with Munish Sharma, commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Manesar||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana government on Thursday night transferred 24 bureaucrats across the state. Munish Sharma, 2014-batch IAS officer, was appointed as the new commissioner of the recently formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM).Sharma, who is the additional labour commissioner, will be holding the charge of MCM, along with his existing duties. The role of a municipal corporation is not unfamiliar to Sharma, who has earlier served as the additional commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) from November 2018 till December 2019. However, this is the first time that he is leading a civic body.In an interviewwith Hindustan Times, Sharma said that he has several new ideas for the civic body. The need for constructing zero-energy government buildings, laying focus on utilising civic body’s resources towards health and education, working in close coordination with MCG, and using past experience to do course correction are some of the key areas that the new civic body will work on.Excerpts from the interview:Unlike other parts of Haryana, Gurugram and Manesar are the only cities in the state where two municipal corporations share a border with each other. Would MCM work like MCG or have its own style of functioning?MCM is a brand new institution, while Gurugram, on the other hand, has really come up in a big way in the last 20 years. It now provides a major share of the state’s revenue. So, creating a separate corporation for Manesar is a major opportunity for the city. There are many cities in the world that are governed by different bodies and yet they have their own distinct flavour and sense of identity. I want MCM and MCG to work in a continuum of sorts — similar to the way the cities of Panchkula, Chandigarh and Mohali operate. If you look at cities like Ajmer and Pushkar in Rajasthan or for that matter Kyoto and Osaka in Japan, they’re not very far apart but they each have something different and unique to offer.What is the one feature you want MCM to stand out for?Globally, there is a lot of focus on sustainability and lean development. Citizens are also aware of the challenges posed by changing environmental patterns and global warming. So whatever development we do now, we’ll have to plan it in such a way that it takes care of the environment. When MCM is constructing new buildings, we can look at adopting the green building concept, such as the one used for the Indira Parvyavaran Bhawan in Delhi. A lot of architecture in our country has historically been smart and genius. Recently, Jaisalmer’s Rajkumari Ratnavati School was in the news for being an AD 100 award-winning sustainable building. Diana Kellogg, the New York-based architect, who completed the project, has addressed the unique needs posed by the geography and culture of Jaisalmer. Within the country, we have a lot of home-grown talent with international exposure who can create similar marvels.What civic areas do you want MCM to focus upon? Are there any first-hand experience from your time in MCG that you want to replicate in MCM?Corporations are meant to provide civic amenities like water, roads, sewage, etc. Corporations in Delhi do a lot of work in terms of health and education as well. While I was at MCG, my predecessors had started focussing on the health sector — something which I want to carry on in Manesar as well. Besides offering dispensaries from where people can get medicines, work on preventive healthcare will also be looked into. We can focus on helping people stay fit by connecting them to the traditional ways of eating and using open-air gyms and parks. As far as education is concerned, I want to identify volunteers looking for opportunities to get associated with government schools and offer assistance. Another feature I want to incorporate in Manesar is the outlines of the Haryana Vision Zero road safety program so that corrective measures can be taken to bring down road collisions at accident-prone stretches in Manesar. This will also ensure equal allocation of road space to all users.Almost all the staff deputed in MCM so far are MCG officials who have been given additional charges. Would this be a disadvantage, especially since officials would have to look into the affairs of two big corporations?We are a new civic body, and we need a lot of hand-holding in the initial stages. A lot of work needs to be done across various departments. We, therefore, need people with proven experience so that they can share vital inputs such as the type of technologies needed for getting certain works done or the ways certain challenges need to be tackled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/interview-with-munish-sharma-commissioner-municipal-corporation-of-manesar-101612633538331.html
07-02-2021||Mumbai||BMS student from St Xavier’s College, Mumbai bags ₹30L annual package||In a first-of-its-kind placement season, which was conducted online across city colleges, a final-year Bachelor of Management Studies (BMS) student from St Xavier’s College has bagged a job offering a remuneration of ₹30 lakh per annum.City colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) have attracted a mix bag of jobs in the on-going placement season. While in some colleges the annual packages have not matched last year’s numbers, several colleges did much better than the previous year.“Several big companies have not changed their recruitment programme, though smaller companies were affected by the lockdown and the strain of the economic slowdown. However, companies from sectors such as the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) and consultancy have managed to offer maximum number of jobs this year,” said Soni George, head of the management studies department and placement convenor of St Xavier’s Autonomous College.At RA Podar College in Matunga, a final-year undergraduate student was offered an annual package of ₹11 lakh in the first phase of placements. Officials from the placement team told HT that while students were content with the salary package offered this year, most were expecting a better variety of job profiles. Some regular recruiters also were a no-show this year.“There has been an increase in the number of finance profiles and a dip in the marketing profiles offered, unlike previous years, for no specific reason. Many of our regular companies either denied hiring for the entire year or displayed uncertainty and delay when it came to recruitment plans,” said a spokesperson for the institute. Last year, the highest package received by a student of the institute stood at ₹13 lakh per annum.At Jai Hind College in Churchgate where the placement process is still underway, the highest salary package received is similar to last year and the institute witnessed a growing trend of more Edu-Tech and Fin-Tech companies offering jobs to their students. Like every year, students have also opted for jobs which not only offer a good profile and package but also allow them the flexibility of applying for further studies along with their job.“More than one hundred registered final-year students of our institute have already been placed in the first phase of placements this year. Along with the regular finance, marketing and HR companies offering jobs, there has been a rising trend of job offers coming from education as well as social sciences sectors,” said Nainesh Koli, placements coordinator for NM College and Mithibai College. He added that the highest salary offered to a student of the institute stands at ₹11 lakh this year. Last year also this figure stood at ₹11 lakh.While many companies are still waiting for the lockdown to end before bringing new employees on-board, in some cases, the companies have already welcomed students with a virtual orientation programme.“Good job profile and remuneration package have been acceptable and as per the students’ demands this year, but the best part has been the decision of some companies to on-board students virtually and letting them absorb the experience while they still can,” said Navin Punjabi, vice-principal of HR College, Churchgate. He added that the highest package received by a student from the college stands at ₹11 lakh this year, similar to last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bms-student-from-st-xavier-s-college-mumbai-bags-30l-annual-package-101612551990133.html
