09-02-2021||Mumbai||Cryptocurrency fraud: No bail to 2 members of gang that duped 15,810 of ₹113.10 crore||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday rejected bail applications filed by two members of a gang that duped about 15,810 investors or over ₹113.10 crore after luring them to invest in several schemes relating to a cryptocurrency - money trade coins (MTC) launched by the group.Both the accused, Sachin Shelar, 43 from Dombivli and Taha Kazi, 26, from Kausa locality in Mumbra, had moved HC for bail claiming that they were ordinary employees of the firms floated by prime accused, Amit Lakhanpal, and as such acted as per his instructions. They claimed that there was, no evidence to suggest that they were beneficiaries of the fraud.Justice Sandeep Shinde rejected the claims after noticing that evidence collected by police suggested that both of them were active at all stages of the fraud, right from floating schemes, developing websites, monitoring the rate of cryptocurrency, activating and blocking investor accounts and collection of cash from different parts of the country and its appropriation.HC said though a forensic audit of the groups’ bank accounts was yet to be concluded to trace the money trail, today it could not be said that the two were not beneficiaries of the fraud. In fact, looking at their role in the entire process, it was unlikely that they were not beneficiaries of the fraud, the court added.The fraud came to light after an investor, Pravin Agarwal, lodged a complaint with Chitalsar police station at Thane in 2018. He came in touch with the group when he attended a seminar organised by Lakhanpal in August 2017 at Taj Mansingh, New Delhi, where the main accused posed as an officer of the Union finance ministry and lured the attendees to invest in the cryptocurrency launched by Flinstone Group, promising high returns.Agarwal thereafter visited the group office at Thane and invested ₹10 lakh in MTC. The company then opened Agarwal’s MT pay account and “transferred” the virtual currency worth the investment into his account in January 2018. However, instead of encashing the investment on due dates, the group kept on luring him with high-interest returns by rolling the investment in new schemes floated by it, prompting him to approach the police.In this backdrop, both Shelar and Kazi were arrested by unit 1 of the Thane crime branch in June 2018. Opposing their bail plea, additional public prosecutor Veera Shinde pointed out that Shelar was not an ordinary employee of the group but was on the board of director of six group companies. Shinde further pointed out that he had fled to Dubai along with the prime accused, Lakhanpal, soon after the crime was registered by Chitalsar police.Shinde pointed out that Kazi was in charge of technical operations of the group such as developing a website, finalising advertising materials and also controlled online registration of investors and the rate of the group’s cryptocurrency.The prosecutor further pointed out that the police have found that the group had duped in all 15,810 investors to the tune of ₹113.10 crores. Justice Shinde found force in her submissions and dismissed the bail applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cryptocurrency-fraud-no-bail-to-2-members-of-gang-that-duped-15-810-of-113-10-crore-101612895278363.html
09-02-2021||Other||500 Thane cops vaccinated; KDMC chief takes the shot||Around 500 cops from Thane commissionerate have been vaccinated in the second phase in the city. The department gave preference to those above 50 years of age and with comorbidities. The vaccination of frontline workers began in Thane district from last week. A total of 4,283 frontline workers across Thane district are vaccinated out of the 7,500 target since February 4. The Thane police commissioner, who first took vaccine in the entire commissionerate last week, has appealed to all the police personnel to visit the centre nearest to their homes and get vaccinated. So far, in the past five days, over 500 police personnel across the Thane have taken the vaccine. Commissioner Vivek Phansalkar said, “I have appealed to all the police personnel to get themselves vaccinated as per their convenience, though as soon as possible. We are especially asking those with comorbidities or who are over 50 years of age.” In the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) vaccination drive on Tuesday, civic commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi and deputy commissioner of police V Pansare took the vaccine at the Rukminibai Hospital.“I decided to take the vaccine to spread a positive approach among all the frontline workers who have to come forward and take their dose. There are around 5,200 frontline workers and 1,200 police personnel who will be vaccinated by the civic body,” said Suryavanshi. Across Thane district, a total of 46,496 health workers out of the targeted 66,325 have been vaccinated till now since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/500-thane-cops-vaccinated-kdmc-chief-takes-the-shot-101612895098243.html
09-02-2021||Other||Poor response to post-Covid-19 rehab centre in Kalyan||The post-Covid rehabilitation centre (daycare facility for pulmonary physiotherapy) which was functional in Kalyan for around 45 days was closed due to poor response from Covid recovered patients. As per the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), the centre treated merely 50-60 patients till date. City doctors claimed the reduction in Covid positive cases has led to the poor response to the post-Covid treatment. The KDMC had set up the daycare facility for pulmonary physiotherapy, jointly with the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The centre located at Mahajan Hall in Kalyan (West) provided daycare physiotherapy facility for those with breathing problems. Prashant Patil, president, IMA, said, “The post-Covid centre was only functional for 45 days, while the response was poor. Sometimes, not a single patient visited the centre for a day. As the number of Covid-19 cases has reduced, the patients visiting the centre has come down too. The centre aimed to rehabilitate the lungs to treat the lung damage observed in Covid.” The tennis court was earlier set up as a Covid care centre by the KDMC, it was later shut when the number of positive cases in KDMC reduced. Mhatre said, “Several patients have been suffering from blood pressure issues, diabetes and heart ailments after recovering from the Covid infection. These patients usually visit the private hospitals for treatment and there they are charged excessively. A centre by the KDMC will help such cases,” said Mhatre. However, despite the dismal response to its first centre, the KDMC now plans to start a post-Covid care hospital at the tennis court of Savlaram Krida Sankul (sports complex), following demand by KDMC corporator Dipesh Mhatre. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “This new centre will have all the facilities to give treatment for those suffering from health issues after recovering from Covid. The centre in Kalyan was merely a rehabilitation centre focusing on breathing exercises which we closed. The new centre at Dombivli is for holistic treatment of any ailment suffered post-recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-response-to-post-covid-19-rehab-centre-in-kalyan-101612894918263.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Nineteen years after rape, accused man sent to juvenile home||Gautam Budh Nagar juvenile justice board on Tuesday sent a man to three years in jail for raping a 17-year-old in 2002 when he too was a minor. The delay in punishment was attributed to the time it took the adjudicated the age of the accused and then the transfer of files from one board to other. During this time, the suspect was let off on bail three months after his detention, get married to another woman and had children. He will, however, be sent to a special home for juvenile convicts now.The Dadri police had detained the minor in July, 2002, a month after the girl’s family discovered her pregnancy and reported it to the authorities. The girl had named the suspect and said he had raped her while she was alone at home. In August that year, the Gautam Budh Nagar (GB Nagar) chief judicial magistrate transferred the case to the district sessions court. Here, a challenge was mounted over the age of the accused. It took five years for the court to decide that the accused was indeed a minor and had it transferred to the juvenile justice board (JJB) in Meerut. When a JJB was constituted in Gautam Budh Nagar in 2012, an issue of jurisdiction arose, and the case was transferred to it in there. However, the proceedings took time and the verdict was declared Tuesday.“JJB principal magistrate Viresh Chandra and member Aneet Baghel today held the accused guilty. He has been sent to the Special Home for Juvenile Convicts at Etawah,” said prosecution officer Amit Uppal. “Since he had already been in confinement for 3 months, the rest will be served at the special home.”Uppal confirmed the accused person’s marital status and that he had children, but could not confirm anything about the rape survivor. Regarding the delay, Uppal said, “There are several cases that have been delayed for years. Sometimes witnesses are not available, at other times the court does not function, police officers may not be able to be present over some reason and on some dates the judge may be on leave. In rape cases, particularly, tracing victims and witnesses is very difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nineteen-years-after-rape-accused-man-sent-to-juvenile-home-101612894857410.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad double murder case: Nine-year-old girl succumbs to injuries||Ghaziabad: The nine-year-old girl who had survived a murder attempt on her family in Ghaziabad’s Saraswati Vihar locality succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday. Minakshi and her siblings nine-year-old Gauri and five-year-old Rudra, 5 were found injured in their home on February 6. Their mother 35-year-old Dolly Thakur and tutor 16-year-old Anshu Kumari were found dead. Prime accused and the victim’s relative Uma Singh (35) and her friend 25-year-old Mohammad Sonu were arrested for the murders on Sunday. Minakshi had been on a ventilator since the crime.“The girl (Minakshi) was admitted to the ICU of our hospital as she suffered severe injuries to throat and head. However, she died on Tuesday morning,” said Dr Sangita Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar. “Her siblings are stable but still under treatment,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Gauri had earlier named the accused to the police.The two suspects had visited Dolly’s house where Uma introduced Mohammad Sonu as a tailor. Police said she had planned the crime to rob the family.Sonu allegedly shot dead Dolly and Anshu first and allegedly planned to kill the children as well but then his pistol jammed. He allegedly attacked them with a knife and grinding stone. The duo then robbed the house and fled, thinking that the children were dead.“Both now face charges of murder, attempt to murder besides robbery. We will also fast track the case and will expedite filing of chargesheet against the two,” the SP said. An FIR was filed at Masuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-double-murder-case-nine-year-old-girl-succumbs-to-injuries-101612894737395.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Local trains for all in Mumbai? Not on Belapur-Kharkopar line||Even as local train services have resumed for the general public, the suburban railway corridor between Belapur and Kharkopar is still operational for essential service workers only.The suburban railway corridor between Belapur and Kharkopar has only eight local train services that operate throughout a day. The general public is not allowed to travel during peak hours.The first train on the corridor operates between Nerul at 7.45am to Kharkopar, the last train between Kharkopar railway station and Nerul operates at 7.16pm. The first train between Belapur and Kharkopar operates at 8.15am.Central Railway (CR) stated that action would be taken regarding the local train operations.“We will be looking into the matter,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Passenger associations have demanded immediate resumption of all local train services between these stations. “It is unfortunate that despite local train services resuming for the public, there is no train service between Belapur and Kharkopar. Coronaviruscases in Navi Mumbai are less and the Central Railway should immediately resume local train services on this route.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Belapur- Kharkopar (12.5km) railway section is the first phase of the Belapur-Uran railway corridor. The first phase of the corridor opened in November 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-trains-for-all-in-mumbai-not-on-belapur-kharkopar-line-101612894678724.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Two more suspects arrested in elderly couple’s murder in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Police on Tuesday evening arrested two more suspects, including the alleged mastermind, in the murder case of an elderly couple in Sector Alpha 2. The suspects, identified as Rohit, 23, a resident of Aligarh and Subhash, 24, a resident of Mahoba, were arrested after an encounter with police at Dada roundabout in Greater Noida, police said. Two other suspects, Dev Sharma and Vishan Singh Bhadoria, were arrested by police on Sunday evening. The four suspects had allegedly killed Narendra Nath, 70, and his wife Suman Nath, 65, at their house in Sector Alpha 2 on Thursday night. According to police, Rohit, the mastermind who had killed the woman, received a bullet injury to his left leg, while Subhash was injured in his right leg during the encounter. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Rohit and Subhas had been on the run. “On Tuesday, police was conducting a checking drive when they spotted the suspects on a high-end motorcycle. Police asked them to stop for checking but they opened fire which led to an encounter and they were arrested,” he said. A stolen gold chain, a ring, two mobile phones, two countrymade guns, some Indian currency notes and some foreign currencies were recovered from their possession, police said. Police had announced ₹25,000 reward on arrest of each suspect. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that police have now arrested all four criminals in this case. “During investigation, we found that there were five glasses and only three of them were used for drinking. We have also recovered the stolen valuables, including jewellery and bank documents. Based on electronic surveillance, we first arrested Dev Sharma and Vishan Singh Bhadoria who revealed that Rohit and Saurabh had hatched the murder plot,” he said. Rohit had borrowed ₹2 lakh from Narendra Nath, police said, adding that the four suspects first killed Narendra and then his wife as he didn’t want to return the money.The elderly couple’s son Rohit Nath, who lives with his family in AWHO society, said that he feels there are still some gaps in the investigation. “There were six glasses at the spot, so who was the fifth suspect at the time of crime. The suspects had stolen cash and jewellery from the house. We do not know these suspects are. If the police recover the stolen valuables, then we can be satisfied that these are the same criminals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-more-suspects-arrested-in-elderly-couple-s-murder-in-greater-noida-101612894677493.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Fake currency notes with face value of ₹18 lakh seized, two arrested||Noida: Two men were arrested on Tuesday after fake currency notes with a face value of about ₹18 lakh were recovered from their possession, police said. The suspects were identified as Manoj Shah, 40, a native of Darbhanga in Bihar, and Satyendra Upadhyaya, 30, from Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the suspects were presently living in Faridabad. “Police had information that the suspects were involved in cheating people through fake currency notes. On Tuesday, police received a tip-off about their movement near Barola T-point and arrested them red-handed,” he said. Fake currency notes (in denominations of ₹500, ₹200 and ₹100) with a face value of ₹17,96,400 were recovered from them, police said, adding that some real notes worth ₹3,600 were also recovered.Vishal Kumar, in-charge of Barolla check post, said the gang had a unique modus operandi to cheat people. “The suspects used to roam around in Delhi-NCR and strike a conversation with people. They would tell their victim that they had some fake currency notes which looked almost real. Then they exchanged fake notes having face value of ₹15,000 with real notes worth ₹10,000 from the victim,” Kumar said.Kumar further said that in fact those fake notes were not fake. “The suspects used to give real notes to the people to take them in confidence. People used to circulate those notes in the market without any hurdle and again contacted to supply more fake notes,” he said.But this time the suspects would play the trick. “The suspects used to buy fake notes in bulk from Chawri Bazar in Delhi. They placed only two original notes on the front and back and properly sandwiched the fake notes in the bundle. They used to fix the deal with the victim to exchange real notes worth ₹5 lakh with fake notes having a face value of ₹18 lakh. The suspects used to call the victims for the exchange in a crowded market so that the victims could not count the money,” Kumar said.The two suspects told police that they had been involved in this racket since March last year after they lost a job during the lockdown. “It is believed they have cheated several people of ₹20-30 lakh in the last few months,” police said.A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fake-currency-notes-with-face-value-of-18-lakh-seized-two-arrested-101612894619354.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Security guard killed in robbery bid||Noida: A 41-year-old security guard was killed by an unidentified intruder early Tuesday morning in a robbery bid at a cash management company in Sector 2, police said. The deceased was identified as Uttam Kesharwani, a native of Fatehpur. The incident that took place around 4.30am was caught in CCTV cameras, police said, adding that the guard died on the spot.“There were two security guards on duty during the night. In the CCTV monitors inside the control room, they saw the suspect on the premises after which a security guard went out to check the situation,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Police officials said that Kesharwani confronted the suspect who was armed with a revolver after which the two had a skirmish. “By then the second guard also reached the spot and helped in containing the intruder who then fired at Kesharwani,” said Singh.He said that the other guard carrying a rifle didn’t do anything to stop the suspect who then fled from the spot, said police. The other guard then called the police helpline and reported the incident.According to police, the company is an American cash solutions and logistics firm which transports money for large businesses. A complaint in the case was filed by the manager of the company, based on which a case of murder (section 302 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered against the unidentified person at Sector 20 police station.The police officials said that all angles are being looked at though it appears to be an insider’s job as the suspect knew exactly where he was going. But he was unable to break in and take away any valuables due to Kesharwani’s intervention. Three teams have been formed to identify and track the suspect.Police said that the second guard claims to have frozen out of fear but his role is also being investigated. A senior police official also said that the suspect appeared to have been alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-security-guard-killed-in-robbery-bid-101612894618692.html
09-02-2021||Noida||State film council to visit project site in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: Uttar Pradesh Film Development Council (UPFDC) officials on Wednesday will discuss the progress about the proposed Film City with the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), officials said on Tuesday. Yeida said that UPFDC officials will also visit the project site in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway. “We will put forth the progress that we have made on this project so far,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.Yeida is likely to receive a detailed project report (DPR) of the project on Wednesday itself. Yeida officials said that UPFDC president Raju Srivastav will discuss all aspects of the film city project and also the DPR.After discussing the progress report, the Yeida chief will take Srivastav and other members of UPFDC to the site where the Film City is proposed to be developed, said the officials.Yeida has been exploring three models -- public-private partnership (PPP), the authority alone, or another single developer -- to develop the project. The DPR is expected to find an answer to this question.“After UPFDC suggestions, the state cabinet will discuss, approve and then guide development of this project,” said a UP government official, not authorized to speak to media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/state-film-council-to-visit-project-site-in-greater-noida-101612894617448.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Yeida looking for dispute-free, small land for schemes||The Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) is looking for dispute-free small land to build residential sectors. The “dispute-free” criterion is to ensure allottees don’t face problems in the future, while “small land” is in keeping with the trend of buyers preferring plots less than 1000 sq m.“We will launch a new plot scheme only once we have possession of the land,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida.Earlier, the authority’s schemes for industrial or residential purposed did not have land possession as it thought it could get them later without issue. But legal disputes meant that allottees did not get possession. A residential scheme will now see plot sizes between 100 to 300 sq m.“People are interested in small residential plot schemes more,” said a Yeida official not authorized to speak to media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-looking-for-dispute-free-small-land-for-schemes-101612894618009.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body plans to revise property tax structure||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation plans changes to the property tax model linking it to revised rental values and property location. Officials said the new model will see a 25% increase in tax revenue.This is the first time in 20 years that the civic body moved to revised the rental value. Residents may have to shell out three times the property tax that they are used to paying. Civic body officials say it would help in completing important projects.Under the proposed structure, the corporation has categorised localities in 100 residential under three heads ‘A,’ ‘B’ and ‘C’ based on the rental vales, which will now be linked to the district magistrate’s circle rates. ‘A’ category localities comprise of prime localities and will have the highest rental value, while the category ‘C’ are least developed and will have least rental value.Further, under each head, the location of the property on roads of varying width -- less than 12 m, between 12 m and 24 m and over 24 m -- will have a proportional impact on the tax. Previously, the corporation used to rely solely on this criterion for determining property tax.At present, about 330,00 households pay the tax, which is charged annually based on the monthly rental value that ranges from 0.60p to ₹1.90 per square feet (psf) of the property. “Under the proposed arrangement, the rental value will now range from 0.75p to ₹4 psf under the three categories,” said Sanjeev Kumar Sinha, corporation’s chief tax assessment officer. House tax, of which property tax is 10%, brings in ₹125 crore. “The proposed property tax structure is similar to the one in Lucknow. We estimate that the plan will bring in an additional 25% tax revenue,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. “The rental values will be defined every two years.” “The rates had been unchanged since 2001. We have invited the public to put forth their objections within 15 days (till February 20 at any of the body’ five zonal offices or headquarters). We will fine tune the proposal and implement it from the next financial year,” he said. Some of the colonies which are categorised under category ‘A’ include blocks of Kavi Nagar, Raj Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Neelam Vihar and Seemant Vihar in Kaushambi, sectors in Vasundhara and Vaishali, Shalimar Garden (main), Raj Nagar Extension besides Nyay Khand, Niti Khand, Abhay Khand, Shakti Khand and Gyan Khand in Indirapuram. The rental value of properties on three different roads defined under category A is proposed to range from ₹1.25 to ₹4 psf, for category B from 90p to ₹3.5 psf and for category C from 0.75p to ₹3 psf. Commercial and industrial taxes, which are linked to residential rates, will also be increased. “The hike will affect the common man and basing the property tax on the circle rate is wrong. The circle rate is meant for sale/purchase of properties and not for tax. We will file objections and oppose the move. In order to increase revenue, the corporation must try to bring in households still left out of the ambit of house tax and also act against those yet to pay the tax,” said Raj Nagar councillor Rajendra Tyagi. As per rules, the commissioner can decide on determining property tax. However, the councillors can object during House Meetings, although they may not be able to stop the reform.Box: proposed property tax structure The rental values for calculation of property tax will be defined on basis of circle rates released by the district magistrateColonies in 100 residential wards divided into three categories with different rental values based on their locations at different roads Rental value for three categories of colonies will be defined on the basis of location on roads having width less than 12 metres; road with from 12 metres to 24 metres and those located on roads having width more than 24 metres Old rental values of properties range from 0.60p per square feet to ₹1.9 per square feet Category ‘A’ colonies are proposed to have rental value in range of ₹1.25 to ₹4 per square foot; category ‘B’ colonies in range of 0.90p to ₹3.5 and category ‘C’ colonies in range of 0.75p to ₹3 per square foot Some of the colonies which are categorised under category ‘A’ include blocks of Kavi Nagar, Raj Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Neelam Vihar and Seemant Vihar in Kaushambi, sectors in Vasundhara and Vaishali, Shalimar Garden (main), Raj Nagar Extension besides Nyay Khand, Niti Khand, Abhay Khand, Shakti Khand and Gyan Khand in Indirapuram||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-plans-to-revise-property-tax-structure-101612894559692.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Dip in demand for engineering; no takers for 55,000 college seats||Demand for engineering seats is low according to the state common entrance test (CET) cell, whose data reveals nearly 45% seats in first-year, undergraduate engineering (BTech) courses remained vacant across the state this year. While seats in government-aided and university-managed institutes have more takers comparatively, almost 98% of the total vacant seats are in private, unaided engineering institutes in the state this year. Figures shared by the admissions authority shows 54,667 of the 55,444 vacant seats across engineering institutes this year are in unaided institutes. Vacancy in postgraduate (MTech) courses stands at 55.2% this year compared to 65% last year. “The blanket ban on new engineering colleges has specially been implemented keeping in mind the mushrooming of private engineering colleges across the country. Year after year new private players start colleges, but the quality of teaching keeps dipping and seat vacancy keeps increasing,” said an official from the state CET cell. Last year, seat vacancy in BTech courses was at 48%. Admissions to all professional courses were delayed by a few months in 2020 due to the pandemic and the ambiguity surrounding the implementation of the quota for socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC, also known as the Maratha quota) in Maharashtra. After waiting for clarity on the issue of the quota, the state decided in November 2020 to conduct admissions to all courses without implementing the SEBC quota. As per figures shared by the CET cell, vacancies in Masters in business administration (MBA) and Masters in management studies (MMS) courses stand at 32.85% this year and seats under the economically weaker sections (EWS) quotas show vacancies across courses. Over 76% seats in the EWS category have found no takers this year. Experts have blamed this on job losses in the Covid era. “Students who secure seats under the EWS quota need to pay 50% fees, but that amount too could be too much for someone without a job. While students applied for the course in February 2020, many youngsters ended up losing jobs during the lockdown and that has strained the family income. This could’ve forced students to forfeit their admissions this year,” said Dr R K Srivastava, professor and head of department at Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship Education (SIMSREE). The EWS quota was first implemented in 2019 and data from the CET cell shows that in Bachelor in engineering and technology (BE/BTech) courses, seat vacancy in the EWS quota stood at 82% across government and private institutes in 2019-20 academic year with 1,877 out of 10,249 reserved seats finding takers. Similarly, the overall seat vacancy in the EWS quota in Masters in engineering and technology (ME/MTech) admissions stood at 94% and 90% of seats under the EWS quota stayed vacant in management courses (MBA/MMS) that year. “Demand for seats under the EWS quota is slowly picking up, but students are still unaware of the rules and regulations. In some cases, students had all the required documents, but were not aware that they will have to pay 50% of the fees, which many could not afford especially since fees at private institutes are higher than at government institutes. The government needs to look into this lacuna,” said a senior official from a government-run engineering institute in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-dip-in-demand-for-engineering-no-takers-for-55-000-college-seats-101612894558962.html
09-02-2021||Noida||UP Gate farmers gear up to maintain gathering in absence of Rakesh Tikait||At the UP Gater farmers’ protest site, the union leaders are facing an issue: the number of protesters seem to go up whenever Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait was present, but not otherwise.Tikait’s popularity soared since January 28 when a video of him in tears went viral. He was seen responding to Ghaziabad district administration’s ultimatum to farmers, following the violence in Delhi on Republic Day, that he would rather surrender than give in. That video gave new life to a protest that was seemingly losing steam after the violence.“His popularity is growing, and he is now seen as spearheading the protest at UP Gate,” said Gaurav Tikait, president of the youth wing of the BKU and Rakesh Tikait’s nephew. “We have noticed that the number of people does tend to come down when he is not here. Also, many farmers have to harvest sugarcane, which is a major crop in western UP.”Leading up to Republic Day, the protest site saw thousands of farmers join to attend the tractor rally to Delhi. After the violence, attendance dropped as many feared police reprisal.“Since the video, people rushed to meet Rakesh Tikait. When he is there, there are easily around 4,000 to 5,000 people. We are trying to keep the numbers the same when he is out for meetings and attending rallies,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP-Gate farmers’ committee.Rakesh Tikait could not be reached for comment. But, he was addressing a rally in Haryana’s Kurukshetra where he asked people to prepare a plan to increase the gathering at places where protesters were fewer.“The agitation will go on for long and we have given time to the government till October 2. It should not happen that you return home like you did on January 26. Now you make plan to increase the gathering and get prepared to stay for at least five days at the protest site,” Tikait said.He also told gathering that the incident at the Red Fort was allegedly part of conspiracy.“It has been over 77 days and the government is not listening. Some youths were taken to the Red Fort. In 1988, when 5 to 6 lakh farmers led by Chaudhary Mahendra Singh Tikait (found of BKU) went to Boat Club in Delhi they were at some distance from the Parliament. But no one went to the Parliament. We also say many times that we will go to Parliament, but we never went. But the incident of putting up the flag at Red Fort was conspiracy,” Tikait told gathering at Kurukshetra.Tiakit, who now has a “verified” Twitter account, also took a dig a the speech made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha on Monday and tweeted on Tuesday while calling himself as “andolan jeevi” who had been fighting for the rights of farmers and poor for past 30 years.The Prime Minister on Monday strongly defended the three farm laws which he said will largely benefit small and marginal farmers. He also warned country against “andolanjeevis” (those who live off protests), and the influence of FDI (“foreign destructive ideology”).The PM also appealed to the agitating farmers’ groups to call off their protest and said that all doors for suggestions and improvement remain open.The farmers are protesting at UP Gate since November 28, 2020 and demanding repeal of three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-gate-farmers-gear-up-to-maintain-gathering-in-absence-of-rakesh-tikait-101612894498953.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Three arrested in two separate cases||Greater Noida Police on Monday night arrested a wanted man after an alleged encounter in Rabupura. Police identified him by his first name as 25-year-old Mohit, a native of Bulandshahr. He featured in Aligarh Police’s top-10 most wanted list and is an accused in robbery cases in Greater Noida.Deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) Rajesh Kumar Singh said Mohit was arrested near Mirzapur cut following a tip. “A police team were checking vehicles when two suspects on their motorcycle turned up. They tried to flee when police signalled them to stop,” he said.He said that the suspects shot at the police team forcing them to return fire and injuring one of them who later turned out to be Mohit. His accomplice managed to escape. But, the second accomplice managed to escape in the jungle. The injured suspect was treated at a local hospital.Police seized a countrymade gun, a live cartridge, and a stolen motorcycle from him. A court later sent him to 14-day judicial custody.In a separate case, Ecotech I police on Tuesday arrested two men for illegal sand mining. Police identified them as Dankaur residents 28-year-old Anil alias Mintu and 30-year-old Mukesh.Rameshwar Kumar, SHO Ecotech 1 police station, said they seized a tractor and two spades from them. “The suspects were mining sand in Atai village. We received information and conducted a search early morning and arrested them. Police registered a case under Section 4 and 21 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. A court sent them to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-three-arrested-in-two-separate-cases-101612894497493.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Man ends life after wife refuses to return from her parents’ home||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old man allegedly ended his life at his in-laws’ place after his wife refused to return from her parents’ house in Greater Noida on Tuesday. The man locked himself in the washroom and allegedly set himself on fire, police said. Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO, Sector Beta 2 police station, said that the man worked at a private company in Gurugram and lived in a rented accommodation in the neighbourhood. He had married the woman five years ago in a village in Greater Noida. The couple has two children aged 2 and 4 years, police said. Police said that the man used to drink heavily and this led to frequent quarrel with his wife. “A few days ago the woman had shifted to her parents’ home in Greater Noida with her children. On Tuesday, the man also visited his in-laws’ house and demanded her to return to Gurugram,” said Upadhyaya. When the woman did not agree, the man took the extreme step, police said, adding that he was sent to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Police said that the body has been sent for a post-mortem and medical report is awaited. “We have not received any complaint from the deceased’s family,” Upadhyaya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-ends-life-after-wife-refuses-to-return-from-her-parents-home-101612894498292.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Covid-19 vaccination: GB Nagar health department makes 80 booths for mop up round||NOIDA: Facing a tough task of inoculating 10,510 left out health workers – listed for first phase of Covid-19 vaccination – the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has made as many as 83 vaccination booths for the mop up round on February 15. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the health department officials have been asked to exponentially increase the pace of coronavirus vaccination as the district’s performance has not been very encouraging in the first phase of vaccination. “The vaccination officials have been asked to ensure proper authentication of beneficiaries and timely data reconciliation on Co-Win app. They have also been told to provide adequate attention to issuance of provisional digital vaccination certificates after the first dose and final certificate after the second dose,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that a three-day meeting in this connection has been called upon, which began on Monday. “Since many of the beneficiaries have reportedly either left their jobs or shifted to some other places, we’ll be able to locate the exact number of left out health workers, after uploading the exact data on February 11,” he said. The CMO also said that all the remaining health workers will be inoculated during the mop up round on February 15. “For the mop up round, as many as 83 vaccination booths have been readied, which is maximum number of booths in any session so far. Each of these booths will have the capacity to vaccinate at least 125 persons in a day. It is expected that after the mop up round, all the health workers in the district have the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine,” he said. It may be noted that after the six sessions for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination that ended on February 5, the overall turnout for the phase in GB Nagar district was nearly 57% as 13,943 health workers took the jabs out of enlisted 24,453 beneficiaries. District vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that the failure of potential beneficiaries to get vaccinated in the mop up round will automatically push them to age-appropriate vaccination category. “The second dose of the vaccine is also scheduled to start from February 13 for people, who were inoculated on January 16 in the first phase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-vaccination-gb-nagar-health-department-makes-80-booths-for-mop-up-round-101612894438704.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Noida police question call centre manager over routing calls to J-K||Noida Police on Tuesday detained the manager of a call centre in sector 63 over allegations that it routed international calls to Jammu and Kashmir.Police said they acted on information from the department of telecommunications, under the ministry of telecommunications. The police were yet to file an FIR in the case. The centre is in H Block.“It seems that the call centre was in the business of selling groceries online. On the side, they allegedly rerouted international calls without a licence,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 2) Harish Chander.The call centre had begun operations on January 4, 2021.“We detained a founder for questioning. His wife and another founder, listed as the directors, are absconding. They are all from Kashmir and the business they were running advertised that they catered to residents of Jammu and Kashmir,” said a senior police officer.The officer said they found seven employees, of whom five were women, on the premises. “There has been no action against them,” he said.Police said that the manager failed to produce a license for the call centre although he said that they had applied for one.“It is too soon to say anything. The matter is under investigation,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-question-call-centre-manager-over-routing-calls-to-jk-101612894437479.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Five injured in cylinder blast at Noida hardware factory||Noida: Five men were injured after an LPG cylinder blast at a hardware factory in Sector 2 on Tuesday. The factory did not have a no-objection certificate from the fire department, said officials, adding that the incident took place around 11 am.“It seems that the factory had a furnace for which it used LPG cylinders. One of the cylinders was kept close to the furnace and because of the heat, it burst injuring the five people nearby,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The officials said that there were another 150 workers in the main factory and only the five were present in the shed with the furnace. It took one fire tender nearly 15 minutes to control the fire.“Because of the lack of any hazardous material, the fire did not spread making it easy to control. Though the factory appeared to have the necessary fire fighting equipment, they did not have an NOC. Necessary action will be taken soon in this case upon further investigation,” said Singh.Workers said that the blast also damaged the tin roof of the shed. “We heard a huge bang after which we rushed outside. We saw that a part of the shed had caught fire and the people inside were injured. It took us a while to pull them out after which we realised that a cylinder had burst,” said Monu, a worker at the factory.Police said that the five injured workers were first taken to the district hospital from where they were referred to the burn unit of a higher centre in Delhi. “Two of them are said to be in critical state and are undergoing treatment for third degree burns,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.He said that no complaint has been filed in this matter yet. But action will be taken as soon as the complaint is filed, SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-injured-in-cylinder-blast-at-noida-hardware-factory-101612894438116.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MMRDA’s cycle vision back on track in BKC||After a failed attempt a decade back, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has revived its plan of installing a cycle track in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). The cycle track will be built along the footpath with bollards separating the pavement from the track, officials said.On Tuesday, the guardian minister for Mumbai suburbs, Aaditya Thackeray, tweeted, “MMRDA is executing a cycle track in BKC. With increased offices, connectivity, we hope this would help with the last-mile connect.” He further said that pedestrians, cyclists, cars, and buses should have their rightful space on the streets and the government is working towards the same.RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “The work is in progress. Around 4.5-5km stretch in BKC will have a cycle track.” When asked about the changes incorporated this time around, Rajeev said the height of the track has been raised at the footpath level. The MMRDA is also painting the track a separate colour for motorists to identify.In 2011, MMRDA had spent around Rs6 crore to create a cycle track. However, the project failed as two-wheelers used the lane to manoeuvre traffic. It was also used as a parking spot by autos.However, MMRDA, in August 2020, launched a public-bike sharing scheme in BKC, which has picked pace. As per recent data, more than 78,000 trips have been made on the e-bikes in five months. These bikes were mainly introduced for connectivity to the suburban Bandra and Kurla railway stations.AV Shenoy, a transport expert from the Mumbai Mobility Forum, said, “We will have to wait and watch as to how it works this time around. Authorities must give equal importance to pedestrian infrastructure also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mmrda-s-cycle-vision-back-on-track-in-bkc-101612894378360.html
09-02-2021||Noida||Dense fog expected for next two days, Noida among most polluted cities||Weather and pollution analysts on Tuesday said the next two days could see dense fog and “very poor” air in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. The three cities were once again the top-3 most polluted cities in the country.The western disturbance (moisture laden winds that originate from the Mediterranean) that hit the north Indian states earlier this month affected a change of wind direction -- from the icy cold and dry north-westerly to warm and moist southerly and south-westerly.These winds are slow and moisture-laden, which will lead to suspension of particulate matter and low ventilation. The dense fog will impact visibility especially over open areas like expressways and highways. Between around 4 am to 10 am, the visibility at some places will drop to 50 metres, experts said. “The wind speed (over the national capital region) is around 5kmph. This is likely to remain till Thursday. But, after the western disturbance passes after Friday, the wind speed will increase and disperse the fog,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. On Tuesday, the maximum and minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 25.9 degrees Celsius (°C) and 10.3°C, respectively against 10.1°C and 24.1°C a day earlier. According to the IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to remain around the season’s average for next two day and hover around 27°C and 10°C. Air QualityMeanwhile, Noida’s air quality worsened due to the low wind speed and is likely to worsen further. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, on Tuesday was 347 – third worst in the country -- against 310 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was against 348 – second worst in the country -- against 319 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 374 – top polluted city-- against 329 on Monday. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor” and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), air quality will worsen further for the next three days. “Surface winds are low and south south-westerly direction and forecasted to decrease. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate but within the Very Poor category for the next two days. High end of Very Poor AQI is forecasted 12th February,” read the Safar statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dense-fog-expected-for-next-two-days-noida-among-most-polluted-cities-101612894317479.html
09-02-2021||Bangalore||Reservation demands by prominent communities add to Yediyurappa's troubles||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday found himself in an uncomfortable spot as an influential seer of the Valmiki community threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike if the government does not accept demands of increasing reservation opportunities."By 9 March if this (increase in reservation) does not happen, I will start an indefinite hunger strike," Prasananda Swami, an influential seer of the Valmiki community, said on Tuesday in Rajanahalli, Davangere, about 265 kilometres from Bengaluru."If the government does not announce this and I die, all of you....," he said, cutting short his sentence while the crowd roared in support.CM Yediyurappa had flown to Davangere in a chopper to attend the Maharshi Valmiki Jaatre fair. Yediyurappa, who was seated next to the seer on the stage, was seen asking the pontiff not to make such statements.Also read: S Jaishankar, Antony Blinken discuss situation in MyanmarThe community, classified as Scheduled Tribe, is demanding that their reservation be increased from around 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent to provide more opportunities."I have already constituted a committee under (Justice) Nagmohan Das and they have submitted a report. We are reviewing this," Yediyurappa said."The Swamiji has made statements out of pain and he has every right to make them as he is seeking better opportunities for members of this community," the CM added.Yediyurappa assured to look into the demands at the earliest.The developments come at a time when seers from various communities and prominent political leaders, including from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have backed these campaigns and their respective demands, adding to Yediyurappa's troubles.The Panchamasali, a sect under the dominant Lingayat community, have demanded to be included in the 2B category. The Kurubas, another politically influential community, also held a rally which culminated in Bengaluru on Sunday and demanded to be categorised as Scheduled Tribes (ST).Basangouda Patil (Yatnal), one of the harshest critics of Yediyurappa, was at the forefront of the Panchamasali campaign. Rural Development and Panchayati Raj minister from Yediyurappa's home district of Shivamogga is leading the campaign for the Kuruba community.B Sriramulu and Ramesh Jarkiholi are two prominent leaders from the Valmiki community who flanked the chief minister on his arrival at the Valmiki rally.The chief minister, who turns 78 on 27 February, has struggled to manage expectations from various communities who the BJP either considers their core-support base or would like to get their backing to help the saffron camp return to power with a full majority in the 2023 Karnataka assembly polls.Yediyurappa has left himself vulnerable to demands from turncoat ministers, who helped him to power, forcing him to make four reshuffles in five days. The cabinet choices and reshuffles have increased the divide within multiple factions operating within the BJP in Karnataka.The chief minister's relations with the high command in Delhi has soured in recent months that leaves him fighting one crisis after another within his government and party, much to the advantage of the opposition.Yediyurappa's statement in the legislative assembly, that he had no powers of his own and all demands of reservations have to be discussed with the central leadership, had painted a bleak picture of helplessness and inability to deal with matters of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/reservation-demands-by-prominent-communities-add-to-yediyurappa-s-troubles-101612894090973.html
09-02-2021||Other||Mumbai: Builder stages kidnapping to avoid repaying ₹80 lakh, booked||Waliv police on Tuesday booked a Vasai-based builder for staging his own kidnapping on January 18, to evade payment of ₹80 lakh, that he had borrowed from 25 people.According to police, the accused Ramsajivan Pal, 55, later started to work as a watchman in a Vapi firm.Pal had borrowed money and promise to build chawls. The victims demanded their money back after they saw no progress in the project. Senior inspector Vilas Chowgule of Waliv police said, “On 19 January, Pal told his son that he was going to a Pelhar branch of a national bank to deposit a cheque. But he never returned home. His son Ramraj, 28, registered a case of kidnapping with us. During the investigation, we found that Pal did not go to the bank and had planned his kidnapping. We looked for Pal in Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Pune and other areas, but in vain.”“Ramraj told us that Pal would inform his creditors about his kidnapping and immediately switch off his phones. We traced the call locations, which led us to Vapi. We reached the spot to find Pal working as a watchman in a factory,” said Chowgule.Pal was brought back to Vasai on Monday. “We will register a case of cheating under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code against Pal and are investigating further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-builder-stages-kidnapping-to-avoid-repaying-80-lakh-booked-101612893958106.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir inaugurates ‘Jan Rasoi’||East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir on Tuesday inaugurated a community canteen “Jan Rasoi” in New Ashok Nagar area of the city where food will be provided at a cost of ₹1 only. Gambhir said that it will help the poor to get food in this freezing cold. This is the second community kitchen opened by the member of parliament in east Delhi. The first “Jan Rasoi” was inaugurated in December last year at Gandhi Nagar wholesale market. Gambhir said that the second “Jan Rasoi” will feed more than 2,000 people each day. “Food is the most basic necessity and even in the national capital people are unable to get two square meals a day. This is not just a kitchen but a movement to feed those in need, a movement to end hunger. I have not entered politics to compete in drama and dharnas but to bring real change and that is what I am doing,” Gambhir said. Bharatiya Janata Party’s national vice-president and party’s Delhi in-charge Jay Panda was also present on the occasion.Nearly 100 people will be able to eat in the canteen at a given point of time and food will be given through coupons provided at the entrance. “Due to the Covid-19 situation in the country, all social distancing measures will be taken and not more than 50 people will be allowed. This first Jan Rasoi which was set up in Gandhi Nagar in east Delhi has been feeding around 1,000 people every day and has fed more than 50,000 people so far,” a statement released by the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-mp-gautam-gambhir-inaugurates-jan-rasoi-101612893897411.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court acquits man held for killing mother||The sessions court on Tuesday acquitted a 40-year-old autorickshaw driver for killing his 70-year-old mother Sitabai, on November 10, 2017, for lack of evidence and benefit of the doubt.Additional sessions court judge, Mahesh Lone, acquitted Naresh Mahali, 40, a resident of Kharadpada, Vasai (East) after the prosecution failed to produce concrete evidence before the court.Mahali, a father of five children and widower, was an alcoholic. He would often assault his children and mother. Sitabai had warned him of his actions many times, said defence lawyer Naresh Gaur.On November 10, his family members left home after he abused and assaulted them in an inebriated state. The same night, Sitabai confronted him. In a fit of rage, Mahali picked up a sickle from the kitchen and slit his mother’s neck. He later went to sleep. The next morning, the family members found Sitabai’s body and informed Waliv police. “Mahali was arrested for murder and was lodged in Thane jail. However, he was released on bail in April 2020, owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Since then, Mahuli stayed in his Vasai home,” Gaur said.“There were no eyewitnesses present during the trial. The police photographer produced the photo of a kitchen knife before the court, whereas a sickle was used for murder. The photographer too was not questioned by the public prosecutor,” said Gaur.Even the forensic analysis did not prove the stains on the weapon were the blood of an animal or human. The victim had worn a traditional tribal attire at the time of the incident, but the prosecution produced a sari before the court. Hence, Mahuli was acquitted for the murder due to lack of evidence and failure by the prosecution to prove the murder, the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaicourt-acquits-man-held-for-killing-mother-101612893838015.html
09-02-2021||Other||Sidhu spent 13 days as fugitive with friends, was active on Facebook||New Delhi: Farmers protesters at Singhu border never allowed actor-activist Deep Sidhu to speak from the stage because of his “association with the ruling party” and his “extremist views”, said Harinder Happy, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- a group of 40 farm unions that is spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws.But, around 8pm on January 25, Sidhu allegedly hijacked the stage and addressed the people. “He delivered a provocative speech. We asked him to leave the spot immediately. Nobody saw him after that,” Happy said. Protesters at the Singhu border claim that was the last they saw of Sidhu until he was seen again at the Red Fort during the Republic Day’s tractor parade. Delhi police are now trying to piece together the sequence of events from that evening to the afternoon of January 26, when Sidhu was seen among those who stormed the Red Fort, vandalised the monument and hoisted two flags —one of the farmers union and another a religious flag. Police are also probing if someone else was also involved with Sidhu in planning the vandalisation at Red Fort. Police have alleged that the violence during the rally and the events at the Unesco World Heritage site, were not spontaneous acts but were planned as part of a conspiracy. At least 394 police officials and 10 farmers were injured when protesters deviated from the pre-approved routes of the tractor rally and clashed with police when they were stopped from entering parts of New Delhi and Central Delhi. Police officials, who are privy to the details of Sidhu’s interrogation, said on January 26, as soon as his photographs and videos started circulating in the media, the actor quietly fled to Sonipat, about 20 km away from Singhu border. He was with many friends and supporters, but their numbers thinned as the calls for his arrest grew louder. Police suspect that he borrowed vehicles from his friends as some of the vehicles that Sidhu was using, until January 26, were not spotted by any CCTV camera installed at the toll plaza on the GT Karnal Road. “For the first 24 hours, his phone was on. He was staying at a friend’s place in Sonipat. On January 26, he released his first Facebook Live, claiming innocence and hitting at those who branded him a traitor” said an investigator associated with the case. At 8pm on January 27, the Delhi police held a press conference reiterating that no person involved in the violence will be spared. “Within two hours of the media briefing, at around 10pm, Sidhu switched off his cell phone. His last location was Sonipat. Then, he started changing his location,” the first investigating officer added. After the January 27 press conference, at least 12 teams of the crime branch, special cell, and the local police were conducting raids at multiple locations in Punjab and Haryana to find Sidhu. Police also tapped the phone number of many persons related to Sidhu. A team even visited his wife’s house in Purnea, Bihar. “He was not in Bihar either. We found that during all these days, Sidhu visited Chandigarh, Bilaspur(Himachal Pradesh), Amritsar, and then Karnal from where he was finally arrested. He has claimed that he stayed at his friend’s house. We are verifying this. He even removed his turban to avoid being identified. The videos of Sidhu at the Red Fort and in the days before the violence show him with a turban,” a second police officer added. On Monday night, when police arrested Sidhu, he was waiting for a car to flee to Purnea. “He was waiting at the Karnal bypass for a car that was offered by his associate for the journey, when the police team caught him around 10.30pm. He was hiding in Karnal and was dropped at the bypass by another associate on a bike, just 10 minutes before his arrest,” the officer said. A third police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said on February 3, after Delhi police announced ₹1 lakh reward on Sidhu’s arrest, Sidhu found himself cornered and could not find many friends to shield him while in hiding. “He could have passed off as one of the farmers among the thousands already on the GT Karnal road with their tractors. But the farmers union had distanced themselves from Sidhu, so this made it more difficult for him to hide. He had to stay away from the protest sites. We have information that he visited some of his friends near Singhu (not the main stage or near farm leaders) on February 1 but he did not stay there for long. We will question him on why he visited the border again,” the third officer added. But even while in hiding for 13 days, Sidhu was active on his Facebook account. Between, January 26 and February 8(until his arrest), he uploaded five videos and claimed that he was not among the rioters; reiterated that lies were being spread against him; and asked people to stay united. He also wrote posts about how the protest started after the farm laws were passed in September and the “reality of the political and social structure” and alleged that he was “set up by the farm union leaders”. On Tuesday afternoon, hours after Sidhu’s arrest, special cell deputy commissioner of police Sanjeev Yadav said such posts and videos were uploaded by Sidhu’s friend from the US and that Sidhu was careful to not do it himself to avoid arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-spent-13-days-as-fugitive-with-friends-was-active-on-facebook-101612893777398.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC temporarily stays sarpanch elections in six districts||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the district collectors of Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Nashik and Pune districts to hear 31 candidates, who had approached HC after they found that the reservation criteria for filing nominations forms for the elections were not in conformity with section 30 of the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act, 1958 and the rule 246 of Bombay Village Panchayats (Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch) Election Rules, 1964.The candidates claimed that though they had objected to it they were not given a hearing. The HC also stayed the elections that were to be held in these districts till February 16. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Vinay Joshi, while hearing the 31 petitions filed by aggrieved candidates, was informed that as per section 30 and rule 246 of the said Acts the rota rule had to be followed while permitting the filing of nominations.Advocate Sarang Aradhye for one of the petitioners submitted that while there were eight reservation categories, each of them would have an opportunity to contest the election every five years on a rotation basis, implying that each category would have a chance to hold the post of sarpanch and there would be no reservation for anyone category in perpetuity. He submitted that the state government had adopted the rotation policy in 1995 and since then the rota system was in place.Aradhye further submitted that however in some districts the rota had not been followed and even though the candidates had raised their objection before the Tahsildar, it was not heeded and hence the petitions.After hearing the submissions, the bench stayed elections which were to be held within 30 days of their announcement on January 29, 2020, and directed the collectors of the said districts to consider the petitions as representations, give the candidates a hearing and decide on the same before February 16 and disposed of the petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-temporarily-stays-sarpanch-elections-in-six-districts-101612893660693.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||AAP calls BJP ‘anti-poor’ as MCDs impose ₹5 charge for using public toilets||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporation’s decision to impose ₹5 charge on the usage of public toilets was “anti-poor” as thousands of slum residents in the city are dependent on public toilets.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and accused the AAP of misleading people.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs).“BJP-ruled MCDs have decided to impose ₹5 per use at toilets under their jurisdiction. This decision will cause immense distress to slum dwellers. The BJP is an anti-poor party and they have proved it yet again. The BJP-ruled MCDs have miserably failed to maintain the toilets under their jurisdiction and now by this decision, they are forcing poor people to leave Delhi or to opt for open defecation. These are inhuman schemes,” said AAP’s municipal affairs in-charge Durgesh Pathak.The Delhi Congress on Monday had alleged that dwellers of slum clusters in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj and nearby areas, under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), were having to pay ₹5 for using municipal toilets.Congress councillor Abhishek Dutt said ₹5 was being realised by the private company maintaining the community toilet complex from users at the Indira Camp slum cluster in Andrews Ganj. He said this was being done despite the civic body agreeing to not take money from users of toilet blocks or urinals in slum clusters.Dutt said so far, residents had been using the facility free of charge. Being the area councillor, Dutt raised the matter to the municipal authorities and also wrote to the SDMC mayor seeking her intervention.Dismissing the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These allegations are baseless. The AAP is misleading people. The municipal corporation’s proposal to levy usage charges on toilets is for units that are located in upmarket areas and not on toilet blocks located in and around slums, resettlement colonies and lower-income areas. It would be better if they stop confusing people and ensure that their government releases appropriate funds for the upkeep of these amenities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-calls-bjp-anti-poor-as-mcds-impose-5-charge-for-using-public-toilets-101612893597938.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No bail for man booked for sexual abuse of 5 kids||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) court has recently ordered to expedite the trial of man booked for sexually assaulting five children from Wadala in 2018.The special court rejected the bail application of the 20-year-old man observing that he may continue to abuse more children if he was released on bail.The court, however, asked the prosecution to expedite the trial and directed the jail authorities to produce him before the court for the next hearing.The accused had claimed that the children described the suspect as a man around 40 years of age, while the accused is just 20 years old. The defence had pleaded that the accused was falsely implicated in the case and was himself a victim of circumstances.The prosecution had claimed that he had ravished five boys by showing them naked pictures, as well as committed unnatural sex with them. He had also threatened them that he would upload the photos online. The prosecution has also claimed that the victims have identified the accuses as the same person who abused them during the test identification parade. The court noted that his earlier bail pleas were also rejected, and there is no change in circumstance. Further, the court noted that the trial against him was stuck because of the lockdown.“On merits, there are serious allegations against the accused that he has done unnatural sex with five boys. So, this is not the case where the accused can be enlarged on bail in view of the act done by him. Accused and all the five boys are residing in the same locality,” the court observed while rejecting bail application of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-no-bail-for-man-booked-for-sexual-abuse-of-5-kids-101612893538026.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Subhash Chawla is new Chandigarh Congress chief||Former Chandigarh mayor Subhash Chawla, 66, is the new chief of the local Congress unit.KC Venugopal, general secretary, All India Congress Committee, on Tuesday issued a letter on behalf of the party president, appointing Chawla as the president of Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee.Chawla replaces Pardeep Chhabra, who has held the post for around six years. A two-time councillor, Chawla lost the last municipal election in 2016.The change in the party’s leadership has taken place at a time the MC is due for fresh elections later in the year. Currently, the party has only five councillors in the 26-member House. Devender Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in Chandigarh MC, welcomed Chawla’s appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/subhash-chawla-is-new-chandigarh-congress-chief-101612893418028.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Post-Covid Pune gradually tunes back to music, organisers uphold Covid norms||Despite the theatres and cultural halls only allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity in the state, Pune city is gradually regaining its cultural flavour. The months of December, January and February are a feast for music and performing art lovers in the city. In the post Covid era, organisers of musical festivals are gradually putting their foot forward to hold traditional and popular music festivals once again. However, with the Covid-19 threat not completely over, the form and the grandeur of the festivals have changed. The music festivals which used to be organised in open spaces are now happening indoors with 50 per cent of the total seating capacity. Due to this restriction, many organisers are facing a budget crunch and have to adapt to new methods to manage the event. Rahul Deshpande, a popular classical singer announced that ‘Vasantotsav’, a 14-year-old music festival dedicated to his grandfather late veteran singer Vasantrao Deshpande will be conducted in this month from February 19 to 21. However, the festival will be held indoors at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch and after five years it will be charged with tickets for music lovers. “As we started to get sponsors, we did not charge the audience but this year I cannot afford to organise this Mahotsav for free. We have placed tickets in affordable ranges,” said Deshpande. “This is the birth centenary completion year of my grandfather. We had various plans to mark the celebrations, but nothing could happen because of Covid-19,” he added. Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav, Vasantotsav, Gan Saraswati Mahotsav and Swar Jhankar Mahotsav are some of the popular and prestigious annual music festivals in the city which music lovers look forward to. Due to pandemic this year, the calendar of these festivals has collapsed and with changing rules and norms issued by the government, organisers are trying to plan the events accordingly. Planners are also demanding the operation of theatres with 100 per cent capacity. “We are keeping a close eye on the rules. We strongly demand that the theatres should be functional with 100 per cent capacity as everything else has now opened up. In outdoor events there is still a restriction of 200 people. So, programs mostly have been moved indoors. We want to organise the Mahotsav but it has to be financially viable as well,” said Rajas Upadhye, CEO of Swar Jhankar music festival. Swar Sagar is an annual musical festival that is being organised in Pimpri-Chinchwad since 1998. Last week, the Pimpri-Chinchwad social foundation successfully conducted the event following the protocols of Covid-19. “The festivals used to be for three to four days on an open ground earlier but this year we only had it for two days in Acharya Atre hall with 50 per cent capacity. However, we received a very good response from music lovers. This year some of the local artists performed but we had a very good response,” said Pravin Tupe, chief coordinator of the festival. Sawai Gandharv Bhimsen Mahotsav was organised by the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal, in light of the birth centenary year of Bharat Ratna Pandit Bhimsen Joshi. ‘Abhivadan’ a musical tribute two-day program was organised by Arya Sangit Prasarak Mandal this year. The Swar Jhankar Mahotsav has collaborated with Vasantotsav this year. Instead of having a full-fledge music festival, Swar Jhankar will organise concerts every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/postcovid-pune-gradually-tunes-back-to-music-organisers-uphold-covid-norms-101612893297952.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Standing committee approves saffron flag on Sinhagad worth ₹1 cr||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday gave an approval to erect a saffron flag at the Sinhagad fort, worth ₹1 crore. As the Sinhagad fort does not fall under PMC limits, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar denied approving the project and instructed to seek permission at general body meeting instead. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “PMC had made budgetary provisions for it and all parties are ready to approve it. The standing committee had given a nod to install the saffron flag at Sinhagad and we are sure that the general body will approve it.” BOXThe standing committee on Tuesday approved to divert ₹25 crore funds for various projects suggested by elected members. As the financial year nears close, many elected members are asking to divert money to complete their incomplete projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/standing-committee-approves-saffron-flag-on-sinhagad-worth-rs-1-cr-101612893297370.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH fares worst in vaccine coverage in Chandigarh||Amid general hesitancy among health workers in Chandigarh to take the Covid-19 vaccine shot, employees of the health department have been most forthcoming while those of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, have shown least participation, official data shows. In Chandigarh, around 19,000 health workers are to be inoculated. They include those employed by the heath department at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, three sub-district hospitals and around 50 dispensaries besides employees of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).The vaccine coverage of the health department stands at 31.3%, followed by 30.8% at the PGIMER and just 18.5% at GMCH. The overall coverage has been around 28%, the data presented on Monday at the state-level task force for vaccination has revealed. Taking this into account, the UT authorities have decided to also create sessions for frontline workers at GMCH, so that more people can be inoculated within the available resources. Also, with the central government setting the deadline of February 20 for administering the first dose to health workers, the administration has directed its officials to give the workers at least two chances to take the shot.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-cum-principal, GMCH, said all efforts are being made to create a favourable environment for a better turnout at our sites. “The numbers are less than we expected. Every health worker is being informed that the vaccine is important for their protection,” she said. Meanwhile, a senior health official, who did not wish to be named, said that seeing the present turnout, coverage cannot go past 40% by February 20, even though there might be a jump in the last week as the deadline approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmch-fares-worst-in-vaccine-coverage-in-chandigarh-101612893240034.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Two Hingoli natives booked for assault at Chakan hospital||Two engineers from Khed area of Pune were remanded to two days in custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday for assaulting a security guard and a policeman and pushing a doctor at Chakan government hospital on Monday. The two arrested were identified as Shrikant Ghanshyam Ambore (24) and Kanhaiya Yadav Dhawale (24) a resident of Kharabwadi in Khed and both natives of Takalgaon in Hingoli. They had come to the hospital in order to get treatment for their wounds caused after suffering a fall from the motorbike they were riding at 1 am on Monday. “They were drunk and had fallen off the bike that one of them was riding. One had some face injury while the other had a minor injury. They came near the hospital and were honking. My colleagues and I were attending to a woman who was close to delivering a baby. While I rushed out, the security asked them what was wrong, and they started hitting him. I tried to go near the door and call the police when they realised what was happening and tried to manhandle me and followed me outside the door. As the policeman came, one of them tried to run away but could not cross the compound wall. So instead, he threw a stone at the policeman. After they were subdued, we treated their wounds before the police took them away,” said Dr Vinayak Dnyaneshwar Mohole (25), a resident doctor at the hospital that was manhandled. The two men were arrested and produced in a court later on Monday. “The court remanded them to police custody until Tuesday. They work in the private sector. They had arrived at the hospital 10-15 minutes before the assault happened and did not want to wait for the doctors to attend them,” said police sub-inspector VJ Panchamukh of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 353, 332, 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 85 of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act, 1949, and Section 4 of Prevention of Violence Against Doctors, Medical. Professionals and Medical Institutions Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-hingoli-natives-booked-for-assault-at-chakan-hospital-101612893238566.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Police crackdown on vehicle vandals, 472 arrested in 145 cases over four years||The Pune police have arrested 472 accused in 145 cases of vehicle vandalism during the past four years. In total, 442 vehicles have been destroyed worth crores of rupees in this timeframe.According to the crime branch data, as many as 11 cases were lodged during 2021 where 50 vandals mostly youth were arrested for damaging 72 vehicles across the city while 162 vandals were arrested in 50 cases for destroying 124 vehicles in 2020. In 2018, 139 accused were arrested in 48 cases for destroying 131 vehicles compared with 121 accused arrested in 50 cases for damaging 115 vehicles. DCP (crime) Bacchan Singh said, “A total of 50 cases of vandalising vehicles were registered in 2020 in which 162 accused were arrested. Most of such incidents have taken place in slum areas and done with the intention to create terror in the locality and show their “bhaigiri” by aspiring criminals. Such cases are being taken very seriously and stringent preventive action like MCOCA/MPDA is being taken against repeat offenders, while juvenile accused are counselled by juvenile unit and police stations.” The city police led by the crime branch is carrying out intense combing operations in slum pockets and areas prone to vehicle vandalism to arrest miscreants with the objective of vehicle vandalism. The Pune police are now booking the accused under more stringent legal provisions such as the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, IPS offences ranging from extortion, robbery and issuance of grave threats to life by spreading terror amongst the citizenry at large. The data available with city police states that the vandals mostly belong to the age group between 18 and 20 years which include a major chunk of school dropouts hailing from impoverished backgrounds. The reasons behind vehicle vandalism include flimsy reasons like settling local rivalries, ego battles, establishing clout in their respective localities or neighbourhood or extortion money from shopkeepers including robbing local traders. Both the local police station officials and crime branch sleuths are creating awareness among citizens including those engaged in vandalism. A list of 400 vandals on record of the city has been prepared and notices are being sent to them regarding the crime. Also, repeat offenders have been warned that they would be booked under stringent provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) if they continued with their waywardness. Milind Pawar, a leading lawyer from Pune said, “Vehicle vandalism is a very serious crime, and the city police are rightly taking action under serious crime categories as the accused involved are either juvenile in conflict with the law or youngsters who later on graduate to become bigger criminals. The combing operations and invoking of MCOCA and MPDA against the accused will keep the vehicle vandalism under a tight leash. More crackdowns on the gangs engaged in vandalism is the need of the hour and arrests are mandatory to keep the crime rate under check.” Daljeet Singh Goraya, Ganga Kingston society secretary said, “The hooligans are indulging in this kind of violent behavior just like the outlawed motorcycle gangs operational in Mohammadwadi. These anti-social elements should be taught a lesson by iron hand and the city police combing operation and subsequent arrests will act as a strong deterrent in the near future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-crackdown-on-vehicle-vandals-472-arrested-in-145-cases-over-four-years-101612893238029.html
09-02-2021||Pune||61-year old woman duped of ₹13.1 lakh by Facebook friend||A 61-year-old woman was duped of ₹13.1 lakh by an unidentified person who befriended her through Facebook. The resident of Keshavnagar, Mundhwa was approached on Facebook by the accused person through a female profile and the alleged brother of the profile holder in January 2020. Over a course of their chats, the woman offered to send gifts to the complainant. The complainant was asked to pay a total of ₹13,17,000 through multiple transactions in order to get access to the gifts, according to the complainant. The complainant paid the amount in the six months between January 2020 and June 2020 before realising that she was being duped, according to the police. A complaint was lodged at the Cybercrime police station after which a case was registered at Mundhwa police station. A case under Sections 419, 420, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology was registered at Mundhwa police station against unidentified people. Police inspector (crime) Vijaykumar Shinde of Mundhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/61year-old-woman-duped-of-rs-13-1-lakh-by-facebook-friend-101612893237343.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Three in police custody for attempted murder of 7-year-old||Three men were remanded to custody of Pune police in a case of attempted murder of a 7-year-old child and her family members in Ramtekdi, Wanowrie on Monday evening. The arrested men were identified as Karan Sundarlal Valmiki (20), Papa Waghela (19), and Sahil alias Laddo Waghela (19) all residents of Ramtekdi area of Hadapsar. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Baby Suraj Patole (40) whose husband Suraj Potawade had first asked the men to not gather outside the ladies’ toilet on Monday morning. The injured child, who is the niece of the complainant woman, was visiting her aunt at the same time. The arrested men were enraged after the child’s uncle had yelled at them for playing cards in front of the ladies’ toilet in the area. The chawl area is closely knit and the ladies’ toilet in front of which the three men were playing cards is located near the complainant’s house. “The toilet incident happened in the morning and Suraj Patole came home and told his wife about what had happened. When she went near the toilet, the men were still sitting there and she also asked them to leave. The men gathered around in the evening and started attacking Suraj Patole with a knife. The child came near her uncle without realising the danger and as he ducked the attack, the knife landed on her,” said police sub-inspector Bhushan Potawade of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case. The men, who also assaulted the complainant’s son and daughter, are in police custody until February 11. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 452 (trespassing), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with the intention of provoking a breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-in-police-custody-for-attempted-murder-of-7yearold-101612893178553.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||DMRC commissions 10 new escalators||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Tuesday commissioned 10 additional escalators at nine metro stations — including two new ones at the Kashmere Gate interchange metro station, taking the total tally of escalators at this station alone to 47, the highest in the network.DMRC in a statement issued on Tuesday said, “These newer, easy to maintain escalators, updated with the latest software will provide more ease to commuters, especially during peak hours.”“Kashmere Gate is the only multilayered triple interchange station of the Delhi Metro network which provides interchange facility between Line-1 (Red Line), Line–2 (Yellow Line) and Line-6 (Violet Line). With the addition of two more escalators today, it has become India’s only Metro station having so many escalators facilitating convenient passenger movement between various levels,” the statement added.Other stations where additional escalators have been commissioned are Rithala on Red Line and Uttam Nagar (East), Nawada, Rajouri Graden, Shadipur, Yamuna Bank, Subhash Nagar and RK Ashram Marg on Blue Line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-commissions-10-new-escalators-101612893177330.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Realtor duped of ₹60 lakh, trading firm official from Kolhapur held||A businessman from Kolhapur was remanded to police custody for duping a Pune resident of ₹60 lakh through false investment schemes and related ads. The trading firm was identified as Shubh Trade Biz India Limited Liability Partnership, according to the police. The arrested man was identified as Abhijeet Dhondiba Sawant (40), a resident of Kolhapur while the others booked in the case were identified as office-bearers of a stock trading company and one other person, according to the police. He was remanded to nine days in police custody by a local court. “The complainant is a realtor. So far, we have received four other complaints against this trading company. We urge other victims of this company to come forth and register their complaint at Sinhagad road police station. We suspect them to have duped multiple others,” said assistant police inspector Shankar Salgar of Sinhagad road police station who is investigating the case. The complainant is a 29-year-old man residing in Nanded City area of Haveli in Pune. The man told the police that in July 2020, he invested ₹63,00,000 in the trading company based on advertisements in newspapers, YouTube, and Facebook among other online platforms. The ads promised monthly returns as well as gifts like car, two-wheeler, and gold upon investment. The company managed to return ₹3,78,000 to the complainant over the next few months. However, the money stopped coming after a few days. The complainant has also alleged that when he went to the accused man’s office, the man’s colleague and co-accused threatened him with a gun on December 22, 2020. On January 20, the other accused who is yet to be arrested, allegedly called the complainant and his relative to his office in Narhe and verbally abused them before threatening to name them in a false case and vandalised their car, according to the complaint. The police are investigating if there are other victims in the case. A case under Sections 406, 417, 419, 120(b), 506(2) and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of Arms Act, relevant sections of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation (Banning) Act, Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act was registered at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/realtor-duped-of-rs-60-lakh-trading-firm-official-from-kolhapur-held-101612893177926.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol breaches ₹84 mark in Chandigarh||A litre of petrol breached ₹84 mark while diesel went past ₹77 mark for the first time in Chandigarh on Tuesday. A similar trend is being seen in the neighbouring cities of Mohali and Panchkula. Fuel in Mohali remains the costliest, with petrol at ₹89.26 per litre and diesel at ₹80.01 per litre. In Panchkula, prices stand at ₹85.16 and ₹77.86, respectively. Fuel prices have been on the rise in the city since the beginning of this year, with new records being set every passing day. The rise in prices of both fuels has been around ₹3.6 since January 1, when petrol was available for ₹80.35 per litre and diesel for ₹73.58 per litre. Petrol now costs ₹84.02 and diesel is available for ₹77.19.“The rising costs of diesel has hit us hard. Trucks have poor fuel efficiency, and even a small hike in prices can cost us thousands of rupees,” said BL Sharma, general secretary of the Chandigarh Transport Association, adding that the price of commodities coming to the city from other places is set to go up with rising transportation cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-breaches-84-mark-in-chandigarh-101612893119621.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, Chandigarh properties to have digital number plates||As part of the smart city project, each house and commercial property in Chandigarh will soon have digital number plates. Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) is developing a digital door number system, which will include QR (quick response) code number, unique property ID and GIS (geographic information system) mapping of residential and commercial properties in Chandigarh.The QR code will provide the geo-coordinate, house number and location of the property, and authorised users will also be able to access information regarding different municipal services and pending bill payments. The water and electricity meter IDs will also be linked with the digital door number (DDN).“DDN system is to properties what Aadhaar is to all Indian citizens. It will be a secure and unique identification number for each property to be used across and synced with all municipal services. The new unique ID will simplify the complex address system. It will help us create an accurate database for attributes of all commercial and residential properties,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL. The estimated cost of the project is ₹10 crore, and CSCL is currently finalising the request for proposal. It is also considering it to be taken up under corporate social responsibility.The project provides the basic linkage between various services being provided by the MC and the administration to the citizens. The ID created through this system can be used to connect all the services, and will ensure greater synergy between different departments.As part of the project, mobile and web-based applications are also be developed. “These apps will help people access information regarding different MC services, call emergency help, check on the status of their complaints, get route directions to their houses (on the pattern of Google Maps) and interact with officials – all on the basis of the unique ID mentioned on the DDN,” said Sharma.The main motive of this project is to provide digital address and geo-tagging of addresses. It will be synced with the Integrated Command and Control Centre being set up in Sector 17.At the time of emergency, the citizen will only need to provide the unique ID of the property. “This ID will provide the exact address, and with this the emergency service provider can reach the spot using the shortest path,” said Sharma. Even for e-commerce sites and retailers, the residents only need to give the unique property ID for delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soon-chandigarh-properties-to-have-digital-number-plates-101612892999488.html
09-02-2021||Gurugram||District records 103% vaccination turnout||The Covid-19 vaccination coverage for front-line workers exceeded the target for the first time on Tuesday. With as many as 1,135 front-line workers turning up to take the vaccine jab, as against the set target of 1,100 workers, the district health department reported a coverage rate of over 103%. Officials ascribed the high footfall to the turning up of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) staffers at various vaccination sites. Out of 500 MCG front-line workers targeted, over 652 people came for inoculation at five vaccination sites. After the senior officials of MCG, including the commissioner, took the vaccine shot on Monday, the workers have been motivated to come forward, said the officials. The MCG workers have so far remained apprehensive of taking the vaccine. On Monday, the vaccination coverage increased from 54% to 93%.“At a few MCG vaccination sites, the front-line staff came out in large numbers. At the Sector 10A community centre, almost 200 people came for vaccination in groups,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “The staff members have been encouraged to come forward as their doubts related to the safety of the vaccine have been cleared after senior officials took the jab,” he said. The MCG deployed one of its supervisors at each vaccination site to coordinate with registered beneficiaries, asking them to turn up for vaccination. The police department also continued with its high footfall of almost 80%. Of the 600 police personnel, at least 483 were administered vaccine at five sites. The district health department also held a vaccination session for 50 healthcare workers, but over 78 registered beneficiaries turned up. Although the health department targeted a total of nearly 1,150 healthcare and front-line workers on Tuesday, 1,213 took the vaccine jab at 12 session sites. Till now, more than 70% of the registered healthcare workers have been covered under the vaccination drive. “Due to routine immunisation programme, the Covid-19 vaccination has been put on hold for a day on Wednesday. It will again start from Thursday across 15 vaccination sites. We will have five vaccination sites for MCG and the police each and one site for health workers. The rest will be for staffers of the Bhondsi Jail,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/district-records-103-vaccination-turnout-101612892337899.html
09-02-2021||Gurugram||Five, including two officials, booked for pocketing road repair money||Five persons, including a block development, panchayat officer (BDPO) and chairman of block committee of Pataudi, were booked on Monday for allegedly fudging bills amounting to ₹18,000, by forging documents to make illegal payments for repair works, said police.The police said that the case came to light when a roadroller, mentioned in the documents for road repairs, turned out to be a two-wheeler. As per the norms, to sanction money, the bill needs to have registration number of roadroller used for the repair or road construction. However, a right to information (RTI) petition filed by an activist revealed that the registration number in the documents was that of a two-wheeler. Following this, the activist, last November, filed a complaint with the police for registration of an FIR against the officials involved. An inquiry was conducted by the deputy commissioner of police, Manesar, following which a case under sections 420 (cheating), 409 (breach of trust) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Patuadi police station on Monday. A case was registered against the BDPO of Pataudi, the chairman of the block committee and the contractors concerned. Despite repeated attempts, the BDPO and the chairman did not respond to calls for comment. Ramesh Kumar, the activist, said that he had also filed a complaint with the CM Window. “Accidents are reported every day due to the poor condition of roads and officials take money without carrying out repairs and construction of the road. They show repair work only in documents, but never carry them out,” he said. KK Rao, the commissioner of police said that they are conducting an investigation and no arrest has been made so far. “We are also discussing the case with other stakeholders and based on the outcome, the suspects will be arrested and strict action will be taken against them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-including-two-officials-booked-for-pocketing-road-repair-money-101612892337304.html
09-02-2021||Gurugram||Air quality dips to very poor, experts cite slow winds||The city’s air quality entered the very poor zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin on Tuesday, recording a value of 313, a spike from Monday’s AQI of 298 that was in the poor category. Experts said that the deterioration was due to slower wind speeds during the day and calm wind conditions during the night, which were unfavourable for effective dispersion of pollutants. VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI is expected to remain in the very poor zone for the next few days. “The winds were calm and have further slowed down. There is no immediate expectation of improvement in the air quality, at least for the next three days,” said Soni. He said that the while winds of up to 10 kmph is expected to prevail during the daytime, winds in the evening and night will be calm. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 210.38 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Tuesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 388.79 µg/m3 on Tuesday. The PM 2.5 concentration at Gwal Pahari stood at 232.56 µg/m3. In comparison, the safe limit of PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in the very poor category on Wednesday, Thursday and the next five days. As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) forecast, surface winds are slow, in the south to south-westerly direction, with a further dip expected. It further stated that the AQI is likely to touch the higher end of the very poor zone by Friday. While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Tuesday, the AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 10.6 degrees Celsius. The city’s maximum temperature stood at 26.1 degrees Celsius, an increase of three degrees from the 23.5 degrees Celsius recorded the previous day. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 25 and 10 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-dips-to-very-poor-experts-cite-slow-winds-101612892279851.html
09-02-2021||Gurugram||Cops identify six accident-prone spots||Six accident-prone spots have been identified by the police, following 43 accidents and 12 deaths at these spots this year.The police said that they have analysed the factors causing fatal accidents on these stretches, with speeding and wrong-side driving identified as the most common and dangerous ones.According to the survey conducted last month, a majority of accidents on city roads have taken place at the junction of Supermart-2 in DLF Phase 4, stretch from Golf Course Extension Road to Sector 65, the spot ahead of Central Plaza on Golf Course Road, Sector 56 crossing, stretch from Sushant Lok-1 crossing to Sector 40 and the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR).“Speeding and driving on the wrong side were the major causes behind the high accident rates at these points,” said KK Rao, the commissioner of police.The survey was conducted by local police teams and traffic personnel in the last week of January. A report in this regard was submitted to the commissioner of police on Monday.Rao said that the officials have analysed the behaviour of two-wheeler motorists, cyclists and pedestrians and they have planned to deploy traffic teams to monitor the speed limit of the vehicles. As per the traffic police records, 70 accidents have taken place between January 1 and February 9, with 30 deaths and 39 injuries in all.Over 300 people are killed every year on the city roads, as per the data over the last four years. Last year, 347 deaths were reported, while 422 deaths were recorded in 2019.Rao said they have deployed a police control room van at all traffic crossings and have directed all the station house officers (SHOs) to patrol the area at night. “The SHOs have been asked to keep a check on the traffic signal and to ensure deployment at these signals. They will also challan those speeding and driving on the wrong side at night, as commuters flout rules due to limited police deployment,” he said.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert, expressed concern over the fact that an on-road death is reported every second day. “The police is caught unawares. No action is being taken to prevent mishaps despite so many lives having been lost. There are various other spots where the roads are unsafe, there are engineering faults and speeding is the main concern, but they are still out of the police radar,” she said, adding that despite several awareness drives and deployment, people do not pay heed to safe practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cops-identify-six-accident-prone-spots-101612892279303.html
09-02-2021||Gurugram||Woman lawyer assaulted by three men in Sector 29||A 24-year-old woman, who works as an advocate at a city court, was allegedly assaulted by three men outside a CNG pump in Sector 29 on Monday. According to the police, the suspects assaulted her over a scratch on their car that appeared while she was reversing her own car outside the pump. The police said the incident took place around 11.30am outside the CNG pump near Huda Metro station. The suspects had parked their car in the middle of the road and, despite repeated requests, they allegedly refused to move it.The woman’s car hit theirs while reversing that led to an argument and a scuffle. The woman alleged that the two men abused and assaulted her and threatened her for life when she tried to resist their attack. “My cousin sister and aunt were with me when the incident took place. They were demanding ₹10,000 for a minor scratch on their Skoda car. Although, I offered to get it repaired but they tried to snatch my bag,” she said. The police said the suspects blocked her passage so that she could not move from the spot. They also pulled her out of the car and touched her inappropriately. The victim called the police control room, following which policemen from Sector 29 intervened and resolved the issue, asking her to get the car repaired. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that they are investigating the case and have taken the call detail records of the suspects. “We are yet to arrest the suspects,” he said. A case was registered at the Sector 29 police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-lawyer-assaulted-by-three-men-in-sector-29-101612892277355.html
09-02-2021||Gurugram||30-year-old man dies of severe injuries sustained in accident on Sector 43 road||A 30-year-old man died on Monday after a speeding Fortuner SUV allegedly rammed his motorcycle ahead of a traffic signal near Super Mart-2 in DLF Phase-4, around 1am. The man’s death took the death count in road accidents in the city to 30, from 86 on-road collisions and accidents, since January 1, even as the authorities continue to struggle to make roads safer and ensure that traffic norms are not violated.In the incident on Monday, the police said that the driver of the SUV, which had a Delhi registration number, fled the spot, leaving behind his car on the spot. A passerby spotted the injured man, identified as one Mojahar Hussain, and took him to a private hospital where he died during treatment on Monday. According to the police, Hussain, a construction supervisor, was on his way to meet his relatives in Sushant Lok-1 from Carterpuri in Sector 23 late Sunday night, when he met with the accident around 1am. The police said that due to the high speed of the vehicles, Hussain was flung to the other side of the road, around 50 metres from the spot of the collision, due to the impact.The police said that the motorbike and the front side of the SUV were completely damaged due to the impact. Jaswant Singh, in charge of Sector 43 police post, said, “The SUV driver was speeding and driving rashly. After taking left from the signal, the driver lost control and rammed into the motorbike from behind. “The biker fell on the road and sustained critical injuries to his head and body. He also suffered injuries to his arm and leg. The SUV driver must have also suffered injuries, as the collision was powerful,” he said. Singh said that a passerby spotted the injured man lying in a pool of blood and took him to a private hospital in Sushant Lok-1, where he died. Hussain’s body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem examination on Monday, said police. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the SUV driver at Sushant Lok police station, said police. The police said that the SUV owner has been identified as a resident of Kapashera in Delhi and that a notice will be served to him. They have impounded the SUV and are checking CCTV footage from different locations of the stretch to establish the speed of the vehicle.Experts said that city roads need to be made safer and not be made with only fast motor vehicles in mind.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert and former member of the now-defunct Haryana Vision Zero, said, “It’s time to prioritise safety over speed. Only then can we make Gurugram a city where people walk by choice and not compulsion. The safe systems approach advocates that safety should supersede everything, including mobility. This is where the problem starts. City agencies are more concerned with moving motor vehicles as quickly as possible, even if it comes at the cost of pedestrians and cyclists. Last year’s data of all pedestrian deaths in Gurugram shows that over 90% of them took place either on national highways, state highways or the Golf Course Road, all of which are high-speed corridors. Therefore, it is essential that speed along these road stretches, especially at the intersection, needs to brought down to a safe limit, and this can be done quickly via good design. However, any effort to increase speed will only lead to an increase in traffic crashes, especially those involving vulnerable road users.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/30yearold-man-dies-of-severe-injuries-sustained-in-accident-on-sector-43-road-101612892278068.html
09-02-2021||Patna||Mumbai-based smugglers arrested with gold worth over ₹2 crore||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) late on Monday night arrested two people from Dibrugarh-New Delhi AC special train (02423) and recovered four bars weighing six-kilograms of foreign-origin gold."Acting on the basis of specific intelligence, very meticulously and painstakingly developed over days, the sleuths of Patna Zonal Unit of the DRI apprehended two persons at Patliputra Railway Station when the train arrived. The DRI sleuths recovered 4 gold bars from their possession,” said an official, adding that the arrested syndicate carriers have been identified as — Navnath Suryavansi and Vikram Misal- both residents of Sangli, Maharastra.They were travelling in AC-1 compartment of the Delhi-bound train. The gold bars were found to be concealed in specially tailored cloth vests.The official said they didn't produce any valid document evidencing legal importation, possession and transportation of above gold bars. The gold bars were examined by a government valuer who assessed their value to be around ₹2.96 crores. In their respective statements recorded under section 108 of the Customs Act, they revealed that the aforesaid gold had been smuggled from Myanmar into India. Both have been taken into custody. Further investigation is on.According to RPF Inspector PK Barnwal, the DRI got an input that two suspected persons travelling in the first-class compartment of the train are carrying an illegal consignment. Following a tip-off, the RPF requested Danapur control to give an extra stoppage to the train at Patliputra Junction to facilitate the search operation. When the train arrived at platform number 2, with the assistance of RPF personnel, DRI sleuths searched the compartment and caught the duo. The arrested duo tried to dodge the officials after producing a fake document allegedly issued by JMB Bulians, HB Road, Masjid Gali, Fancy Bazar, Guwahati. When DRI sleuths scanned the receipt, they noticed that the date of issue of the document was February 8, the day of their boarding from Guwahati Junction at around 7 am.The accused have been arrested under the Customs Act, 1962 and remanded to judicial custody while further investigation is in progress.The DRI officials had recovered gold consignment three times from the Dibrugarh-New Delhi AC special train and twice before from North East Express in the last six months.The intelligence inputs indicated that the recovered gold bars carrying foreign markings had been smuggled into India from Myanmar through the international land border at Moreh in Manipur. The smuggling syndicate operating from Guwahati was attempting to dispose of the contraband in the cities of Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai which notably have thriving markets for the yellow metal and jewellery."The smuggling syndicate sourced and recruited poor and needy individuals from various parts of the country to act as carriers of the smuggled gold by luring them with the prospect of quick and easy money," said the official. The smugglers used air, land and rail routes to locally transport the smuggled gold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mumbaibased-smugglers-arrested-from-with-gold-worth-over-rs-2-crore-101612890417610.html
09-02-2021||Other||39-year-old man found bludgeoned to death near Jagraon Bridge||A 39-year-old man was found bludgeoned to death at the railway lines near Jagraon Bridge on Monday night.Blood-smeared stones were found near the body of the victim, Ram Sewak Verma, who police suspect may have been murdered due to an old rivalry.According to Sant Ram Verma, brother of the victim, Ram Sewak lived in Field Ganj and had been working at a gas agency’s godown near Jagraon Bridge for the past 10 years. Normally, he would return from work by 8pm, but didn’t return home till 10pm on Monday and his mobile phone was also switched off. When they started searching for him near the godown, they found him lying in a pool of blood at the railway lines near Jagraon Bridge.“The assailants bludgeoned Ram Sewak with stones, which were found near the body, along with his mobile phone. The murder seems to have been carried out by persons known to him, which points to an old rivalry,” said inspector Sudhir Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Government Railway Police (GRP) police station.A murder case has been lodged against unidentified assailants under the Indian Penal Code. The body has been sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital for post-mortem examination and further investigation has been started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/39yearold-man-found-bludgeoned-to-death-near-jagraon-bridge-101612890057198.html
09-02-2021||Kolkata||'Ahead of polls, officers being posted with political supari': West Bengal Guv||The Mamata Banerjee-administration is posting government officers with 'political supari' ahead of the crucial assembly polls, said West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.“It has come to my notice that some officers were being given postings with political supari. I have warned them personally that they should not play with fire,” Dhankhar said while addressing a program in Howrah on Tuesday.At least two dozen senior officers of the Indian Police Service and West Bengal Police Service in the state were transferred on Saturday. The list includes important postings such as that of police commissioners of Kolkata and adjoining cities of Howrah and Salt Lake.Also read: Rescuers race against time to save 37 men trapped in tunnel in Chamoli’s Tapovan“This is a distasteful and irresponsible remark. Governor is a constitutional post and if he wants to, he may write to the President or the Centre. Instead of doing that, why is he making a laughing-stock of himself? He is taking our courtesy as our weakness. The posting of Dhankar at Raj Bhavan in Kolkata was in fact a political supari,” said Kunal Ghosh, a TMC spokesperson.Dhankhar shares an acrimonious relation with the TMC-led government in West Bengal and had in the past levelled serious allegations of corruption, rising crime graph and deteriorating law and order in the state.“The Governor’s statements are his own and we cannot comment on that. But I think all opposition parties in the state would agree to this. Take the example of today. A senior IPS officer resigns and joins the TMC. What can we expect?” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.Humayun Kabir, a senior IPS officer resigned as the commissioner of police of Chandannagar in Hooghly district in January 2021 and joined the TMC on Tuesday. A few days ago, he had ordered the arrest of three BJP workers for "Goli Maro... (shoot the traitors)" slogans raised at a roadshow.“I cannot allow the people of West Bengal to lose hope that elections would be held without any bloodshed or they would be free and fair. I will not tolerate if a police officer suffers from ego and thinks that he will decide everything,” the Governor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ahead-of-polls-officers-being-posted-with-political-supari-west-bengal-guv-101612889407738.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Pune rural and PCMC report less than 50% Covid19 vaccination, bring down district’s overall average||Pune: Owing to the fall in covid19 vaccination percentage in Pune rural and PCMC, the district’s overall covid19 vaccination percentage has gone down to 52%. Both, Pune rural and PCMC have reported less than 50% vaccination for the day. Pune has as of Tuesday vaccinated a total of 49 thousand beneficiaries. The district has till now vaccinated 47184 health care workers (HCW) and 1411 frontline workers (FLW).The district reported that 2653 beneficiaries got vaccinated out of the targeted 5100 beneficiaries at 51 sites which took the overall percentage to 52% for the district. While PMC reported an overall vaccination 76% with 1208 beneficiaries vaccinated, PCMC reported that 673 beneficiaries or only 42% of the targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated and Pune rural too vaccinated only 41% of the targeted beneficiaries as 772 registered beneficiaries got vaccinated. Not a single incident of Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) was reported in the district on Tuesday. A total of 599 FLW’s were vaccinated on Tuesday in the district however the city did not vaccinate any FLW owing to the other universal immunization programs planned for the day, said PMC officials. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has conducted vaccination for FLW’s for only one day as of yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-and-pcmc-report-less-than-50-covid19-vaccination-bring-down-district-s-overall-average-101612889277129.html
09-02-2021||City||Mystery audio tape adds to Kerala backdoor appointment muddle||Amid allegations of backdoor appointments and nepotism in the last leg of the Left Democratic Front Government in Kerala, a purported audio tape of solar scandal accused Saritha Nair has invited more trouble to the government.In the tape, a female, allegedly sounding similar to Nair, was heard saying that the ruling CPI(M) was aware of the “job fraud” but the party was scared of her and she wanted to tap this opportunity well. She also alleged that a major portion of the money collected through these backdoor entries will be going to the party fund. After the new clip surfaced, Nair said it was fudged and blamed Congress leaders “for creating an audio tape using mimicry artists.”After this, a youth named SS Arun, one of the complainants who accused Saritha Nair of fleecing ₹14 lakh from them and promising jobs in Kerala State Beverages Corporation and Kerala Tourism Development Corporation, released details of his WhatsApp chats with her and the bank account in which the money was transferred. Though police registered a cheating case against Nair two months back, Arun said no action was taken against her. When contacted, CPI(M) leaders refused to react.Also read: Rescuers race against time to save 37 men trapped in tunnel in Chamoli’s TapovanInterestingly, last month, the government had handed over a sexual assault case related to solar scandal to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) based on her petition to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The latest development invited enough embarrassment to the government which was trying to shield gold smuggling case from the sex scandal.The solar cheating case relates to a fictitious firm jointly floated by Saritha Nair and her second husband Biju Radhakrishnan. The firm, ‘Team Solar’, cheated many people promising them stakes in the firm and good returns after selling imported solar panels. They allegedly cultivated good sources in corridors of power and flaunted them to attract gullible investors.The cheating case came to light in 2014 and 60 cases were registered against the two accused. Then CM Oommen Chandy had sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director when their names allegedly cropped up in the case. Later Nair had raised sexual assault charges against many Congress leaders including Chandy. This case was handed over to the CBI last month. Biju was later convicted in a murder caseThe latest incident unfolded at a time when the state was witnessing a stir against alleged backdoor appointments overlooking candidates who cleared the state public service examination. On Monday, a candidate tried to kill himself by pouring kerosene on him in the state capital but the police saved him on time.In Kannur, PSC last grade rank holders performed a ‘sayana pradakshinam (rolling on the ground) on Tuesday seeking justice to them. Five candidates scaled a high-rise building near state secretariat on Tuesday and threatened to take their lives but they were overpowered and arrested later.The government, however, denied any wrongdoing and said in some cases temporary employees working for more than 10 years have been made permanent on humanitarian grounds.The Opposition Congress and the BJP said only ruling CPI(M) sympathisers were made permanent. State finance minister Thomas Isaac said the Congress was behind the ongoing protest and candidates were misled. He said the present government created maximum job opportunities and accommodated many in service. The rank holders associations said since appointments were frozen during the pandemic, many party followers were filled in vacant posts ignoring their claims.Last week, the appointment of R Ninitha, wife of former CPIM MP MB Rajesh, as a professor in the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit in Kalady (Kochi), triggered a row after three of the subject experts on the interview board alleged norms were flouted in the selection process and she was not in the reckoning. Later, Governor Arif Mohamad Khan sought a report from the varsity. Rajesh maintained that his wife was targeted to portray the government in a bad light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mystery-audio-tape-adds-to-kerala-backdoor-appointment-muddle-101612886573296.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||ED raids news portal Newsclick, offices of its 8 promoters on money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday conducted searches at multiple premises linked to a news portal, its promoters and some others in connection with a money laundering probe, official sources said.They said about eight premises were raided that included those of the website - Newsclick - and its promoters in South Delhi's Saidulajab, Gurgaon and some other areas. The action was taken as per provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The ED has taken cognisance of a Delhi Police FIR to initiate a money laundering probe in this instance, the sources said.The organisation's official website said, "NewsClick is an independent media organization dedicated to covering news from India and elsewhere with a focus on progressive movements."It is founded by Prabir Purkayastha, who is also the Editor-in-Chief of the organisation. DIGIPUB, an umbrella organisation of news websites, issued a statement, saying the action was an attack on free press. It said it was an act to "suppress journalism critical of the government and its allies".The raids by the central probe agency are being undertaken to collect more evidence, the sources said.They said the probe is linked to some suspect foreign funding and the role of a "defunct company" shut for about last two years that was allegedly used to transact funds worth over ₹30 crore.The role of an activist is also under the scanner of the agency in this case, the sources claimed."DIGIPUB News India Foundation strongly condemns the raids conducted by the Enforcement Directorate at the office of Newsclick, and the homes of its directors and editor Prabir Purkayastha," the umbrella body of the digital media organisations said."Newsclick has always upheld the highest standards of journalistic integrity and speaking truth to power. Its commendable journalistic work seeking to hold power accountable speaks for itself.""DIGIPUB News India Foundation believes that the ED raids on Newsclick, its editor and directors, is a clear attempt to suppress journalism critical of the government and its allies," it said."Such use of state agencies to intimidate journalists and suppress adversarial journalism is detrimental to not only the freedom of the press, but also the very idea of democratic accountability. Everyone emerges poorer in the long run," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-raids-news-portal-newsclick-s-its-eight-promoters-offices-101612886480854.html
09-02-2021||Ranchi||Number of Jharkhand residents missing in Chamoli district rises to 21||The number of people from Jharkhand who are missing in Chamoli district of Uttrakhand, following a glacial burst that triggered an avalanche and massive flooding on Sunday morning, rose to 21, officials said on Tuesday.Ten people, who are stranded in Chamoli district, have requested the state government to help them return to their respective district, officials said.Johnson Topno, who is leading the state migrant control room, said, “A total of 21 people from Jharkhand’s four districts have been reported missing so far, while ten people have expressed willingness to return.”On Monday, thirteen people, including nine from Lohardaga district and four from Ramgarh district, were reported missing. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh on Monday had got information that six people from Gola block are missing after Chamoli disaster. However, after verification, four people had been found missing.On Tuesday, eight more people were reported missing at the state control room. Seven people from Jamtara district, while one from Bokaro is feared missing.Topno said the 10 people, who are stranded and wanted to return, are from Latehar district. The state is in constant touch with the Uttrakhand government regarding the rescue of the Jharkhand labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/number-of-jharkhand-residents-missing-in-chamoli-district-rises-to-21-101612886276640.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Case filed against 11 travel agents for money refund to customers||Pune: A case has been filed in consumer court against 11 private travel agencies for not refunding customers post cancellation of tour due to coronavirus pandemic. As per information provided by the Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchayat, Pune, the travel agencies owe ₹2.50 crore to customers. The cases have been filed against agencies based in Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar and those operating online. “We have received complaints from around 200 consumers whose money has not been refunded by travelling agencies. As none of them replied to our notices, we have filed a case against them in consumer court, Pune and the hearing will be conducted on February 26,” said Vijay Sagar, president, Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchayat, who added that the legal notice was sent to all on October 27, 2020. On request of anonymity, owner of one of the travel agencies said, “Many customers are facing this issue since last couple of months. Many agencies that unable to pay money back to consumers because their money is stuck in pre- hotel and lodging bookings. There are others who are using consumers’ money as their cash flow.” “We are regularly receiving complaints. Some travel agencies promised to return money, but failed to do so,” Sagar said. “We had planned a Europe trip via Kesari Tours Private Limited which was cancelled due to pandemic. When we asked for a refund, the company deducted ₹25,000 as administrative charges and gave us a credit note saying that the tour will be planned in December 2021. We cannot reschedule our trip so we are asking for a refund of ₹4.4 lakh and since there was no reply from the company, we ask help from Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchayat,” said Chandrahas Kulkarni. The Pune office of Kesari Tours Private Limited did not respond to calls and texts despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-filed-against-11-travel-agents-for-money-refund-to-customers-101612886036993.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Fire in Modella colony in Thane brought under control, no casualties reported||A major fire broke out in a few sample flats built on an open plot of land in Modella Mills near Thane's LBS road on Tuesday evening. Two fire engines, one jumbo water tanker and two rescue vehicles were rushed to the spot immediately.The fire broke out at 8 pm and spread quickly as the walls of the flats were constructed with wood. There were no reports of any casualties or injuries."A housing project is being developed on this land which is at present merely an open plot of 10,000 to 12,000 sq.feet. Few sample flats were made on this plot, the walls of the flat were made using wood as these were dummy flats," said Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management.Kadam pointed towards the "anti-social elements" like drug addicts and miscreants who frequent the area in the evenings. He said, "The flats were furnished too. The plot is usually occupied by junkies and miscreants after dark. We believe the fire must have been caused due to some such anti-social elements at the spot.”Kadam further said that the situation has been brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-in-modella-colony-in-mumbai-s-mulund-fire-engines-rushed-to-the-101612884203345.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 7 deaths, 497 fresh Covid cases||Pune: On Tuesday, Pune district reported seven deaths due to Covid-19 infection in 24 hours. The city reported 497 new cases which took the toll to 3.92 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.78 lakh have recovered, 8,061 have been reported dead and 6,081 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. The city reported 228 new cases taking the final toll to 200,316 and six deaths which took the death toll to 4,559. PCMC reported 98 new cases taking the final toll to 97,891 while zero deaths were reported which took the death toll to 1,318. Pune rural reported 171 new cases which took the final toll to 94,059 while one death was reported which took the death toll to 2,142. The department reported that 2,554 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.61 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.74%. Also, 2,515 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.48 lakh. In addition, 35 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,637. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.51%. Of 15,058,995 laboratory samples 2,048,802 have been tested positive (13.61%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 167,694 people are in home quarantine and 1,805 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-7-deaths-497-fresh-covid-cases-101612883576873.html
09-02-2021||Kolkata||If you want to remove BJP...: Mamata Banerjee rushes to consolidate Muslim votes||Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is trying to consolidate minority votes in three of the state’s Muslim dominated districts even before a proposed alliance between the Congress, the Left and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) or the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) could nibble into the vote bank.“If you cast your vote elsewhere, it is bound to go to BJP. Your vote should not go to the Congress, the BJP or the CPI. Your only symbol is TMC. Congress, in a bid to win a seat, will make tall statements. But they won’t be able to fight the BJP. CPIM is also BJP’s bosom friend and won’t be able to fight it. The TMC will fight the BJP and form the government in West Bengal,” Banerjee said at a public rally in Murshidabad.The TMC supremo embarked upon a two-day tour of the bordering districts of Malda, Murshidabad and Uttar Dinajpur where Muslims are in majority.Also read: K’taka’s anti-cow slaughter law hits supplies, industry worth ₹500 cr affected“I believe, Murshidabad and Malda will play big roles in forming the government in West Bengal. We want all seats from here. If you want to remove the BJP, cast every single vote in favour of the TMC,” she added.Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01 per cent during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30 per cent now. Muslims comprise 66.2 per cent of the population in Murshidabad, 51.2 per cent in Malda and 49.92 per cent in North Dinajpur.“Bengali Muslims comprise 90 per cent of the Muslim population in the state and had been the traditional vote bank of the Congress. But the minority vote has shifted and Congress is far behind in Muslim-dominated assembly segments in all the three districts and being totally uprooted from Uttar Dinajpur,” said a senior Congress leader.According to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the TMC is ahead in 16 of the 22 assembly seats in Murshidabad and the BJP was leading in one. The Congress was ahead in five seats. In Malda, the BJP was ahead in six seats, Congress in four and TMC in two seats. In Uttar Dinajpur, the TMC and the BJP were in a neck-to-neck fight with the TMC leading in five out of the nine assembly seats.The West Bengal Congress had recently approached the high command seeking permission to form a grand alliance with the Left and the ISF, a party floated by Abbas Siddiqui - an influential Muslim cleric - to win back the lost ground. The Hyderabad-based AIMIM is also trying to forge an alliance with the ISF. The efforts to forge an alliance between the Congress, the Left and the ISF has, however, run into rough waters after the Congress and the Left said that there can't be any alliance if the ISF joins hands with the AIMIM.Most of the new branches of the AIMIM are located in Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, while Siddiqui’s followers are spread across southern Bengal.“They may threaten you and try to scare you. But don’t get frightened. Have you seen me getting frightened? I will live like a Royal Bengal Tiger till I die. They said they will implement NRC and NPR. Some states didn’t say a word but I have passed a resolution in the assembly against it. I will not let them implement NRC and NPR,” Banerjee added.Massive violence broke in Murshidabad in January 2020 which left at least two people dead and several injured. Trains and buses were burnt.Meanwhile, Humayun Kabir, the former police commissioner of Chandannagar, joined the TMC on Tuesday. He had earlier served as the superintendent of police (SP) of Murshidabad district. His wife Anindita Kabir had joined the TMC in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/if-you-want-to-remove-bjp-mamata-banerjee-rushes-to-consolidate-muslim-votes-101612882733549.html
09-02-2021||Other||Chimpu Kapoor was set to script new life in “tranquil Pune”, say close friends||PUNE Rajiv Kapoor, aka Chimpu Kapoor, was the youngest of Raj Kapoor’s children and was in love with Pune. He lived in Udaybaug, Sopanbaug since early 2000. He suffered a fatal cardiac arrest in Mumbai on Tuesday.Rajiv Kapoor, on August 25, 1962, was born to Bollywood actor Raj Kapoor and Krishna Kapoor and is the younger brother of Randhir Kapoor and Rishi Kapoor.“He shifted to Pune in 2003, for he had wonderful memories of his childhood spent on the Loni farm. He was in love with this tranquil city, thus when he wanted to start his life fresh and he moved to Pune,” said Shruti Pandit, a friend who knew Chimpu for 30 years.Rajiv was married to Sunita Kapoor. This was his second marriage.He made his acting debut as a lead in the 1985 movie ‘Ram Teri Ganga Maili’. He made his directorial debut with the 1996 film ‘PremGranth’ which starred Rishi Kapoor and Madhuri Dixit in the lead roles. He also produced the film ‘Aa Ab Laut Chalen’ in 1999. Rajiv Kapoor made his last film appearance in the 1990 movie ‘Zimmedaar’.“He always expressed a wish I should get mogra flowers for his funeral and sadly I couldn’t go because of my health,”said Pandit.“Rajiv was in Mumbai very often for the brothers were thinking of doing some work for RK,” according sources.Subhash Sanas said, “He is part of my family, every week we used to talk, and were also planning to celebrate Randhir’s birthday. When he missed calling me, I called and got to know that he suffered an attack.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chimpu-kapoor-was-set-to-script-new-life-in-tranquil-pune-say-close-friends-101612882076769.html
09-02-2021||Other||Transport Associations protest vehicle scrapping, petrol price hikes outside the RTOs across state||PUNE In a bid to oppose hiked fuel prices in the state and various other demands, members of the Goods and Passenger Transport Association protested outside the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO). The association members strongly opposed the central transport ministry’s recently announced scrapping of vehicles above 15 years in age. This protest was carried away across the state in front of 53 RTO offices by various organisations and unions. “The new scrapping policy decision taken by the union transport ministry is unfair and needs to be revised as lakhs of people are going to be affected due to it. There are a large numbers of people across the country who earn their daily bread through autorickshaws, trucks, buses and other private transport vehicles. Most of them have vehicles above 15 years of age and suddenly scrapping the vehicles will impact them financially. On other hand the fuel prices have increased a lot and due to this people are struggling to survive now,” said Baba Shinde, state president of the transport association. “Already, due to the Covid-19 pandemic we have all suffered financially and even most have lost a family member. Now everyone is trying to rebuild their business and earn money. Suddenly these new policies and decisions have come. We have written letters repeatedly to the union transport minister, but no action has been taken. So a protest was held at all the RTOs in the state, and going forward if our demands are not fulfilled, then on February 13, a countrywide chakka jam protest will be held,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-associations-protest-vehicle-scrapping-petrol-price-hikes-outside-the-rtos-across-state-101612881656674.html
09-02-2021||Other||Jadhav challenges father-in-law Danve to contest next elections in Jalna||PUNE: Former MLA Harshwardhan Jadhav, on Tuesday, challenged his father-in-law and BJP minister Raosaheb Danve, promising to defeat him in the next Lok Sabha elections.The relationship between Danve and Jadhav has been strained for some time now.Jadhav was arrested in Pune while he had a heated argument in Aundh with a woman.Jadhav got bail and went to his home town on Tuesday.Speaking with the media, Jadhav said, “Minister of state in the Union government Raosaheb Danve was behind my arrest. I have decided to live a calm life in Pune by quitting politics. Danve pressurised the police and ensured I would get in trouble.”Jadhav added, “I will ensure that Danve gets defeated in the next Lok Sabha elections from the Jalna constituency. I will not remain calm till his defeat.”The relations between Danve’s daughter, Sanjana and Jadhav are not amicable and are at the heart of his fracas with his father-in-law. Jadhav blaming Danve for his defeat in the assembly elections. When Jadhav got arrested in Pune, Danve’s daughter led the grampachyat panel in Kannad against Jadhav’s supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jadhav-challenges-father-in-law-danve-to-contest-next-elections-in-jalna-101612881176670.html
09-02-2021||Other||2020 admissions to engineering diploma courses up by 10% over 2019||PUNE The admission process for various diploma courses under the state technical education department have been completed for this year (2020-21) and there has been an increase of 10 per cent in the overall admissions as compared to last year (2019). Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, students have opted for various engineering diploma courses and confirmed their admissions in government polytechnic, government-aided and non-aided colleges. Also, the trend of engineering diploma admissions mostly favoured Computer Science, Information Technology and Electronics streams. There was not much demand for the traditional engineering diploma courses, like the mechanical stream, this year. This year, across the state, at least one lakh students had applied for various diploma courses like engineering, pharmacy, hotel management and surface coating technology. Of these 80,000 students filled up the option form during the process and were allocated colleges in the two main rounds held this year.“It was a tough year for everyone due to the Covid-19 pandemic and so it was for the diploma admission process. The entire admission process, right from application, documents uploading and verification, seat allotments and confirmation and fee payment, everything was done online this year. Due to the combined efforts of our officials the outcome was a 10 per cent increase in the total number of admissions for various diploma admissions in the Pune region,” said D V Jadhav joint director of state technical education Pune region. In the Pune region, there are five districts – Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur. This year for all the streams of engineering diploma a total of 38,145 seats were allotted, of which 21,177 students were admitted to institutes and colleges in the Pune region. Similarly for pharmacy, hotel management and surface coating technology diploma courses, the total intake was of 8,131 seats, for which 7,799 students confirmed their admissions. “This year we were more focused and critical about the admission in the government polytechnic colleges and government-aided colleges, as for each student we have a yearly expense of around ₹1 lakh, but we take fees of only ₹7,000 from the student. If the seat remain vacant then these funds go to waste, so we were focused to fill the admissions,” added Jadhav. Talking about this year’s trend of students taking admissions in the engineering diploma courses he said, “If we look at the overall admissions done for the engineering diploma courses, a majority of students have given their first preference to computer science, followed by information technology and electronics. There is a slight fall in the mechanical diploma admissions this year, but there is a fluctuation every year in admissions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2020-admissions-to-engineering-diploma-courses-up-by-10-over-2019-101612880336657.html
09-02-2021||Other||PMC seeks consultants to advise on demolition of Sadhu Vaswani bridge||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will appoint consultants to advise on a proposed plan to demolish the flyover at Koregaon Park, known as the Sadhu Vaswani bridge.The PMC plans to erect new flyover at the same site.Earlier, the PMC demolished a flyover on the Ganeshkhind road to make way for the Metro.The PMC has floated a tender for consultants on four projects, mainly related to flyovers and grade separators.PMC executive engineer Abhijeet Ambekar from the project department issued the advertisement for the consultants.Consultants will also be appointed to advise on the railway overbridge at the Ghorpadi railway crossing.The PMC has also planned a grade separator at the Golf Club chowk. A grade separator and flyover will be erected at the Kharadi bypass. Consultants will be appointed for all these projects.Post its pandemic work, the administration is now gearing up to start various project works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seeks-consultants-to-advise-on-demolition-of-sadhu-vaswani-bridge-101612879256589.html
09-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM, Cong leaders visit disaster-hit areas, assess ground situation||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and senior Congress leaders including former CM Harish Rawat and party state president Pritam Singh on Tuesday visited the villages affected by the disaster caused by an avalanche on Sunday morning in Chamoli district.CM Rawat had left for Chamoli on Monday evening where he spent the night before flying off to the affected villages from Joshimath-based army helipad near the NTPC dam site in Tapovan.He went to one of the 13 border villages named Lata which were cut off after the lone bridge connecting them to the outside world was washed away by the flash floods in the disaster. There he met the locals to know the issues they are facing while assuring all possible help, including providing ration to them.Also read: K’taka’s anti-cow slaughter law hits supplies, industry worth ₹500 cr affectedCM Rawat also met the injured admitted in the Joshimath-based army hospital and enquired about their health.Informing about the ground situation, the CM said, "Right now, the primary focus is on searching the missing and rescuing those trapped inside the tunnel. The rescue workers are trying to get inside the tunnel with a rope after drilling it. We hope they succeed in that."The chief minister said, "Apart from this, relief material is also being provided to the affected people of the villages that have been cut off after the bridge collapsed. Ration packets are being air-dropped as well as provided by the rescue workers on foot. I urge people to keep calm as the government has all the required resources to tackle the situation."Congress leaders Harish Rawat and Pritam Singh also visited the NTPC dam site at Tapovan where they assessed the ongoing rescue operation followed by a visit to one of the affected villages.Speaking to the media, Rawat said, "First of all, we are extremely thankful to all the rescue workers involved in the rescue operation. The locals are also playing an important role by providing valuable inputs to the rescue workers.""We pray to Lord Badrinath to save those trapped inside the tunnel and offer our condolences to those who lost their lives in this tragedy," he said.Rawat said solutions need to be found to "minimise the effects of global warming on the Himalayas.""This disaster has once again shed light on the impact of global warming on the Himalayas, especially the Central Himalayas which include states like Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and some parts of Jammu and Kashmir. A solution is needed to minimise the impact on it," said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-cong-leaders-visit-disaster-hit-areas-assess-ground-situation-101612878862089.html
09-02-2021||Other||Nihang assaults two cops with hammer in Ludhiana, arrested||A nihang has been arrested for attacking two police personnel with a hammer at Tajpur Road on Monday. The accused has been identified as Gurwinder Singh, 26, who lives at the Baba Jeevan Singh gurdwara on Tajpur Road.In his complaint to the police, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Karnail Singh said he, along with senior constable Balveer Singh, was on patrolling duty on Monday. When they reached Tajpur Road, they found some people gathered at a spot. On venturing closer, they saw Gurwinder creating ruckus and confronted him. But, he started hurling abuses at them and hit Karnail’s hand with a hammer.As senior constable Balveer rushed to his rescue, Gurwinder attacked his back with the hammer and also tore his uniform before fleeing. They immediately informed the Division Number 7 police.ASI Tajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said following the incident, they booked Gurwinder under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Tuesday.He will be produced before a court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nihang-assaults-two-cops-with-hammer-in-ludhiana-arrested-101612877336485.html
09-02-2021||Lucknow||Rosie Llewellyn-Jones: How the British re-captured Awadh in 1857!||During the start of the uprising (1857) in Awadh, when Indian sepoys in the Cantonment raised their voice, the British identified 20 ‘rebel’ sepoys and had found them guilty of plotting against the British, and they were hanged for their intent. Celebrated author Dr Rosie Llewellyn-Jones gave an insight during an online session ‘Battlefield Lucknow’ held as a part of Sanatkada Lucknow Festival. She said that the first battle was held around Chinhat (in June 30, 1857) which had 5,000 armed Indian men and they defeated British killing 120 persons. Freedom fighters had surrounded Residency where around 3,000 British, Anglo-Indians and loyal Indian soldiers and servants were living. The mutineers had brought down the Union Jack.She showcased a rare original painting of Begum Hazrat Mahal and Birjis Qadr (who was crowned king at the Qaiserbagh complex). The picture is from Wajid Ali Shah’s biography ‘Ishqnaama’, preserved at Windsor Castle, UK. In that period, the Talukdar families in Awadh had their small armies, half of Shah’s royal army (60,000 persons) was disbanded of whom many joined the rebels, and Begum Hazrat Mahal with local support, had opened a front against British.To capture Lucknow back, the British had made Alambagh their base. In September, 1857, General Havelock and James Outram made their way into the Residency. Outram in his third attempt got successful in getting inside Lucknow. Later, Havlock died of dysentery and is buried in Alambagh.Jones talked about the fiercely-fought battle at Sikanderbagh where 2,000 Indians were killed while 60-70 British were killed. “When the British swarmed in, the mutineers were shooting from the top of trees and when the British shot back an African woman, an ex-bodyguard of King, fell down. Unfortunately, we don’t know about her and she is probably one of the many unsung heroes of the time,” she said.A “second relief” on the Residency by Colin Campbell helped the British escape from the Residency through the Chattar Manzil to Dilkusha by the river in November. By March, 1858, they were in complete command. They left the main city but retained a base at Alambagh. She tells how British were able to win Lucknow. “They had firepower (canons), superior gun-power and a large number of soldiers. The mutineers did not have uniform leadership. British made inroads through buildings and bungalows – Bibiapoor Kothi, Dilkusha, La Martinere, Begum Kothi, Sabistainbad Imambara, Bank Bungalow and Qaiserbagh. Hazrat Mahal fled to Musabagh and then to Nepal, where she died and is buried, while Bijlis Qadar was poisoned later.”Jones is coming up with her new book ‘India’s Battles: A Series - Lucknow 1857) later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rosie-llewellyn-jones-how-the-british-re-captured-awadh-in-1857-101612877217352.html
09-02-2021||Jaipur||'Will oppose till farm laws are not withdrawn': Sachin Pilot||Ahead of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's scheduled visit to support farmer movement on February 12 and 13, former Rajasthan deputy chief minister and Congress leader Sachin Pilot during farmer's meet on Tuesday asserted that the protest of farm laws will continue till they are not repealed in the interest of the farmers.Pilot is attending farmers' panchayats across different parts of the state which are being organised by his supporters and MLAs in what is said to be a show of strength to not just the opposition but also rival chief minister Ashok Gehlot camp.Addressing a farmer panchayat at Fateh Sagar Taal in Bayana region of Bharatpur in protest of farm laws, Pilot said that the Congress party has always remained with the farmers and will continue to do so. The Central government should cancel the farm laws while farmers have been protesting for a long time."Lakhs of farmers are still protesting and several have lost lives in the winter season due to extreme weather conditions. Farmers have been sitting on Delhi's roads for around two and a half months. Farmers always believe in non-violence and continue their stir peacefully while the Central government has tried to remove them from the protest site forcibly," he said.Also read: Deep Sidhu main instigator, say police; court sends him to 7-day remandRahul Gandhi is coming to Rajasthan to address Kisan panchayats over farm laws to protest Union government's farm laws, said Pilot. The farm laws are not in favour of farmers, he saidDuring the stir, the farmers didn't break discipline nor did they take law in their hands, he said. On Monday, in Rajya Sabha, PM Modi did not discuss farm laws. The government needs to withdraw farm laws for the bright future of farmers, Pilot said.Former cabinet minister, Vishwendra Singh was also present with Sachin Pilot at Kisan panchayat.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the Congress is telling lies on the farm laws and misleading farmers on the issue. He said the Congress had also remained in favour of farm reforms like the enforcement of Swaminathan Commission's report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/will-oppose-till-farm-laws-are-not-withdrawn-sachin-pilot-101612875996997.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day remand, police say he was main instigator in Republic Day violence||The Delhi Police on Tuesday told a city court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the Republic Day violence. They further said that Sidhu instigated the protesters and destroyed public property.He was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Prigya Gupta where the police said that Sidhu was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags during the violence on January 26. "He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence," the police's lawyer said.The judge sent Sidhu to seven-day police custody.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police.Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protester died.The police today told the court that Sidhu congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot.The defence counsel, however, rejected the charges against the actor happened to be at the wrong place at wrong time. Sidhu's lawyer also said that his client was not evading arrest.Sidhu was arrested by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell late on Monday night. The police said they have started the process of identifying the co-conspirators in the incident of violence on Republic Day.Since Sindhu kept changing his location after the day of the violence, police teams will visit all those places.In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protesters who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deep-sidhu-arrested-in-connection-with-republic-day-violence-101612874088578.html
09-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli tragedy: Bodies found up to 150 kms downstream of hydel project||Uttarakhand's state disaster response force (SDRF) was the first to reach the Chamoli disaster spot, along with the local police, to initiate the rescue operation. Now, with about 185 people missing, the teams are posed with the challenge of wading in knee-deep silt and muck while trying to spot the bodies in muddy waters.The Uttarakhand SDRF, which is considered as one of the country's best disaster response forces, has about 100 of its personnel pressed into the ongoing rescue operation in Chamoli district. It is also the lone agency involved in searching the bodies of the people killed in the washing away of the two hydel power projects in Sunday's flash floods.There are five to six SDRF teams involved in scanning the river on boats and on foot to find the bodies. They have been working tirelessly in the operation but claim that the major challenges they are facing including working in muddy water and knee-deep silt and mud on the riverside.Also read: Have extended only issue-based support to BJP - KumaraswamyInspector Anirudh Bhandari, who is leading a team of about 15 SDRF personnel to find the bodies of the victims, said, "The major challenge is the thick mud and round boulders near the riverside. It is extremely difficult to walk in it while searching for bodies."Bhandari and his team have so far scanned an area of 50-60 kilometres on foot in search of bodies during which they have recovered 8 bodies so far."We have to look for bodies with binoculars in the muddy waters. Most of the bodies we have recovered were stuck under heavy boulders or roots of big trees on the riverside. Some of them were in a mutilated condition," said Bhandari.He said, "After finding the bodies, the next challenge was to get them out from all the muck and muck and then taking them one or two kilometres up on foot to the road. Some of the bodies are beyond recognition."Bhandari added that they have found some bodies in the river about 100 kilometres away from the NTPC dam site where around 120 workers are missing."We are leaving our base at 7 in the morning and work till 7-8 pm with hardly any break. Last two days we worked without any food for 12 hours straight. That is how dire the situation is," he added.Apart from searching the bodies on foot, the SDRF teams are also scanning the river in boats.Inspector Manjri Negi, who is leading one such SDRF teams to search the bodies in motorboats, said, "The biggest difficulty is the muddy river water.""It is very difficult to look through the muddy water for bodies as they are stuck. Spotting them is difficult, getting them out on foot is tedious as they are stuck mainly on the riverside where the boats cannot reach," said Negi.She said that they have found some bodies as far as about 150 kilometres away from the NTPC dam site."Yesterday, we found one body near Dhari Devi temple which is about 150 kilometres from NTPC site in Tapovan. We don't how far bodies could be found in the river. However, we are putting all our efforts in the search operation," said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-tragedy-bodies-found-up-to-150-kms-downstream-of-hydel-project-101612873715894.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Upper House passes bill to regularise Delhi’s unauthorised colonies||The Rajya Sabha on Monday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021 replacing the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 to regularise the unauthorised colonies in Delhi.“In the 6 years of the Modi government has taken initiatives through PM-AWAS Yojana that every citizen of Delhi may have a roof on top of their heads… 1.35 crore people of Delhi, those living in unauthorised colonies, will get their ownership right,”Union minister of state (independent charge) of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said in Rajya Sabha.Puri also said people of Delhi will benefit from the ordinance and said it will help in improving the living conditions of the people of the Capital city. “Delhi will not only benefit from the improvement in living conditions of 1.35 crore people but the Central Vista project will also make Delhi one of the finest cities in the world,” the Union minister said.Puri also said that the PM AWAS Yojana has a vertical for slum rehabilitation. He said that the Modi-led government has always worked to ensure that people living in slums have the right to own their houses. He said, “The PM AWAS Yojana has a vertical which is called institutionalised slum rehabilitation. The good news is that in the city of Delhi the Modi government through schemes ensured that work is underway… Well before 2022, all the 1.12 crore homes will not only be sanctioned but bulk of them will also be received by the beneficiaries.”Puri further added that tenders have been floated under Jahan Jhuggi Wahan Makaan scheme. The ordinance amended the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second Act, 2011. The 2011 Act was valid till December 2020 and the ordinance has now extended the deadline to December 31, 2023. The Act passed in 2011 allowed for the regularisation of the unauthorised colonies that existed in the national capital as on March 31, 2002 and where construction had taken place until June 1, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/upper-house-passes-bill-to-regularise-delhi-s-unauthorised-colonies-101612873027445.html
09-02-2021||Other||Penpa Tsering wins first round of Tibetan elections||Former speaker of Tibetan parliament-in-exile Penpa Tsering emerged as the frontrunner for the sikyong (president) post of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) after winning the preliminary round of general election, 2021, on Monday.CTA chief election commissioner Wangdu Tsering, accompanied by additional commissioners Geshema Delek Wangmo and Sonam Gyaltsen, declared the result for the first round, polling for which was held on January 3, at a press conference in Dharamshala on Monday. Of more than 82,000 registered Tibetan voters, over 60,000 cast their ballots in the preliminary round.Tsering, who lost to present president Lobsang Sangay in the 2016 elections, polled 24,488 votes against his nearest rival, Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang (Kaydor), who was at the second spot with 14,544 votes.Kaydor has been a special adviser to Sangay and the Dalai Lama’s representative to North America. Former home minister Dolma Gyari polled 13,363 votes and Dongchung Ngodup, the Dalai Lama’s representative in New Delhi, bagged 10,200 votes.There were eight candidates in the fray for the sikyong’s post. The election commission will declare the two finalists for the final round of elections on March 21, polling for which will be held on April 11.“The electoral process for the final round of the sikyong election and members of the 17th Tibetan parliament-in-exile will be announced on March 21. Until the announcement, no campaigning by the candidates, supporters or public is allowed,” said Wangdu Tsering.He said the preliminary election in January saw a record voter turnout of 76.78%, which he said was the highest till date. Tibetans from 26 countries went to the polls through the facilitation of 57 local election commissions around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/penpa-tsering-wins-first-round-of-tibetan-elections-101612872116847.html
09-02-2021||Bhopal||Three comedians arrested with Munawar Faruqui await their release||Three comedians arrested on January 1 along with Munawar Faruqui, who got bail from the Supreme Court on Friday, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments at a new year’s show in Indore remain in prison. Nalin Yadav’s bail plea is pending before the Supreme Court while that of Edwin Anthony and Prakhar Vyas before the high court.Yadav, 22, dropped out of college to become a comedian. After his arrest, his younger brother, Akash Yadav, 17, has started working to pay for his legal expenses.“My brother is being punished for being one of the performers at the show...he did not perform. After Class 12, my mother wanted him to continue his studies, but he chose his passion. We faced many financial difficulties, but we always feel proud of my brother. After the sudden demise of my mother, my brother took up all the responsibilities. But now, I am left alone,” said Akash Yadav. The two earlier lost their father.Also Read | A day after release from jail, Munawar Faruqui says ‘justice will prevail’“I do not have any money to pay fees of the advocate but people, especially friends of my brother, came forward to help me financially..”The family of Vyas, 24, who was arrested for being one of the organisers of the show, refused to comment.Vyas’s lawyer, Ajay Bagadia, said his client’s minor brother, who come to support him, was arrested as well. “He was sent to a juvenile home and later released on bail. Prakhar, an MBA student, came in contact with Faruqui in March 2020 and he made 18 calls to him and that was his only fault. Prakhar never made any joke which can hurt the sentiments of anyone. His family is in trauma and will not talk to anyone.”Anthony’s family also refused to talk to the media. His lawyer, Jitendra Bajpai, said, his client, 25, is also an MBA student, who never offended anyone. “He has been arrested for being at the ticket counter to sell the tickets of the show. This accusation is completely false because the tickets were sold online and there was no ticket counter.”(With inputs from Neha Jain from Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/three-comedians-arrested-with-munawar-faruqui-await-their-release-101612871637033.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||'Remarkable no Covid-19 death reported in Delhi in 24 hours': NITI Aayog||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that 15 states and union territories haven't reported any death linked to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours. NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul lauded the improvement in the Covid-19 situation in national capital Delhi."It is remarkable that no death has been reported due to Covid-19 in Delhi in the last 24 hours," Dr Paul said at the weekly press briefing on the Covid-19 situation in New Delhi.He also hailed the nationwide vaccination programme against Covid-19."We can confidently say that the strategy to implement vaccination programme and the experience of vaccination is now consistently, very highly rated by people," said the NITI Aayog official.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who was also present, said, "There are 15 states and union territories that haven't reported deaths in last 24 hours. There are seven states and UTs that haven't reported deaths in last 3 weeks," said Bhushan."55% decline in average daily Covid-19 deaths have been reported in last five weeks," he added.Also Read: India records 9,110 new Covid-19 casesThe health secretary said that 97 per cent people are satisfied with overall vaccination experience.Delhi has been witnessing a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases. Till Monday morning, the national capital recorded 125 new cases and two fatalities, according to health department. The positivity rate stood at 0.23 per cent, the health department data showed.Last Friday and on Sunday, the fatality counts were two, same as on February 2, which was the lowest in the last 10 months.Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily infection count had stood below the 100 mark in that month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/remarkable-no-covid-19-death-reported-in-delhi-in-24-hours-niti-aayog-101612870689972.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena criticises Shah over remark denying offer to share Maharashtra CM post||The Shiv Sena has criticised Union home minister Amit Shah for his remarks that there was no talk behind closed doors about sharing the chief minister’s post in Maharashtra after the 2019 assembly elections. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamna, the Shiv Sena called it a misleading claim and added Shah should instead concentrate on matters like the Uttarakhand flash floods and the farmers’ agitation against three farm laws passed in September.The Sena walked out of its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the 2019 polls following disagreements over their power-sharing agreement. It later formed the government in the state with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Also Read | Covid in Maharashtra: MMR breaches 700K-mark, most cases in stateThe editorial cited Shah’s remark that he does everything in broad daylight. It added even the Sena believed in the same philosophy. “The Shiv Sena openly joined hands with the NCP and the Congress... how come did [BJP leader] Devendra Fadnavis secretly take an oath [in November 2019] when the party believed in doing things in the broad daylight?” the editorial asked.Fadnavis resigned three days after taking oath as the chief minister for the second time. He had formed a government with the support of a splinter group of the NCP’s Ajit Pawar, who was sworn in as his deputy. Both of them resigned a day before a trust vote ordered by the Supreme Court as they could not muster up the numbers. Ajit Pawar has since returned to NCP.The editorial alleged all attempts were being made to topple the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra and criticised Shah for saying the BJP would have finished the Sena. It added those who wished the end of the Sena vanished from the political scene.Shah on Sunday rejected reports that he had promised to share the chief minister’s post. “They [Sena] said I had promised this in a closed-door meeting... I never do anything behind [closed] doors. Everything is done in daylight,” said Shah. He questioned chief minister Uddhav Thackery for his silence over the matter during the campaigns when it was said that Fadnavis would occupy the top post.The BJP has asked the Shiv Sena to introspect instead of blaming Shah. “The Shiv Sena fought the elections in alliance with us and then went and formed government with Congress and NCP which they had attacked before. They need to introspect instead of blaming us,” said BJP spokesperson Bhalchandra Shirsat. “Amit Shah is the Union home minister who is doing a great job and he has all the right to clarify how the Sena has backstabbed us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-criticises-shah-over-remark-denying-offer-to-share-maharashtra-cm-post-101612869836986.html
09-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli glacial burst: Labourers say lucky their hands did not lose grip||A whistle turned into a roar of water that trapped a dozen men in a Himalayan tunnel after a glacier burst in northern India, but Rajesh Kumar lived to tell the tale.Twenty-six people were confirmed dead but at least 170 others remained missing Monday after the glacier broke off a mountainside, triggering a flash flood through a valley in Uttarakhand state.On Sunday, floodwaters swamped a nearby hydroelectric power complex where Kumar and his colleagues were working 300 metres (nearly 1,000 feet) inside a tunnel."We didn't think we were going to make it," the 28-year-old told AFP from his hospital bed."Suddenly there was a sound of whistling... there was shouting, people were telling us to come out. We thought it was a fire. We started running but the water gushed in. It was like a Hollywood movie."The men clung to scaffolding rods in the tunnel for four hours, keeping their heads above water and debris, trying to reassure each other."We just kept telling each other -- come what may, we must not let go of the rods. Thank god our hands did not lose their grip," said Kumar.As the flood coursed down the valley, the water started to recede in the tunnel, leaving it filled with more than 1.5 metres of debris and mud."We climbed across the rock debris and forced our way to the mouth of the tunnel," said Kumar.There they found a small opening but they were not sure where it led."All we knew was that we could feel some air."Eventually, they saw some light coming through and one of the men got a phone signal and called for help.There were emotional scenes as Kumar and his colleagues were pulled out of a tiny hole at the surface.Some punched the air in joy as they saw daylight, some were put straight onto stretchers and carried away. One man put his arms in the air and then fell face-first into the mud.Despite their hours-long ordeal, they miraculously managed to escape with just minor injuries.- 'Dust and screams' -Shopkeeper Ramesh Negi from Raini village was basking in the Sunday morning sun at his home overlooking the plant when he heard a loud roar and saw a huge wall of water smash into and sweep away a bridge that led to the Chinese border.Dozens of workers building a concrete dam on the Dhouli Ganga river bed and grazers leading their cattle along the mountain slopes disappeared beneath the sudden deluge, leaving behind a wasteland of grey and brown sludge."There was dust and screams all over," the 36-year-old Negi told AFP."We tried to alert the grazers but they were blown away by the wind pressure before being consumed by the water and slush. We can only guess what happened."Mangra, another tunnel survivor, still can't sleep.On Sunday, he heard a loud, rumbling sound and the screams of other colleagues: "Run, run, run!"The 28-year-old from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh state scrambled out of the tunnel.But six of his friends and neighbours from his village remain trapped, and Mangra can't stop thinking and praying for them."The moment the water came close, it felt like the mountain was crashing and the Earth was moving," Mangra, who goes by one name, told AFP outside the tunnel, cuts and scrapes on his hands and legs."Once the deluge of water rushed past me, there was dust and fear left behind."The glacier broke away as the power complex was in full operation, leaving scores of workers at two power plants missing. About three dozen were feared trapped in the U-shaped tunnel.Late Monday, giant floodlights lit up a tunnel entrance as teams of rescuers carefully searched through the debris with the help of an excavator for signs of life -- and human remains.Hundreds of paramilitary and emergency service workers were also scouring the valley for other survivors.ash-ja/grk/sst||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-glacial-burst-labourers-say-lucky-their-hands-did-not-lose-grip-101612867950473.html
09-02-2021||Pune||14-year-old Pune sprinter breaks national record at junior athletic championship||“Running at top speed” was the only thing on the mind of 14-year-old Rujula Bhonsle when she sprinted and won the gold medal and secured a national record in the 60-metre race. Bhonsle achieved the feat at the 36th National Junior Athletic Championship at Guwahati on Sunday. It took Bhonsle 7.96 seconds to cruise through the finish line while the previous national record (8.29 seconds) was on the name of KV Roshini from Ranchi who achieved the feat in 2007 in the under-14 category. The second place went to Nancy from Haryana (8.20 seconds) followed by Sanika Banger of Karnataka (8.22 seconds). It was the first junior national gold medal for Bhonsle who trains at Pune athletics club under coach Arvind Chavan. “I was confident that she would achieve her best timing. The way she is developing physically it is a good sign for her future,” said Chavan. During the event, Bhonsle was not aware of the national record timing, she was only determined to win. “I have to give my best if I want to win a gold medal. This is what I had told myself when I started from Pune. I am happy to achieve the timings of 7.96 seconds and focus will be on improving my timings,” said Bhonsle. After Avantika Narale (100m gold medalist), Bhonsle is one of the finest talents of the city which is showing good performance at the national level. “The 100 metre is the ultimate target for the future, and I want to continue running faster and faster as I grow up,” added Bhonsle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/14yearold-city-sprinter-breaks-national-record-at-junior-athletic-championship-101612868576120.html
09-02-2021||Pune||PMPML deploys staffers on BRT route to monitor traffic||The long-awaited project of Swargate to Katraj bus rapid transit (BRT) corridor resumed service from February 5 after the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses started running on the route. Now, in order to monitor the traffic and help passengers on this newly revised bus service, the PMPML has deployed clerical and administrative staff on the route at each chowk and bus station. On the other hand, daily traffic jams are being reported on this stretch during peak hours, as all the other vehicles are taking the normal route.From the last two months, the issue of resuming service on the BRT route was in discussion. Last year, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol had announced to start the bus service by January 1, 2021, however, due to the lack of necessary safety arrangements and infrastructure, the PMPML denied starting the bus service on the scheduled date. “We have started the bus service on the BRT corridor from February 5 and gradually the public will also know about it. Initially, for a week we have deployed our staff in rotation from depots and the administrative department at each bus station and chowk to monitor the traffic. These staffers are helping passengers cross the roads, help them with the revised and new operations from the BRT bus stations and also, monitor the traffic by restricting them from entering the BRT corridor,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director. At each of the bus station and chowk, four to five staffers of PMPML are standing monitoring the traffic and helping out passengers. They are given duties in slots for peak hours, in the morning from 8am to 12noon and then 4pm to 8pm. “After a long period, this BRT corridor is in operation and it will take time to gain passengers in such tough situations post-Covid it is challenging to run the bus services with all necessary safety precautions. We are happy that the BRT corridor is operational now, passengers will receive fast service and accordingly our focus is on to maintain the frequency of buses on the route. We are trying to provide a bus after every 1.5 minutes from this corridor going to various other routes so that passengers get options to travel,” added Jagtap. At the same time, traffic congestion during the peak hours has increased in the last few days, as other vehicles are strictly not allowed from inside the BRT corridor. Amit Pataskar, a regular passenger on this route said, “I stay at Katraj and daily travel via Swargate to my workplace, but since the BRT corridor has closed down for other vehicles all the trucks, heavy vehicles and other private buses take the normal road. This is creating pressure and traffic jams during peak hours, earlier it used to take me 15 minutes from Katraj to Swargate on a bike which now goes up to half an hour when there is a heavy rush.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-deploys-staffers-on-brt-route-to-monitor-traffic-101612868516653.html
09-02-2021||Pune||PMC online meeting faceoff: Oppn agitates in front of mayor’s office||The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and opposition parties engaged in a war of words on Monday on the issue of organising general body (GB) meetings. The state government gave instructions to organise the general body meeting physically on February 8 and the disaster management department issued a notification for it. Responding to the criticism, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Why were instructions only given to PMC and no other municipal corporations in the state? Ideally, they should give it permanently, but the order mentioned only one day that is February 8. Also, the PMC should get orders from the urban development department.” Though the state instructed to organise the general body meeting physically, the ruling BJP decided to organise it online and warned that they would conduct it online until the urban development department issued orders for a physical gathering. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city unit president Chetan Tupe, opposition leader Deepali Dhumal, Congress leader Aba Bagul, Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar and other elected members took part in the agitation in the mayor’s office and condemned the ruling BJP. Opposition party members alleged that the BJP did not want to organise a physical general body meeting and given an answer to opposition parties on various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/online-meeting-faceoff-opposition-agitates-in-front-of-mayor-s-office-101612868517199.html
09-02-2021||Pune||PMC to sell 1,250 flats, revenue to be used for project works||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to sell 1,250 flats which it acquired under various schemes, and the revenue generated will be used for project works exclusively, according to standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne. Rasne said, “The PMC is now receiving revenue only through traditional sources of taxes and grants. To generate more revenue, we are trying to sell the 1,250 flats on a pilot basis. Right now, these flats are occupied by project-affected people and they are living there. The PMC is not getting rent from these flats regularly. If these flats would be sold to the same people, it would help to get more revenue.” According to Rasne, the revenue generated after selling the flats will only be utilised for project works. “Right now, maximum funds are getting utilized only for maintenance and salaries. The revenue generated by selling these flats will not be spent on revenue expenditure.” PMC estate department head Rajendra Muthe said, “The proposal is in its last stage. The department has prepared the proposal and will put it in front of the standing committee very soon.” The civic body owns various flats in the city and acquires them through various schemes. Usually, the PMC allots these flats to those who are affected due to the road widening or other PMC related projects. The PMC collects nominal rent from them, if these flats would be sold to the same people, it would help to get additional revenue. In the future, the PMC can generate property tax through them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-sell-1-250-flats-revenue-to-be-used-for-project-works-101612868515980.html
09-02-2021||Pune||PMC spends ₹7,00,000 on online general body meeting, opposition slams BJP||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) spent ₹7,00,000 to hold an online general body meeting on Monday.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol warned that if the urban development department does not issue instructions, PMC will continue holding online general body meetings. Though the state government on Monday instructed to organise the general body meeting physically in the presence of elected members, the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) decided to organise online meetings by using various equipment. Responding to the charge, the mayor said that the online meeting was announced as per legal provision and the civic body cannot change the meeting venue at the last moment. To facilitate a better online meeting, the PMC hired a contractor. The TV sets, cameras, LED walls, and mic were installed at various locations. The elected members were expected to sit at regional ward offices and only office bearers and elected administration would sit at the headquarters. The civic body spent ₹7 lakh for hiring this equipment. Earlier, the PMC used to conduct online meetings but it was used to be organised in the Shivaji Maharaj hall, and the elected members participated from their homes. However, after receiving complaints that the elected members did not get a chance to participate in the online meetings, PMC hired the advanced equipment where members could vote and participate in the meetings. Mohol said, “As the state government asked to organise online meetings on the background of the Covid-19 pandemic, we are following those rules. To make the general body meeting effective, a new system was introduced from Monday itself. The cost is not much for it.” Congress party leader Aba Bagul said, despite the state government’s permission to organise physical meetings, the ruling party in the civic body organised online meeting to spend money. According to Bagul, the BJP is running away from facing the elected members in a physical meeting. NCP city unit president Chetan Tupe said, “The ruling party is running from discussions. The state government had given instructions on Sunday itself but BJP remained firm on holding general body meetings online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-spends-rs-7-00-000-on-online-general-body-meeting-opposition-slams-bjp-101612868456040.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Spiti puts brakes on car rallies in snow leopard habitat||Given the threat it may cause to wildlife, particularly the state animal, snow leopard, the Lahaul-Spiti district administration has banned car rallies in the Kibber wildlife sanctuary area of Spiti valley. A notification to this effect has been issued by additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi. “It has come to our notice that travel agencies organise car rallies, especially in winter, through the snow leopard landscape of Kibber wildlife sanctuary in the Spiti valley. In this season, wild animals such as the snow leopard, ibex, Himalayan serow, blue sheep and other high-altitude species come down to lower elevation due to heavy snowfall in the higher reaches,” he said. February and March are also the mating season of the snow leopard. Traffic through these landscapes not only disturbs the natural habitat of these animals but also affects the procreation of the snow leopard, declared a vulnerable species by the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Negi said both the state and central governments have initiated wildlife conservation projects. Snow leopard sighting is also the main attraction of winter tourism, a substantial source of income for Spiti valley residents. He said since serving notices on all stakeholders is not practical, it was necessary to proceed ex-parte under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and impose the ban. “In the larger interest of conservation of the vulnerable species of wildlife, no car rally will be allowed to pass through the snow leopard landscape of Kibber wildlife sanctuary from the road through Lidang, Demul, Komic, Hikkim to Langcha and from Rangrik bridge to Chicham via Kee-Kibber village,” he said. The snow leopard’s habitat ranges from the Kibber wildlife sanctuary in Lahaul and Spiti to Pangi in Chamba district. The cats are usually found in rugged terrain at altitudes between 9,800 feet and 17,000 feet. Last month, the forest department released a survey report that estimated the population of 73 snow leopards in the state. The survey was conducted by the wildlife wing of the forest department and the Nature Conservation Foundation, Bangalore. The population of the animals has gradually increased in the valley since the wildlife wing initiated the Snow Leopard Conservation Project and began monitoring the animals in 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spiti-sdm-puts-brakes-on-car-rallies-in-snow-leopard-habitat-101612867916916.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Only 10% frontline workers vaccinated on day 1 in city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) could vaccinate only 10 per cent of the targeted frontline workers on day one as the Co-Win app designed exclusively for Covid-19 vaccination drive failed to send out the messages to beneficiaries. The district saw 68 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries being vaccinated as 3,886 beneficiaries got vaccinated of the 5,700 registered beneficiaries. Pune city saw its first day of frontline workers (FLWs) vaccination on Monday however only 20 FLWs got vaccinated at two sites. According to PMC health chief Dr Ashish Bharti, the app did not send out the messages on time. He said, “We had sent out messages through the app to the registered frontline workers but till Monday afternoon, none of the beneficiaries turned up and so later we started calling up people who then turned up at the vaccination sites. We found out that the app had not sent out the messages even though we could see the app stated that the messages were delivered.”The PMC has vaccination for FLWs at two of its hospitals, Kamala Nehru hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital where the set target was for 200 beneficiaries of which only 20, 14 and six at the respective hospitals, could be vaccinated. Of the 3,886 beneficiaries vaccinated, 661 FLWs got the jab in the district.The district saw Covid-19 vaccination at 52 sites of which 21 were from the city where 1,939 beneficiaries got vaccinated of the 2,000 target beneficiaries. The PCMC saw vaccination at seven sites where 58% or 753 beneficiaries, including 157 FLWs, got vaccinated of the 1,300 beneficiaries while Pune rural saw vaccination at 24 sites where only 50% or 1,194 beneficiaries got vaccinated of which 484, of the 2,400 registered beneficiaries. The district did not report a single Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) incident on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-10-frontline-workers-vaccinated-on-day-1-in-city-101612867678077.html
09-02-2021||Pune||City crosses two lakh Covid-19 case mark||On Monday, Pune city reported 167 fresh positive Covid-19 cases which took the progressive Covid-19 case count in the city to over two lakh, 2,00,088, according to the state health department. However, no new deaths due to the infection were reported in the entire district on Monday. The city’s death toll stands at 4,553 as of Monday. While the first one lakh cases were reported in a span of 174 days in the city, the second one lakh cases took only 162 days, which indicates that a consistent viral spread is still persistent in the city, as per a former Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientist.The state health department reported that the city crossed its first one lakh mark on August 30, 2020, almost six months after it reported its first case on March 9, 2020. On August 30, the city reported 1,00,236 progressive Covid-19 cases and had reported 2,532 deaths due to the infection. Over the next 162 days, the city has now crossed another grim mark and reported the second one lakh Covid-19 cases on Monday. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “Although the number of cases maybe lower than before, but the average number is still there. Pune is reporting 400-500 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on a daily basis which is still worrisome. People cannot be caught off the guard just because the vaccine is here. The administration must first vaccinate the most vulnerable population while others should continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.” The spread of the infection is still prevalent and people need to continue to follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Former Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientist Dr Raman Gangakhedkar said, “It is time that all of us realise that we have to continue Covid-19 appropriate behaviour otherwise this strain will continue. For H1N1 it occurred only for a short period of time whereas this is a perennial kind of infection. The spread is consistent mainly and we have to remember that we do not want Covid-19 to become like H1N1 and become a perennial infection.” The state health department also reported 102 fresh positive Covid-19 cases from Pune rural which took the progressive count to 93,888 and death toll stands at 2,141 while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 65 fresh positive Covid-19 cases which took the final count to 97,793 and death toll stands at 1,318. The district’s count stands at 3,91,769 with 3,77,891 recovered cases and 8,054 deaths. Currently, there are 5,824 active cases in the district wherein patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-crosses-two-lakh-covid-19-case-mark-101612867677371.html
09-02-2021||Dehradun||Pollution board gives Patanjali 15 days to pay ₹1 crore for non-compliance||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has fined Patanjali Peya Pvt Ltd ₹1 crore for non-compliance with Plastic Waste Management Rules and given it 15 days to pay it.In a letter dated February 3 to the company, CPCB chairman Shiv Das Meena said it violated Rule 9 of the rules “in terms of the principle of Extended Producer Liability…”The rules mandate companies to establish a system for collecting the plastic waste generated due to their products.Also Read | MP govt plans Sanskrit only play schools to promote language and traditionThe CPCB’s letter said the body issued letters to the company in February and August but received no reply. It added the CPCB informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) about it. Thereafter, NGT in September directed CPCB to take coercive action.In October, the CPCB also issued a notice to the company for the closure of operations of its unit and levying environment compensation for non-compliance with provisions of the rules. After this, Patanjali sought time till the end of October but, “has not submitted an application for registration under the rules so far”.SK Tijariwala, Patanjali’s public relations officer, said they have received the notice from the CPCB and were evaluating the administrative and legal procedure to comply. “The Central Pollution Control Board has given us 15 days to submit a reply and we will ensure the timely submission of the reply,” he said. “Patanjali and its group companies are committed to cleaner environment and are law abiding companies which always try to follow all laws, rules and regulations of land. We are in touch with the CPCB to comply with the notice and we will try to resolve this matter at earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/central-pollution-control-board-fines-patanjali-rs-1-crore-for-noncompliance-101612867676765.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Minimum temperature in city and state set to rise after Feb 9: IMD||Pune city on Monday recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius while Nashik reported the lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra with 9.2 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Monday, night temperature in Pune was cooler than that of Mahabaleshwar. Pune reported 9.6 degree Celsius during night whereas Mahabaleshwar 12.4 degrees Celsius on Monday. The night temperature in Pune was 1.8 degrees cooler than normal. The day temperature was reported to be around 29.4 degrees Celsius which was two degrees cooler than normal. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune, said that the northerly cooler winds are penetrating in the state leading to a drop in temperature. “There will be a marginal drop in minimum temperature till February 9 evening. After this the night temperature will see a gradual increase in the state,” said Kashyapi.The weather department noted that after a marginal decrease in night temperature till evening of February 9, the night temperature across the state is likely to record a gradual increase.He further added that there are no cold wave situations in the state. “The drop is gradual and not major and hence, there are no cold wave-like situations in the State. Parts of Vidarbha, central Maharashtra and Marathwada have also witnessed below normal day and night temperature,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minimum-temperature-in-city-and-state-set-to-rise-after-feb-9-imd-101612867615974.html
09-02-2021||Pune||Rose traders expect rise in demand during Valentine’s week||With the Valentine’s week currently underway, rose traders and farmers are expecting an increase in demand after a dull 2020 due to the Covid-19 lockdown and cyclone Nisarga.According to figures provided by the Indian Society of Floriculture Professionals (ISFP), there has been a 38 per cent decline in rose export in 2020 (see box) as compared to 2019.“The export of roses was effected badly due to the lockdown and the United Kingdom which is our major hub is still in lockdown, so it makes things worse. However, with the situation improving in India and schools and colleges reopening, it is expected that the demand of roses will rise. The trend of rose demand has also improved in the last one week,” said Praveen Sharma, president of ISFP.Rose farmers from western Maharashtra also had to deal with cyclone Nisarga in June 2020 which made the situation harder for them. In Pune district, highest production of rose happens at Pawananagar and Talegaon in Maval as on 250 hectares, rose farming is conducted.“Majority of the plants got destroyed while many farmers even stopped doing rose farming after the cyclone, as there was a shortage of money and labourers. Few who resumed were not able to export the roses which gives good income and now, we are hoping demand will increase in the domestic market,” said Yashwant Kashid, who looks after production and sales of roses in Talegaon.ISFP is expecting a rise in rose rates -- ₹400 per bunch (20 rose flowers) during the Valentine’s week.“Farmers’ agitation in Delhi has also impacted as farmers from Maval are not able to send roses to Delhi with closed borders since the last one month. Every year Maval roses get good rates in Delhi market,” said Dnyaneshwar Aadkar, vice-president, Pawana Flowers Traders’ Association.Arun Veer, Pune Flowers Traders’ Union president, said, “Currently demand of roses in Pune market is still moderate, it will increase in the coming days. With many temples still not allowing flowers to be taken inside, it is also impacting sale of roses.”Revenue from rose export over last three yearsYear: Revenue (in lakh)2017-18: 5,796.772018-19: 5,746.632019 (Jan-Nov): 4,986.512020 (Jan-Nov): 3,079.72** Export revenue decline by 38 per cent in 2020 Jan-Nov (Source: Indian Society of Floriculture Professionals)Current rate of roses in Pune marketOne rose: ₹10 or 12Bunch of 20 roses: ₹100 or 120(Source: Pune Flowers Traders’ Union)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rose-traders-expect-rise-in-demand-during-valentine-s-week-101612867556613.html
09-02-2021||Pune||UK delegation visits Serum Institute||On Monday, a delegation from the United Kingdom (UK) visited Pune-headquartered Serum Institute of India (SII) facility. The visit was intended to further enhance the existing relation between India and the UK on manufacturing and innovation in the healthcare space. This was also the first visit of a trade minister to the country post the Covid19 pandemic. The delegation saw UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss, member of Parliament, who visited the facility and saw the manufacturing of Covishield. SII chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla said, “It was an honour to have the Secretary of State for International Trade, UK and a delegation, visit our headquarters. We discussed how to further enhance the existing relationship between India & the UK on manufacturing & innovation in the healthcare space.” Following the visit, Truss tweeted, ‘Met Adar Poonawalla at the world’s largest vaccine producer SII on India and UK collaboration and trade. They have made 100 million doses of the Oxford-AZ vaccine. Also making some of the 1.3 billion doses as part of COVAX to help vaccinate the world. The UK is co-funding £548m.”SII in collaboration with Unicef has entered into a long-term supply agreement for Covid-19 vaccines, to access two vaccine products through technology transfer from AstraZeneca and Novavax, both of which are currently being manufactured by SII. Unicef, along with procurement partners, will have access to up to 1.1 billion doses of vaccines for around 100 countries, for approximately $3 a dose for the low- and lower middle-income countries.The MP has earlier on Saturday, paid a visit to the Minister for Commerce and Industry of India Piyush Goyal to discuss the India - UK trade and investment relationship. In a joint statement issued by both the leaders, the ministers welcomed the deepening of bilateral health cooperation between the two countries, including on vaccines, which is enabling our countries to act as a global force for good during these challenging times. They also committed to relaunch the UK-India CEO Forum and agreed on the CEO Forum meeting at the earliest. Both sides reaffirmed their commitment to work with businesses to improve the business environment and collectively address the challenges to post-Covid-19 economic recovery.*Photo sourced from Adar Poonawalla’s twitter, UK MP Elizabeth Truss and and Poonawalla holding a vial of Covishield at the Serum institute facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/uk-delegation-visits-serum-institute-101612867556006.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||SAD meets Punjab Governor, alleges 'misuse' of govt machinery in civic polls||A Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) delegation met Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore Tuesday and alleged the ruling Congress was "misusing" the government machinery to influence the February 14 civic polls, and demanded the paramilitary forces be deployed for free and fair elections.The delegation comprising senior party leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema also alleged the State Election Commission has "surrendered" to the state government in run-up to the civic polls and "failed" to perform its duty.Addressing the media here, Chandumajra alleged the state government had "hijacked" the civic polls and was "misusing" the State machinery to win the elections.He claimed that the nomination papers of many Akali Dal candidates were rejected and several candidates were prevented from filling the papers."The system has collapsed and the State Election Commission has surrendered to the state government," alleged Chandumajra. "We told the governor that we do not have faith in the State machinery."He said the SAD delegation has demanded the deployment of paramilitary forces for ensuring a free and fair election.Videography should also be allowed inside polling stations to safeguard against malpractices, he said.The SAD also demanded re-election at all places where Congress nominees were elected unopposed after rejection of nomination papers of opposition candidates.Senior party leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal slammed the State Election Commission, saying there was no need for such a "defunct" commission which had "surrendered" to the state government."The way the SEC has surrendered to the government, the message is loud and clear that there is not going to be fair elections," said Grewal.Elections to the eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14.A total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray for the municipal polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-meets-punjab-governor-alleges-misuse-of-govt-machinery-in-civic-polls-101612865422989.html
09-02-2021||Other||Kerala HC order restricting Rehana Fathima from publishing her views on media stayed by SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Kerala High Court order restricting activist Rehana Fathima from printing, posting or publishing her views on any medium of the media.A Bench headed by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman hearing an appeal filed by Fathima retained the High Court's condition that she should not use any media to hurt religious sentiments or feelings.The apex court stayed the November 23, 2020 order of the Kerala High Court.The High Court had imposed strictures on Fatima who had uploaded a video of a cookery show on social media in which she was cooking "Gomatha Ularth". In the video, it was alleged that she narrated the recipe and purposefully claimed that she was cooking the meat of Gomatha, to hurt the religious sentiments of the community.The High Court in the order observed that the use of the term "Gomatha" as a synonym for meat in a cookery show is prima facie likely to hurt the religious feelings of Hindus, who worship cow as a deity."Choice of the word "Gomatha Ularth" prima facie appear to be ill-motivated and purposefully made and that uploading of such a highly objectionable video for public viewing may affect the Fundamental Right of the devotees," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-order-stopping-rehana-fathima-from-publishing-her-views-stayed-by-sc-101612864996981.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala court stays DIG’s arrest in Kapil Vij assault case||A day after the Ambala Police booked a 54-year-old deputy inspector general (DIG) of the Haryana Police for allegedly assaulting and misbehaving with state home minister Anil Vij’s brother Kapil Vij at a club in Ambala Cantonment, a court stayed the arrest of the officer till Tuesday.During a hearing on the anticipatory bail plea moved by DIG, Vigilance Bureau (Ambala Range), Ashok Kumar, the court of additional sessions judge Sundeep Singh delayed the arrest for one day for the prosecution (state) to file response to the bail application.Kumar’s counsel Satinder Singh Garg said that the case itself is false and no rules were followed by the police due to political pressure from Anil Vij.“To file an FIR against a serving IPS officer, the police have to seek permission from the central and state governments. However, in this case, due to political pressure of the state home minister, no such permission was sought. Moreover, the minister has some personal grudge against Kumar as he didn’t follow his instructions in a few investigations in the past. It was a perfect occasion for them to take revenge as they gathered in a party on Sunday,” the advocate said.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar said, “This claim wasn’t taken up during the first hearing on Monday. We’ll respond when it is contested in the next hearing.”Kapil, 61, in his police statement, said, “I went to the birthday party of Phoenix Club former chairman Rakesh Aggarwal’s grandson at Sirhind Club in the cantonment with Rajesh of Shastri Colony and Ajay Aggarwal of Guru Nanak Marg. When we were about to have lunch, Ashok Kumar, who we later found is DIG (vigilance), under the influence of alcohol and without any provocation started abusing me and my family, and also threatened me of dire consequences.”“He said that he is DIG (vigilance) and nobody could harm him. He also made obscene gestures at me while leaving,” Kapil added.Acting on his complaint, a case was registered against the DIG under Sections 294 (obscene act), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Ambala Cantt police station.Akhtar said that multiple teams are investigating the facts and the crime spot that was an open place without any CCTVs.People close to Kapil Vij said that both Vij and Kumar were sitting on separate tables, when the latter picked up an argument.“Kapil was discussing about the vaccine that his brother was administered during the trial, at his table and the officer, in an inebriated condition, intervened during lunch saying that the infection and vaccination is a fraud itself. He was told by a guest about Kapil, but he said that he is not afraid of anyone, not even Anil Vij,” a local said.Kumar, a 2006 batch IPS officer, has served at senior positions at Ambala including DCP (rural), SP and SP (railways) in the past as well. A local politician, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “It is amusing how a senior officer, who has spent so many years in Ambala couldn’t recognise the brother of the state home minister and local MLA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-court-stays-dig-s-arrest-in-kapil-vij-assault-case-101612864316638.html
09-02-2021||Jaipur||Have no conflict with Vasundhara Raje, says BJP’s Rajasthan chief Satish Poonia||Satish Poonia has been the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Rajasthan chief since 2019. He took over the leadership months after the party lost power in the state to the Congress. In an interview with Jaykishan Sharma, Poonia spoke about reports of infighting within the BJP state unit, by-polls, local elections, and the assembly’s budget session. Edited excerpts:Your statements on former chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s role in state politics have triggered speculation about divisions within the BJP in the state. How would you respond to the speculation?Our party does not run as per statements. Social media create divides. There is no conflict between us... The central leadership decides the role of senior leaders. The Congress had to remove its state president and few ministers. Being the party’s president in the state, it is my role to keep everybody together. There is no gap between leaders in the state. This is the positive side that we have many leaders. Earlier, people used to say that we do not have good leaders in the state.Also Read | Rajasthan orders removal of 20 unfit elephants from Amer FortWhat are the reasons for BJP’s dismal performance in the local elections?Local election results are always favourable to the ruling party. When the Congress was in the Opposition, it secured 25 seats, but we have won 39. Out of 48, the Congress led only in 19 boards. In the rest, they have allied with Independents. The mandate is against the state government. For the first time in the state’s history, out of 21 zila parishads, they were ahead of us only in five. It is a big failure of the government.We lost a year to Covid-19 but still raised issues like the increase in the electricity fee. The state government accused us of violating Covid norms. ...hundreds of cases were registered against our party leaders. We have planned big agitations against the government on the issues of inflation, deteriorating law and order situation, and atrocities against women.How are you preparing for by-polls to four assembly seats?The ruling party generally wins by-polls. But there is anti-incumbency against the government. By the time Congress will wake-up, we will complete half of the work. Our senior leaders are working at the grassroots level and have started booth management. I have also visited the four constituencies. Two senior leaders will be deputed for every seat. Our organizational strength is better.What is the party’s strategy for the assembly’s budget session?We will raise the issues of farm loan waiver, corruption, deteriorating law, and order situation. For the first time, 580,000 cases have been registered in the state, which shows rising crime, especially against women. Two were killed in a gang war in Churu. The Congress had promised a loan waiver for 6.9 million farmers. But nothing has happened. BJP legislators have also prepared details of regional problems and failures of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/have-no-conflict-with-vasundhara-raje-says-bjp-s-rajasthan-chief-satish-poonia-101612863416979.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s coronavirus cases on steady decline for 11th week||The coronavirus infection curve in Haryana continued to flatten for the 11th week in succession with the state reporting 534 cases between February 1 and 7. The state had recorded 694 coronavirus infections the week before. The number of total active infections came down to 883, a three-digit figure, for the first time in the past few months. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the health authorities are sampling more than 1 lakh people every week. “We tested over 1.52 lakh people last week. The testing has not gone down, but infection rate has,” he said. The ACS said that around 1.7 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been inoculated with the Covid vaccine. “We vaccinated 30,000 individuals on Monday, including 26,000 frontline workers,” he said. Arora said that the decline in Covid-19 infection rate should not give room to complacency as world over the virus has made a resurgence once people started giving up Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including social distancing, wearing the mask and hand sanitation. 18 districts out of critical positivity rate category As of Monday, 18 of the 22 districts in Haryana have made an exit from the critical positivity rate category of more than 6%. Only four districts, namely Faridabad (9%), Gurugram (7.5%), Rewari (7.3%) and Panchkula (6.3%) have critical positivity rate. “The positivity rate in these four districts is also declining steadily. The week before last, it was 9.2% in Faridabad, 7.7% in Gurugram, 7.5% in Rewari and 6.5% in Panchkula,” said an official. Nuh with a positivity rate of 0.9% and Charkhi Dadri with 1.3% have desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. The overall positivity rate for Haryana came down to 5% from 5.2%. Officials said that 19 districts in the state have achieved 100% contact tracing and the statewide contact tracing rate was 99%. The recovery rate was 98.5%, according to the health department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-coronavirus-cases-on-steady-decline-for-11th-week-101612863296968.html
09-02-2021||Bangalore||JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti elected as Karnataka Legislative Council chairman||Senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti was on Tuesday elected as the Chairman of the Karnataka Legislative Council, amid protests by Congress over the passage of "anti cow slaughterbill" in the House. Horatti, a seven time MLC, who represents Karnataka west teachers constituency, was declared "unanimously" elected, as the opposition Congress that was protesting from the well of the house, did not propose the name of its candidate Naseer Ahmed, during the election process. Horatti(74) armed with Bachelor of Arts and Master of Physical Education qualification, began his career as a physical education teacher in Hubballi. He has been a member of the Council for nearly 40 years now, starting from 1980. He had served as the Chairman (acting) of the Council from June 22 to December 12, 2018. As the House met for the day, Congress legislators trooped into the well of the House against the passage of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill in the council in a "hurry" through a voice vote, and alleged that it was despite them demanding for division of votes. Raising the issue as Deputy Chairman M K Pranesh was about to start today's business, Congress MLC Naseer Ahmed said the passage of the bill on Monday despite us seeking for division was against the rules. Several Congress MLCs including M Narayanaswamy, B K Hariprasad too joined, insisting that they sought for division, and demanded a ruling from the Chair. However, defending the passageof the bill, Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said it was passed as per rules and no one sought a division, as he pointed out that all Congress MLCs were in the well when the bill was getting passed. "There is nothing in the records too." The Deputy Chairman said he will get the records and examine them, as he asked Congress legislators to go back to their seats and allow the House to function and cooperate during the Chairman election process. Despite this, Congress MLCs insisted that the Chair examine the CCTV and television camera footage first and adjourn the house for some time. "First a ruling should be given on this, subsequently the Chairman election can be taken up," Narayanaswamy said. As the Congress MLCs continued with their protest from the well, the Deputy Chairman took up the Chairman's election process. After JD(S) MLCs proposed Horatti's name for the Chairman post, Congress legislators did not turn up at their seats to propose their candidate Naseer Ahmed's name. Following this the Deputy Chairman declared that Basavaraj Horatti has been elected as the Chairman of the Legislative Council "unanimously". Both Horatti, supported by JD(S) and BJP, and Congress' Naseer Ahmed had filed their nominations on Monday. The election was necessitated following the resignation of Congress'K Prathapachandra Shetty as the Chairman on February 4 to preempt a no-confidence motion against him by the ruling BJP, and JD(S) extending support to it. Horratti's election was certain as BJP and JD(S) had joined hands for the Council Chairman and Deputy Chairman post. As per the arrangement BJP MLC M K Pranesh was on January 29 elected as the Deputy Chairman with the backing of JD(S), and now the ruling party returned the favour by supporting the regional party nominee, Horatti. According to JD(S) sources, party supremo H D Deve Gowda had earlier even spoken to BJP national President JP Nadda seeking support for Horatti. BJP sources said the party agreed to support Horatti as Chairman instead of seeking the post for itself in return for JD(S)' support in its move to oust Shetty and passage of certain key bills. The earlier move by both parties in December to remove Congress' Shetty as Chairman was not successful as their notice of no-confidence was rejected on technical grounds. The House had witnessed high drama that day with the BJP-JD(S) and Congress members hurling abuses and pushing each other. Amid the ruckus on December 15, the then Deputy Chairman Dharme Gowda, who is now no more, was even pulled down from the Chair. Currently the ruling BJP is the single largest party in the Council with 31 seats, followed by Congress with 29, JD(S) 13 (including Horatti), one independent and one vacant (due to death of Dharme Gowda).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/jds-mlc-basavaraj-horatti-elected-as-karnataka-legislative-council-chairman-101612861439205.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Major fire breaks out at a chemical unit in Taloja||A major fire broke out at a chemical factory in Taloja MIDC in Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra, on Tuesday morning. At least ten fire engines have been pressed into service.Acording to authorities at the Taloja fire station, they received the fire call around 11.51am informing them of a fire had engulfed Azeocryst Organics private limited in Taloja MIDC. “Fire engines from Ulwe, Kalamoboli, Panvel, Kharghar, MIDC, and adjoining fire stations have been sent,” said an official from Taloja Fire station. He added that the fire has engulfed the entire company premises and firefighting is going on.“At present, there is no information of casualties in the fire,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-major-fire-breaks-out-at-a-chemical-unit-in-taloja-101612860296411.html
09-02-2021||Education||MBBS admissions extended by a week to fill up vacant seats in deemed institutes||Admissions to undergraduate medical courses across the country have been extended by another week following a Supreme Court order dated February 5. The medical counselling committee (MCC), in a circular on February 8, announced that admissions to MBBS courses will now continue till February 11 to fill up the remaining vacant seats.As per information shared by MCC, there are a total of five seats vacant—one each across five All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and admissions for these will be conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi. Similarly, another 37 seats are currently lying vacant across five deemed institutes under non-resident Indian (NRI) and management quotas. This includes 17 vacant seats under the NRI quota at Navi Mumbai’s DY Patil Medical College. The second offline stray vacant seat round will be conducted by the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS).Many have blamed seat vacancies in NRI and management quotas on the strain that a large number of families have felt financially due to Covid-19 and the eventual lockdown in 2020. As per the fee regulating authority, higher education institutes can charge up to five times the regular fees of an open category seat for 15% seats reserved under the NRI and management quotas.“Deemed as well as private medical and dental institutes charge as much as three to five times the regular fees for seats under management and NRI quotas, which many students might not be able to afford this year. This could be one of the biggest reasons for seats under these two quotas to go unclaimed this year,” said Dr T P Lahane, director, directorate of medical education & research (DMER).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mbbs-admissions-extended-by-a-week-to-fill-up-vacant-seats-in-deemed-institutes-101612856248909.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||8 youngsters from Himachal missing in Uttarakhand flood||Eight youngsters from Himachal Pradesh, who were working on a power project that was under construction, are missing since Sunday’s flashflood at Joshimath in neighbouring Uttarakhand. Five of the eight are from Rinpu village under the Kinnu panchayat in Rampur Bushahr sub division of Shimla district. They have been identified as Kailash Chand, Ashish Kumar, Dewan Chand, Devender Kumar and Amit Kumar. Two other missing youngsters, Pawan Kumar and Rakesh Kumar, are from Shingla village in Shimla district. Rakesh Kapoor from Bandla village in Palampur sub division of Kangra district and Jeet Singh from Majra village in Paonta Sahib were also reportedly trapped inside a tunnel at the project site when the flashflood occurred. A delegation from villages in Rampur Bushahr called on state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday. Bhardwaj, who is on a tour to Rampur Bushahr, spoke to chief secretary Anil Khachi and the Shimla deputy commissioner, asking them to coordinate with the authorities in Uttarakhand to help trace the missing youngsters. The minister assured the delegation led by Shingla panchayat pradhan Raj Kumar Gautam of support to the families of the youngsters. “I have spoken to the officials to coordinate with the Uttarakhand government and Chamoli district administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-youngsters-from-himachal-missing-in-uttarakhand-flood-101612856276281.html
09-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan orders removal of 20 unfit elephants from Amer Fort||Following the recommendation of the committee constituted by the Project Elephant Division of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change and requests made by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India, the Rajasthan forest department has stopped the use of 20 medically unfit elephants for tourist rides at the famous Amer Fort.As per the orders of the forest department, three of the 20 unfit elephants had tuberculosis (TB), some had impaired vision and chronic foot problems, while some were old and malnourished.The central government committee constituted as per a March 6, 2020 order of the Supreme Court, which included the senior wildlife veterinary officer of Jaipur Zoo, also incorporated recommendations made by PETA India, proposing phasing out elephant rides at Amer fort by replacing them with electric vehicle rides, citing aging elephants and tourists’ declining preference for these rides.Subsequently, PETA India collaborated with leading design company Desmania Design to create a modern electric vehicle – “Maharaja” – and submitted a formal proposal to the Rajasthan government for its consideration and implementation.“We commend the immediate steps taken by the Rajasthan government to stop the use of some of the aging, ailing elephants identified by the expert committee,” says PETA India chief advocacy officer Khushboo Gupta.She added that while implementing the rest of the committee’s recommendations, PETA hoped the government will also provide tourists with an opportunity to receive royal treatment with the “majestic, cutting-edge electric cars” as proposed by the agency.Also Read: Rajasthan Governor emphasises on preserving folk art and cultureThe committee’s report notes that of the 98 captive elephants inspected, 22 suffer from impaired vision resulting from corneal opacity and cataracts and 42 have chronic foot problems, including overgrown nails and flat footpads due to walking on concrete roads.Twenty nine elephants were found to be above the age of 50 years, which is the average lifespan of an elephant in captivity. Two out of three elephants, who had tested positive for TB – a potentially fatal zoonotic disease of public health concern – were confirmed reactive to TB tests conducted by the Animal Welfare Board of India in 2018 too. The committee also recommended that elephants and mahouts be screened for TB twice a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-orders-removal-of-20-unfit-elephants-from-amer-fort-101612855369235.html
09-02-2021||Patna||Darbhanga’s wait for direct flight connectivity to Hyderabad, Pune continues||The promised introduction of new flights from Darbhanga airport to major metros across the country is eagerly awaited by residents amid the disappointment of discontinuation of SpiceJet flights to Ahmedabad.SpiceJet, the selected airline operator (SAO) for Darbhanga, discontinued its Ahmedabad flight from February 15 citing operational reasons. Meanwhile, the operator has added another daily flight to Delhi from February 15, raising the number of daily flights to the national capital to two.The airline’s much awaited services from Darbhanga to Pune and Hyderabad had not been announced yet pending clearance from the Indian Air Force (IAF), said an official aware of the developments."We have decided to further enhance connectivity to the city with new flights to Pune, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad," Shilpa Bhatia, chief commercial officer, SpiceJet had said while declaring that flights from Darbhanga airport had received a tremendous response.Another popular airline, IndiGo, is also awaiting IAF clearance to operate flights from Darbhanga airport, said Raja Rehman, IndiGo's assistant manager (project). However, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has provided slots to the airline and IndiGo is ready to announce a launch date as soon as it gets the clearance from authorities, said an airline official.On Sunday, a total of 1,225 passengers and 30 infants travelled to and from Darbhanga airport on four daily flights to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad sectors respectively, according to Darbhanga airport director, Biplab Kumar Mondal.Also Read: Bihar Lokayukta probe points to financial irregularities in Purnea UniversityHardeep Singh Puri, minister of state (independent charge), civil aviation, had recently told the parliament that the Darbhanga airport, which became operational under the Centre's Udan scheme, catered to 64,238 passengers in the first two month after the launch of flight service.Despite the state government allocating funds, an official proposal for the acquisition of 31 acre of land for the construction of a permanent civil enclave at Darbhanga airport, owned by IAF, continues to hang fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhangas-wait-for-direct-flight-connectivity-to-hyderabad-pune-continues-101612849674785.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||7th accused arrested in Mumbai porn racket case||A seventh accused in the pornography racket busted in Mumbai on February 4 was arrested on Monday, people aware of the matter said. They added Umesh Kamat, the accused, is a resident of Mumbai’s Vashi.The racket was busted when the Mumbai Police raided a bungalow and arrested five people for allegedly persuading young women and men under the pretext of offering them roles in web series and short films and then forcing them to act in pornographic films.The people said Kamat’s name cropped up during the interrogation of model-actress Gehana Vasisth, who was arrested in the case on February 6. Kamat worked for a UK-based firm as a coordinator and allegedly received obscene videos from Vasisth. The videos were allegedly uploaded on a mobile app in the UK, said a police officer.Rowa Khan alias Yasmeen, who claims to be a producer-director, photographer Monu Sharma and creative director Pratibha Nalawade, and actors Arish Shaikh and Bhanu Thakur have also been arrested in the case. Vasisth was arrested on the basis of the questioning of the five.Also Read | 5 held for hacking trees in MumbaiThe Mumbai Police has said it seized instruments worth Rs5.68 lakh used for shooting at the bungalow. Khan allegedly ran the mobile application used to upload the porn videos, they added.“Several young men and women come to Mumbai to try their luck in the film and television industry. This gang took advantage of such aspiring actors and lured them by offering roles in short film or web series and eventually pushed them for acting in porn films,” said assistant police inspector Laxmikant Salunkhe. He added the gang had been operating for two years and exploited many men and women.Salunkhe said the main accused in the case described herself as a casting director and assured newcomers work in web series. He added once an agreement was signed with the aspiring artists, the accused allegedly forced them to do obscene acts. Salunkhe said the artists would be threatened and asked to pay entire shooting charges if they refused. He added the victims were paid Rs5,000 to Rs20,000 daily if they did what they were asked to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7th-accused-arrested-in-mumbai-porn-racket-case-101612849916510.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid in Maharashtra: MMR breaches 700K-mark, most cases in state||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and surrounding areas, has recorded over 700,000 Covid-19 cases thus far. On Monday, it recorded 705 cases, pushing the count to 700,539. It continues to be the most-affected region in Maharashtra, with the highest number of cases.The region crossed the 600,000-mark on November 11.Even though the number of daily Covid-19 cases has reduced in Maharashtra over the past three months, the contribution of MMR to the daily tally has remained the same.Also Read | Covid: 1 in 3 kids with inflammatory syndrome needed ventilator, says studyOf the total 2,216 cases reported on February 8, as many as 705 cases were reported from MMR (31.81% of the day’s tally). A month ago, the daily case count of the region was 1,287 (34.84%) of the total 3,693 cases reported in the state on January 8, shows the data released by the state health department.A look at MMR’s contribution in the last seven days (February 1-7) also indicates the same pattern. MMR’s contributions to the daily infections were 30.39%, 32.53%, 31.48%, 30.19%, 31.58%, 28.79% and 31.39%.MMR comprises nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and the rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts.Pune region follows MMR in terms of daily case count. On February 8, it recorded 442 cases, the second-highest contribution to cases in the state. It is also the second most-affected area after MMR with 505,233 cases as of February 8, according to health department data.It comprises three municipal corporations—Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur and rural areas of Pune, Solapur and Satara districts.“The current trend shows a different picture as the state is still recording less cases, which is a good sign. As far as the contribution of MMR is concerned, its tally is affected because of Mumbai, which continues to be reporting highest cases among all the cities and districts across the state,” said a health official, wishing not to be named.Mumbai registered a marginal fall in cases as on Monday it has recorded 399 cases against 448 cases on February 7. The total number of cases in the city rose to 312,280.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-in-maharashtra-mmr-breaches-700k-mark-most-cases-in-state-101612848415997.html
09-02-2021||Patna||Bihar Lokayukta probe points to financial irregularities in Purnea University||Bihar's anti corruption watchdog, the Lokayukta, has alleged serious financial irregularities in the running of Purnea University (PU) in its inaugural year. Prima facie, it is being claimed that the irregularities were allegedly committed under former vice chancellor professor Rajesh Singh during the varsity's first year.The office of the Lokayukta started the probe following a letter by activist Bimal Roy, alleging gross irregularities in the management of the university’s finances. “Documents related to expenditure, cash books, utility certificates and other papers are missing, pointing out serious anomalies in the PU,” officials in the Lokayukta’s office said on condition of anonymity.After the PU was established in March 2018, the then vice chancellor (VC) Prof Rajesh Singh had reportedly summoned the principals of constituent colleges and later borrowed ₹10 lakh from each of the colleges ostensibly to meet the cost of running the university. ₹1.20 crore was borrowed from 12 constituent colleges, besides several affiliated colleges were pressured to donate money, said a university official, who didn’t wish to be named.“Those, who had then raised voice against such borrowings/donations, were shunted,” the official said, adding, “Vice chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh used to act like a dictator and had amassed huge wealth in the name of shaping the new university during his three-year stint.”Lokayukta SP has alleged several irregularities in the matter and the next date of review has been fixed for May 7.Acting PU vice chancellor Prof R N Yadav said, “The matter is related to the ex VC of PU and a probe is underway.”PU registrar Prof R N Ojha said a five-member committee has been constituted on February 1 to probe the matter and it has been asked to submit its report within 15 days.Also Read: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar appeals to firm to complete PMCH facility within 5 years“The matter is of 2018 when the university was established and is related to the fund created by the then VC to meet internal expenditure to run the university,” Prof RN Ojha said.Meanwhile, officials in the university said they suspected more skeletons could tumble out of the varsity’s cupboard with the progress of the probe in the coming days.“The committee constituted to probe will have to act honestly otherwise the matter will be hushed up” a senior official of the PU said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-lokayukta-probe-points-to-financial-irregularities-in-purnea-university-101612847463049.html
09-02-2021||Jaipur||Man stripped, thrashed in Rajasthan’s Bilwara over his relationship with a woman||A mob in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara on Monday stripped naked and thrashed a 25-year-old man for his relationship with a woman, a police officer said and added the matter came to their notice after the video of the assault was circulated on social media. The police approached the man to have him register a case after the video went viral, he added.“The victim told us that he was married but broke up with his wife. Later, he came in contact with a woman from a nearby village...who also had broken up with her husband. The two decided to get married. Meanwhile, the victim gave a phone to the woman and they would talk regularly,” said the police officer. He added when the phone stopped working on February 6, the man went to the woman’s village to give her a new one. “This is when one of the woman’s relatives saw him and started beating him.”Also Read | 19-year-old raped by two inside a bus in Navi Mumbai, one arrestedThe man was stripped and beaten until blood started oozing out from his nose, private parts. “There were injury marks all over his body. The accused also held the victim hostage for four hours. The victim told us that one of the accused made a video of the incident and circulated it on social media to defame him. The accused also threatened the victim that they would kill him if he met the woman again.”The officer said seven people have been booked for the assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/man-stripped-thrashed-in-rajasthan-s-bilwara-over-his-relationship-with-a-woman-101612847696136.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||#DUReopens: A library experience in Covid times||An integral part of any college student’s life is a visit to the library. “Almost every Delhi University student has spent some time visiting the university library, be it to borrow a book or just ensure witnesses when in mood to bunk a class. But now, itna aasan nahi hoga library mein jaana,” says Alka Nimesh, a PhD student of DU, who visited the Central Library in North Campus, which recently reopened for research scholars and faculty members in the first phase of reopening of DU. The library now demands that students follow certain rules and regulations, including prior online appointment since certain facilities such as the reading room is available from 10am to 4pm on week days only. Nimesh adds, “Library is a sentiment for research scholars. Visiting the Central Library, for the first time since the pandemic hit, is totally a foreign experience to me. I had to take an online appointment to visit the library. And upon entering the library premises, I couldn’t see the usual huddles of students silently discussing research papers and giggling. Instead, students were engrossed in their books while seated socially distant from each other. This has become the new normal, and I’m missing walking into the library without any hesitation and sitting there with your batch mates, discussing topics in hushed tones until the librarian issued a warning!” If earlier, a late return of book called for a scowl from the librarian, now the absence of gloves (while handling books), face masks and sanitiser can attract a disciplinary action and even cancellation of library membership! “Wearing gloves inside the library while handling books or flipping through the pages becomes difficult. While the winter does help the situation, woollen gloves makes books slip. But the upside to the new library experience is that there will be no late fine on returning books! This is absolutely the best thing to happen for students who use library facilities frequently. It’s like a golden moment in a DU student’s history who is always known to carry library cards that have been marked and charged for late returns,” says Sanjay Kataria, a Master’s student in DU.The facilities in the Central Library will also reopen in a phased manner, like the university. But, the experience won’t be like what it used to be before. “Library ka faida hi yeh tha that you could spend time in the reading room at your leisure with a book in your hand from nine in the morning to eight in the evening. I used to come back, after finishing our classes and eating momos, in the evening to study in the library because hostel room me to friends kahan hi padne dete hain... The new time constraints, though necessary, keep me anxious to finish reading within a regulated time! However, I’m thankful they’ve finally reopened the library, kuchh nahi se kuchh toh achcha hi hai,” says Bashir Shaheen, a PhD student at DU.For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dureopens-a-library-experience-in-covid-times-101612845197231.html
09-02-2021||Patna||Bodh Gaya tourism in deep coma sans international flights and domestic visitors||The recovery rate from Covid-19 may have shot up and economic activity may have picked up pace everywhere in Bihar and the rest of the country, but the tourism industry at Bodh Gaya, where a sizable population ekes out a livelihood from it, has gone deep into coma.The local businessmen and hoteliers blame it on the ban on international flights as well as the closure of most of the monasteries housing Buddhist temples.“During year-end, we could see an increase in footfall of domestic tourists, but the numbers have fallen now,” said Rakesh Kumar, president, Bodh Gaya Tourists Guide Association.The main temple of Bodh Gaya, Mahabodhi Mahavihar was opened for general pilgrims and tourists on December 21. “We held a meeting on December 19 after which the Mahabodhi Mahavihara was opened after two days. Since the opening, the tourists have been visiting the temple,” said Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC), secretary, N Dorjee.Another important temple in Bodh Gaya, the 80-feet Buddhist temple, also opened in the first week of February. However, the reopening has not attracted tourists as expected.On the issue of monasteries still remaining closed, Dorjee said, BTMC did not have control over them. “There are about 45 monasteries and they are controlled by their association, International Buddhist Council. However, they are facing certain constraints like maintenance cost and shortage of manpower,” he added.The situation is unlikely to improve anytime soon since the peak season of earning in Bodh Gaya is from October to February. “From February onwards, the tourists start leaving Bodh Gaya. The people, who survive directly or indirectly by earning from the tourism and hotel industries, have been badly hit, as international flights were banned and Buddhist rituals and events were cancelled,” said Kumar.Kumar said many tourist guides were on the verge of starvation while some had switched to different vocations for now. “We have collected money from the members of the tourist guide association and helped the needy guides,” he said, adding, “All our savings have dried and till October it will be a challenge for us to earn our daily bread.”International Buddhist Council general secretary Bhante Pragyadeep said the monasteries were closed as their running involved costs. “Since pilgrims are not visiting Bodh Gaya, the donations on which the monasteries run have also dried up. However, the ray of hope is that slowly they were opening up,” he said.Pragyadeep said not all monasteries were important. “The main attraction of Bodh Gaya was monasteries of Sri Lanka, Japan, Tibet, Myanmar, Thailand and International Buddhist Council and they were opening up slowly,” he said, adding, in eight to ten days almost all the monasteries would reopen.Also Read: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar appeals to firm to complete PMCH facility within 5 yearsPresident, Hotel Association of Bodh Gaya, Sanjay Singh, said most of the big hotels that had made huge investments were in poor condition. “The earnings of the hotels depend on the flow of foreign tourists, which is nil now. Unless the international flights resume, the situation will not normalize and money will not flow in Bodh Gaya,” he said.The plight of street vendors who sell antique pieces, trinkets and other articles is also intense. “The roads at Bodh Gaya, which used to remain packed with tourists, are empty now. We hope that once the monasteries reopen, the flow of domestic tourists will increase,” said Gulabchand, president, National Hawkers’ Federation, Bodh Gaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bodh-gaya-tourism-in-deep-coma-sans-international-flights-and-domestic-visitors-101612842796050.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Several Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers’ protest, traffic diverted||In the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws, several borders of the national capital between Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Tuesday.For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The commuters can also take Chilla border. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, have continued to remain closed. Also Read | Farm laws: Elderly protesters recount ’88 stir, stare at a long haulThe traffic police has advised to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches to commute between the two states. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws for over two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/several-delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-traffic-diverted-101612839115253.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to foggy morning; AQI in very poor category||Moderate to dense fog enveloped parts of the national Capital on Tuesday, with the visibility dropping significantly in many parts. The low wind speeds also kept the air quality in the very poor zone. Also Read | ‘Peninsular India recorded warmest January in over 100 years’: IMD reportThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate fog conditions will persist over Delhi-NCR through the week. Initial reports from the IMD said that the wind speed at 7am on Tuesday was 1.47kmph, which was barely enough to dissipate the fog. Central Pollution Control Board recordings show that the average hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 316, in the very poor zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-foggy-morning-aqi-in-very-poor-category-101612838875287.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||73 nominations filed for Delhi civic bypolls||Over 70 nominations, including duplicate applications from some candidates, have been received by poll authorities for the February 28 civic bypolls, officials said on Monday.February 8 was the last date to file nominations for the by-elections for which all the parties -- BJP, Congress and AAP -- have fielded candidates."A total of 73 nominations have been received by the Delhi State Election Commission till today (Monday). However, many candidates have filed duplicate applications too, so final figures we will get to know post scrutiny," a senior official said.By-elections to fill vacancies in five municipal wards in the national capital will be held with all COVID-19 safety precautions, they said.The State Election Commission of Delhi had earlier said the bypolls will be held for two wards under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).The wards are -- Ward No. 32N, (Rohini-C); Ward No. 62N, (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi and Ward No. 02-E (Trilokpuri); Ward No. 08-E (Kalyanpuri) and Ward No. 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi.The bypolls will be held from 7:30 am to 5:30 pm.The filling of nomination papers for municipal corporation by-elections in Delhi was marked by 'padyatra', 'puja' and claims of victory by party leaders on Monday.Four of the five wards fell vacant after sitting councillors contested assembly polls on AAP tickets last year and became MLAs.The Shalimar Bagh ward fell vacant following the death of Renu Jaju, who had won the seat on a BJP ticket in 2017.Delhi has 272 wards, and while the NDMC and South Delhi Municipal Corporation have 104 municipal wards each, the EDMC has 64 wards.The BJP has been controlling all three corporations since 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/73-nominations-filed-for-delhi-civic-bypolls-101612832015287.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||DTC puts on hold recall of buses given to Delhi Police||Days after the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) started recalling all its buses given to the Delhi Police on “special hire”, after over 45 of them got damaged during the clashes between farmers and police on Republic Day, the state transport utility has now paused the recovery of more buses on the request of the police and has also stated that additional buses will be given as per the demand raised by the force, senior officials said on Monday.The decision was taken in a “emergency meeting” chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Monday to resolve the impasse between the police and the DTC with regard to the deployment of buses, senior officials who attended the meeting said.The meeting was also attended by chief secretary Vijay Dev, transport commissioner Ashish Kundra, special commissioner of police Sundari Nanda, state home secretary BS Bhalla and DTC managing director Vijay Bidhuri.On February 3, the DTC, on the directions of the Delhi government, had started recalling all its buses with immediate effect after at least 45 buses, used by the police to ensure law and order during the tractor rally on Republic Day, were damaged in the ensuing violence.On February 4, Delhi Police sent a stern letter to the DTC asking it to review its decision. Special commissioner of police Robin Hibu had written to the DTC stating that if any untoward incident happens in Delhi, then the corporation may be held accountable and that the decision to recall all its buses would amount to obstruction in maintaining law and order.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Monday, “The Delhi Police had taken 576 DTC buses on special hire of which around 350 have been returned so far. It has been decided that no more buses will be recalled by the DTC as of now. Also, it was clarified that the DTC will not deny any bus to the police. Maintaining law and order is extremely important.”He, however, said the only difference from the previous practice will be that the DTC solely cannot release its buses to the police going forward. “Any request to deploy buses on special hire will have to be approved by the Delhi government. That means the DTC will have to take Delhi government’s approval,” the minister said.A second senior official who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity, said a middle path was worked out during the discussion wherein the DTC said it would stagger the release of buses to avoid any inconvenience to daily commuters.Delhi currently has around 6,693 buses --3,760 DTC buses and 2,933 concessionaire-run cluster buses, as against the Supreme Court-mandated requirement of 11,000 buses.According to the socio-economic survey that was conducted between November 2018 and November 2019, the preferred mode of transport for 63.62% of Delhi residents is “public bus/school bus/chartered bus”, while only 6.18% take the Delhi Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dtc-puts-on-hold-recall-of-buses-given-to-delhi-police-101612830083388.html
09-02-2021||Other||Maharashtra forest dept assures action in Badlapur tree hacking||Following complaints from Ambernath social workers of destruction of trees along the Badlapur-Katai Highway by encroachers, the forest department has assured to take care of the trees planted along the highway. Several social activists from Ambernath have planted over 6,000 trees over the past five years, especially along the roads to increase the city’s green cover. Some of these trees were also planted along the 15-km Katai-Badlapur Highway, connecting Dombivli to Karjat. Most of the them are now destroyed due to encroachments along the highway. Ambernath resident Prashant Mhatre, 38, said, “For the past few months, small establishments such as garages, eateries, tea stalls have come up along the highway. The trees we planted were either cut or trimmed to accommodate these establishments. We approached their owners and asked them to refrain from damaging the trees, but they didn’t pay any heed.” “On the stretch from Badlapur to Hajimalang, these miscreants have destroyed more than 100 such trees planted near the highway. We are going to send an official complaint to all the departments concerned. We approached the forest department who assured to ensure the safety of the trees.” Forest department officer of Badlapur, P Thakar, said, “We cannot clear the encroachments but we will communicate with the department concerned over the issue. We’ll also ensure that there is no further damage to the trees and also conduct a survey of the stretch to check if some of the trees can be saved or else, we will take up plantation of trees along the stretch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-forest-dept-assures-action-in-badlapur-tree-hacking-101612813733515.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||5 held for hacking trees in Mumbai||Girgaum police have arrested five men from Mahim on Saturday for alleged illegal hacking a British-era banyan tree by pretending to be Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employees. The accused were cutting the tree to allow a clear view of a commercial hoarding.The arrested men told police that the banyan tree was blocking the view of a commercial hoarding that they had put up, and therefore they were not able to get a due rate for the space.According to the police, the men confessed to cutting numerous trees in the city to get a clear view of their commercial hoardings and banners. A police officer said that no one suspected the accused as they used to pretend to be BMC employees. Whenever questioned, the accused would claim to have the necessary written permissions from the civic body, and always maintained that they were following the orders of their superiors. On Wednesday, a few residents noticed the men cutting the banyan tree near Girgaum Chowpatty and complained to the BMC officer concerned. A first information report (FIR) was registered at MRA Marg police station against the unidentified persons. The complaint was also shared with tourism minister Aditya Thackrey who spoke to the Mumbai Police about taking necessary action. Police tracked the men responsible for the illegal hacking and arrested them on Saturday.According to police, the two main accused have been identified as Hiralal Sevaklal Darshan, 36, and Mohammed Shafeeq, 25.“We arrested Darshan, Shafeeq and their three accomplices. During the investigation, we found that a similar complaint was registered against the five at Malabar Hill police station,” said Kiran Mandhare, inspector, Girgaum police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-held-for-hacking-trees-in-mumbai-101612813553512.html
09-02-2021||Other||Bombay HC suspends sentence of Ayurveda doc convicted for causing death by negligence||The Bombay high court (HC) has suspended the 10-year sentence of an Ayurveda doctor who was convicted by a trial court for causing death of a patient after he performed a C-section operation on her, though he was allegedly not qualified to conduct the same. A bench of justice SK Shinde, while hearing the interim application in the appeal filed by Dr Sachin Deshpande, was informed by advocate Aniket Nikam that the trial court had failed to consider the statement of a witness who confirmed that the operation had gone well and hence, HC should set aside the conviction. Nikam further informed the court that the first accused in the case had been granted bail and hence, on the grounds of parity, his client must be granted bail while he awaited the trial at HC and his sentence suspended. According to the prosecution, the woman who was pregnant for a second time had approached a nursing home owned by the first accused. The woman was a C-section delivery, to which her family agreed. On May 1, 2012, the operation and tubectomy was conducted by Dr Deshpande. After regaining consciousness, the woman began bleeding profusely and was shifted to another hospital where she died the next day. A case was registered under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Deshpande. Last year on September 29, the trial court convicted and sentenced Deshpande and also asked him to pay Rs2.5-lakh compensation to the victim’s husband. While seeking the suspension of the sentence till his appeal was heard, Nikam submitted that the trial court had not considered all the facts placed before it and had passed the conviction order by overlooking the glaring contradiction, omission as well as admissions and improvements that were brought to the notice of the judge. Hence, the judgment/order was contrary to the principles of the Evidence Act and should be quashed. After hearing the submissions the court observed, “In the consideration of the evidence on record and as the co-accused has been released on bail and further the applicant had not misused his liberty when granted bail and further appeal is likely to be heard in near futures, pending appeal impugned sentence is suspended…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-suspends-sentence-of-ayurveda-doc-convicted-for-causing-death-by-negligence-101612813433498.html
09-02-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body approves ₹536 crore for power plant on Vaitarna dam||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Monday approved ₹536 crore for a power plant project at Vaitarna Dam. According to BMC officials, 20-megawatt power will be generated annually from the hydro power plant, while an additional 80-megawatt power will be generated from the floating solar power plant on the dam. With this, BMC has become the first civic body in the country to take a step towards hybrid energy generation. The hydro and solar plants will generate about 208 million units of energy per year and is likely to save BMC’s ₹24 crore on electricity bills every year. The construction of the project would be completed in next two years. The power generated from the plants will be supplied to the state-run electricity body. In return, the amount will be adjusted in BMC’s electricity bill consumptions.Meanwhile, the civic body also appointed contractors to address flooding at 58 spots, for which tenders for works, such as widening of storm water drains, rivers, nullahs, worth ₹190 crore, were approved on Monday. Prominent flooding spots that will be catered to include the Gandhi Market (Matunga), JK Mehta Road (Santacruz), cargo complex (Andheri East), Lokhande Marg (Chembur), Gautam Nagar (Deonar), Chandavarkar lane (Borivli) and Mahesh Nagar (Goregaon).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-approves-536-crore-for-power-plant-on-vaitarna-dam-101612813253505.html
09-02-2021||Other||Mumbai Police book gangster Chhota Rajan’s brother for extortion||Pantnagar police at Ghatkopar booked Dipak Nikalje, the brother of gangster Chhota Rajan, in an extortion case. Nikalje is accused of threatening committee members of a Ghatkopar society last week in connection with a slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) project. The case is related to a dispute pertaining to a slum rehabilitation project in which two developers are interested. The police have also registered a case against a developer, Mukesh Patel, for conniving with Nikalje in the case.The complainant in the case is an 80-year-old member of Sant Namdev Housing Society, who now lives in a transit camp at Govandi after the society went for redevelopment. “The complainant has alleged that the accused forcibly took his as well as other members’ signatures on the vakalatnama (document stating the said lawyer will represent the litigant) at Nikalje’s bungalow in Chembur’s Chheda Nagar, with a mala fide intention. The accused threatened the complainant and the other society members to change the existing developer for the SRA project,” a police officer said.“The accused also threatened the complainant to pay ₹50,000 and write a ₹50,000-cheque in an advocate’s name,” said senior inspector Suhas Kamble from Pantnagar police station. Deputy commissioner of police (zone 7) Prashant Kadam said, “A case under sections 384 (extortion) and 34 (common intentions) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against Nikalje and Patel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-book-gangster-chhota-rajan-s-brother-for-extortion-101612813133459.html
09-02-2021||Other||Mumbai Police to restart counselling centres for couples at all police stations||The Mumbai Police have decided to revive the dedicated counselling centres that were functional at all police stations across the city between 2012 and 2015 to resolve minor matrimonial disputes. These centres counselled couples, without letting their differences escalate and reach courts. “We already have a help desk at every police station, based on a Supreme Court ruling, for counselling couples going through marital problems. Now these counselling centres will dedicatedly try to resolve the disputes between the couples,” said deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya, who is Mumbai Police spokesperson. He added that after a woman files a non-cognisable complaint, she will be able to send an application on the matrimonial problem to the counselling centre. The police officers will then hold a joint meeting with the couple and try to resolve the disputes amicably, without letting it escalate any further. Currently, Mumbai Police have only one dedicated counselling centre at its headquarters in Crawford Market, which tries to reconcile differences between couples. During the Covid-19 lockdown, the centre received 187 applications from couples who wanted to approach the police for legal actions against their spouses. According to a police officer, the centre resolved the issues of 18 couples. “We had called the couples to the headquarters and tried to resolve the disputes between them to save their marriages,” said an officer from the counselling centre. Of the 187 applications that the police received, 42 couples were sent to the police stations in their jurisdictions to record their statements for further process, while 74 others were asked to go for mutual separation. “We are in the process of counselling 15 couples at present,” the officer added. Chaitanya said women in distress can always call the police helpline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-to-restart-counselling-centres-for-couples-at-all-police-stations-101612813013513.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Bombay HC rejects Gautam Navlakha’s default bail plea||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday rejected the default bail plea of Bhima-Koregaon accused Gautam Navlakha and observed that there was nothing perverse in the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court order dated July 12, 2020 by which default bail was refused to him.Navlakha had sought default bail from the special NIA court claiming the charge sheet was not filed against him within the stipulated time of 90 days since his arrest. The special court had, however, refused to accept the submission based on the fact that the Delhi HC had deemed the 34 days of house arrest as illegal and hence, the same could not be counted while computing stipulated 90 days.Navlakha then approached HC claiming that though his house arrest was termed illegal, he was still in custody and hence his application for default bail should be allowed.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the appeal, was informed by senior counsel Kapil Sibal that the house arrest in 2018 had curtailed Navlakha’s freedom to move freely, and therefore, his plea for default bail under section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was valid.“Nature of custody was changed, but it was an arrest nonetheless,” Sibal had submitted.While justifying the computation, he had argued that if the 34 days of house arrest were counted, the NIA’s charge sheet has been filed beyond 90 days and therefore Navlakha was entitled to default bail. According to Sibal, Navlakha had cumulatively spent 93 days in custody by the time the charge sheet was filed.Additional solicitor general SV Raju, appearing for NIA, had opposed the plea saying the period of house arrest cannot be counted and the date of production of accused before the magistrate was relevant for computing 90 days and not the date of arrest.Raju had submitted that as the Delhi HC had deemed the period of Navlakha’s detention from August 29 to October 1, 2018 as illegal, it could not be considered while computing the period of the arrest.The bench had concluded the hearing on December 16, 2020 and reserved its ruling which was pronounced on Monday.The bench observed, “We have gone through the order passed by the special judge, NIA. We see no reason to interfere with the well-reasoned order of the learned special judge. The appeal (filed by Navlakha) stands dismissed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-bombay-hc-rejects-gautam-navlakha-s-default-bail-plea-101612812893503.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Special court acquits Mumbai woman caught with 8kg marijuana||A special court under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act recently acquitted a 54-year-old woman, who was allegedly caught carrying 8kg of marijuana, as the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Mumbai Police failed to comply with a mandatory requirement relating to her personal search.The accused, Sunita Bhave, was caught with 8kg marijuana on September 30, 2014. ANC officers said they had a tip-off about the woman coming to sell marijuana at a bus stop in Goregaon. Accordingly, an ANC team laid a trap and arrested Bhave.The police said they informed her about her rights under NDPS Act and a woman constable searched her in front of independent panch witnesses. They also said that they found packets of marijuana from her bag, after which she was arrested.The defence denied the allegation that Bhave was found in possession of the contraband and claimed that the 54-year-old had nothing to do with the seized consignment. It also pointed out several discrepancies in the prosecution story.It was argued that the officer who received information, the woman constable who searched the accused and the independent woman panch witness were not examined by the prosecution.The special court, after going through the evidence, observed that the evidence of police and panch witnesses do not match in respect of appraising the accused about her right and acquitted the woman. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-court-acquits-mumbai-woman-caught-with-8kg-marijuana-101612812773536.html
09-02-2021||Other||Mumbai coastal road work: Water supply in 50 buildings affected||Hundreds of residents in Marine Drive have not been getting water for more than two days owing to pipeline damage during the coastal road work. Residents from the buildings on A, B, C, E, F and G Roads have also complained of receiving muddy water. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is carrying out the construction of the coastal road between Princess Street Flyover and Worli over the 9-km stretch that passes by the sea. BMC officials said around 50 buildings at Marine Drive are affected due to the water pipeline burst. According to assistant civic commissioner Chakrapani Alle, the pipeline is likely to be fixed by Monday night. “The burst was reported due to the piling work of the coastal road. Our water repair department is working on it. We’ve also informed the department concerned to levy penalty on the contractor.” “We are on the job [to repair the pipeline] since Saturday. The repairing took time because we could detect the source of the pipeline burst only by Monday morning. Also, there was waterlogging due to the pipeline burst. We’re now working to fix it,” an official from the water supply department said. Residents claim that BMC did not arrange for alternative water supply by providing water tankers for all buildings. “Though BMC started the work immediately, they told us that couldn’t detect the source of the damage. Now we’ve been told that the supply shall resume by Monday or Tuesday,” said Purshottam Hemdev who resides on G Road. He added, “In the past two days, we didn’t get any help from BMC. We understand that it was an unplanned maintenance work, but the least BMC could have done is arranged for alternative water supply channel. We had to arrange for water supply tankers ourselves on Monday.” Mahendra Hemdev, a resident of D Road said their corporator arranged for water by providing tankers. “The coastal road work should be smooth and no resident must be affected. We are hopeful that water supply will be restored by tomorrow [Tuesday], and no such incident takes place in the future.” Local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Akash Purohit said, “Never has there been a water supply issue at Marine Drive. My society is also not getting water since Sunday, and we hope BMC will fix the pipeline damage and handle such situations better henceforth.” Marine Drive residents had complained of facing water cuts and contaminated water in November 2020 too, owing to pipeline burst because of the coastal road work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-coastal-road-work-water-supply-in-50-buildings-affected-101612812533435.html
09-02-2021||Other||Remain vigilant: Maharashtra CM as Covid-19 positivity rate rises in rural areas||Maharashtra surpassed the landmark of vaccinating 500,000 beneficiaries in the state on Monday. Even as the vaccination drive moves on, the state continues to witness high Covid-19 positivity rate in Vidarbha and north Maharashtra. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, who held a meeting with the visiting multidisciplinary team in the state, directed authorities to increase vigilance and follow Covid-19 protocol. While Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 positivity rate is under 5%, the trend has not remained uniform. A three-member team under National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director Dr Sujeet Singh was in state from Friday to Monday to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. The team visited Nagpur, Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal and pointed out that these areas have a high positivity rate. Based on the suggestions of the central team, Thackeray on Monday directed officials at Nagpur, Amravati, Nandurbar and Bhandara, Akola and Yavatmal to make its machinery more vigilant.According to NCDC, Maharashtra and Kerala contribute 24% and 40%, respectively, to the country’s current active cases. The central team also visited Sion hospital and noted that Mumbai, Thane, and Palghar districts have the state’s maximum cases. However, the growth rate in these areas is limited. “With the measures taken by the Maharashtra government, the number of new Covid patients is decreasing each day. However, the number of patients in rural areas such as Nandurbar and Bhandara are increasing more than the urban areas,” Thackeray said, adding that there is no shortage of health facilities in the state. Meanwhile, health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that the state government to carry out genomic sequencing of positive patients from the areas which have high positivity rate. A senior health department official said that the districts have been asked to send samples to National Institute of Virology in Pune for genomic sequencing of SARS CoV2 to ascertain the strain of coronavirus. Tope added that the districts have been asked to pull up their socks on tracking, testing and treatment of patients. Meanwhile on Monday, the state vaccinated 22,200 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 14,066 frontline workers (FLW) to take the total inoculated tally to 509,746. Of the total beneficiaries, 468,293 are HCWs and 41,453 are FLWs, the state health department said. Maharashtra has completed vaccinating around 58% of the total 800,000 HCWs registered on the centralised CoWIN app. Of the total vaccinations administered so far, 4854 were Covaxin shots--vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech.The state is expected to administer the mandatory second doses from February 13. On Monday, Maharashtra reported 2,216 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,046,287. The active cases in the state stood at 34,720, while 15 fatalities took the death toll to 51,325. Of the 15 deaths reported, eight occurred in the past 48 hours and six in the last week. The remaining one death is from the period before last week and had occurred in Yavatmal. Mumbai reported 399 fresh cases, taking its tally to 312,280. Three deaths took the toll to 11,395. The city’s active caseload stood at 5,338.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remain-vigilant-maharashtra-cm-as-covid-19-positivity-rate-rises-in-rural-areas-101612812173485.html
09-02-2021||Other||2 trucks carrying 324 LPG cylinders explode near Mumbai||A series of blasts were reported in two trucks carrying nearly 324 filled liquid petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders around 2am on Monday, at an open ground in Ram Nagar, Mira Road (East). Three vehicles were damaged and a bystander got injured. “The trucks were parked at a reserved plot belonging to the Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) on Sunday and were scheduled to leave on Monday morning to distribute the gas cylinders to Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum agencies. However, around 2am, a chain of seven blasts were reported and fire engulfed the two trucks along with a nearby pickup van,” said Prakash Borade, chief fire officer, MBMC Fire Brigade.Ketan Solanki, 25, who was part of the group of bystanders gathered at the blast site, tripped and injured his leg. He is receiving treatment at Bhakti Vedanta Hospital, Mira Road.It took the MBMC Fire Brigade three hours to douse the fire using a turn-table ladder (TTL), seven tenders, two water tankers and 54 personnel.Borade said the open ground is used to park 60 cabs, besides trucks and other vehicles and is frequented by drug addicts, alcoholics and other miscreants. The fire brigade suspects that an unidentified addict may have thrown a used matchstick on to the truck, resulting in the chain of blasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-trucks-carrying-324-lpg-cylinders-explode-near-mumbai-101612811933456.html
09-02-2021||Other||Palghar man hacks wife, her lover to death, sits near bodies||Dilip Thakur, 45, a farm labourer from Thakurpada, Saphale, was arrested on Sunday after he allegedly murdered his wife Sangita, 40, and her paramour, Pandu Shravane, 42. According to police, Thakur found the couple in a compromising position in his house on Sunday afternoon and attacked them with a woodcutter. He then sat beside their bodies until the Saphale police arrested him. Shravane was Sangita’s brother-in-law as her sister is married to him.“For months, Thakur was aware that his wife was having an extra-marital affair with Shravane, her sister’s husband. He warned her to end the affair for the sake of their daughter and son. However, Sangita continued her relationship with Shravane,” said Sandip Kahale, assistant inspector, Saphale police station.On Sunday, Thakur left for work but returned home after a few hours without informing his wife. When he entered the bedroom, he found Sangita and Shravane together, and picked up an axe and hacked the duo to death. “Thakur sat next to their bodies and left the main door ajar. A police patil saw a few people standing near Thakur’s house and discovered the murder. He informed the police station and we reached the spot and arrested Thakur. The accused put up no resistance,” said Kahale.Thakur was charged under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and was produced before the Palghar court on Monday. He has been remanded in police custody till February 10. Police have seized the axe used in the double murder and sent it for forensic analysis. The bodies of the victims have been sent for post-mortem and their reports are yet to be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palghar-man-hacks-wife-her-lover-to-death-sits-near-bodies-101612811813491.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||FYJC admission: 1,757 aspirants bag seat in Mumbai colleges in special round||A total of 1,757 first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants bagged a seat at city colleges on the first day of the second first come, first served (FCFS) admission round that began on Monday.As per data shared by the education department, a total of 2,478 students were allotted a college on the first day, of which 1,757 were admitted in colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “This is the last round, and students are requested to confirm seats within the given schedule,” said an official from the education department. As more than 40,000 students were yet to secure a college seat in MMR after six rounds of admissions and with over 1.02 lakh seats vacant, the department reopened admissions and introduced a second FCFS round. The round which commenced on Monday will close on February 13. Students who are still left without a seat or who wish to cancel their previous admission and seek a new college can confirm their seats within the stipulated time. Under the FCFS round, students can claim seats against vacancies shown in the portal on the designated date and time. Once students claim a seat and proceed for admission, they can confirm their seat in the given college.Colleges in MMR began their new academic year in the month of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjcadmission1757-aspirants-bag-seat-in-mumbai-colleges-in-special-round-101612811693407.html
09-02-2021||Other||Navy sailor seen roaming at Chennai airport before ‘kidnapping’: Palghar police||The Palghar police have found a few CCTV clips in which leading seaman (LS) Surajkumar Mithilesh Dube, 27, was seen roaming freely at the Meenambakkam Airport at Chennai after landing from Hyderabad. Police are now questioning the claims made by Dube on his death bed, in which he said he was kidnapped by three unidentified men and taken to Gholwad jungle in Palghar and burnt alive.An officer who is part of the investigative team said Dube arrived at the Chennai airport around 12.30am on January 30 and was alone. “Dube had claimed he was kidnapped immediately after he stepped outside the airport. It is questionable that Dube claimed he was kidnapped, but had the time to withdraw ₹5,000 from an ATM in Chennai,” said the officer. We are also examining Dube’s DMAT account through which he was dealing in stocks, shares. Two trading firms were looking after the said account on behalf of Dubey,” said the officer.“We have found proof of Dube taking personal loans of ₹8.43 lakh, borrowed ₹5.75 lakh from his colleague at INS Agrani, Coimbatore, and his would-be in-laws had also given him nearly ₹8.5 lakh to invest in the stock market,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navy-sailor-seen-roaming-at-chennai-airport-before-kidnapping-palghar-police-101612811633429.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Navy sailor Suraj Kumar Dubey cremated with full state honours in Palamu||Indian Navy sailor Suraj Kumar Dubey, who died under suspicious circumstances in Maharashtra, was cremated with full state honours at his native village Purbadiha in Jharkhand’s Palamu district on Monday. As the funeral march proceeded towards the banks of Koel river, villagers chanted “Bharat Mata ki Jai”,” Vande Matram” and “Long live Suraj Dubey”. Army and Navy personnel and Jharkhand minister Mithilesh Thakur attended the funeral proceedings. Dubey was found with severe burn injuries in the jungles of Gholvad in Palghar district and died while being taken to a hospital in Mumbai on Friday.On his death bed, Dubey had reportedly claimed that armed men had kidnapped him and demanded a ransom of ₹10 lakh for his release. However, the Navy man’s elder brother Niraj Kumar Dubey said that they did not get any ransom calls between January 30 and February 5.Dubey was on leave from January 1 to February 1. To re-join the service, he had boarded a Hyderabad-bound flight from Ranchi at 8am on January 30. After reaching Hyderabad, he spoke to his family members. He then boarded a flight from Hyderabad to Chennai, from where he was scheduled to take a train to Coimbatore. Dubey landed in Chennai at 9pm the same day and was unreachable after that. On finding his mobile phones switched off, his family contacted INS Agrani, where Dubey was deployed as a leading seaman. A missing person’s complaint was then filed with Chainpur police station in Palamu.Amid high-pitched demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry by the local leaders, Jharkhand minister Mithilesh Thakur said, “There should not be any politics in the death of an Indian Navy sailor. The state government will provide financial assistance of ₹10 lakh to the bereaved family and sanction pension for the family members.”“Not only Jharkhand but the entire country is grieving the untimely demise of an Indian soldier. The government will ensure that exemplary action is taken against those involved in their heinous crime. The government will also strive for the speedy delivery of justice this son of Palamu,” the minister added.Dubey’s family members have insisted that there was a conspiracy behind his murder and have alleged that two of his colleagues were involved. Palamu member of Parliament VD Ram and former speaker of Jharkhand Assembly Inder Singh Namdhari have already demanded a CBI probe in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-sailor-suraj-kumar-dubey-cremated-with-full-state-honours-in-palamu-101612811574228.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||80% work on third Kalwa Creek bridge completed: Thane civic body||The work on the third Kalwa Creek bridge, which was hit due to the pandemic last year, has finally gained momentum. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) conducted a trial of girder launch on the creek on Sunday and claimed that 80% of the work is completed. The girder over the creek will be launched in one month while the entire work will be completed by June this year. The bridge, which is an important link connecting Thane and Navi Mumbai, will ease the traffic congestion between the two cities along with congestion in Kalwa and Thane city areas. A number of residents from Thane take the bridge to reach various IT sector companies in Navi Mumbai. The bridge was supposed to open last monsoon, however the work was stalled due to the lockdown as labour was not available. Pravin Papalkar, deputy city engineer, said, “The work of the pillars in the 100-metre stretch over the creek is completed. On Sunday, we did a trail launch of the basket girder on this bridge. The girder is 1,000 metric tonne in weight and the structure is ready. We will launch it in a month. Once the girder is launched, we will only have to connect the missing links at two ends of the girder and at the few other stretches of the entire bridge.” “The budget allocation for the bridge this year is ₹20 crore. We have to complete the bridge and open it for the commuters this year on any account. Our plan is to complete the work by June,” he said. Atul Jadhav, 55, a commuter, said, “The work is delayed for years now. The first bridge is closed as it is unsafe, while the second bridge is very narrow. The new bridge will make the commute easy. At present, we spend hours in traffic at the Kalwa junction due to the congestion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/80-work-on-third-kalwa-creek-bridge-completed-thane-civic-body-101612811513433.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra denies to give details on Metro-3 car shed report||The Maharashtra government has stated that the report submitted by a panel led by state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) car shed is under “government consideration”, and refused to share details on a right to information (RTI) query filed by HT.In a reply received on February 8, the state urban development department said, “The report submitted by the said committee is under government consideration. Therefore, it is not possible to share details of the report.” Following an interim order by the Bombay high court (HC) to stop work on the proposed car shed at Kanjurmarg, the state government had formed a panel to weigh between Aarey and Kanjurmarg. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had, in October 2020, announced the government’s decision to shift the car shed from the contested Aarey Colony plot to Kanjurmarg. While officials had confirmed that the committee submitted its report backing Kanjurmarg on January 21, the report has not been released publicly. Since 2015, this is the third committee to deliberate and submit a report on the car shed for Metro-3. The government had earlier established committees under the then metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan and additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik. RTI activists, HT spoke to, on Monday said the state cannot deny information on this matter.Anil Galgali, a well-known RTI activist from Mumbai, said, “This is wrong on the state government’s part. In fact, they must state the clause under which the information is being denied.”Naseer Jahagirdar, advocate and activist said information can be denied only under section 8 of the RTI Act which looks at exemption from disclosure of information. “Information cannot be denied on the grounds that the report is under government consideration. In fact, a report like this must, by default, be made public,” Jahagirdar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-denies-to-give-details-on-metro-3-car-shed-report-101612811453426.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Potential vaccine beneficiaries in Mumbai provide incorrect numbers on app||To avoid getting vaccinated, many potential beneficiaries are providing incorrect mobile numbers while registering on the centralised app, Co-WIN, or not answering calls made by ward officers to inform them about their appointment, according to civic officials. Currently, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is vaccinating both healthcare workers (HCWs) and Frontline Workers (FLWs) simultaneously at 21 vaccination centres. Due to the technical glitch in the Co-WIN app, 24 ward offices individually call the shortlisted candidates for vaccination a day prior to their immunisation date. Many HCWs and FLWs are forced to register for inoculation by their supervisors, but they provide incorrect individual details to avoid the process later. The Co-WIN app doesn’t have the mechanism to check the authenticity of mobile numbers during the registration process. Civic officials say that almost 20% remain unreachable on their registered phone numbers on the Co-WIN app. “For instance, on any given day, we call 500 registered HCWs and FLWs, 10% don’t answer their phones, while another 10% numbers are incorrect,” said a senior BMC officer. “If they provide an incorrect number, the Co-WIN app can’t send the message about the date of their appointment,” said the officer. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “Our priority is people who are willing to get vaccinated. Currently, we don’t want to engage our resources for such people. We are getting very good response through walk-ins and gradually, the overall turnout is also increasing.” Two hospitals inoculate 10,000 people Meanwhile, Rajawadi hospital at Ghatkopar and Kandivali-based Bharat Ratna Babasaheb Ambedkar (BDBA) hospital (also known as Shatabdi Hospital, have set a record by inoculating over 10,000 beneficiaries in the first 16 sessions of the drive. According to BMC vaccination data, the highest, 10,695 beneficiaries, have been vaccinated at Rajawadi Hospital, followed by 10,694 at BDBA hospital, 9,783 at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and 9,600 at BYL Nair hospital. Officials believe as most HCWs stay in the western and eastern suburbs, they prefer visiting the centres nearest to their residence. Also, they are quite close to the nearby railway stations. Thus, these two hospitals have got the most number of beneficiaries. “Initially, there were only two vaccination centres in the suburbs— Cooper hospital in Vile Parle and BDBA in Kandivli. But as BDBA was closer to them, most beneficiaries from the suburbs preferred it. Our hospital gets public from five populated zones like Jogeshwari, Goregaon, Malad, Kandivli, Borivali and Dahisar which helped us achieve the 10,000 mark,” said Dr Pratibha Patil, medical superintendent, BDBA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/potential-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-mumbai-provide-incorrect-numbers-on-app-101612811393451.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Foodie groups are back on track to explore Delhi-NCR||Malai tikka, kalmi kebab, momos, kachori – winter brings in many cravings and the urge to explore. Though it’s been difficult to do so in the Covid-19 times, foodie groups in the city remain undeterred and try to make the best use of the weather albeit with safety norms. Exploring the city’s food delights, members of these groups have been going for food walks, be it planned or impromptu.“During winters, food walks become even more fun. The appetite increases and savouring kebabs live from the tandoor or enjoying hand beaten coffee or tandoori chai or savouring a hot glass of kada hua doodh with garma garam jalebi brings much more joy now than in summer,” says Pawan Soni, founder, Gurgaon Food Freak, which has organised several food walks across Delhi-NCR to explore the hidden gems. More recently, the group went for food walks to Jama Masjid, Dilli Haat, Sector 56 in Gurugram, and Old Gurugram. Soni adds, “We suggest a place and then a member who has the most experience in that area leads everyone. We pool in the money and the leader spends from that pool. Whatever money is left, it’s either returned or if it’s a small amount then we give it as charity to the poor. Since it’s Covid time, we avoid getting more than 10 members. And everyone has to sanitise their hands and wear a face mask unless at all times, unless one is eating or posing for a group picture. We also ensure to keep a gap of minimum two weeks between each walk.”Recently on a food walk to Chawri Bazar with his fellow foodies, Prabhjot Singh, founder of Foodkars, felt how things have changed in the pandemic struck world. “Apart from walks that are planned two weeks in advance we also do impromptu meetups or foodwalks if around 10 or more people are interested to join a food walk. Initially, when the pandemic struck, many members became hesitant to move out and meet others. Our recent Chawri Bazar walk, on a Sunday, was our first food walk in the new normal. And to follow Covid-19 safety guidelines, we asked the participants to carry their own sanitisers and masks, and must keep the mask on while walking and waiting for food! Also, we went to only those outlets that assure maintaining of hygiene and are visibly following Covid-19 guidelines.”Singh’s group is now planning to visit the Andhra Bhavan canteen, whereas Gurgaon Foodie group is exploring Sector 56 Cart Market in Gurugram, Jama Masjid, and even Majnu ka Tilla. “The planning usually happens on social media platforms,” says Shivendu Mittal, from the group, adding, “We have started some impromptu food walks and restaurant explorations. Apart from a tepid response in the initial few plans, nothing much has changed... Once a restaurant refused to join tables for our large group, and we kept insisting but no luck... From our side, we’ve stopped sharing our plates during the food walks. And masks stay on till the time food is served on the table!” Many agree that stepping out with all the safety precautions is the way forward for foodie groups in Delhi-NCR. Bon appétit! Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/foodie-groups-are-back-on-track-to-explore-delhincr-101612811349887.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||With Mumbai locals open to all, BEST buses see drop in riders||As local train services have resumed in the city, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has witnessed a decline in the number of passengers. The organisation has witnessed a dip of over 100,000 passengers in a week after local train services resumed on February 1. Under Mission Begin Again, the Maharashtra government resumed bus services for citizens on June 8, 2020. On an average, 2.8 million passengers travelled everyday by BEST buses. However, with local train services resuming for general public from February 1, more than 2 million passengers are commuting by local train service on Central Railway and 1.3 million on Western Railway daily. Passengers are allowed to travel in restricted timings; from the first local train service till 7am, between 12 pm and 4pm, and after 9pm till last service. As per data available with BEST management, the government undertaking saw a dip of 124,000 passengers between January 29 and February 5. On January 29, BEST operated 4,301 buses and had 2.6 million passengers. On February 5, it ran 4,138 buses with 2.5 million passengers.The organisation has stated that they have moved their focus on feeder routes and short routes connecting to railway stations. “There has been a decrease in the number of passengers. There has been a decrease of 10,000 to 30,000 passengers throughout the week. We are operating buses more on feeder routes and short distance routes as compared to earlier.” said a senior BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-mumbai-locals-open-to-all-best-buses-see-drop-in-riders-101612811273487.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||19-year-old raped by two inside a bus in Navi Mumbai, one arrested||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped by two people inside a stationary bus at Kharghar on the night of February 3. Police arrested one of the accused on Monday, while the second accused, who is the driver of the bus, is still at large. According to the police, the survivor and the accused lived in the same building. The accused had offered the woman a spiked drink during a pre-wedding celebration in the building that night. “During the celebration, the woman felt thirsty and went to have some water. The accused called her aside and suggested that she could have some soft-drink if she wanted to. Since both the accused stayed in the same building, the woman did not suspect them and had the soft drink offered by them,” said Vivek Bhoir, assistant inspector, Kharghar police station. “The bus, which belongs to the other accused, was parked at a secluded place nearby. When the survivor started to feel uneasy, they took her out and offered some more spiked drinks. At one point she was almost unconscious, following which they brought her to the bus and took turns to rape her. After committing the crime, they dumped her on the road, snatched her mobile phone and fled the spot,” he said. The woman started screaming for help after she regained consciousness. “A few people spotted her and took her to the police station. After she narrated the incident, we registered a complaint against the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). On Monday, we arrested the first accused, a 19-year-old college student. We are now looking for the bus driver and hope to arrest him soon,” Bhoir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19yearold-raped-by-two-inside-a-bus-in-navi-mumbai-one-arrested-101612811222008.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Poll for Maharashtra Assembly speaker: Time for another MVA-BJP fight?||The political stage in the state is likely to witness another tussle between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, following the resignation of Nana Patole as the speaker of the Maharashtra Assembly. While there are speculations that the BJP aims to turn the election for a new speaker into an opportunity to pull down the 14-month-old Uddhav Thackeray-led government, the three-party coalition is gearing up to use the election to its advantage. The MVA leaders are strategising to get in 170-plus votes for the election, which can also end the speculation over its survival. Patole resigned as the speaker after the Congress leadership decided to appoint him as the new chief of the Maharashtra Congress. This has necessitated election for a new speaker which also means another test of strength for the MVA on the floor of the Assembly. In 2019, when it won the trust vote and Patole was elected, the MVA had managed to get 169 votes in the house of 288. While the three parties together have 154 MLAs, the coalition managed to get at least 15 votes from smaller parties and independents. Although the leaders of Shiv Sena and NCP would have preferred Patole’s resignation towards the end of the budget session after completion of presenting and passing the annual budget, the Congress chose to do it immediately. After initial reactions to convey their unhappiness with the decision of the Congress, the two partners have now accepted it and the three parties are looking at showing its strength on the floor of the house. The parties are confident that none of their 154 MLAs would vote against the MVA candidate and are now working on a plan to get support from most of the 29 MLAs from smaller parties and the independents, according to the MVA leaders HT spoke to. In the house of 288, the MVA has 154 members, while the BJP has 105. “Of the 29 MLAs from smaller parties and independents, 15 voted for us a year ago. They continue to support us. We will now try and win over some more. For instance, the Communist Party of India which has one MLA and AIMIM with two MLAs had abstained from voting during the confidence motion on November 30, 2019. We are sure in the backdrop of the changed political scenario, they will support us. We have supported the left parties during the farmers’ agitation, while AIMIM cannot politically afford to take a stand favourable to the BJP. “Rashtriya Samaj Paksha MLA Ratnakar Gutte is expected to change side after the recent Enforcement Directorate action against him,” said a senior NCP minister requesting anonymity. The leader said that though some of the BJP MLAs are in touch with the ruling parties, they are unlikely to cross over soon.“We will get about 175 votes. I do not think the BJP will go for the vote as many independents and smaller parties are on the verge of changing sides,” said NCP minister Nawab Malik.Former state Congress chief Manikarao Thakre said, “We can cross the mark of 170 MLAs as more independents are willing to support us. It is easier to garner support when you are in power. There are many incidents from the past when the ruling parties had fallen short of numbers than claimed during floor tests. The BJP did not even go for the election of speaker despite our demand after the 2014 election, when it was in minority.” The MVA leaders are also deliberating whether to hold the election immediately after the budget session of the state legislature begins on March 1 or towards the end of the session. “There is no hurry to hold the election immediately after the session begins. We have a deputy speaker to run the house. The elections will be held only after we manage to get more support,” said a Shiv Sena minister. Besides its own strength of 154 MLAs (comprising 58 Sena MLAs, NCP 56 and Congress 44), the ruling alliance garnered the support of 15 members from smaller parties and independents. Three MLAs from Bahujan Vikas Aghadi, two each from Samajwadi Party and Prahar Janashakti Paksha and one each from Swabhimani Paksha, Peasants and Workers Party, Krantikari Sanghatana and five independents had supported the government. BJP, the prime opposition party with 105 members received the support of two smaller allies and seven independents. Floor test and squabbling within the MVA However, the MVA’s plan to show strength on the floor of the assembly is easier said than done. Several MVA leaders point out they cannot take all their legislators for granted. The ruling coalition will have to first ensure that its strength of 169 which was seen in trust vote in 2019 is retained. “Any drop in this number would help the BJP to create an atmosphere that we are losing support and there is political uncertainty,” said the Shiv Sena minister. Though the confidence vote was won by MVA government in an open poll, the speaker is elected by secret ballot which could be a challenging job for the ruling parties as it gives a chance for cross-voting by MLAs. “Rule 6(3) of state legislative mandates for the secret ballots for the post of the speaker. Though we have a tradition of the unopposed election of the speaker, the opposition may ask for the poll. The poll is held on the floor of the house and the members vote on ballot paper,” said Anant Kalse, former principal secretary of state legislature. Congress’s alliance partners want a say in deciding the next speaker. To force Congress to do so, both the allies are saying that the post is open for negotiation in power-sharing formula. To counter it, the Congress is putting forth a demand for deputy chief minister’s post. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the post has been left vacant to decide by all three ruling parties over the new speaker. Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana’s editorial last week raised the question why should Congress give a chance to BJP to play tricks. The editorial said that the chair of speaker was conceded for five years and not to leave it vacant in just one year. This prompted Congress to toss the idea of reshuffle in sharing of the power and demanded for the post of deputy chief minister by creating an extra post for them. Thakre said that there should be an additional deputy chief minister from Congress. “It has been our demand even during the talks with our ruling partners before forming the government,” Thakre said.According to Congress leaders, before appointing Patole as the new state unit chief by asking him to resign as the speaker, Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi spoke to Pawar and Shiv Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Patole and senior Congress leaders in the state met Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at Sahyadri guest house before handing over his resignation to deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal on February 4. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “The ruling parties appear confident over the past few days. The Shiv Sena had fared well in gram panchayat elections while the three-party combine emerged triumphant in legislative council elections two months ago.”There are also speculations that the ruling and opposition sides would avoid a bitter tussle and settle for election of new speaker without actual vote on the floor of the assembly. Senior BJP leader and former speaker Haribhau Bagde said: “Many a times the Speaker is appointed unopposed but it all depends on the relations between the treasury and opposition benches. Our stand on the election will be decided according to the situation at that time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/poll-for-maharashtra-assembly-speaker-time-for-another-mvabjpfight-101612811220836.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Protecting AI-driven technology still a challenge, say science and tech institutes||As artificial intelligence (AI) finds application in every walk of life, technology institutes in the country say that protection of AI-driven technology is a challenge. In simple terms, AI is a field of computer science that trains machines to simulate the workings of the human mind. “Modern AI typically combines a deep learning architecture with a training algorithm, which is trained on task-specific data. This training yields a model for the task, which is then able to analyse any new data point and output its predictions,” said Mausam, professor and founding head of the School of Artificial Intelligence, at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D). Today, AI is the driving force behind technology interventions in the various fields such as education, healthcare, security and communication. While most technology institutes have empanelled lawyers for intellectual property (IP) rights, many are now seeking help from agents and consultants to handle the application process for AI. The Foundation of Innovation and Technology Transfer (FITT) at IIT Delhi has now set up the Innovation Technology Transfer Office, which will help innovators and institutes in the field of IP. “There are many facilitators who can help in filing patents, but the quality of drafting the claims and strategising the IP protection is important which requires suitable expertise / guidance. We will be happy to help institutes with needful assessment and IP strategy through our new unit,” said Anil Wali, managing director, FITT. Collectively, IITs file the largest number of patent applications, followed by institutes under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). In a response to a question in Rajya Sabha, science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan had said that between 2009 and 2019, IITs had filed 3,751 patent applications and CSIR had filed 2,413 applications. “About 50% of patents filed in the engineering field are from the software sector of engineering; which happens to be the most contentious and most litigious space in patent technology,” said Chirag Tanna, a registered patent agent and director of the firm Ink Idee, which offers consultancy services in patents, trademarks, copyrights, and design registrations. Among the institutes Ink Idee has worked with are IIT Bombay (IITB) and College of Engineering, Pune.At IIT Delhi, around 3% of all IP applications are in the AI field. “This does not reflect the inherent strength which is substantial. Moreover, the Institute has also initiated a centre of excellence for AI and we expect increased inventive output in future,” said Wali. “At present, roughly 2-3% of all patent applications are for technologies for AI-driven innovations. However, with AI now touching all aspects of life, we are seeing an increase in innovation in this field. It is a relatively new field and protection is a challenge. When it comes to AI, innovators generally find it easier to file for intellectual property (IP) rights in the United States of America or European countries,” said Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, IITB. The European Patent Office (EPO) and US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) have a set of guidelines on how to examine patents relating to AI. “According to EPO, software and abstract mathematical models are not patentable, but if the idea is implemented, it then becomes eligible for patenting. In case of USPTO, one might be able to patent a specific implementation of an AI as long as there is a tangible effect,” said Tanna. In India, algorithms can’t be patented under the Patents Act, 1970. “However, specific applications of AI-driven technologies for specific use-cases can very well be patented,” said Mausam. “All software is abstract; so is AI – it is intangible, but its effect can be felt. Thus, it becomes very difficult to define the internal workings of IP in context of AI-driven technology. This is why many such patents get shot down early on. Secondly, computer-related inventions or software inventions have always struggled to sit within the stringent and finite definitions of law defined by Patent Acts across the world. The third is the challenge of authorship,” Tanna said. AI-driven machines have the ability to learn from data and hold the potential to become autonomous, without needing the intervention of humans. “Existing intellectual property laws do not recognise an artificially intelligent machine’s right to invent a new piece of technology that can be patented; even though the world has reached a stage where artificially intelligent machines have, in fact, come up with new pieces of patentable technology,” said Tanna. “Policy intervention needs to go hand in hand with innovation and challenges will always persist. However, rigorous testing of AI-driven technology can be a way forward. Each time the machine learns and evolves, it should be put to a careful and independent test,” said Mausam. “Technical advancements always precede policies and laws. With an equitable dialogue with stakeholders, all issues can be resolved. These policies can encompass a variety of facets such as regulations on use of AI, ethics of use of AI in terms of decision making and decision enactments, burden of law when an AI makes decisions for and, on behalf of, human beings, boundaries of patentable subject matter when it comes to AI inventions and ownership and crediting of inventions made by AI inventions,” said Tanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/protecting-ai-driven-technology-still-a-challenge-say-science-and-tech-institutes-101612811093979.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Continue online classes or allow peak-hour train travel, say teachers and students||Days after the University of Mumbai (MU) released a circular with various guidelines for affiliated colleges to follow once colleges reopen from February 15, teachers and students have said resuming on-campus lectures is not feasible if they are not allowed to travel by train during peak hours. The University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines shared by MU states that first preference must be given to PhD and research candidates from science and technology departments as well as final-year students to attend lectures on campus. Online lectures will continue for the rest of the batches. Last week, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that 50% of the total staff and students would be allowed on campus at any given time, but teachers and students have pointed out that they need to be able to travel by local trains during peak hours in order to reopen campuses. An MU spokesperson said the decision to reopen colleges was taken based on assurance from the state government that train travel for staff and students will be considered. A spokesperson for Samant on Monday told HT the state is currently working on the issue and will have an answer soon. At present, the general public is allowed to avail suburban train services in the city during fixed time slots — first train service of the day till 7am; 12pm to 4pm; 9pm till last train service of the day — which do not cover peak hours in order to prevent overcrowding in trains. Teachers and students have said the train timings for the general public are inconvenient. “Our class timings vary between 1pm and 6pm, and if that continues, I might be able to take the train to reach college, but then would loiter in college till 9pm to take the train back home. It makes no sense,” said Pooja Mali, a resident of Dahisar and a Bachelor of Mass Media (BMM) student at UPG College, Vile Parle. Some students said that since they are almost midway into the current semester, they would prefer to return to campus later. “I think the focus should be on keeping people safe at home, at least till the vaccination drive is over,” said Vishwa Shah, 21, a resident of Kandivli who is pursuing her Masters in clinical psychology from RD National College, Bandra. “My parents are not very keen on sending me back to college for physical classes, which I believe is the case with most parents at present,” she said. Teachers pointed out that commuting will be challenging if they are unable to avail local trains during peak hours. “Reopening of colleges and a combination of offline and online classes means teachers will be over-worked. And to make matters worse, without the permission to travel by train, many of us will spend hours in buses and autos every day,” said a Virar-based professor who teaches at a college in Andheri. The professor added it would be “impossible” to do the 62-km commute without availing local trains. His college timings are between 10am and 4.30pm. Shruti Warrier, who lives in Dombivli and teaches at St Andrew’s College in Bandra, said “If given no choice, I might have to leave home at 5.30am and reach my college by 7am for a class that begins only at 10am. The government should think this through.” While several teachers and students have taken to social media to voice their concerns, the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) on Monday has written to MU vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar. “The university does not understand the ground reality and takes decisions without the consent of the academic council and senate, resulting in such absurd ideas,” said a statement released by BUCTU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-continue-online-classes-or-allow-peak-hour-train-travel-say-teachers-and-students-101612811038488.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to improve quality of driving with tracks, 65 simulators||To improve the quality of driving in the city as a part of the road safety month initiative, the transport department is seeking the support of educational institutions including schools and colleges to provide their ground on weekends, to use as driving tracks.The transport department will also be getting 65 simulators for Maharashtra. The simulators will cost between ₹7 lakh to ₹9 lakh each and will be installed at driving training institutions across Maharashtra. The simulators will help drivers with testing and improving their skills in various conditions, including traffic, speed bumps, bad roads, pedestrians moving and heavy rainfall. The simulators will be made mandatory for people applying for a learner’s license. “Land in Mumbai and surrounding areas is scarce. We are working on the plan to approach colleges and schools to use their premises to train drivers,” said Avinash Dhakne, state transport commissioner.Further, on Saturday a special drive to inspect private buses was undertaken by the transport department throughout the state. As part of the drive, 3,062 buses were booked for violations and 213 vehicles were seized. The maximum number of irregularities in buses was witnessed at Thane with 539 cases being reported and 32 buses detained. Pune reported the second-highest with 472 buses with irregularities and 43 buses being booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-improve-quality-of-driving-with-tracks-65-simulators-101612811038955.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues order to waive entertainment duty for 1996 Michael Jackson concert||The Maharashtra government issued an order to waive off entertainment duty worth ₹33,376,000 to the organisers Wizcraft Entertainment, against a concert of late American pop singer and dancer Michael Jackson organised in Mumbai around 24 years ago. The order was issued by the state revenue department on Monday. On November 1, 1996, the then Raj Thackeray-led Shiv Udyog Sena (SUS) had organised a Michael Jackson concert in Mumbai and the then Shiv Sena-BJP led state government had granted a waiver in the entertainment duty to the organisers on the grounds that the profit is used for charity purposes. The decision was struck down by the Bombay high court and the amount and the waiver amount was deposited in the court’s treasury. It had further asked the state government to reconsider its decision in eight weeks.On January 6, the state government has decided to waive off the entertainment duty as well as the interest amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-order-to-waive-entertainment-duty-for-1996-michael-jackson-concert-101612810973392.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra struggles with bird flu; over 209,606 poultry birds culled||Maharashtra has been struggling with bird flu or avian influenza since more than a month. It has reported deaths of over 40,213 birds in the state since January 8 and has culled over 200,000 poultry birds following confirmation of bird flu from ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, till date. The figures include around 137,305 poultry birds in Navapur tehsil of Nandurbar district in the last two days (Sunday and Monday). On Monday, 105,305 poultry birds were culled at four farms in Navapur to contain the spread. The culling process is started only after receiving a confirmation of bird flu from ICAR-NIHSAD – the central laboratory for bird flu testing. The culling is being done within a one-km radius of the poultry farm affected by the virus. This is the second time the state is dealing with bird flu in the last 15 years. In 2006, it was limited to Navapur, which was the epicentre of the disease in the Nandurbar district, but this time, the scenario is different. The zoonotic disease has spread to 45 epicentres covering 20 districts across the state. However, 41 epicentres have been issued sanitisation certificates, indicating they are free from the virus and consumption of poultry products has been allowed in these areas. These epicentres will continue to be monitored for the next three months, government officials said. Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Pune, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar, Yavatmal, Satara, Nagpur, Gadchiroli and Nandurbar are among the districts where bird flu deaths were confirmed by ICAR-NIHSAD. Apart from culling poultry birds, the state has also destroyed 44,686 eggs and 63,864kg of poultry from the infected zones. On Monday, the state reported a total of 6,126 bird deaths. Of them, 6,119 poultry birds have been found dead in the state alongside numerous herons, sparrows and parrots. Their samples have been sent to ICAR-NIHSAD and the Western Region Disease Diagnosis Laboratory (WRDDL) Pune, for testing. “Though it has spread to 20 districts, most of the areas where the outbreak was reported to have recorded no bird death in the last 20 days, which is a relief. It indicates that we have been able to control the virus in the respective areas,” said Sachindra Pratap Singh, state animal husbandry commissioner. Bird flu had heavily impacted the poultry business, with sales plummeting. Vasanth Kumar Shetty, Maharashtra president, poultry farmers and breeders association said that the sale of chicken has reduced by around 25%, which has brought big losses to the industry. “This virus doesn’t transmit to humans but owing to all the misconceptions and rumours, many people have stopped consuming chicken. This has resulted in a loss of sales by around 25%. As per a rough estimation, the industry has suffered a loss of ₹75 crore to ₹80 crore in a month in the state,” said Shetty. The state government has paid compensation of ₹340,600 to the poultry farmers in the infected zone, against culling of poultry birds and disposal of eggs and poultry feed. Shetty said that the compensation offered by the state government is very nominal. “Culling of poultry birds means farmers are going out of business and their livelihood is gone for over a year, which needs to be considered while determining compensation amount. The government is not giving even the basic cost against culling one poultry bird,” he said. Bird flu cases in NavapurNavapur is in picture again after around 5,000 poultry birds were found dead in the tehsil yet were not reported to the local administration despite frequent appeals from the state government, considering rise in bird flu deaths. On Monday, the district administration culled around 105,305 poultry birds while on Sunday 31,400 poultry birds were culled. Samples from four poultry farms tested positive for bird flu on Saturday.The state animal husbandry department said that it would have to cull approximately 150,000 poultry birds in the tehsil.Navapur, which is known from layer poultry farming, has some 26 such poultry farms. The tehsildar had received a complaint that a poultry farm was concealing the deaths of its poultry birds, following which the local administration took action and a first information report (FIR) was registered against the farm owner. It FIR was lodged under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animal Act, 2009, under which reporting unusual deaths in poultry birds is mandatory. “The poultry owner was told by a local veterinary that the deaths are because of ‘ranikhet’ [a contagious disease that causes death in poultry birds]. The police are investigating the matter now,” said Shetty, who was in Navapur to review the situation.The state government has set up 72 teams to complete the culling process in the area at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-struggles-with-bird-flu-over-209-606-poultry-birds-culled-101612810853362.html
09-02-2021||City||Madras High Court warns advocates against property grabbing||(PLAYBACK)The Madras High Court on Monday came down heavily on advocates indulging in illegal activities such as land grabbing. The court was hearing a writ petition against a group of people which included lawyers who tried to forcibly take over a property.“When it comes to the conduct of the advocates, there will be zero tolerance shown by this Court and this Court has to ensure that the activities of some of the advocates do not spoil the image of the entire profession,” justice Anand Venkatesh said.He observed that it was the third time in a month that it was brought to the court’s notice about “advocates indulging themselves in criminal activities by forming part of an unlawful assembly and making attempts to grab properties.”The court said that stringent action was taken in the past by suspending advocates when the issue was prevalent and it was subsequently brought under control. “It looks like the lockdown period (due to Covid-19) has again revived this despicable practice and once again some advocates are indulging in illegal activities of grabbing properties,” the court said, vowing to bring it under control again.The petitioner, PS Kirubakaran, had approached the court as police protection wasn’t given to the property due to the presence of advocates despite disruption in law and order. In its interim order on Monday, the court directed the respondent police authority in the case to provide protection to the property.The court said that advocates' participation was evident from photographs submitted and called for the advocates to be identified. “This report will form the basis for this Court to give a complaint before the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry against the concerned advocates,” the court stated. The matter for further orders has been posted to March 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/madras-high-court-warns-advocates-against-property-grabbing-101612810029718.html
09-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccination drive: 3 mn Mumbaiites will qualify for phase 3, says BMC||Close to three million Mumbaiites will qualify for phase three of the Covid-19 vaccination drive (meant for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities), the civic body’s door-to-door surveys for its My Family, My Responsibility drive have revealed. Depending on whether the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) does registrations on the centralised Cowin app or citizens themselves do it, it will take 15 days or longer for registration to be completed. So far, the BMC has vaccinated 82,884 healthcare and frontline workers. Vaccination of frontline workers, that is part of phase two of the drive, was started in Mumbai last Thursday, alongside the ongoing phase one of the drive. The second dose for beneficiaries of phase one will start from February 13, which marks 28 days from the time the drive started on January 16.The BMC on Monday vaccinated 7,133 beneficiaries and recorded a turnout of 83%. Among these, 4,502 were healthcare workers and 2,631 were frontline workers.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the municipal public health department, said on Sunday, “So far we have information about so many people who will qualify as beneficiaries in the third phase, as per data collected by the municipal corporation in the My Family, My Responsibility drive. However, we will have to see if all these people have the necessary documentation to register on the app, such as Aadhaar Card.”Local governments are still awaiting the Central government’s decision about whether to merge electoral data for phase three of the drive. If government bodies are allowed to register citizens for phase three, Mumbai will complete registration of these beneficiaries within 15 days. However, if citizens themselves are required to register on the Cowin app, it will take longer, according to BMC.Vaccination has now started across 21 centres in the city — King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper hospital and Sion Hospital, Bhabha at Bandra, V N Desai at Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital, Kandivali; the Covid facility at Bandra Kurla Complex, at NESCO at Goregaon, and at Dahisar, the state-run JJ Hospital in South Mumbai, the SevenHills hospital in Andheri, Maa hospital, Kasturba Hospital, Centenary Govandi Hospital, S.K. Hospital, BARC hospital, MW Desai hospital, Bhagwati Hospital, and VD Savarkar hospital.Mumbai on Monday recorded 399 new Covid-19 cases, and three deaths due to the infection, taking the total cases in the city to 312,280, and the toll to 11,395, with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.6%. Mumbai, presently, has 5,338 active cases, and a recovery rate of 94%. The doubling rate of cases in the city is 574 days, at a growth rate of 0.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-3-mn-mumbaiites-will-qualify-for-phase-3-says-bmc-101612809895867.html
09-02-2021||City||Odisha tribal couple insists on not giving abandoned baby girl back to state||A tribal couple in Odisha's Mayurbhanj district, who found an abandoned baby girl near their village and brought her home, has become a headache for the district officials who are at their wit's end trying to persuade them to hand over the baby.On Sunday, the Santhali tribal couple even gave a platoon of policemen a slip as the cops raided the village to rescue the baby girl.China Hembram (42), a mason of Bhalukachua village under Chikitamatia gram panchayat of Morada block in Mayurbhanj district, found the newborn girl lying abandoned in nearby Phulajhari forest on August 16, 2020. China and his wife Maina (32) had two sons - 5-year-old and 2-year-old- from their marriage and pined for a girl child. China's wife was overjoyed when he brought the baby home.However, when the local ASHA and Anganwadi workers got to know about the incident on September 2, they asked them to hand over the child before the Child Welfare Committee as per the procedure."When our ASHA and Anganwadi workers met the couple they said the did not have a girl child and thus have adopted her. But we told them to hand over the baby to us and then apply for adoption as per the Adoption Regulations 2017. She, however, was unwilling to be persuaded and said she will keep her come what may," said Mita Nayak, child development project officer of Morada block.Nayak said since September 2, the Anganwadi workers, ICDS supervisor as well as ASHA workers of the area made several visits to the couple's home trying to reason with them about the necessity to follow the adoption procedures. "As the couple don't have the financial resources and already have two children, we reasoned with them to not insist on keeping the girl. We told them that the child needs better resources to grow up to be a healthy child. The woman just kept on saying 'I won't give'," said Nayak.District child protection officer of Mayurbhanj, Mamatamayee Biswal said the couple was being instigated by other tribal people of the village. "They seem to be under some sort of a misconception that by keeping the baby girl, the couple would get some help from the government. The child has low body weight and needs vaccination. We are not sure of what kind of vaccination she has been given. The villagers are regularly misbehaving with our staff whenever we go to persuade the couple," said Biswal.Inspector of Morada police station, Kuni Besra said on Sunday, she had sent a platoon of police to rescue the baby girl from the couple. "But by the time our team could reach the village, the couple had fled home with their sons. However, I have managed to send a message to China Hembram to handover the baby girl tomorrow. We will wait for the couple," she said.Officials in charge of the adoption of children in Odisha said it takes a little more than two years for a child to be adopted. "The parents who wish to adopt a child are required to register online with the Central Adoption Resources Agency and upload the necessary documents. Once the registration is done, the parent can select a Specialised Adoption Agency for a home study that confirms the suitability of the parents for adopting a child. After they are found eligible and suitable, they are given referrals of children who are legally free for adoption," said Priyadarshi Das, programme manager of State Adoption Resource Agency.Between 2016 and 2020, there have been 775 adoptions in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-tribal-couple-insists-on-not-giving-abandoned-baby-girl-back-to-state-101612809214608.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||50-year-old man found stabbed to death, wife under police lens||A 50-year-old man was stabbed to death at his Patel Nagar home in the early hours of Monday, the police said. The man’s wife has alleged he was stabbed by a thief, a claim the police said was suspect.Senior police officers said a couple living in an adjacent room did not hear any commotion or screams of either the man, or his wife or two children, all of whom were sleeping in the same room. The wife’s role is now being probed, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said the police control room received a call at 2.30am, reporting that a man had been stabbed by a thief. A police team found the body of Shiv Kumar (50), on the bed with a stab wound to the neck. The caller was a security guard who claimed he was sleeping in the adjacent room when Kumar’s wife alerted them about the murder, Singh said.“Kumar’s wife claimed she was sleeping on the floor with her two children when a thief entered the house and stabbed her husband. The clothes from the cupboard were strewn on the floor. However, the guard next door heard no commotion,” he added.A case of murder was registered at the Patel Nagar police station and investigation teams have been formed. A forensic team also visited the crime scene and lifted evidence.“There are certain vital clues which the investigation has revealed and the teams are developing them. We will crack the case soon,” the DCP said.Police said Kumar worked as a manager in the office of his relative, who is into a business of vehicle spare parts. Kumar was also the caretaker of the building where he lived. The police have learnt that the woman is Kumar’s second wife and the couple have two children, aged 10 and five.“The elder child has also claimed that his father was killed by a thief. But there are discrepancies in the statements of the mother and son,” said a police officer associated with the investigation, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/50yearold-man-found-stabbed-to-death-wife-under-police-lens-101612808811592.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Man dupes Delhi CM's daughter of ₹34k on e-commerce platform||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter Harshita has allegedly been duped of ₹34,000 by a man, who approached her as a buyer on an e-commerce platform, where she had put up a sofa on sale, police said on Monday.An FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Civil Lines police station under north district of the Delhi Police on Sunday after a complaint was received in this regard, they said.According to the police, the victim had put up a sofa for sale on an e-commerce platform. She was approached by a man who showed interest in making the purchase. To check if the account details shared by her were correct, he initially transferred a minimal amount of money into her account.Subsequently, the man sent a QR code to the seller and asked her to scan it so that the amount fixed under the deal could be transferred to her account but instead, ₹20,000 got deducted from her account when she followed the instructions of the buyer, a senior police officer said.When she enquired about it, the man claimed that he had sent a wrong QR code by mistake and sent another link to her, asking her to follow the same procedure. But again an amount of ₹14,000 got deducted from the seller's account when she scanned the QR code, the officer said."Based on the complaint received, we have registered an FIR under the relevant sections of the IPC. An investigation has been initiated and we are trying to trace the suspect," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-dupes-delhi-cm-s-daughter-of-rs-34k-on-e-commerce-platform-101612804410689.html
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Allotment of land to Flipkart in Haryana’s Manesar hits a hurdle||The allotment of 140 acres to e-commerce company, Flipkart, in Gurugram’s Manesar by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has hit a hurdle.Flipkart was allotted a site in October last year at the warehousing and transport hub in Patli Hazipur, Manesar, close to the industrial hub of IMT, Manesar, for setting up its largest fulfilling centre in Asia, having covered an area of 3 million square feet.The land was allotted at ₹3.09 crore per acre at bare shell cost. This meant that the HSIIDC would not provide external or internal infrastructure for the site and creating it would be the responsibility of the allottee.The allotment was approved by the executive empowered committee under the chairmanship of the then principal secretary to chief minister, Rajesh Khullar.Allotment on hold after Dushyant’s interventionWhile Flipkart had deposited about ₹22 crore as earnest money, the allotment process was put on hold after deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds charge of industries and commerce portfolio, intervened to seek clarifications on the allotment price of ₹3.09 crore per acre.Subsequently, the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board (HEPB) had asked the corporation to put a few more warehousing sites for e-auction to explore the market.“The minister was of view that pricing for this land was low and the HSIIDC needs to dive deeper,’’ said an official. Dushyant was not available for a comment in this regard.Zero response to newly floated sites create dilemmaWhile last month the HSIIDC had put up four warehousing sites of comparatively smaller sizes for auction, officials said that there was zero response.The last date of registration and deposit of earnest money by the bidders was February 3. “If these sites had fetched a higher price, then the allotment price for Flipkart would also have been revised. But not a single bid was registered,’’ said an official.All four sites were advertised for auction at approximately the same reserve price as Flipkart’s. The sites though were way smaller – 7.47 acre, 8.44 acre, 16.68 acre and 25.29 acre - as compared to the site allotted to Flipkart.Officials said that for the past one year, the corporation has advertised the warehousing sites four times without any success.“The first time the allotment price was about ₹6 crore per acre. This included providing internal and external infrastructure by the HSIIDC. The second time the price was reduced to about ₹4 crore per acre, but this was without any commitment to provide internal infrastructure. The third time it was decided to further reduce the price to about ₹3.09 crore at bare shell cost. This meant that internal and external infrastructure will not be provided. And the latest floatation where no one responded was also on similar lines,’’ said an official.Officials said that the HEPB, headed by the CM, will have to decide on the future course of action since there is a deadlock now.Firms cite economic restraintsOfficials said that they had held multiple rounds of meetings with companies who would be interested in buying the warehousing sites, but they cited pricing as a major restraint. That’s why, they said, it was decided to sell these sites as bare shell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flipkart-land-allotment-hits-a-hurdle-101612801913072.html
