13-02-2021||Other||MU colleges in Mumbai will stay online till February 22||Two days before colleges were scheduled to reopen, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Saturday released a circular informing its affiliated colleges to continue online classes till February 22. MU in its latest circular said, “Based on our discussion with BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) officials, it is being clarified that colleges should not reopen for physical classes before February 22.”University officials said another circular will be thereafter released with confirmation from civic authorities to inform colleges about the reopening protocols. MU’s circular follows a letter by BMC denying MU’s request to reopen colleges from Monday. “We had a meeting with BMC officials on Friday and they shared their concerns. As trains services resumed for all citizens from February 1, BMC wants to first study if the restarting of locals for general public made any difference to the Covid-19 case count,” said Baliram Gaikwad, in-charge registrar, MU. He added that BMC has therefore asked to postpone college reopening by another week until further clarification. In February first week, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced the decision to reopen colleges from February 15 with 50% attendance on campus. On February 5, a circular by the university stated that the reopening of institutes will depend on the final call taken by the local civic authorities. “We’ve been working on sanitisation of the college for a while now and are ready to bring students back but not before we get an official word. As at least 30% of our students reside outside Mumbai (region), we need to be very sure before calling them back to the city,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate. He added that contradictory circulars from different authorities are not helping the students who are already anxious. “We will wait for an official word on reopening before announcing about it,” he said. A senior BMC official said the decision on reopening colleges will entirely depend on Covid-19 cases recorded in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) over the next one week. “We have to ensure that restarting of locals for all does not bring a spike in cases. Only after that can we allow reopening of colleges. Students, too, would have to travel by train, and we need to take all necessary precautions before allowing colleges to reopen,” said the official. Meanwhile, MU-affiliated colleges in Raigad and Palghar will begin physical classes from Monday. “Civic bodies in Raigad and Palghar have given the go-ahead for colleges to reopen. The civic body in Mumbai is being cautious, but we agree with their decision,” said a senior official from the University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mu-colleges-in-mumbai-will-stay-online-till-february-22-101613240074900.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CM Thackeray makes 2nd visit to MTHL, 35% works completed||A year after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made his first visit to the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) project site, Thackeray visited the work again on Saturday to see the progress. According to officials, Thackeray appreciated the works being undertaken even during the pandemic. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing the 22km MTHL connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, has completed 35.29% of the overall works on the sea link. Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister, who also visited the site on Saturday tweeted, “This is India’s longest bridge and longest sea bridge. The @MMRDAOfficial is committed to complete it by 2023 mid. We are ensuring they have no hurdles in its completion.” MMRDA had earlier estimated the project to be completed by September 2022, however, officials said that the project faced delays owing to the pandemic. The 3+3 lane project starts from Sewri in Mumbai and lands at Nhava Sheva in Navi Mumbai with interchanges at Sewri, Shivaji Nagar and Chirle. Of the 22km, 16.5km will be constructed on the sea. The entire corridor is divided into three packages and the project is being funded by the Japanese International Co-operation Agency (JICA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cm-thackeray-makes-2nd-visit-to-mthl-35-works-completed-101613239714160.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: It’s mission Vidarbha for Shiv Sena and NCP||Considered a stronghold of national parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress, Vidarbha is likely to witness a political battle soon, as the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) look to expand their base in the region that sees 62 MLAs and 10 MPs. Traditionally, the Congress and BJP have held sway over Vidarbha. The national parties kept a chunk of the seats in the alliance during the elections, stunting the growth of regional parties. Once a citadel of the Congress, the BJP, however, made significant gains in the vast region— spread over two revenue divisions of Nagpur and Amravati and 11 districts– over two decades. It swept the region in the 2014 Lok Sabha as well as Assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. However, in the 2019 Assembly election, the BJP’s numbers came down to 29 from 44.The Congress-NCP together got 21 seats, a gain of 10 seats. The NCP alone increased its tally from one to six. With the altering political dynamic in the face of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi—alliance of the Sena, NCP and Congress—the region has been has become a point of focus for two regional parties. Sena attack In the past two months, Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray has made visits to the region, while NCP state president Jayant Patil, too, has toured Vidarbha. The Shiv Sena is focused on gaining foothold in western Vidarbha, covering districts of Nagpur, Yavatmal, Amravati, Wardha, Washim and Akola. A Shiv Sena functionary from Vidarbha said the party’s target is to win at least 15 of the 30 Assembly seats in western Vidarbha. Arvind Nerkar, Vidarbha’s sampark pramukh for Sena in western Vidarbha, said the Sena has admitted that it ignored the region in the alliance. “In the 2019 election, the Shiv Sena got only 12 seats, that too the ones we didn’t want. The BJP tried to defeat us in these seats, as it did not want us to grow,” Nerkar said. He added the Sena’s performance in the gram panchayat elections in the region has given a boost to the organisation. “Of the 2,450-odd gram panchayats, we have won 700-750. We will have our sarpanch in another 200 gram panchayats too. This is the best performance of the party in these village elections,” Nerkar said. The Shiv Sena’s attention to Vidarbha also comes as a reaction to the BJP’s thrust on the coastal Konkan region, which is seen as the Shiv Sena’s stronghold. Last week, senior BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah visited Sindhudurg in Konkan and also addressed a public meeting organised by ex-chief minister Narayan Rane, a former Shiv Sena leader. So far, the BJP was limited to a few pockets, but as the Sena is not its ally, the party is eyeing the coastal area, even as Sena is wooing it with a slew of projects, including boost to tourism, pushing industry, and improving road connectivity. Even before the 2019 elections, it inducted Rane into its fold. Despite the Sena’s objections, the party fielded Rane’s son Nitesh in Assembly elections. NCP’s strategy Two weeks ago, Patil started touring Vidarbha and Khandesh or north Maharashtra. The NCP is eyeing growing in eastern Vidarbha districts of Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Bhandara and Gondia, covering 15 Assembly constituencies. “We have had MLAs from Gadchiroli, Bhandara Gondia, Wardha, Buldhana and Nagpur. But in an alliance with the Congress, we got fewer seats. The party has enough organisational presence in the region. All political parties have the right to strengthen their bases. The Shiv Sena is also doing so. Wherever the party is weak, the organisation is working towards strengthening it,” NCP minister and spokesperson Nawab Malik said. He said the party will see inflow of former MPs and MLAs in the coming days. Former Congress leader Abha Pande from Nagpur is expected to join the NCP soon. Region watch The once-simmering Vidarbha statehood movement appears to have lost steam as all major political parties have sidestepped the issue, leaving only a bunch of small local parties to adopt the cause. The Shiv Sena and NCP have been against the division of the state, the Congress on the fence, while the BJP, which campaigned for statehood for the region in 2013-14, too, has kept it on the backburner. Dr Srinivas Khandewale, economist and political analyst from Nagpur, said, “The 2019 election has showed the BJP’s presence has weakened in the region. Devendra Fadnavis’s winning margin reduced in 2019 [compared to 2014]. The Congress’s leadership in the region is zero. [Former Maharashtra Congress chief] Balasaheb Thorat never visited Nagpur. We need to see what Patole does.” “The region has been neglected by those in power for over 60 years. The youth are tired of their false promises. The Congress base went to the BJP over the past two decades. After becoming the CM why would Devendra Fadnavis speak of a separate small state? The BJP’s base too is shaky now,” said Khandewale, who is also the core committee member of the Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti. BJP, Cong speak Former state minister and state BJP president Sudhir Mungantiwar said regional parties are unlikely to become major players in Vidarbha. “They are unlikely to get electoral success, as their actions have not matched their ambition. The region has been neglected. The BJP lost some seats in 2019, most of which went to the Congress. Both the parties (Sena and NCP) can try expanding, there is no harm in dreaming,” said Mungantiwar, who represents Ballarpur assembly seat from Vidarbha’s Chandrapur district.Newly elected Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said the MVA allies are united. “The Congress has traditionally held sway in Vidarbha region. If not BJP, the alternative for the people is going to be the Congress [in Vidarbha]. The Congress has gained seats in 2019 elections here,” Patole, who represents Sakoli Assembly seat from Vidarbha’s Bhandara district, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-it-s-mission-vidarbha-for-shiv-sena-and-ncp-101613239474025.html
13-02-2021||City||'Sheer abuse of law': Jammu HC quashes FIR against Kargil Congress councillor||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Thursday quashed a sedition case filed against Councillor of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Kargil, (LAHDC-K), Zakir Hussain, for his comments on the Indian Army following clashes with People’s Liberation Army of China at Galwan Valley in Ladakh last year.Justice Sanjeev Kumar of J-K High Court, Srinagar Wing, quashed the FIR against Hussain. He was booked by the police after his “highly objectionable” audio clip, mocking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian Army in the wake of the recent face-off between India and China, went viral on social media.While quashing the FIR, Justice Sanjeev Kumar observed that that the offences charged against the petitioner are not made out and, therefore, the registration of FIR, which has culminated into the filing of the final police report without previous sanction from the competent authority before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Kargil, is sheer abuse of the process of law.Also read: 2 years of Pulwama terror attack - The day when India lost 40 CRPF men﻿“This Court, therefore, finds it a fit case to invoke its inherent powers vested by Section 482 CrPC and quash all the criminal proceedings pending against the petitioner including the impugned FIR with regard to the audio clip, which allegedly contains a conversation between the petitioner and one Nissar Ahmed Khan,” Justice Kumar observed.On June 18 last year, the Kargil police received information through reliable sources that an audio clip containing objectionable conversation, demeaning the armed forces, in the backdrop of clashes between Indian Army and armed forces of China that took place in Galwan Valley of Ladakh region, has gone viral on social media.Taking cognisance of the information received, the police registered the subject FIR and set the investigation into motion. During the investigation, it was established that the audio clip of 6.3 minutes duration that had gone viral on social media contained a conversation between the petitioner and one Nissar Ahmad Khan.The Court ruled that to make out the offence of sedition, it is necessary to demonstrate that alleged acts have the tendency or intention to create public disorder or disturb public peace.Justice Sanjeev Kumar ruled that the controversial comments made by Hussain, though unsavoury and detestable, did not constitute sedition under Section 124A, the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or attract the offences under Sections 153-A, 153-B, 505(2) and 120-B of the IPC."Undoubtedly, in the conversation, the petitioner has demeaned the Indian Forces and eulogized the armed forces of China in the context of recent Galwan valley conflict between the two nations. It is equally true that the conversation contained in the audio clip, which was circulated on the social media by the co-accused Nissar Ahmed Khan, does bring into contempt the government established by law in India, but unless the conversation has the tendency or intention of creating public disorder or disturbance of public peace by incitement to an offence, the same would not be sedition to attract the applicability of Section 124A or for that matter Section 153A or 153B IPC” the Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sheer-abuse-of-law-jammu-hc-quashes-fir-against-kargil-congress-councillor-101613238553629.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||DU College cancels lecture related to Singhu border, college cites technical problems||Academic-activist Sumial Singh Sidhu has alleged that a lecture titled ‘Baba Farid to Singhu border: The Making of Punjabi Radical Tradition’ was cancelled in the last minute by the administration of Delhi University’s Ramanujan College.Singh, a Punjab based scholar and historian from Bhatinda, said the online lecture organised by the History department of the college was scheduled on Thursday evening. “I was informed only 10-15 minutes before the lecture time of 5pm that it had been cancelled. I was told that the authorities had some issues with the title of the lecture,” he said. Singh said that the title was decided in order to summarise the history of Punjabi protest culture. “The college authorities had an issue with the use of ‘Singhu border’ in the title and abruptly cancelled the talk after succumbing to political pressure. The lecture would focus on the rich Punjabi protest culture — starting from the 13th century to the 21st century. It was all about the history and it would have helped the students,” he said.Singhu border is the epicentre of the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three new farm laws on the borders of the national capital. The farmers are also protesting at the Tikri and the Ghazipur borders. When contacted Ramanujan college principal SP Agarwal said, “The lecture was cancelled because of some technical problems. We did not cancel it due to its title or content. We always encourage researchers and scholars to come and deliver lectures for our students. I will discuss this issue with the concerned department and we will reschedule it whenever possible.”Responding to which Singh said, “If there was really a technical error, the college would have informed me and others waiting to join the lecture after 5pm and not 10-15 minutes before it.”Several faculty members in the university too criticised the college administration for cancelling the lecture. Naveen Gaur, an associate professor in Dyal Singh College, said, “This is indicative of the unease of college administration about discussing any issue that could be contrary to the government’s position. This is exactly opposite to what an academic institution should do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-college-cancels-lecture-related-to-singhu-border-college-cites-technical-problems-101613238695429.html
13-02-2021||Other||AAP slams SDMC move to hike councillors’ local area funds; BJP says increase will cut red-tape||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for increasing councillors’ local area development funds at a time the civic bodies are short of funds. Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s municipal affairs in-charge, said, “On one hand, the BJP claims they have no money to pay the salaries of MCD employees, but on the other, the SDMC has increased the councillor fund from ₹50 lakh to ₹1 crore along with an extra allocation of ₹50 lakh from the chairperson and vice-chairperson. “In the last one year, the BJP’s motto has been only to loot as much as possible from the MCDs. The AAP demands immediate rollback of this inhuman scheme,” he said. He said the Kejriwal government has given ₹1,095 crore to the MCD to pay their employees, but alleged that the salaries have still not been disbursed. However, the BJP said the hike in funds would minimise bureaucratic delays.“One finds it surprising to see the AAP objecting, as councillors of the BJP, the AAP and Congress can instantly give funds for work in their wards without red-tapism. This will also help councillors meet RWAs’ requests,” said Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-slams-sdmc-move-to-hike-councillors-local-area-funds-bjp-says-increase-will-cut-redtape-101613238694930.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||630 EV registered in city since launch of campaign: Govt||The Delhi government on Saturday said 630 electric vehicles (EVs) were registered in the Capital since the launch of the Switch Delhi campaign last week.The eight-week campaign aims at sensitising residents on the benefits of switching to an EV. It is part of the state government’s EV policy, launched in last year, that includes setting up 500 charging points across the city.“Analysis by RMI India (a private organisation) reveals that subsidies provided on electric two-wheelers under the policy made the upfront purchase comparable in price to top selling petrol two-wheelers. But the real saving is in the operating cost,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.He said an electric two-wheeler could save a person monthly ₹1,850 compared to a petrol scooter and ₹1,650 compared to a petrol motorcycle. “An average electric two-wheeler provides a lifetime saving of 1.98 tonnes of carbon emissions... (the equivalent of ) roughly 11 trees. We can save our environment by making this switch and we owe this to our future generations,” Gahlot said. The minister also released statements from leading automakers.Bajaj Auto MD Rajiv Bajaj, read the release, said the policy inspired the company to accelerate its plan to scale up their electric Chetak as also to introduce the electric avatars its three-wheelers.Electric vehicle company Ather Energy co-founder and CEO Tarun Mehta is quoted as saying, “We have seen great response across launch markets for the Ather 450X and we will open our experience centre, Ather Space in Delhi in the next few weeks.” Gahlot said many other EV two-wheeler companies had launched several vehicle models in Delhi.Jitendar Kumar, a security guard who bought an electric two-wheeler and availed the government subsidy said his e-bike functions smoothly and efficiently.“I have been able to cut short my fuel expenses since I purchased my EV. My monthly salary is ₹10,000 and I used to spend a lot of money on petrol. Now, I have been able to save around ₹3500 monthly that I used. This has helped me in managing my other expenses,” Kumar said.Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL), a newly established 100% subsidiary of state-owned Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), said its EVs in Delhi clocked 20 million kilometres on Saturday. In a statement, the company said that it saved around ₹8.6 crore and prevented the emission of 3,573-tonne of carbon.“(It) also contributes to 133,000 litres saving in fuel consumption. A total of 565 CESL EVs are running in the national capital... There has been a rise of more than 140% YoY in sales of electric cars that shows the gradual acceptance of the technology among the climate conscious,” CESL said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/630-ev-registered-in-city-since-launch-of-campaign-govt-101613238693168.html
13-02-2021||Kolkata||TMC to counter BJP’s Rath Yatras with ‘Didir Doot’ tableaus in poll-bound Bengal||In a bid to counter the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Parivartan Rath Yatras, a grand pre-election roadshow in poll-bound West Bengal, the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) launched tableaus named ‘Didir Doot’ (messengers of Didi), as part of its outreach program before the state goes to polls in March-April this year.TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who happens to be the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, flagged off the first 'Didir Doot' tableau on Saturday during a roadshow in south Bengal.“TMC leaders would be using the 'Didir Doot' vehicles during their campaign to connect with the people,” said a TMC leader.Trinamool Congress supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday attacked the BJP’s Rath Yatras saying that they were disrespecting Hindu Gods and Goddesses and that raths were meant for Gods.Also read: 2 years of Pulwama terror attack - The day when India lost 40 CRPF menThe BJP has, however, hit out saying that copying the Rath Yatra won’t help the TMC in any way.“Now they are copying the Rath Yatra in the form of Didir Doot. It won’t help. MPs and MLAs are deserting the party. The TMC will lose this time,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state president.The BJP has already launched four Rath Yatras, which are presently moving through various constituencies of West Bengal. The fifth Rath Yatra is expected to be launched later this month. While the first three were launched by BJP president JP Nadda, the fourth one was flagged off by Union home minister Amit Shah.Abhishek Banerjee sharpened the ‘outsider’ charge against the BJP on Saturday saying, “Spitting gutka won’t be able to damage the iron of Bengal.”He also said, “They (BJP) are bringing in 500 leaders from various states and the centre to camp in West Bengal. They are saying that there would be the same government in the state and at the centre and that there would be a double-engine government. I would tell them to fight Mamata Banerjee’s single-engine first,” said Abhishek Banerjee.The BJP lashed out saying that the one-engine of the TMC is that of corruption which the BJP would remove with its two engines of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-to-counter-bjp-s-rath-yatras-with-didir-doot-tableaus-in-poll-bound-bengal-101613237355210.html
13-02-2021||Noida||Jeweller duo robbed at gunpoint, jewellery worth ₹15 lakh taken away||Three unidentified motorcycle-borne armed men on Friday night allegedly robbed jewellers of gold and silver items near Ghookhna Morh area on the Delhi Meerut Road. The robbed goods valued at around ₹15-20 lakh, said police. The cops said that they had registered an FIR for robbery and that teams were on the case to trace the suspects. At 8pm, jeweller Raju Shishodia said he and his brother Amit had closed their shop for the day and were heading home barely 300 metres away when the incident happened. “As soon as we reached the main gate of our house, and still on our vehicle, three men who were masked arrived and pointed pistols at us. Soon, they started snatching the bag containing the jewellery and there was a brief scuffle. At this, two of the opened fire and fire two shots to scare us. One of them later pointed a pistol at my brother and told me to give away the bag or he will open fire,” said Raju Shishodia, one of the two victims. He said that all the men were masked and in age group 20-25 years. “Once he pointed the gun, we had no option to give away the bag. He also opened fire which just passed at some distance. Then, they snatched the bag and fled. We then tried to chase them, but they disappeared in small by lanes. Thereafter, we called up the police,” Shishodia said while adding that their shop is in place for past 20 years and each day, they take the jewellery to their house from their shop after closure. He said that the estimated loss was about ₹15-20 lakh and more valuation will be taken up. The cops said formed teams to trace the suspect robbers. “We have registered an FIR under IPC section of robbery and the victims were free to give additional statements if they were fired upon during the incident. We will add appropriate sections to the FIR. We have sought valuation from the duo. Meanwhile, we have deputed teams to trace the suspects,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jeweller-duo-robbed-at-gunpoint-jewellery-worth-15-lakh-taken-away-101613237733149.html
13-02-2021||Noida||Very dense fog warning, air quality worsens as smog engulfs Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida: The city and adjoining areas are likely to witness very dense fog for the next two days, which will bring the visibility down to less than 50 metres, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned on Saturday. Also, the air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad worsened further on Saturday as a thick layer of smog engulfed the region. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), both the cities continued to be the most polluted in the country – a third over the past five days.According to the weather department, while the wind directions are westerly and north-westerly – dry and cold – the low wind speed that goes almost nil during the morning hours is leading to fog. “The region will see very dense fog for the next two days, which will bring down the visibility to less than 50 metres. The morning hours from 4am to 9am is the time of highest probability of the very dense fog in the region,” said an official at IMD. According to IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures are around the season’s average. On Saturday, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida was recorded at 26.6 degrees Celsius and 13.2 degrees Celsius, respectively. While the entire region remained engulfed by a layer of smog, Ghaziabad’s air quality slipped into ‘severe’ category again, being the top polluted city of the country, followed by Noida as the second most polluted city. With the weather conditions likely to remain the same for the next 48 hours, the pollution monitoring agencies see no major change in the pollution levels. According to the weather analysts, with no wind to ventilate off the particle pollutants, the fog layer thickens during the morning hours and leaves smog – mixture of pollutants and moisture – for the rest of the day. “The wind speed in the NCR is very low while the emissions are constant. Since the ventilation conditions are so poor, the particles cannot disperse, and they mix with the fog creating smog through the day. This condition may persist for a couple of days,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency. According to CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was 386 against 363 a day earlier, both under ‘very poor’ category and second most polluted city on both days. However, Ghaziabad’s air on Saturday again entered ‘severe’ zone with an AQI of 401 against 375 a day earlier – the most polluted city in the country just like on February 9 and 10 and 12. The AQI of Greater Noida was 363 against 352 a day earlier. AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve after February 15. “Surface winds are low. The ventilation is likely to stay in the same range and no significant change in AQI is expecting for the next couple of days. AQI is likely to stay in the very poor category for tomorrow. AQI likely to marginally improve to lower end of very poor to poor category is forecasted for February 15 and 16,” said a SAFAR statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/very-dense-fog-warning-air-quality-worsens-as-smog-engulfs-noida-ghaziabad-101613237673170.html
13-02-2021||Noida||12 passengers injured in vehicle pile-up on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: As many as 12 passengers of a private bus were injured in a six-vehicle pile-up on the Yamuna Expressway on Saturday morning due to dense fog.According to police officials, the pile-up took place when vehicles crashed into a stationary truck at about 11km from the zero point under the Dankaur police jurisdiction. The incident was reported around 7am when a call was made to police helpline by a passenger. “The truck, which was parked in the second lane of the expressway, was undergoing repairs. Due to the heavy fog and reduced visibility, a private double decker bus first crashed into the truck followed by an SUV, a car, another SUV and one more bus, which caused a pile-up on the expressway,” said Firoz Khan, senior sub-inspector, Dankaur police station.He said that the private bus was travelling from Lucknow to Delhi and all the 12 people who sustained injuries were its passengers.“Injuries of two passengers were minor and they were discharged after receiving first aid. The others are currently undergoing treatment at two separate hospitals, but they are out of danger,” said Khan.Police said that so far no complaint has been filed in the matter, but due action will be taken if a case is registered.The pile-up created traffic congestion on the Yamuna Expressway which was cleared within an hour, said police.On January 16, four people had sustained injuries in a vehicle pile-up on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway under the Kasna police jurisdiction due to low visibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12-passengers-injured-in-vehicle-pile-up-on-yamuna-expressway-101613237253707.html
13-02-2021||Noida||Man dies due to electrocution during fight with neighbour||Greater Noida: A 32-year-old man died allegedly due to electrocution Friday night during an argument with a neighbour of his, in an area under the Rabupura police jurisdiction.The victim, Shamshad, was a resident of Kherli Bhav village in Greater Noida’s Rabupura. According to the police, the suspects in the case were allegedly known to the victim.“From what information has been gathered yet, Shamshad along with a few neighbours went out on Friday evening. They were under the influence of alcohol when the victim had an argument with one of the suspects.The reason of the argument is unclear, though it seems to be a petty issue,” said Dinesh Kumar Yadav, station house officer, Rabupura police station.He said following the argument, Shamshad came back home but the suspects allegedly accosted him there. Police said there allegedly was an argument followed by an assault.“During the skirmish, the victim’s wife and toddler were also hurt. When the suspect was beating Shamshad, he accidentally fell onto a heavy power line of 11,000 Volts passing just above the main gate of the rented accommodation where he lived with his family,” said the SHO.Police officials said that the victim died on the spot while the suspects allegedly fled from there. The family was taken by neighbours to a hospital in the Dankaur area. A police team rushed there after a call was made to the helpline (112).“The wife and son are doing better. They sustained minor injuries. Meanwhile, we have registered a case against the suspects and a search is on for them. They are neighbours of the victim and they all worked together as daily wage earners,” said Yadav.The suspects were booked under sections 304 (Causing death by negligence), 452 (trespass), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The body was sent for an autopsy after which it will be handed over to the family, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-dies-due-to-electrocution-during-fight-with-neighbour-101613237253089.html
13-02-2021||Noida||Farmer unions call on people to not vote for BJP till demands met||For the first time, farmer union leaders on Saturday called on people gathered at the UP Gate anti-farm law protest site to not vote for the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) in any election till their demands were met. This assumes significance with local body elections scheduled for March in Uttar Pradesh and assembly elections in the state and Uttarakhand next year. Both states have a BJP government. The farmer leaders announced their intention under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of more than 40 farmer unions, many of which are influential. “We will not fight with the police or administration officers. The people of the BJP have attacked us in order to disrupt our agitation. If these BJP people come to your village or in neighbourhood villages and hold rallies or come to seek votes, then you should give them same treatment what they dished out to us,” Haryana Bharaitya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni told the gathering at the UP Gate on Saturday. He said that people should that vote for anyone who did not support the farmers’ agitation, from panchayat to parliamentary elections. “We agitate only when it becomes unavoidable. Now, that you have started the agitation and you should defeat the BJP in such a manner that the next one who comes to power should consider your demands beforehand,” said Chaduni. Other prominent farmer leaders Darshan Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal along with Bhrataiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait were also present at the dais. They did not contest Chaduni’s statements. The farmers leaders also spoke on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s use of the term “andolanjeevi” in the Parliament on January 8. “We are fighting for our demands, but we never heard the government use such words for us. You heard the PM earlier calling us “annadatta (food giver)”, but now he described us with words like “andolanjeevi” and “parjeevi (parasite)”. A framer who grows crops and feed people has now become a parjeevi,” Rajewal told the gathering. He said that the words left a lasting scar on farmers. “If any BJP leader or worker comes to you, you should remember these words,” Rajewal said. The Prime Minister had used the word “andolanjeevi” in his reply to the motion of thanks on the President’s Address in the Rajya Sabha.“I have noticed that for some time, a new jamaat has been born; a new community has come forward. That is andolanjeevi (those who live off protests). If there is a lawyers’ protest, they are seen there; if there is a students’ agitation, they will be seen there; if there is a protest by labourers, they will be seen there...” the PM had said. Two days later, he clarified his remarks in the Lok Sabha. He said that the farmers’ protest was sacred but had been hijacked by andolanjivis who demonstrated with pictures of those jailed for terrorism. BJP leaders from UP said that the people would remain with them. “Everyone saw what happened at Red Fort on Republic Day. Farmers’ agitation is pavitra (sacred) for us but this was not the farmers’ agitation. The PM has already kept all facts about the new laws in both the Houses. In UP, the entire opposition was defeated in 2019 and now they are trying for 2022. In fact people who are politically reduced to naught are the andolanjeevis and now, when they were exposed, are upset about it,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and state secretary of BJP – UP. “The workers of the BJP always remain with people. The government has brought in the farm laws keeping in mind benefit of farmers and common man. The farmers in UP trust the PM and with him.”The farmers have been camping at the UP Gate protest site since November 28, 2020 and demanding the repeal of three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. Their several rounds of talks with government have failed to break the deadlock and presently the farmers’ leaders are holding ‘Panchayats’ in different states and areas near Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmer-unions-call-on-people-to-not-vote-for-bjp-till-demands-met-101613237133644.html
13-02-2021||Noida||Be prepared to march on foot to Delhi, farmer leaders tell supporters||Ghaziabad: Farmers’ leaders on Saturday said they are mentally preparing people for a march on foot to Delhi in the future if the government does not accept their demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). Darshan Pal, a senior farmer leader from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said that there were many panchayats being held in states near Delhi.“Lakhs of people who are attending the panchayats are being readied mentally for the day when we give a call (for the march). People will come from different areas and villages and they will come afoot to Delhi. You will have to walk to Delhi when a call is given by the Samyukt kisan Morcha. We will fight and offer any sacrifice,” Pal added. The move comes after incidents of violence were reported during the tractor rally undertaken in Delhi by farmers on Republic Day. Since then, there have been no discussions or talks held between farmers’ leaders and the government over their demands. The last time the two parties held talks was on January 22. ‘FULLY PREPARED FOR SUMMER’The farmers’ leaders on Saturday reiterated their demands and said that the summer season will have no impact on the ongoing agitation or the strength of the gathering at the UP Gate.“I have told leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha that there is no shortfall in numbers at UP Gate and we are fully prepared to continue protesting during the summers. Diesel will not come from the market but people will bring it like they brought water for me,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait.“In the summer, we will bring in generators of 200 kilowatt and will run coolers and air conditioners. It is not just people in the national Capital which can sleep peacefully in ACs but we will prepare large halls here where farmers will also sleep in ACs. They say that we are stealing electricity here. But we have told the government to give us commercial electricity connections and we will pay for it,” he added. He said a questionnaire will be prepared and that people should seek replies to it from “them” if “they” come to seek votes. “We are ready for talks but the government should speak to us. We will be holding 15 meetings (panchayats) in one month and will set the government right. We have tied them up with protest sites at the (Delhi) borders. If they come to seek votes, you should ask them whether their MPs/MLAs have given up their pensions and also what they did to support the agitation in Delhi. We will prepare the questionnaire soon,” Tikait added.GANDHI’S GRANDDAUGHTER LENDS SUPPORT TO FARMERSOn Saturday, the farmers at the UP Gate were joined by Mahatma Gandhi’s granddaughter Tara Gandhi Bhattacharya.Bhattacharya, 87, spoke to farmers from the dais, saying she is not representing any political party there. “I have come to meet the farmers. I want to tell them that we are alive just because of them. I don’t understand politics. Please consider me as one of you. I have come here to offer prayers and the truth should win. You should prosper. I would also like to tell all of you to remove mann ki hinsa (feeling of any violence/hatred in heart) as it pollutes the ambiance. You have so much truth in yourself that you don’t need any language of violence,” Bhattacharya told farmers. Before the arrival of farmers’ leaders at UP Gate, a group of local residents under the banner of ‘Ghaziabad Utthan Samiti’ staged a sit-in near the protest site, demanding that the National Highway 9, which is blocked due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, be opened up.“We staged a sit-in and later vacated the site after submitting a memorandum to officials. Thousands of people are affected daily by this agitation and many of these so-called farmers. They are here for over 70 days and are blocking our highway. We want to get it vacated. In case our demand is not met, we will come here in large numbers next week and start our peaceful protest,” said Dr Ashutosh Gupta, an assistant professor with Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/be-prepared-to-march-on-foot-to-delhi-farmer-leaders-tell-supporters-101613237133121.html
13-02-2021||Other||Valentine’s Day: Celebrating love through poetry, ghazals and music||PUNE This Valentine’s Day, many youngsters are geared to celebrate the many forms and shades of love through poetry, ghazals and music. After Covid restrictions have been lifted, Valentine’s Day celebrations cultural and artiste groups have prepared themselves to uncover the various colours of love through art, poetry and music. Kalasangini group has organised an evening full of poetic expressions of love and decoding its various forms. “Poets and artistes will be coming together on a platform to celebrate love. We want to highlight the complexities of love. Mostly romantic love is highlighted through popular media forms and it talked about a lot. But, there are many shades. This programme will also be an artistic perspective,” said Pravin Khunte, coordinator for the program me “Prem Jalasa”. A group of youngsters have also planned a musical evening on Valentine’s Day. “We have poets, musicians and singers in our group. We have prepared a full-fledged programme based on the Valentine’s Day. We have also incorporated some Bollywood hits. It is our second year for this show,” said Aditya Mahajan, organiser of the programme “Yamak Vagare” which will take place at the SM Joshi hall. This year the ‘Right to Love’, a Valentine’s Day special programme will also have a poetic and musical theme. “We have had special guests and speeches in previous years. This year we want to cross barriers as love also doesn’t know any boundaries. We are going to exhibit the popular love poems from our regional languages such as Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam, and Bengali, with translations. Musicians will also perform on the theme of love and we will pay special tribute to legendary literary figure, Amruta Pritam,” said Abhijit Kambale, organiser of the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/valentines-day-celebrating-love-through-poetry-ghazals-and-music-101613236413037.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi records no deaths from Covid-19 in last 24 hours, second time this month||Delhi has reported 126 new Covid-19 cases and 138 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Delhi Health Department said the total count of cases has gone up to 6,36,796. The number of active cases stands at 1,041.The death toll remains at 10,889 with no new death reported in the last 24 hours due to Covid-19. The total recoveries have gone up to 6,24,866.As many as 12,143 new Covid-19 cases and 11,395 discharges were reported in India in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed on Saturday.With this, the total number of cases in the country has reached 1,08,92,746 including 1,36,571 active cases and 1,06,00,625 discharges.The death toll has mounted to 1,55,550 with the loss of 103 lives due to the virus in the last 24 hours. According to the Health Ministry, around 79,67,647 people have been vaccinated in the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-zero-death-from-covid-19-in-last-24-hours-second-time-this-month-101613235517632.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||ED questions actor Sachin Joshi in connection with Omkar Developer PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday questioned businessman and Bollywood actor Sachin Joshi in connection with the alleged money laundering case linked to the city’s prominent developer Omkar Developers. The questioning continued till late in the night. Sources said that ED officers questioned the actor regarding suspicious money transactions. However, the anti-money laundering agency did not share details of Joshi’s questioning or his role, if any, in the case.Recently, the income-tax officials had raided Joshi’s house in Mumbai, however, the agency did not reveal the details of its ongoing probe.Joshi, son of gutkha baron JM Joshi, was also in news for buying fugitive offender Vijaya Mallya’s Kingfisher Villa for ₹73.01 crore.Previously promoters of Omkar Group Babulal Varma, 50 and Kamal Kishore Gupta, 62, were arrested on January 27 under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). Omkar Group’s spokesperson had claimed that the Omkar Group is not in violation of any lending norms and slum approvals.ED probe has so far revealed that Omkar Group took huge loans on a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project and later diverted the loans to the tune of ₹410 crores and did not use for intended purposes.No work on SRA building was undertaken by the developer. The requisite rules and procedures under SRA were ignored by the accused and documents relating to names of slum-dwellers were forged to claim more FSI for mortgaging the same with banks for taking the loans, ED had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-questions-actor-sachin-joshi-in-connection-with-omkar-developer-pmla-case-101613234852839.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price rise: Transporters body threatens to suspend services, gives 14 days ultimatum||With the constant increase in fuel prices, transporters on Saturday have given a 14 days ultimatum to the government. They have threatened to completely suspend the transport vehicles across the country if their demands are not met.The decision was taken after a governing council meeting of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on Saturday.Meanwhile, the fuel prices soared for the fifth consecutive day, on Saturday. The price of one litre of petrol is now ₹94.93, while one litre of diesel is ₹85.70.The transporters’ body has demanded uniformity in the fuel prices across the country, reduction in excise duty that leads to reduced prices of fuel and monthly or quarterly hike in fuel prices.“Small transport operators are not able to survive in the market. We are giving an ultimatum to the government. If the demands are not met in 14 days, an urgent meeting will be called and we will declare a complete suspension of transport services across the country,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.Petrol on Friday was available at ₹94.64 for a litre and one litre of diesel was priced at ₹85.32 in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-rise-transporters-body-threatens-to-suspend-services-gives-14-days-ultimatum-101613234078324.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Fake social media account of Maharashtra IPS officer created to extort money||A senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from Maharashtra is the latest victim of fake Facebook profile con.An unidentified cyber fraudster on Friday created a fake Facebook profile of Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general, anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Maharashtra, and tried to extract money from the people on his friend list.Many friends, relatives, policemen, journalists and other people on Choubey’s friend list received a friend request from the fake account. The account had Choubey’s same profile picture which his original account has.The fraudster then sent messages to those who accepted his friend requests, asking them to help him financially. He requested a journalist to urgently send him ₹20,000 claiming wife of one of his friends was serious. “Since I knew the senior officer well, I immediately informed him about the cyber con,” said the journalist. Meanwhile, the senior officer started receiving phone calls and messages from other friends too about the fake Facebook account, the police said. Chaubey, an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, reported the matter to the cyber police who took down the fake account and launched an investigation.Chaubey tweeted, “Someone has created a fake FB account with my name and photograph. He is sending friend requests from this fake account with some ulterior motives. Please don’t accept any such friend request. The concerned authorities have been informed and they are taking appropriate action.”“The cyber police are taking action and also investigating the matter,” Choubey said.In October 2020, a joint commissioner of Income Tax had registered a complaint with the Gamdevi police after someone created two fake Facebook accounts in her name, using her photos and requested people in her friend list to help her financially by telling them a fake accident story.“Last year two complaints from two senior IPS officers and an IRS officer were received,” said a senior cyber police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fake-social-media-account-of-maharashtra-ips-officer-created-to-extort-money-101613233293438.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Ensure there are no encroachments on roads in Aurangabad: Bombay HC||Expressing anguish at the encroachments on footpaths in Aurangabad, which resulted in dissuading tourists from visiting the historical monuments like Ajanta and Ellora, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) directed the local administration and police to ensure removal of the encroachments. The court also expressed the hope that this action on the part of authorities would attract more tourists, thus improving the economy of the region. A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar, while hearing a criminal suo-moto public interest litigation (PIL), was informed by advocate AP Bhandari that the plan by City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) was not being followed as the electronic shops and eateries that housed the area were causing nuisance and empty spaces between buildings and footpaths had been encroached by the shopkeepers themselves, as a result of which traffic in the area was also affected. Bhandari submitted photographs of the Cannaught Place area which was under Cidco. Commissioner/administrator of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, who was present in court submitted that following the directions of the court to ensure that the city was beautified, he had taken initiatives to remove the encroachments so that the city is made clean and beautiful. He added that an NGO had been roped in to do the needful and added that he planned to create a 20kms track for the use of cyclists and pedestrians. He also submitted that separate parking places and hawker zone in the city were also being planned to ensure that the roads are not crowded and there is a smooth flow of traffic. The Aurangabad city police commissioner also informed the court that steps were being taken to remove unauthorized parking and was extending all help to the corporation to remove the encroachments and hindrances to traffic. After hearing the submissions, the court in light of the suo-moto PIL observed, “In tourism map of India, Aurangabad district has a special place, due to places like Ajanta, Ellora caves, Bibi-ka-Makbara, etc. The tourists from all over the world came to Aurangabad. Aurangabad city can be developed as ‘tourist centre’ for tourists of all over the world. But, for those necessary steps need to be taken by all the authorities in that regard.” The court concluded that it hoped that once the city improved it would attract more tourists which would also provide jobs to the locals and posted the PIL for further compliance on February 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ensure-there-are-no-encroachments-on-roads-in-aurangabad-bombay-hc-101613233113722.html
13-02-2021||City||'Continuation of power in Kerala is certain': CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the opposition parties and central agencies have tried their best to discredit the state government and topple it by raking up mean controversies and concocted stories. The chief minister said that the people continued to stand by the state government. He said the continuation of power for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) was certain in the state.While inaugurating the ruling Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) pre-poll rally, led by CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan, in north Kerala’s Kasaragod, the chief minister said the state has witnessed all-round development despite many natural calamities and the Covid-19 pandemic.He listed the government’s many achievements and said the people wanted a continuation of power and their wish was quite visible in the recently-concluded local body polls. In the local body poll in December, the left had notched up a comfortable win.“Whether it was a flood or a pandemic situation, the government stood with people and met their needs without any fail. Nobody starved during the lockdown or natural calamities. When the continuation of power was certain, opposition parties and some central agencies came up with many stories but they all fell flat,” the CM said, indirectly referring to the gold smuggling case and other corruption charges against the government.Also read: First phase of Budget session concludes, Lok Sabha to reconvene on March 8After the opposition raked up the contentious Sabarimala temple issue, the government has decided to not bite the bait rather focus on developmental issues. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy had written a letter to the chief minister last month, asking him to approach the Supreme Court to speed up the verdict on the contentious temple issue and withdraw its earlier affidavit that favoured entry of women of all ages to the hilltop shrine. In the letter, Chandy also said the government’s affidavit created confusion which ultimately led to the five-bench verdict in 2018 that triggered widespread unrest in the state.Without referring to the temple issue, the CM said the state can’t live with mere controversies and slogans but it has to meet developmental aspirations of the people. “Let them rake up any issue, we are least bothered. People will realise their designs and vote for development. We are least worried because people are with us,” the CM said, adding that the Congress and the BJP have the same voice while criticising the government.As assembly elections are just two months away, poll fever has gripped the state with a series of rallies and visits of national leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the state on Sunday to inaugurate the new plant of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation of India in Kochi. He will interact with the core committee members of the party.An also-ran in state’s bipolar politics, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is trying its best to make its presence felt in the state. The only political gain of the BJP so far was the lone assembly seat it won in Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram in last assembly elections.While opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s state-wide yatra is midway, the LDF began its rally in north Kerala’s Kasaragod on Saturday and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate BJP state president K Surendran’s ‘Vijay Yatra’ on February 21.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, also an MP from the state, will address the concluding session of Chennithala’s yatra on February 24 in the state capital.As free food kits played an important role in recent local body elections, the Congress is planning to counter it with Rahul Gandhi's ‘Nyay’ scheme which ensures lower-income families a monthly sum of ₹6,000. Party insiders said Gandhi will campaign extensively in Kerala this time as it is the key among five states that are going to polls.Meanwhile, a team of Election Commission led by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora arrived in the state and started discussions with political parties to decide o the poll date and review the state’s preparedness. The team will be in the state for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/continuation-of-power-in-kerala-certain-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101613230717205.html
13-02-2021||Bhopal||Congress MLAs joined us last year to save Madhya Pradesh, says state BJP chief||The 22 Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March last year did so to save Madhya Pradesh which was being "ruined" by the Kamal Nath government in place at the time, the latter's state unit chief VD Sharma said on Saturday.The rebellion by 22 MLAs, many of them loyalists of Congressman-turned Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, led to the fall of the Nath government."The Congress leaders got wedded to the saffron culture and joined the BJP. They did so to save MP. During 15 months of Congress rule, the state was ruined," Sharma told reporters on the sidelines of his party's two-day training session here.He said these legislators joined the BJP after being swayed by the public-centric welfare programmes of the party's governments in the state under Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.He said the public had endorsed these leaders, who had to face bypolls after quitting the MP Assembly, by voting for them.Speaking at the two-day training session, Union minister Narendra Tomar asked legislators to ask their own questions in the Assembly rather than those given to them by others as "vested interests" may be involved which could lead to embarrassment for the party, one of those who attended claimed.Tomar asked those attending the camp to stay in touch with the public of their constituencies and give importance to party workers whose hard work was at the centre of poll wins, the functionary added.The BJP's West Bengal in charge and senior MP BJP leader Kailash Vijaywargiya also addressed legislators on the last day of the training session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-mlas-joined-us-last-year-to-save-madhya-pradesh-says-state-bjp-chief-101613230400200.html
13-02-2021||Other||DSK case: Deepak Kulkarni move SC for bail||PUNE Deepak Sakharam Kulkarni, a Pune-based realtor currently in jail for duping thousands of investors, has moved the Supreme Court seeking bail after two years behind bars, according to advocate Prateek Rajopadhye, who is representing him. Through his lawyer, DSK also asked for consolidation of nine FIRs against him in Maharashtra, to be consolidated into one. Of the nine FIRs, four are in Pune, two in Mumbai, and one each in Sangli, Kolhapur and Sangli. “He is also seeking quashing of 81 production warrants issued against him by various courts across the country, inter alia, in the states of Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, in 358 matters alleging violation of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, (along with others) and allowing him to be represented through advocates in those matters instead of being physically present, along with stay of all criminal proceedings against DSK Developers Pvt. Ltd,” said advocate Rajopadhye in a written statement. “The nine FIRs and 358 other cases are the only ones that DSK’s team is aware of. There might be other cases against him that are not in their knowledge yet,” according to the lawyer. The economic offences wing (EOW) of multiple district police, the Enforcement Directorate, and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) are investigating multiple cases against the realtor. Asistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar of EOW Pune police is investigating the case for the Pune police. The police are in the process of identifying properties which are free of attachment by the ED and other investigation agencies in order to put them up for auction. An earlier bail application by DSK has been rejected in a special MPID court, as well as by the Bombay High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dsk-case-deepak-kulkarni-move-sc-for-bail-101613231134408.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC judge who gave controversial verdicts takes oath as additional judge||The Bombay High Court's judge Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, who had delivered two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases, on Saturday took oath as the high court's additional judge for one more year.Justice Ganediwala's earlier tenure as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court ended on Friday.Justice Nitin Jamdar, the seniormost judge at the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, administered the oath of office to her.The oath-taking ceremony was attended virtually by the Bombay High Court's Chief Justice Dipankar Datta.Last month, the Supreme Court collegium had withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts.The collegium had recommended that she be given a fresh term as an additional judge for two years.However, the government issued a notification on Friday saying she has been given a fresh term as an additional judge for one year.Additional judges are usually appointed for two years before being elevated as permanent judges.The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Justice Ganediwala had recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make any "skin-to-skin contact" with the minor and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act.On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent.The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge.Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-judge-who-gave-controversial-verdicts-takes-oath-as-additional-judge-101613230602762.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 7 employees of Latur ZP lose 30% salary for neglecting parents||Latur Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra has started deducting 30 per cent salaries of seven of its employees for not taking care of their old parents, its president Rahul Bondre said on Saturday.Notably, six of the 12 employees against whom the complaints of neglecting their parents were received, are teachers, he told PTI.The deducted amount is transferred in the bank accounts of the parents of these employees, he added.The general body of the Latur Zilla Parishad had passed a proposal to cut 30 per cent salaries of all employees found to be not taking care of their parents in November last year.The pay cut from the monthly emoluments of the erring employees began in December, 2020, Bondre said."We have been probing 12 such complaints wherein parents of the employees claimed that they were neglected. Out of these 12, we began deducting salaries from accounts of seven employees since December," he said.Bondre said the 30 per cent deduction will continue every month.He said the average deduction in one such case was around ₹15,000."Some cases were mutually resolved between employees and their parents after we sent notices to them," Bondre added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-7-employees-of-latur-zp-lose-30-salary-for-neglecting-parents-101613229969604.html
13-02-2021||Kolkata||Chirag Paswan's LJP to contest all seats in crucial Bengal polls||Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janashakti Party will contest all seats in the crucial West Bengal assembly polls, party leaders have said.“The LJP would be contesting on all seats in the coming West Bengal assembly polls. Both the Bharatiya Janata Pary and the Trinamool Congress are our rivals. We are not going into an alliance and will contest the polls as an individual party,” said Mira Chakraborty, the party’s state president.Founded by late Ram Vilas Paswan, and presently led by his son Chirag Paswan, the LJP had even contested 135 seats during the Bihar assembly elections in 2020.Even though it managed to win only one seat, it secured around 10 per cent of the votes, giving a blow to Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United).The BJP and the TMC are however not giving any importance to the LJP saying that the party is struggling for its existence in Bihar.Also read: 'Under some sort of surveillance' - Mahua Moitra on armed officers“The LJP has become irrelevant now. It is struggling to prove its existence in Bihar. Who knows them in West Bengal? The state’s ruling party is roping in various parties to confuse the people,” said Samik Bhattacharya, state BJP spokesperson.“It is a democracy. Any political party may contest the polls from anywhere. But in Bengal, people only know Mamata Banerjee as the face of development,” said Partha Chatterjee, minister and a veteran TMC leader.Other regional parties like the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the Janata Dal (United), the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Samajwadi Party (SP), Shiv Sena have also decided to contest the polls either in alliance or on their own.Psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty, who is also a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University, said the regional parties are not likely to have any impact on the vote share in the upcoming Bengal polls. "They won't be able to win any seat and may at the most get some an insignificant portion of the vote share in some seats. But it won't affect anything," he said.The BJP, which had made deep inroads in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has set a target to win more than 200 seats this time.West Bengal has a sizeable number of voters from Bihar with most of them living in south Bengal districts including Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Howrah. The entry of regional parties from the Hindis-peaking heartland may create a split in the state’s Hindi-speaking voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/chirag-paswan-s-ljp-to-contest-all-seats-in-crucial-bengal-polls-101613222699956.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Aurangabad renaming has public backing, says Sena minister||Maharashtra PWD Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde on Saturday said the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar should not be made a political issue as people are backing the demand.He was in Marathwada's largest city to chair a meeting on Unified Development Control Regulations."There is no reason to oppose renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. It is a demand of the public that this name be given to Aurangabad and the Shiv Sena is with the people. This issue has no connection with elections," he said.Speaking about simplification of the process to build homes, the minister said only relevant fees and plans need to be submitted for houses with an area of up to 1,500 square feet, while for those with an area of up to 3,000 square feet, permission will be given in 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aurangabad-renaming-has-public-backing-says-sena-minister-101613221521734.html
13-02-2021||Jaipur||It'll bring loss to all: Rahul Gandhi calls on people to stand against farm laws||Aabshar H QuaziSenior Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi continued his offensive on the contentious farm laws on the last day of his two-day Rajasthan tour. Gandhi called upon all sections of the society to stand up against farm laws and said that the farm laws will impact all.Gandhi alleged that PM Modi wants to hand over ₹40 lakh crore worth agriculture sector to his corporate friends. Later, while addressing a tractor rally in Roopangarh in Ajmer district, Rahul Gandhi continued his fierce attack on PM Modi over farm laws.Addressing the tractor rally on a unique stage prepared over a tractor trolley, Gandhi said that, "It is not only farmers who are against farm laws but workers and small traders are also against these farm laws"."If these farm laws are enforced, then not just the farmers but street vendors and small traders will also suffer losses and then they will have to work for the corporates," alleged Gandhi.One big businessman still owns 40 per cent storage of agri commodities and these farm laws will give 80 per cent to 90 per cent control over farmers' produce, he said.Also read: J-K to get status of a state at an appropriate time -Home minister Amit ShahFarmers will be forced to sell their produce at lesser prices and will need to buy agri commodities at higher prices, this way, farmers will be looted twice, he said."The country will suffer due to these 3 farm laws so it is not the sole responsibility of just farmers but also workers, small traders, youth and the people of India to protest these farm laws," said Rahul.PM Modi wants that all agri commodities should be sold under one brand name, he said, adding that when these farm laws will be enforced, then no youth will be given jobs, said Gandhi.Criticising the farm laws, the Congress leader said that while the first farm law says that big corporates can buy any amount of agricultural commodities of any magnitude, then there will be no need for Mandi which means that the law first intends to kill Mandis. Farmers and Congress workers were present on the tractors and tractor trolley during the tractor rally."Farm laws allow unlimited hoarding of the agricultural commodities and prevent farmers from accessing judiciary if farmers want to take businessmen in court," said Gandhi."India's and world's biggest business is in agriculture which is worth ₹40 lakh crores and run by 40 per cent Indians which include farmers, small traders, porters, workers and poor but PM Modi wants to hand over this agriculture business to his corporate friends through this farm laws," he said.PM Modi wants to send agriculture into the hands of two corporates whereas farmers are not ready for it, he said.I have warned about the loss from Covid-19 earlier but the ruling party and media ridiculed me and later the family members of these people got ill of Covid-19, he said.He continued to attack demonetization and GST brought by the Modi government and said it had impacted small traders, workers, farmers and the poor.This agriculture business is of Bharat Mata not of farmers only, he said.The Modi government is robbing farmers' house and wants to give it to your 'Hum Do Humare Do' (corporate friends), said Gandhi."You want to steal farmers' wealth so no farmer will talk to you until you will repeal farm laws," he said.Gandhi said that PM Modi ridiculed farmers by calling them 'Aandolanjivi' (people who thrive on a movement) in the Parliament session.After the public meeting on tractor trolley, he also drove a tractor while Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasara remained seated beside him on the tractor. Gandhi also rode over a camel cart after the tractor rally today.Later, Rahul Gandhi also addressed Kisan Mahapanchayat in Makrana in Nagaur district. While addressing the Kisan Mahapanchayat, CM Ashok Gehlot said that "such kind of a person has become the PM who is insensitive"."Covid-19 management of Rajasthan was best in across states," he said.Speaking on the occasion, former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said that the Modi government has made its mind to kick the stomach of the farmers."Congress and Rahul Gandhi have committed to the farmers for supporting them and forcing the Centre to repeal farm laws," he said."Rahul's visit will shake the Centre as he is with the farmers," he said.Earlier in the day, Gandhi visited Folk Deity Tejaji Maharaj temple in Sursura in Kishangarh district of Rajasthan and offered prayers. Folk Deity Tejaji Maharaj is revered and worshipped across several rural communities in the state including Jat, Gujjar, Meena and others.CM Gehlot, AICC state in-charge Ajay Maken, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasara, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, party general secretary KC Venugopal, among other Congress leaders, were also present at the tractor rally.Also read: After BJP’s offer to join, Dinesh Trivedi has a requestReacting to Rahul Gandhi's visit to Rajasthan against farm laws, state BJP president Satish Poonia said Gandhi has disappointed the people of Rajasthan."Rahul Gandhi has disappointed the people of Rajasthan by not entertaining them. Farmers kept waiting for counting till 10 and farm loan waiver. Baseless talks on farm laws, misleading information about China and disgraceful comments on the PM. Also, the cot of Congress broke down in the Congress program which means failure," Poonia tweeted.Meanwhile, Pilot was seen seated four places away from Gandhi who earlier used to sit just next to him. The impact of the dissidence of former deputy CM Sachin Pilot last year was during Rahul Gandhi's visit. Earlier, Sachin Pilot used to drive Gandhi in his car and used to accompany him like a shadow but the distance was seen between the two leaders during Gandhi's ongoing tour to Rajasthan.Experts say the distance between Gandhi and Pilot could be the result of Pilot's rebellion against CM Ashok Gehlot and his government last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/itll-bring-loss-to-all-rahul-gandhi-calls-on-people-to-stand-against-farm-laws-101613221157213.html
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Municipal Elections 2021: All you need to know||The Punjab Municipal Election 2021 will be held on Sunday, February 14, when polling will be conducted for 117 urban local bodies, which includes 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats and eight municipal corporations. Officials have said 9,222 candidates will be contesting, including 2,832 Independents, 2,037 from Congress, 1,606 from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), 1,569 from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and 1,003 from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Here is all you need to know about the 2021 Punjab Municipal Election1. The voting will start at 8am and conclude at 4pm.2. Votes will be counted on February 17 and the results will be declared immediately afterwards.3. The candidates will be fighting for eight municipal corporations. These include Bathinda Municipal Corporation, Batala Municipal Corporation, Mohali SAS Nagar Municipal Corporation, Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation, Moga Municipal Corporation, Pathankot Municipal Corporation, Abohar Municipal Corporation and Kapurthala Municipal Corporation.4. The state election commission has appointed 145 returning officers and 145 assistant returning officers to conduct the polls.5. The state election commission has said 400 members would be elected to the eight municipal corporations and 1,902 members would be elected to the 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats.6. Under the instructions of the government, 50% reservation has been given to women in the urban local body elections.7. There are 39,15,280 registered voters, including 20,49,777 men and 18,65,354 women voters, for the local body polls. There are also 149 transgender voters eligible to vote in the municipal polls.8. The four main parties in the election are the BJP, AAP, Congress and Akali Dal.9. The AAP and Congress have been predicted to do better than the BJP and the Akali Dal due to the people's sentiments over the farm laws and farmers' protests.10. The farmers' protests will play a significant role in the polls as was evident by the demand for the farmer riding tractor logo among independent candidates. The BJP and Akali Dal which initially supported the laws are predicted to have a hard time due to that while the Congress and AAP are predicted to do well since they supported the farmers from the very beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-municipal-elections-2021-all-you-need-to-know-101613217275700.html
13-02-2021||Other||Barber held for raping 15-year-old Ludhiana girl in his shop||A barber has been arrested for raping a 15-year-old girl in his shop in Guru Nanak Pura. The accused, identified as Suraj Kumar, 20, of New Kundanpuri, was arrested following a complaint by the girl’s father.According to the complainant, his daughter was upset for the past few days. When he coaxed her to understand what’s wrong, she revealed that while she was at the Guru Nanak Pura market on February 9, a barber called her inside his shop and raped her. As he threatened her to remain mum, she did not disclose the incident to anyone.Sub-inspector Rajinder Kaur, the investigating officer in the case, said Kumar was unmarried. He has been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code IPC, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He will be produced in court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barber-held-for-raping-15-year-old-girl-in-his-shop-101613219971582.html
13-02-2021||Other||With 68% under 40, young blood ready to take on grassroots governance in Himachal||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has rendered thousands of young people jobless, a significant number from Himachal has forayed into grassroots politics with an aim to serve the people better.In the recently held Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) polls in the hill state, more than 68% of the representatives elected to zila parishads, block development committees, panchayats and urban bodies are below the age of 40 years.Over 32% of these are in the age group of 21 to 30 years, while 36% are between 31 and 40 years. About 20.3% are in the age group of 41 to 50 years.The young guns are hopeful of bringing about a positive change in the lives of people in their respective areas. “I have always wanted to serve the society which is why I was earlier preparing for the civil services. But people from my area encouraged me to contest the zila parishad elections and now I will be able to live my dream,” says Bharati Janartha, 32, the newly elected member from Tikkar zila parishad ward in Jubbal and Kotkhai assembly segment.Kushal Mungta, 32, was elected to the zila parishad from Saraswatinagar ward. “The entry of youngsters into politics in Himachal is a healthy sign of democracy. Young people are energetic, and they can devote more time to the people,” said opined.Kushal, who was backed by the Congress and won by a margin of 6,500 votes, does not favour elections in Himachal on party symbols. “Though the PRI polls were not held on party symbols this time, but the same is being contemplated for the future. I feel elections on party symbols divide people,” he said.After being elected zila parishad chairperson in Bilaspur district, Muskan, 21, became the youngest to head the top post. She is pursuing her law studies. Muskan won as an independent candidate and later switched over to the BJP.Another 21-year-old, Sonika Lata, was elected as pradhan of Brasli gram panchayat in Rohru subdivision. “Though I made it, panchayat is a big responsibility. I will do my best,” she said.Political analysts believe that the increased participation of youngsters in the PRI elections reflects their sensitivity towards their professional obligations and responsibility. “The hike in age limits of PRI representatives and increase in panchayat budget has begun to attract youths,” said Harish Thakur, head of political science department at Himachal Pradesh University.Meanwhile, political parties also feel that the participation of young people will strengthen the democratic setup of the state as well as the country.Shimla (rural) legislator Vikramaditya Singh said it was good that many young people have been elected representatives in the panchayat elections. With this, we can hope for more young faces in upcoming assembly elections in 2022, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-68-under-40-young-blood-ready-to-take-on-grassroots-governance-in-himachal-101613219671689.html
13-02-2021||Jaipur||NGT directs immediate action against unauthorised brick kilns in Rajasthan||The National Green Tribunal on Saturday directed immediate action against illegal and unauthorised operational brick kilns in Shri Ganganagar city of Rajasthan while hearing a plea stating that a huge quantity of toxic elements from brick kilns cause serious health hazards in the region.The plea stated that the brick kilns emit toxic fumes containing suspended particulate matters rich in carbon particles and high concentration of carbon monoxides and oxides of sulphur (SOx) that are harmful to eye, lungs and throat. These air pollutants also stunt the mental and physical growth of children.According to the data, the primary source of SOx in these areas is the brick manufacturing industry. The primary source of NOx (nitrogen oxides) pollutants is also the brick manufacturing industry.The bench headed by Chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel in an order passed on February 11 said, "We are of the opinion that further follow up action needs to be taken to prevent illegal operation of brick kilns and recovery of environmental compensation for the period of illegal operation, following due process of law.""For those not having consents, closure can be immediately, particularly when show cause notice has already been given. For those having consents, it is necessary to verify whether they are meeting the prescribed pollution norms and siting norms. A joint Committee of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), State pollution control board and district magistrate of Ganga Nagar may look into these aspects and furnish a factual report within three months," the bench said."It is submitted that State Board has identified 594 brick kiln units in Sriganganagar district. Out of the identified units, 55 brick kilns are closed; 234 brick kiln are operating with valid consent to operate from the State Board; application of 80 brick kiln is under process with the State Board and out of the remaining 225 brick kiln, the State Board has issued show cause notice for intended closure to 217 brick kiln and closure directions to 08 brick kiln," NGT noted the State Pollution Control Board report.The plea, filed by Hakam Singh local resident of Shri Ganganagar and matter argued by Pushpinder Singh advocate, submitted that when 225 brick kilns are operating without any consent to operate, which is a matter of record, there is no need for show cause notice and on that pretext not closing such kilns amounts to permitting illegality.In any case, the said reply was filed by the PCB more than one year back i.e. on January 30, 2020 and show cause notices were reportedly issued in the year 2019, still, the kilns are being allowed to operate illegally.The petitioner further alleged that guidelines issued by the Rajasthan state pollution control board, Jaipur have not been complied with and there is no state policy with regard to the control of pollution by the brick kiln industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ngt-directs-immediate-action-against-unauthorised-brick-kilns-in-rajasthan-101613216015976.html
13-02-2021||Pune||4 reports of tekdi fires in 10 days worry environments, Pune civic authorities||Over the past 10 days, there have been six fires reported on tekdis (hillocks), according to a group of volunteers working on the various tekdis in and around the city as well as the forest department and the fire brigade of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).“Every year we create a fire control line to control such fires from spreading. Citizens are alert and message us, we go and extinguish the fire. This time it has happened four times in 10 days, twice in Pashan and twice in Sus Nande reserve forest. We have taken guidelines from experts on how to extinguish fire. When the fire brigade team comes to extinguish, we learnt the basics of tackling the fire without putting ourselves at risk,” said Pushkar Kulkarni of Save Baner Hills. The group of volunteers in every area like Vetal tekdi, Baner, Pashan Sus Gaon, Bavdhan, Taljai, have formed a group ‘Prevent Forest Fires’ that includes forest range officials and fire brigade personnels.The biggest fire reported was spread across five kilometres and was spotted by volunteer Shankar Pandey in Mann, Hinjewadi. “The fire was spotted at 12 noon on February 11 and I immediately alerted the other team members and then, the forest department.”“It took us five hours to bring the tekdi fire under control,” said another volunteer Naresh Sonawane from Hinjewadi.According to Deepak Shrotre of Vasundhara Abhiyaan and an avid tekdi lover, “Every year in January and February, there are instances of forest/tekdi fires taking place. There are three reasons for these fires - people smoking on the tekdi and throwing the cigarette buds without really extinguishing it, or people with nuisance value and lastly those who do it out of greed for creating barren lands atop tekdis.”“On Wednesday, there was a massive fire atop the Katraj tunnel and it took several tankers to extinguish it,” said Prashant Ranpise, fire officer, PMC “Environment is disregarded as we are not sensitive about it. We have seen many incidents this season and there is a lot of dryness in the air and grass grows fast during the winter and has less moisture, hence it catches fire easily and strong winds help spread the flames,” said forest official, Rahul Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-reports-of-tekdi-fires-in-10-days-worry-environments-pune-civic-authorities-101613213851876.html
13-02-2021||Pune||Onlookers crowd Bhide bridge as search underway after “crocodile” sighted in river||People gathered in huge number at the Bhide bridge on Friday to get a glimpse of a “crocodile” which was sighted in the river in the surrounding area.At 11.45 pm, ResQ, charitable trust, received a call from an unknown person and informed that a “crocodile” was spotted under the Bhide bridge.“We promptly headed over along with officials from the forest department as well as the police to help cordon off the crowd,” said Sumedh Tarde from ResQ, which has been working together with the forest department in rescuing wild animals wandering into the city limits.The teams were trying to locate the “crocodile” since 1 pm. “We have put up nets under the bridge to help guide the crocodile upstream and not let it come towards the road. We had a couple of people say that they saw it too, and perhaps it might still be there in the murky waters. It cannot cross over from the place in the river that it is in, for the parapet wall is too steep and the river current is also very fast,” said Sumedh.Anil Khaire, chief executive officer, Wild Animal Rescue & Rehabilitation Centre, said, “An unknown person called on the helpline number and we have been trying to call back, but the phone is switched off. We are not sure if the crocodile is still there, but we are equipped to rescue it.”According to Khaire, there was only one sighting of a crocodile three years ago in Khadakwasla which was rescued and released in the wild.“We got information that a crocodile was spotted under the Bhide bridge. Together with the newly formed rapid response team and representatives of ResQ, we reached the spot. We did not receive any photographic evidence of the crocodile until 7pm. However, we are continuing our efforts tonight and tomorrow,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/onlookers-crowd-bhide-bridge-as-search-underway-after-crocodile-sighted-in-river-101613213492615.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC directs govt to address poor condition of Lampur detention centre||The Delhi High Court has directed the Principal Secretary of the Social Welfare Department of the Delhi Government to take immediate remedial steps to address the pathetic conditions in the detention centre at Lampur.A Division Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani directed the Principal Secretary to take immediate remedial steps to address the pathetic conditions that exist in the centre regarding cleanliness, hygiene and medical facilities and the other infirmities mentioned in the report.The Court asked the Delhi Government to file a detailed status report before the next date of hearing and said that the report shall include photographs and videography of the centre as it exists currently as well as subsequent to the remedial steps taken by the concerned Department.Thereafter, the matter was listed on February 18 for further hearing.The Court direction came on a report filed by a sessions judge of Central District of Tis Hazari Courts Complex after inspecting the detention centre.On November 9, last year, the Court had directed the Principal District and Sessions Judge (HQ) to depute a Judicial Officer to visit the detention centre at Lampur which functions under the aegis of the Social Welfare Department of the Government of Delhi and carry out an inspection of the conditions prevailing at the said detention centre.They were also asked to submit a report to this court on their behalf.The bench order came while hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman, seeking the release of her husband, who is alleged to be a Pakistani national, from the Sewa Sadan Deportation Centre Lampur Village Delhi.Counsel for the petitioner, advocate Ajay Verma, assisted by lawyer Mehak Nakra, pointed towards the pitiable conditions prevailing in the detention centre where the detainees are deprived of basic human rights, including medical facilities.The advocates had submitted that the petitioner has been detained in the centre and he has been informed by the petitioner that the condition of the detention centre is very pathetic for want of cleanliness and hygiene."No medical facilities are being provided at the detention centre; the detainees are not permitted to communicate with the family and their counsel, and no legal aid is provided to them," they said.The petitioner's husband was arrested on December 13, 2012, and has been facing trial for years. On October 10 2016, a trial court convicted him under charges of the Official Secrets Acts and others and sentenced him to nine years in jail.The High Court upheld his conviction under the Official Secrets Acts. After completing his sentence, on April 14, 2020, he was released from jail but sent to Sewa Sadan Deportation Centre Lampur Village in Delhi for the purpose of deportation. His wife challenged his deportation in the Delhi High Court and sought his release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-govt-to-address-poor-condition-of-lampur-detention-centre-101613208980600.html
13-02-2021||Bhopal||Won't tolerate inhuman behaviour: Madhya Pradesh CM on dumping of homeless||A fortnight after Indore civic body's staff dumped homeless people out of the city amid cold weather, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that inhuman behaviour will not be tolerated.He made the statement during his visit to night shelter homes here on Friday night.Officials said that Chouhan reached the night shelter homes in Sukhaliya and Jhabua Tower areas and asked the homeless people staying there if they were facing any problems at these facilities in terms of food and other things.According to eyewitnesses, the people staying there expressed satisfaction over the arrangement at the shelters.Last month, two temporary employees of the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) were removed from service and a deputy civic commissioner was suspended after Chouhan expressed displeasure over the dumping of homeless people on January 29.On Wednesday this week, IMC Commissioner Pratibha Pal terminated the services of six more temporary employees on the basis of an inquiry report submitted by a three-member committee headed by an additional civic commissioner, the official said.During a visit to the night shelters, the reporters asked the chief minister that although the temporary staff has been dismissed from service, senior officers have been spared.In his reply, Chouhan said, "No inhuman behaviour (with the elderly) will be tolerated."According to a civic official, six elderly people were taken out of Indore in the January 29 incident and later brought back to the city.He said that at present, three of these people are in an old age home in Indore, while three other elders left the city on their own.A video that went viral on social media last month, showed municipal workers dumping some homeless elderly persons outside the city, drawing sharp criticism from various quarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/wont-tolerate-inhuman-behaviour-madhya-pradesh-cm-on-dumping-of-homeless-101613205476663.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3 more arrested in connection with Republic Day violence||Three more people have been arrested in connection with the violence that took place during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi's Burari area on January 26, police said.The accused have been identified as Sukhmeet Singh (35), Gundeep Singh (33) and Harvinder Singh (32).Three accused were earlier arrested on February 10 in connection with the violence. The police had also arrested eight people in connection with an attack on police personnel during the violent protest at Burari ground.So far, a total of 14 now people have been arrested in connection with the violence.On Republic Day, during the tractor march by farmers to protest against the three farm laws, protestors violated the agreement about the route to be taken and entered central Delhi after forcibly removing barricades. Several policemen were injured in the violence and vehicles were damaged.Earlier on Tuesday, the Special Cell of Delhi police has arrested actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu for his alleged involvement in 26 January violence in the national capitalThe investigation into the Republic Day violence is being conducted at three levels - local police, Special Cell, and Crime Branch.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-3-more-arrested-in-connection-with-republic-day-violence-101613202633990.html
13-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli glacier burst: Water being discharged from newly formed lake, says DGP||After a lake was formed near the Raini village in Joshimath of Uttarakhand due to the glacier burst last week, Uttarakhand’s Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said on Saturday that a team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) visited the area and water was being continuously discharged from the lake. He added that the area was no longer in the danger zone.“Yesterday, the SDRF team visited the lake that has been formed near Raini village at a height of 4,200 meters. Water is being continuously discharging from the lake, it’s not in danger zone. The team also found a place to construct a helipad near Raini,” Kumar said while speaking to news agency ANI. He also said relief camps have been set up by the SDRF and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and search operations were on to trace the missing people.“Progress is being made on all fronts. Connectivity has resumed. BRO also working on the Bailey bridge. There are SDRF and ITBP relief camps. The district administration also taking care of people’s needs. The search operation for missing persons is on,” Kumar said.Earlier, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the lake near Raini was being monitored through satellites and assured that there was nothing to be worried about.Yesterday, SDRF team visited the lake that has been formed near Raini village at a height of 4,200 meters. Water is continuously discharging from the lake, it's not in danger zone. Team also found a place to construct helipad near Raini: Ashok Kumar, DGP, Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/PUAX5y4ckFA total of 166 people are missing while 38 have died in the disaster till now. Rescue operations entered the seventh day and efforts were on towards drilling another hole into the Tapovan tunnel so that a camera could be placed to get updates of the 25-35 people that are stuck inside.R P Ahirwal, general manager, NTPC Tapovan, said a 12-metre-long hole of 75 mm diameter had been successfully drilled inside the tunnel but a camera could not be inserted due to presence of slush. “Drilling of a larger diameter hole has been planned now. Meanwhile, mucking from the 'intake adit tunnel' is in progress. The diameter of the hole shall be 250-300 mm,” he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-glacier-burst-water-being-discharged-from-newly-formed-lake-says-dgp-101613202098691.html
13-02-2021||Lucknow||6 die as car rams into truck in Agra-Lucknow Expressway||A vehicle carrying 6 people rammed into a truck in the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Kanpur’s Talgram area during the early hours of Saturday morning resulting in the death of all of the passengers.The six people, out of which five were from the same family, were visiting Jaipur from Lucknow. The other victim was a common friend who was also travelling along with the family, police officials present at the spot said. The police also said that low visibility due to the dense fog could have led to the tragedy. They further added that the kin of the deceased has been informed of the tragedy. The bodies have been sent to Kannauj Medical College for autopsy. The family was visiting the Balaji Hanuman temple, a family member present at Kannauj Medical College said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief and extended his condolences towards the kin of the deceased. A state government spokesperson said that the chief minister has directed officials to ensure all possible help to the kin of the victims.According to news agency ANI, there were at least 6 collisions due to the reduced visibility caused by the fog on Saturday morning. About 12 people have sustained injuries due to the collisions and police have reached the spot to clear the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/6-die-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-agra-lucknow-expressway-101613197726397.html
13-02-2021||Dehradun||Hole drilled in Tapovan tunnel for possible location of trapped men||Security personnel drilled a hole on their way to a possible location of over 30 people trapped inside the sludge-choked Tapovan tunnel, making a headway at last in the prolonged rescue efforts.However, efforts were afoot on Saturday to widen the hole so that a camera could be inserted into the tunnel to get a clue of the trapped men, officials said.Drilling of a 12-metre-long hole of 75 mm diameter in the intake adit tunnel to its inside has been successful, National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Tapovan, General Manager, R P Ahirwal said."This is a good sign as there is no water or slush pressure observed in the silt-flushing tunnel," he said in a release."However, the camera could not be inserted due to the presence of slush. Drilling of a larger diameter hole has been planned now. Meanwhile mucking from the intake adit tunnel is in progress. The diameter of bore hole shall be 250-300 mm," he said.The marathon rescue operations at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project which suffered heavy damages in the Rishi Ganga avalanche entered the seventh day on Saturday.So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 people are still missing. As many as 25-35 people are believed to be trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel.The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of Rishiganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water which reduces chances of its breaching or causing a flash flood.The lake, which has formed over Rishiganga after the flash flood, had increased the concern of experts on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/hole-drilled-in-tapovan-tunnel-for-possible-location-of-trapped-men-101613196629574.html
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||23 endangered gharials released in Punjab’s Beas river||Under the gharial reintroduction project in the Beas Conservation Reserve, 23 critically endangered long-snouted gharials were released in the Beas river near Salempur and Tahli forests in Hoshiarpur district on Friday. The gharials were transported in boxes from Chhatbir Zoo in Chandigarh, where they had been kept for a year after being brought from the natural hatchery at Morena in Madhya Pradesh.Project to establish breeding population of the species in state’s riversThe gharial reintroduction project of the Punjab forests and wildlife preservation department aims to establish a breeding population of the species in the state’s rivers. In phase-1 of this project, 47 juvenile gharials were released in the Beas Conservation Reserve in three batches — 10 on December 25, 2017, 15 on January 31, 2018, and 22 on March 15, 2018 — in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. The number of gharials released has now reached 70. “Punjab chief wildlife warden RK Sharma helped us in choosing a suitable undisturbed stretch of the Beas river near Salimpur and Tahli Forest in Hoshiarpur district for re-introduction of current batch of gharials,” said Gursharan Singh, district forest officer (wildlife) Hoshiarpur. Rajesh Mahajan, divisional forest officer, wildlife, Pathankot range, said, “This time they were released from Hoshiarpur side as there we found the conditions needed for release.” In the presence of Manish Kumar, conservator of forest, and Chhatbir Zoo field director M Sudhakar, a joint monitoring team of the Wildlife Division Hoshiarpur and World Wildlife Fund (WWF), India, has been formed for daily monitoring of gharials for the next one month, officials said. Reintroduction will complete area’s food chainGitanjali Kanwar, coordinator WWF India, who took part in the release event as an expert, informed that post release monitoring is one of the vital aspects of the gharial reintroduction. “The surveys will focus on understanding dispersal, habitat preference, population ecology and general well-being of the released gharials,” she said.“Field surveys conducted, so far, jointly with WWF-India indicate that gharials have dispersed both upstream and downstream of the release sites in the Beas Conservation Reserve. Between 40% and 50% of the reintroduced gharials can be spotted in the Beas Conservation Reserve depending on the water levels and season of survey,” Kanwar added. Mahajan said more gharials would be released next year this month. Before its reintroduction, the endangered animal was spotted the last time in 1974. It was important to reintroduce gharials in this area to complete the food chain. Its presence in the river will help increase the yield of fish for human consumption, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-endangered-gharials-released-in-punjab-s-beas-river-101613196030891.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane district's Covid-19 count soars, tally reaches 257,112||With the addition of 290 coronavirus cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra increased to 2,57,112 an official said on Saturday.These new cases were reported on Friday, he said.As the virus claimed the life of two persons, the death toll in the district rose to 6,198.The mortality rate is 2.41 per cent, he added.So far, 2,47,650 patients have recuperated from the infection, which took the recovery rate to 96.32 per cent.There are 3,264 active cases in the district at present, the official said.In neighboring Palghar district, the COVID-19 case count has gone up to 45,450, while the death toll is 1,200, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-s-covid-19-count-soars-tally-reaches-257112-101613194820899.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Mughal Gardens open in Delhi: Denizens, the blooms are back!||Spring starts knocking at the doors of Delhi, officially, when the impeccably manicured lawns of Mughal Gardens — within the precincts of Rashtrapati Bhavan (President’s Estate) — open for visitors. The Udyanotsav 2021 has brought a palette of flowers, which create a canvas on the lush greens. But, due to the pandemic, strict guidelines have been put in place this year. Keerti Tiwari, deputy press secretary to the President, says, “Walk-in entry will not be available this year. Through online booking, 100 people will be allowed in each slot to maintain social distancing. No more than five people will be allowed at one spot.” As per the Covid-19 protocols, it will be ensured that each visitor undergoes thermal scanning at the entry, and no one will be allowed inside without a mask. In fact, through out the say, there will be seven pre-booked hourly slots made available to visitors between 10am and 5pm, wherein the last entry will be allowed at 4pm. “It’s best to avoid bringing the elderly and young children,” adds Tiwari, considering the fact that they are more susceptible to coronavirus. For the plant lovers, there’s plenty in store to explore. PN Joshi, from Rashtrapati Bhavan’s horticulture department, says, “Over 130 varieties of roses are blooming in the garden this year. Besides these, there are more than 70 varieties of flowering plants across the gardens. Bahut mehnat kari hai humne... jab thand thi aur barish hui, toh flowers ko cover kar dete the plastic sheets se. At times we had to cover certain plants during the night and then uncovered them during day time to ensure that they get the right amount of sunlight as well as remain protected from the unpredictable winter.” Ask which is the flowering plant that is special this time around, and Joshi says, “Matthiola incana, which has quite a pleasant fragrance, has bloomed well this time. Isme special ye hai ki iski uniform flowering hui hai, and since it has single spikes, it stands out among the rest.” Must note: Do not carry any bags, eatables, water bottle, cameras.Drinking water and hand sanitiser will be made available inside.Wearing a mask is mandatory. Avoid bringing the elderly and young children.Catch It Live What: Udyanotsav 2021 Where: Mughal Gardens, Rashtrapati Bhavan (Entry from Gate 35; near North Avenue) On till: March 21 (Closed on Mondays) Timing: 10am to 5pm Nearest Metro Station: Lok Kalyan Marg on Yellow Line Booking: www.rashtrapatisachivalaya.gov.in Author tweets @HennaRakhejaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mughal-gardens-open-in-delhi-denizens-the-blooms-are-back-101613193924743.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees sharp spike in Covid-19 cases since Wednesday as tally nears 2.1 million||Maharashtra registered 20,590 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases from February 6 to February 12 out of which 169 people lost their lives while over 20,200 have recovered. The state’s weekly average of Covid-19 cases stood at 2,941 and there has been a sharp increase in the daily tally since Wednesday (February 10). The total caseload is nearing 2.1 million and the recoveries stand at 1,972,475. The rising graph happens to coincide with the unlocking the state has effected. Schools are gradually reopening in the state and Mumbai locals have been thrown open for all with time restrictions from February 1.As many as 3,451 cases were added on Wednesday; 3,297 on Thursday and 3,670 cases were added on Friday recording the highest during the week. Friday also saw the highest deaths of the week (36 ), which pushed the overall toll to 51,451. On February 8, Maharashtra recorded the lowest number of Covid-29 cases (2,216) and deaths (15) in this week. Meanwhile, the highest number of recoveries from Covid-19 for the week was on Thursday (February 11) when 6,107 people got cured/discharged/recovered.Also Read| Vaccination day 29: Healthcare workers to get 2nd shot beginning from todaySince the start of the pandemic in India in January last year, Maharashtra has been among the worst-affected states. According to the Union health ministry, the state is the second-highest contributor to India’s daily caseload. In September last year, the daily cases exceeded 18,000 and the highest ever surge was on September 10, when 23,446 Covid-19 cases were reported.However, as Covid-19 started receding nationwide, Maharashtra too was seeing an improvement in the overall situation. On October 6, 2020, 10,244 cases were reported which had been the lowest in the preceding two months. From there, the Covid-19 cases further went down and just over 1,924 cases were seen on January 18 this year, which had been the lowest since May 2020. But the Covid-19 curve in Maharashtra is on the rise again since the beginning of February.As many as 608,570 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccine doses till now in the state with 34,889 people vaccinated on Thursday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday mobile laboratories for testing Covid-19 would be made available across the state. These labs could conduct 3,000 tests per day and reports would be available in 24 hours, he added. Amid the wake of the new Covid-19 strain from countries such as the United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa, Thackeray said the government would continue to prioritise tracing and treatment of infected patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-sharp-spike-in-cases-since-wednesday-as-tally-nears-2-1-million-101613186231559.html
13-02-2021||Patna||Bihar Dy CM terms allegations of Covid testing data fudging as totally baseless||Terming the allegations of fudging in Covid-19 testing data in Bihar as "totally baseless", Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad on Friday said that the work of officers, healthcare workers and others who served the citizens during Covid-19 should be appreciated.This comes after RJD MP Manoj Jha asked for a high-level inquiry into fudging of Covid-19 testing data in Bihar."Our government is working efficiently. Such allegations are totally baseless. The way officers, healthcare workers and social workers have served the people of Bihar during the Covid-19 pandemic is an example. It should be appreciated and our officials have received appreciation," Prasad told media here.Earlier on Friday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that the state administration is looking into the matter and action will be taken against people found guilty."I just came to know about the matter after somebody raised it in Rajya Sabha. I had a word with the Principal Secretary of the state about it, and he said the matter has been investigated. A total of 22 districts have already been looked into. This was seen at one location and action is being taken," Kumar said.Manoj Jha, RJD MP in Rajya Sabha cited a leading English daily and said the Covid-19 testing data is being fudged in Bihar and demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter. He said that according to state records the testing figures in Bihar increased at a very fast pace.Jha also asked the Speaker to ask the state government to use ID cards like Aadhaar card and Pan card for data maintenance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-dy-cm-terms-allegations-of-covid-testing-data-fudging-as-totally-baseless-101613186863299.html
13-02-2021||Other||Chamoli glacier burst: J-K man's kin urge govt to speed up rescue efforts||The family of a J&K man, working with a private firm executing a power project on Alaknanda river in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand and gone missing since the glacier burst there, has appealed to the government to speed up the rescue operation and locate his body. Jatinder, a native of Bhara village of Bhaderwah district in Jammu and Kashmir, had made calls to his wife and mother minutes before he went missing in the flood triggered by the glacier burst near Tapovan area of Uttarkhand on Sunday. "The only thing we now want from the administration that they should speed up the rescue operation to clear the debris so that at least I may get my younger brother’s body,” said Sunil Kumar, Jatiner’s elder brother. Jatinder worked as a labour supervisor for Hyderabad-based Rithwik Projects Private Ltd, executing the NTPC’s Tapovan hydel power project in Uttarakhand. His brother Surendra Kumar said Jatinder had left Reni village, where he lived, for the dam site along with 20 labourers and had called up both his wife and mother while on way and had promised to get back home soon. "My six brothers including cousins are at Tapovan dam site for the last five days, searching for Jatinder but they told us that there is tons of debris at the site of the incident where, according to eyewitnesses, he got drowned and buried along with 20 labourers,” said Kumar. “We will never be able to see him alive now” he added. Jatinder’s mother Bhagwana Devi (70) said he had made a video call to her and had told her that he was missing his three-year-old daughter a lot and would get back home soon. “That was the last when I saw her,” she said. Jatinder’s wife Meena (27) has been left lamenting that she failed to pick up her husband’s second call after speaking to him briefly during the first call. “My husband called me on Sunday at 10.32 am and talked for just two minutes, thereafter he again called me up at 10.35 am but I could not pick up the call as I had got busy in household chores," she said. "I will regret for the rest of my life that I didn't pick up that call and at 11.30 am, we came to know there was a disaster at the dam site in Tapovan,” said Meena. “Thereafter I made thousands of call but to no avail,” she rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chamoli-glacier-burst-j-k-man-s-kin-urge-govt-to-speed-up-rescue-efforts-101613173975642.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s CSMVS to reopen on Tuesday with discounted museum tickets||One-way pedestrian routes and lowered ticket prices will mark the reopening of Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj museum (CSMVS) on Tuesday, February 16. After an 11-month closure necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, there will be a phased reopening, starting with four of the institution’s 18 galleries. Natural history, Indian artefacts and the money and jewellery gallery, along with the Children’s Museum, will be open to visitors, for a price of ₹50 per adult and ₹20 per child, down from ₹100 and ₹30 respectively. The museum will be open all days of the week, but from 10 am to 3 pm at first, complementing the restricted local-train timings. “We have studied and learnt from the reopening process of the Nehru Science Centre and other museums, to better ensure the safety of our visitors and our staff members,” said Joyoti Roy, head of marketing and strategy at the museum. Trends in other Indian museums show that about 100 to 150 visitors can be expected daily, for institutes such as CSMVS, which received 5,000 to 8,000 visitors a day in normal times. “We will ensure that there is a limited number of people inside the building at any given time. Other visitors will wait for their turn on the lawns,” Roy said. The one-way pedestrian routes inside the building will ensure that visitors don’t come to face to face, and can more easily social-distance. Temperature checks and masks will be compulsory. Sanitisers are in place across the museum and toilets will be cleaned several times a day, Roy added. “CSMVS is a museum ‘by the people, for the people. We are following all standard norms laid down by the government and the ICOM [International Council of Museums]. Our staff have been sensitised towards this new normal too,” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, director-general of the CSMVS. Meanwhile, this rare interlude is being used to restore parts of the iconic heritage building which, incidentally, first opened its doors 99 years ago, on January 10, 1922.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-csmvs-to-reopen-on-tuesday-with-discounted-museum-tickets-101613157990205.html
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel price hike makes vegetables dearer in Chandigarh||After apni mandis reopened in the city on February 1, the price of some vegetables has increased by ₹5 to ₹10, which the farmers attribute to the rising costs of fuel. The mandi, meanwhile, has started seeing a larger footfall as residents have started pouring in.Green chillies that used to cost ₹30 per kg now cost ₹40 per kg. The price of tomatoes has also increased by ₹5 per kg. Speaking about this, officials of the Punjab Mandi Board said, “While there is no shortage of supply, farmers are blaming the recent hike in petrol and diesel prices. The price of locally-grown vegetables is consistent.”Since January, the price of diesel in the city has gone up from ₹73.58 to ₹78.09 as of February 12. Secretary of the Chandigarh Transport Association BL Sharma said, “Even a small hike leads to an extra cost of thousands of rupees for transporters so vegetables brought to the city from other states will continue to see a hike in prices.”With the new season of crops likely to start soon, the price of some vegetables like cauliflower, which has remained unchanged, can also increase in the coming days.The price of onions has also gone up from ₹40 to ₹45 per kg. As per the vendors here, this was because of a shortage of supply coming in the city from Nashik. “Only a few wholesalers in Sector 26 get onions and we have to purchase it from them, which is why prices continue to stay high,” a vendor said, not wishing to be named.Meanwhile, the footfall at the mandis has also improved. Officials said that in the beginning they were only getting about 20% of the footfall they used to get earlier, but now the figure has gone up to 50%. All vendors didn’t show up which is why many stalls remained empty on the first day, but now about 80% of them were back, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-price-hike-makes-vegetables-dearer-in-chandigarh-101613157809327.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||With 1 positive case over 7 days, Bhiwandi still cautious||With only one Covid-19 positive case recorded over the last seven days in Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), it is no less than a victory against the pandemic for the residents here.However, the civic body has claimed that the battle is still not over and appealed to the citizens to maintain social distancing and wear masks.From February 5 to 8, and again from Feb 10-12, no new cases were recorded in Bhiwandi while one case was reported on February 9. The city also has not recorded a single death since January this year. As per the state figures, the total number of deaths recorded in BNCMC till date is 341.In June, the BNCMC was the first civic body to impose strict lockdown for 15 days, as the number of daily Covid cases reached 170. The number of cases kept decreasing since after the BNCMC followed a four-step model of house-to-house surveys, contact tracing, containment and facility management under the guidance of civic commissioner Pankaj Ashiya since July.Ashiya said, “The four steps that we followed then are still followed rigorously without fail. This has helped in tracing maximum cases on time. Following the measures strictly is the only way to curb the cases.”In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Bhiwandi has the lowest total cases of Covid at 6,884 as per the state government records. As per the BNCMC records, the active cases in the city are 18. The civic body is now running only one Covid centre with a capacity of treating 50 patients as the number of positive cases is less.“Although, if the number of cases increases, the facilities that were developed earlier will be set up again. We have taken the doctors and staff into confidence that anytime they will have to provide the service if there is a surge in cases. The battle is still not over and we need to be extra careful and maintain it. Not a single death due to Covid has been reported since January and we are trying to maintain it by tracing all the high risk and low risk contact and strictly doing RT-PCR and not depending on antigen testing,” said Ashiya.Mohammad Abir Shaikh, 29, a resident of Kamatghar, Bhiwandi, said, “We keep checking the Covid records in the city on social media and websites and when we see zero cases in the city, it is a major sigh of relief. Bhiwandi was once having the highest number of cases at the beginning of the pandemic and now it has the lowest.”Manohar Konka, 35, a social activist from the city said, “The major reason for the reduction in Covid cases in the city is tracing by the civic body on time. The civic body has managed to reach each corner of the city. Despite people still not following social distancing at some places, the cases are low and this is commendable.”Dr. Satish Rudra, an anaesthetist from Bhiwandi, expressed that the civic body did the Covid testing on a wide scale and treated as many as patients on time, which is why it could curb the numbers.“In May, I was also infected and was initially home quarantined and later admitted to Indira Gandhi hospital for 10 days. The treatment there was also commendable.”Dr Sripal Jain, a MBBS physician, said, “During the initial days, I dealt with around 400 patients daily in which most had Covid symptoms. Now, there are no cases from Bhiwandi. The civic body played a very good role in making it mandatory for people with symptoms to do the Covid test on time. We also did CT scans for most patients at an early stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-1-positive-case-over-7-days-bhiwandi-still-cautious-101613157749064.html
13-02-2021||Other||4 BJP woman candidates join AAP two days before Mohali MC polls||In a big jolt to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), four of its women candidates joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday, two days ahead of the municipal corporation elections in Mohali. Rajinder Kaur (ward number 9), Krishna Rani (21), Paramjeet Kaur (23) and Bimla Rani (29) joined AAP in the presence of Harpal Singh Cheema, leader of opposition in Punjab assembly, at the party headquarters. They cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “anti-farmer and dictatorial attitude” as the reason for quitting the saffron party. Welcoming the four women candidates, Cheema said the common man of the country is fed up with the dictatorial attitude of the party in power at the Centre. “PM Modi has mercilessly imposed black agricultural laws on the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-bjp-woman-candidates-join-aap-two-days-before-mohali-mc-polls-101613157747751.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Special drive: Transgenders help cops handle traffic in Ulhasnagar||Motorists flouting traffic rules in Ulhasnagar were in for a surprise when they were stopped not by the regular traffic police but by transgenders.Transgenders assisted the police officers by manning the traffic this week. Those who are generally rude to the cops stopping them for not wearing helmets were scared to argue with the transgenders.Around 50 transgenders, along with the cops, manned the busy roads and gave lessons on road safety to motorists. The initiative was taken by the Ulhasnagar traffic unit and Vanya Foundation.Karishma Shah, (29), a transgender residing in Vithalwadi, said, “Many motorists were shocked to see us stopping them and demanding to see the licence and other documents. Some of them were shy while those who argued with traffic cops were scared to do the same with us. Most of them did not argue and accepted that they had flouted the norms, paid the fine and assured not to repeat the mistake.”Shah said that her community agreed to help the traffic police as responsible citizens. “There is a lot of congestion in Ulhasnagar mostly due to unruly motorists. We thought of addressing the issue as responsible citizens.”The transgenders were also supported by more than 100 special children in the initiative. In the weeklong initiative, they also gave white roses as a peace symbol to those who honked unnecessarily.Vanya Foundation head, Rekha Thakur, said, “This initiative aimed to create more interactions between people and these communities. We have created a traffic symbol song on which transgender performed on the street at three different signals in Ulhasnagar and Ambernath, educating people about traffic signals. We caught those flouting traffic norms, arranged bike rallies with the community and also a marathon, walkathon and cyclothon.”Traffic police inspector of Ulhasnagar, Shrikant Dharne, said, “Transgenders and our officers were on the streets to nab those flouting the rules and to create awareness among them. It was a really nice initiative by all the community members. They have learned a lot from us and vice-versa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-drive-transgenders-help-cops-handle-traffic-in-ulhasnagar-101613157448557.html
13-02-2021||Other||Bombay HC to start physical hearing in TRP case from March 16||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday indicated that it was inclined to hear the cases filed by ARG Outlier Media – the group that runs Republic TV – and the channel’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in the television ratings point (TRP) manipulation probe through the physical hearing mode to expedite the proceedings. The court also said it wants to conduct a physical hearing for the abetment to suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik, in which Goswami is an accused. The court held that as voluminous documents were being filed by both sides, it would not be possible to refer to them through virtual hearing and hence, preferred to have physical hearing from March 16. Meanwhile, the state assured the court that it would stand by its earlier statement on not taking any coercive action against ARG Outlier Media’s employees and Goswami till March 5, following which the court continued the earlier interim protection given to the editor-in-chief and the group’s staffers. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Mansih Pitale, while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by ARG Outlier and Goswami pertaining to the TRP manipulation case, sought to know if the state had been able to go through the voluminous responses filed by the petitioners. Kapil Sibal, counsel for Maharashtra, said it was not possible to go through the responses and hence, wanted some time. Sibal added that he was agreeable to the suggestion of the court to have a physical hearing on the matter and requested the bench to fix a closer date for it. However, ARG Outlier’s counsel Harish Salve sought to be excused from attending the physical hearing as he had received a Covid-19 vaccination shot and would have to get the second shot in six weeks and hence, could not be present. He, however, assured that another counsel would attend the hearing whenever the court fixed the date. The court then appreciated Salve for agreeing for physical hearing and said he was “fortunate” to get the vaccination shot. “Though we are not seeking any preference, we would also like to get the vaccination as we are attending court everyday,” said justice Shinde on a lighter note, and asked Sibal if he agreed to continue the statement of the state that no coercive action would be taken against ARG Outlier Media employees and its office-bearers till the next hearing. Sibal responded saying that though he was reluctant, the statement would continue till March 5, after which the court could extend the relief till March 16, when the physical hearing would be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-to-start-physical-hearing-in-trp-case-from-march-16-101613156968413.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Kharghar residents complain of foul smell from waste dumped on wetlands||Several residents of Kharghar had to bear a pungent smell on February 9, following the dumping of sacks filled with unidentified powder on the wetlands of Sector 16, behind Vastu Vihar society in Kharghar.An alert resident from the society took to Twitter and alerted the authorities following which the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) officials took a sample on Thursday to verify its content.Seema Tank (40), resident of Vastu Vihar, said, “On February 8, two trucks dumped these sacks on the wetlands in Kharghar. It had a strong smell and we were afraid it could be hazardous to the health of the residents around. The pond adjacent had turned completely black after the dumping of the sacks. I Tweeted about it with pictures and videos and also emailed to the board requesting the removal of the sacks dumped.”The residents of Vastu Vihar were subjected to foul stench for the entire day on February 9. Umesh Tank, 45, from the society, said, “The dumping was done at around 7.30pm and the next morning, the smell became stronger. We had seen a truck dumping those sacks but when we checked the CCTV footage, we realised that there were two trucks. We informed the police too and they are awaiting reports from MPCB.”Sachin Aadkar, sub-regional officer who had visited the spot and collected the sample of the powder, said, “Even as we are awaiting the lab results, prima facie it does not seem to be hazardous but looks like waste residue of cement from some factory or it could be ash. When we visited the spot, there was no smell, probably, the smell was only on the day after the dumping. We would be sending the report to the Panvel Municipal Corporation, police and also Cidco as the land belongs to them.”According to the residents, the land where the dumping was done falls under CRZ. “We visited the spot and found more than 100 sacks dumped there. Depending on the report from MPCB, we will see what can be done,” an officer from Panvel Municipal Corporation said. Meanwhile, senior police inspector Shatrughn Mali from Kharghar police station said, “We are awaiting the report from MPCB and the CCTV footage. If the report says it is hazardous material, an FIR would be lodged. If it is not hazardous, Cidco or the corporation would levy fine from the ones who dumped the sacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-kharghar-residents-complain-of-foul-smell-from-waste-dumped-on-wetlands-101613156848583.html
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||PU-PGI underpass to come up for ₹7.5 crore in Chandigarh||The city’s third pedestrian underpass, set to come up between Panjab University and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, will be the widest and equipped with escalators and elevators to ease the movement of patients visiting the hospital.At 15 metre, it will be wider than the Rose Garden underpass, which is 12-metre wide.The increased width has been provided to allow for additional features, such as escalators and elevators, on both sides of the underpass. Pedestrians will have to cover around 40 metres to cross the underpass, which will be 3-metre in height. On the surface, both sides around the underpass will have landscaping.The UT urban planning department has already given the go-ahead to the construction. The department recently approved the drawings of the project. The project was given in-principle approval by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in November last year.After putting it on the back-burner in the wake of the pandemic and budget cuts imposed by the Centre, the UT administration has now put the project on a fast track. With drawings and designs in place, the UT engineering department will now initiate the tendering process.The administration had come under severe criticism for first constructing a pedestrian underpass between Rose Garden and Sector 17, which has a very low footfall, rather than adhering to the long-standing demand for an underpass between PU and PGIMER.Before finalising the plans, this time around, the administration got a daily count of pedestrian and traffic conducted. “It concluded a substantial footfall necessitating an underpass as per the Indian Road Congress guidelines,” UT chief engineer CB Ojha said.Six months for constructionThe work on the ₹7.5-crore project is expected to start within this fiscal.Ojha said: “The project will start before March end, and is likely to be completed in six months.”During the construction of the underpass, for minimising inconvenience to patients coming to the PGIMER and maintaining a smooth flow of vehicles on the road, the engineering department is working on a traffic plan.“We are currently devising a traffic plan for the construction site. Once the project starts, traffic would have to be diverted. As the site witnesses heavy vehicular traffic and pedestrian footfall, our endeavour will be to limit the time needed to close the roads. Slip roads will be also used for vehicle movements,” said Ojha.Shops for generating revenueAs per the plans developed by the UT engineering department, the underpass will have 12 shops. Sized 80 square foot each, they will come up on one side of the underpass (left side when going from PGIMER to PU).“The utility shops are planned on the lines of the Delhi metro shopping arcades. When rented out, the shops are expected to generate a revenue of around ₹5 lakh per month for the administration. This will help recover a part of the construction costs of the underpass,” said Ojha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pupgi-underpass-to-come-up-for-7-5-crore-in-chandigarh-101613156669802.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai residents complain of bio-medical waste being dumped on highway||Panvel residents are upset at the bio-medical waste being dumped along the JNPT-Kalamboli Highway for the past several days with little official action.Morning walkers along the highway have been witnessing the rising debris of bio-medical waste in the area that is a risk to health. Hospitals and other medical institutions are expected to dispose of such waste as per specified government protocols.However, there have been several instances of bio-medical waste being dumped without any treatment in open spaces to save on cost.Atul Jaitpal, 40, a resident of Panvel, said, “A large number of local residents including children come here for walks and exercise every day. The waste is dumped in the open leading to pollution and health hazard. There are medicine bottles, syringes and all sorts of medical equipment. There are also expired medicines dumped here.” Pintu Pratap, 41, another local, lamented, “The dumping is going on for a long time. None of the authorities has bothered to take action. Those dumping seem to have found a safe haven here.” PCMC assistant municipal commissioner Dharyasheel Jadhav said that following complaints, a team of civic officials was sent to inspect and the team has started clearing the area of the waste.Jadhav said, “We have been taking action against such instances after ascertaining who is responsible for illegal dumping. In this case, too, we will try and find out who is responsible. We will confirm whose jurisdiction this area is under. However, we have taken immediate action in the interest of the residents. The waste is being cleared from the area. Steps will be taken to prevent such illegal dumping in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-residents-complain-of-bio-medical-waste-being-dumped-on-highway-101613156668596.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Residents demand cemetery to bury dead animals, birds in Kalyan-Dombivli||Animal lovers in the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli have demanded a cemetery for the burial of dead animals and birds in the city limits.Mahesh Bankar, animal activist, has written to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chief recently demanding a crematorium or a cemetery for animals and birds as usually they are dumped anywhere across the city.“People have no place to bury their pets. Even those animals found dead on the roads have no cemeteries. During the bird flu, there was no specific space for the birds to be buried,” said Bankar.President of Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), Pawan Sharma, said, “There has been demand to have a burial ground or cremation space for animals and birds. However, none of the civic bodies has taken initiative for this. There is no proper way for burying or cremating the animals and birds. There should also be a way to trace the owner of a pet or farm animal in case an animal is found dead. No such measures are taken, which is why the dead animals and birds land up in dumping grounds or are buried in any random place.”Suhar Pawar, secretary, Wild Animal and Reptile Rescue Found (WARR) Foundation, added, “The KDMC does not have any data on how many pet dogs or birds are there in its limits. This is the basic requirement when it comes to developing a cemetery or crematorium for pets. Again, the stray dogs are usually dumped in dust bins and then they land up in the dumping grounds. The rag pickers there set them ablaze, which is a wrong practice.”In 2019, several cows were found dead in a farm along the road parallel to Titwala-Ambivli railway track and they were left in the farm. This had led to foul smell in the area for more than a month and residents had even raised a complaint.Anagha Mohite, 39, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (W) said, “There was no registration required with the civic body when we adopted a puppy five years back. One of my friends, who lost her pet, faced difficulty in finding a place to bury it. Also, she did not receive any guidance from the corporation.”Ramdas Kokare, deputy commissioner of KDMC, said, “Earlier, the dead animals were simply thrown into the dumping ground. However, now we have started burying the animals at the ground. Once the Adharwadi dump yard is cleared, we will have to find a designated place for the burial of animals and birds, which will be done simultaneously. The recent bird flu has raised the need to have a specific space for animals and birds and we are working on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/residents-demand-cemetery-to-bury-dead-animals-birds-in-kalyandombivli-101613156488314.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Two fire stations in Navi Mumbai to be redeveloped||The two-decade-old run-down fire stations in Airoli and Belapur will soon be redeveloped with state-of-the-art infrastructure.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to demolish them and develop new buildings in 2018.While the building of Belapur fire station will be ready in three months, the construction of the Airoli building will be completed by early 2022, a senior officer said. For the Belapur fire station, the NMMC has allocated a budget of ₹6.73Cr and the work commenced in March 2019.Ajay Sankhe, executive engineer of Belapur, said, “We are now developing a four-storied building to be used as office space with a shade for parking six fire engines.”For the Airoli fire station, the NMMC has allocated ₹16.68Cr and the work at the site started in December.Girish Gumaste, executive engineer of Airoli, said, “The project has two parts. The first part will include a three storied building for the office and a shade for accommodating six fire engines. The second part will be an eight-storied building that will have official quarters of the employees. The work is now under way and will be completed by early 2022.”Presently, the NMMC has five fire stations – in Vashi, Nerul, CBD Belapur, Airoli and Koparkhairane. In 2019, the fire department also hired more than 200 employees for filling up different vacant posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-fire-stations-in-navi-mumbai-to-be-redeveloped-101613155708316.html
13-02-2021||City||Tourist bus from Hyderabad falls into gorge in AP; 4 killed, 20 injured||At least four people were killed and 20 others injured, five of them severely wounded, when a tourist bus which they were travelling in fell off the ghat road and plunged into a 200-feet gorge near the picturesque tourist spot of Araku valley in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district on Friday night, the police said.Visakhapatnam (rural) superintendent of police (SP) B Krishna Rao said the accident happened when the bus was negotiating a turn at the hair-pin bend near Dumuku village of Anantagiri block at around 7.30 pm.“The driver apparently lost the control over the steering while taking the turn as a result of which the bus slipped into the valley, overturned and fell into a gorge about 200 feet deep. The bus fell on a huge tree,” he said, adding that the police from Anantagiri and Araku rushed to the spot to take up rescue operations with the help of locals.While four passengers, including two women, a child and an old man, were killed on the spot, at least 10 others sustained injuries. “There were 24 people in the vehicle, including the driver. All 23 passengers included members of the same family and their relatives from Shaikpet area in Hyderabad,” Anantagiri sub-inspector of police K Sudhakar said.Also read: Tremors felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north India; no damage reportedThe bus (registration number TS 09 UB 3729) belongs to Dinesh Travels from Hyderabad. The family members hired the bus and left Hyderabad for a picnic in Araku Valley on February 10 and were supposed to return by February 14. “The accident appears to have occurred due to brake failure,” Sudhakar said.The injured were moved to Sringavarapu Kota government hospital for treatment. “Five of them, whose condition is serious, were being shifted to Visakhapatnam government hospital,” the sub-inspector said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed shock over the ghastly accident in Araku valley. “Distressed to hear about the accident in Visakhapatnam, AP. Condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Prayers with the injured. May they recover soon,” PM Modi tweeted.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the loss of four lives of Hyderabadis in the Araku Valley accident and expressed condolences to the bereaved families. He asked chief secretary Somesh Kumar to coordinate with Andhra Pradesh DGP Goutham Sawang, DIG Kalidas and SP B Krishna Rao to supervise rescue operations.Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy also expressed shock and grief over the mishap on the ghat road of Araku valley. They conveyed condolences to the bereaved family members and speedy recovery of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tourist-bus-from-hyderabad-falls-into-gorge-in-ap-4-killed-20-injured-101613155404281.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Chinese varsity medical students await lifting of curbs||At a time when higher educational institutes are gearing up to restart and bring their students back on campus in a phased manner for physical classes, medical aspirants pursuing their degree from universities in China are still in the lurch. After spending months back home due to the Covid-19 lockdown around the world, the recent statement released by the Chinese government still gives no clear deadline on when the ban on international students ends. Earlier this week, Taiwan lifted its ban on international students but mainland China is yet to decide on the matter.“I had already started my medical internship in January 2020 at First Hospital of Jilin University when the Covid-19 situation in China started getting out of hand and everyone was asked to stay home. By February, our families back home started getting worried and most foreign students flew back home as the country was under severe lockdown restrictions,” said Rajesh P, a final-year student who has been at home in Santacruz since February 2020.According to the rules in China, MBBS students finish their final-year course and immediately have to complete a 52-week physical internship in assigned hospitals in order to be awarded MBBS degree. While the first, second and third-year MBBS students are currently attending lectures online, final-year students are at a loss as their internship can only be completed once the lockdown restrictions are lifted.According to data from UNESCO, in 2018 and 2019, China received around 500,000 international students annually — the third highest in the world after the United States and United Kingdom.Official data shows that in 2018, more than 23,000 Indian students were enrolled in various programmes in China. Indians represent the fourth largest group of international students in China, after South Korea, Thailand and Pakistan.“Even though we are attending regular lectures online, the fact that many Chinese mobile applications have been banned in India leaves us with very limited options to contact our institute officials and friends in China. Some of our batch mates have also complained about their attendance not being registered since several apps are not recognised in India,” said a third-year medical student on condition of anonymity.While students in India are in constant touch with Indian Embassy officials in Beijing, many have now started support groups on various social networking sites to reach out to other international students facing the same problem. “Out of desperation, many of us are sharing our story on Facebook and Instagram, hoping to attract the attention of Indian as well as Chinese government. With lockdown restrictions easing out slowly, even the universities in China can surely start bringing back students to campus in phases and insist on the 14-day quarantine period before starting physical classes,” said another student.Meanwhile, students in Jianghan University in Wuhan, China, said they had received communication from the university that their degrees will now say ‘MBBS in clinical medicine’. “My university sent us notice that they are changing our course to clinical medicine. We don’t know what is the meaning of MBBS in clinical medicine,” said Neha, a third-year MBBS student at the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-chinese-varsity-medical-students-await-lifting-of-curbs-101613155588129.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to let pvt hospitals vaccinate their in-house HCWs||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to allow a handful of the shortlisted major private hospitals to vaccinate their in-house healthcare workers (HCWs) in the hospital premises. The civic body has also conducted audits of 15 of 20 shortlisted private hospitals and a final report is yet to be tabled for approval before granting them permission to conduct the drive. As HT reported earlier, BMC in the last week of January had sent a Google Form —‘Private Hospital Covid-19 vaccination preparedness checklist’ — asking authorities to upload data of their infrastructure facilities. BMC’s move followed a proposal by the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a trust of private hospitals, to allow private hospitals to vaccinate their staffers inside their premises. Of the 100 private hospitals who submitted their details for approval, 20 have been shortlisted.“We have already conducted audits of 15 shortlisted hospitals for the vaccination programme. At first, we would allow them to vaccinate only their in-house HCWs,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. The BMC mulls also plans to include the selected private hospitals for the third phase of the mass immunisation programme, where citizens above the age of 50 and those with comorbidities will be inoculated. “This will be a stepping stone for the private hospitals. Once they successfully cover vaccinating their hospital staff, we can allow them to start immunising the public in the third phase,” said Kakani. Most major private hospitals such as Bombay Hospital, Hinduja, Hiranandani and Lilavati, among others, have shown interest in conducting the inoculation programme. However, the final list of hospitals is yet to be prepared. “I am yet to get the final audit report of the hospitals. Once I get it, I will be able to put a seal on the names,” he added.Most major private hospitals have over 2,000 HCWs, and claimed they have the adequate infrastructure to conduct mass immunisation within their premises. “On a daily basis, our nurses vaccinate people. We just have to inform and educate the nurses about the amount of doses to be given,” said Dr V Ravishankar, chief operating officer, Lilavati Hospital, Bandra.Doctors said their inclusion in the immunisation programme will help boost the overall turnout of the probable beneficiaries. “We can contribute in attaining almost 100% turnout in phase one,” added Dr Ravishankar.Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer of LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, had earlier stated, “Only about 25% of HCWs go to the centre, but if vaccination is held within the premises of each major hospital then the turnout could be 75%-80%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-let-pvt-hospitals-vaccinate-their-in-house-hcws-101613155469481.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two arrested with two pistols, six live cartridges||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Thursday arrested two people from Goregaon and recovered two pistols, six live cartridges and two magazines. The arrested accused — Dhirendrapratap Satyadev Singh, 42, and Bansilal Sunderlal Jayswal, 46 — are residents of Ambernath in Thane. Acting on a tip-off, police laid a trap and nabbed the two, said inspector Sunil Mane of unit 11 of crime branchDuring interrogation the accused said they brought the weapons from Uttar Pradesh to sell in Mumbai. A further probe is going on to check past criminal records of the duo. They were produced before a magistrate court and have been remanded in police custody till February 17, said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-arrested-with-two-pistols-six-live-cartridges-101613155228161.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman booked for fraudulently obtaining husband’s bank statements||A Khar resident has been booked for allegedly conniving with a local police officer to illegally obtain bank statements of her husband, using a using forged notice. The woman allegedly took the step to use the statement in her claim of maintenance from the husband.Mumbai sessions court has, earlier this week, rejected her anticipatory bail application, observing that her custodial interrogation was required to investigate the forged documents.The accused has been fighting a matrimonial case against her husband since 2012. After the family court allowed maintenance for their children but rejected the plea for her, she approached the Bombay high court for maintenance. To substantiate her claim, the woman had attached bank account statements of her husband, his parents and their company, to show the husband’s income.The prosecution has alleged that when the complainant, the husband, inquired how she obtained the bank statements, he found that it was obtained by a local police officer by issuing a notice to the bank under section 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The section relates to issuance of summons to produce document or other thing for the purpose of police investigation.The complainant claimed that the police personnel had issued a notice citing a case against the husband over cheating ₹75 lakh, registered with Agripada police. The man then sought relevant documents from the police station under Right to Information Act, and came to know that the notice was forged and fabricated to obtain the bank statements. Following this, the man lodged a case of cheating and forgery against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-booked-for-fraudulently-obtaining-husband-s-bank-statements-101613155168215.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Give Class 10 students more time to submit papers for extra marks, say principals from Mumbai||Principals from schools in Mumbai requested the state board to give another extension to Class 10 students to submit their documents for bonus marks given for art, performing arts and sports. In a letter sent to the education department, the Mumbai Principals’ Association said that since a lot of exams and events did not take place in 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the board should be more considerate and give an extension. “Drawing grade exams, for instance, did not take place in 2020. Similarly several other exams and events were delayed. We hope that the board takes note of this and grants an extension up to March 30, 2021,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the association.According to principals, nearly 15% students, who are awaiting their documents, might not get the benefit of the extra marks if the deadline is not extended. The board has allowed schools to send documents by March 15. An official from the education department said a decision with respect to deadline extension has not been taken yet. In 2017, the state education department had, for the first time, decided to grant additional marks (up to 25) to students for excelling in areas in addition to sports. It announced bonus marks for art and cultural activities. In 2018, after scores of students soared high with bonus marks, the department amended the rules and reduced the maximum bonus scores to up to 15 marks. For intermediate examinations, students now get three to seven bonus marks depending on the grade that the student gets in the exams. Last year (2020), more 188,000 students were awarded bonus marks in various categories like art, sports and dance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/give-class-10-students-more-time-to-submit-papers-for-extra-marks-say-principals-from-mumbai-101613154988088.html
13-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to seek report from Governor secretariat over aircraft fiasco||The Maharashtra government will seek a report from Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s office over the incident on Thursday when the latter was denied state's aircraft to fly to Uttarakhand. The report will be sought from the secretary to the Governor Santosh Kumar by the state general administration department, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar told Hindustan Times on Friday.Koshyari had to face an embarrassment on Thursday as he went to Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSMIA) and boarded a state's aircraft for travelling to Dehradun but had to deplane and take a commercial flight since the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had not approved the use of state's plane.After the incident, the CMO on Thursday blamed the Raj Bhavan secretariat saying that latter should have ensured that they had permission to use the aircraft before the governor departed from his official residence. Indicating action against the officials for not informing the Governor about permission updates, the CMO also said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had already directed the administration to fix the responsibility on the concerned officials for negligence.Sanjay Kumar said on Friday, “A report will be sought from the Governor's secretary (Santosh Kumar) over the incident. The state aviation department secretary will be directed to seek the report and the state government will take further decisions.”Also read: Tremors felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north India; no damage reportedOn Friday, Thackeray avoided reacting to the controversy and remarked that the government will be developing an airstrip at Palghar so that everyone’s aircraft can land there. He was responding to a question about the incident. Thackeray also chose to use a helipad at Mahalaxmi racecourse instead of the one at Raj Bhavan (Governor house at Malabar Hill) following the aircraft controversy, the officials said.He was on a visit to Palghar district where he reviewed the development schemes and basic infrastructure. “I want to develop a small airstrip in Palghar so that everyone’s airplane can be landed here in the district,” Thackeray said when asked that the state government has denied the Governor to use its aircraft for flying to Dehradun in Uttarakhand.Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Thursday denied permission to Koshyari to use the state’s six-seater Cessna Citation XLS aeroplane to travel to Dehradun. This led to a controversy and blame game between the Raj Bhavan secretariat and the state.According to Raj Bhavan, Koshyari had reached the international airport and even boarded the state’s aircraft but he was told the plane would not take off as the CMO had not approved the travel, so consequently, permission for flying was not sought from the flying authority. The Governor then took a commercial flight to Dehradun.Ties likely to worsen?The incident, however, is likely to worsen the already strained relations between Thackeray government and Koshyari. According to senior government officials, Koshyari and Thackeray are not on talking terms beyond customary exchanges for the last many months. Recently, they met at the state’s Republic Day function at Shivaji Park, Dadar, but there was hardly any interaction between them, the officials said.“He (Uddhav Thackeray) should understand we also have some political compulsions. The Governor told this to Rashmi Thackeray, CM's wife during a brief interaction,” said a senior bureaucrat, requesting anonymity.Koshyari was referring to the appointment of 12 names as members of the state legislative council (MLC) under his (Governor’s) quota). The state cabinet had made the recommendation to Koshyari to nominate them to the Upper House as per the norms on November 6, last year. However, he is yet to take the decision, which has upset the chief minister and MVA leaders.The chief minister has not visited Raj Bhavan, official residence cum office of the Governor, for nearly nine months. Last time, he called on Koshyari after being elected as the member of the legislative council on May 18. His wife and son and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray were also present.Before that, Thackeray had called on the Governor at the Raj Bhavan on May 1. The meeting lasted for about 20 minutes. It was held a day after Koshyari wrote to the Election commission of India (ECI) requesting it to hold biennial elections to the nine vacant seats of the state legislative council at the earliest to facilitate Thackeray's election to the Upper House of the state legislature. The biennial elections for the nine vacant seats were postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Later, Thackeray also skipped a meeting called by the Governor to review the Covid-19 pandemic on May 21, the officials said.Meanwhile, Koshyari attended the 122th IAS induction program at the Lal Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie on Friday. He also met with Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and discussed the ongoing rescue operation following the glacier disaster in Chamoli. The Governor was expected to return in the state government’s aircraft but will be returning to Mumbai in a commercial flight on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-to-seek-report-from-governor-secretariat-over-aircraft-fiasco-101613154577190.html
13-02-2021||Other||1,800 CISF personnel at Mumbai airport get Covid-19 vaccine||With an aim to safeguard frontline workers, over 1,800 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at Mumbai airport were vaccinated until Friday. Mumbai airport has 4,300 CISF personnel working in three shifts round-the-clock and are being vaccinated as per their availability. CISF is in charge of security at Mumbai airport. A senior airport official said, “Vaccination drive of CISF personnel at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) began from February 10. On the first day of the drive, 460 personnel were vaccinated, followed by 861 on the second day and 530 on the third. A total of 1,851 personnel have been vaccinated in three days.”Sources say the government is also considering to include airport operator employees in the list of frontliners as they deal directly with the passengers.Sources from Mumbai airport said only CISF employees are currently being vaccinated. “However, vaccinating airport staff who directly interact with passengers is under consideration of the civil aviation ministry,” said an airport official.Around 33,000 CISF personnel are deployed at various airports across the country. The total strength of CISF is 142,000, of which around 34,953 (all sectors) have been vaccinated for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1800-cisf-personnel-at-mumbai-airport-get-covid-19-vaccine-101613154628219.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||AAP accuses north civic body mayor of forging documents to occupy land||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Durgesh Pathak on Friday demanded the resignation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and north Delhi municipal corporation’s mayor Jai Prakash, accusing him of forging documents and “illegally occupying” a land owned by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB).Prakash dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.“North corporation mayor Jai Prakash has shown fake documents regarding the illegal occupation of DUSIB land. The AAP has decided not to participate in any proceedings of the BJP-ruled North Delhi municipal corporation until he resigns. The BJP should also suspend him from the party for corruption,” said Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all the three municipal corporations.Prakash dismissed that allegation as “baseless” and said that his son is the legal custodian of the concerned property in Sadar Bazar and has all necessary documents.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor too countered the AAP’s allegations by saying, “The AAP has failed in governance and so they are trying to malign image of BJP leaders ahead of municipal polls next year with such lies and baseless allegations. Never before in Delhi have political leaders of a party stooped down so low. They will have to face consequences in the 2022 municipal polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-north-civic-body-mayor-of-forging-documents-to-occupy-land-bjp-hits-back-101613153009831.html
13-02-2021||Other||Doorstep delivery of rations: Govt offer people chance to opt out of scheme||The Delhi government’s scheme to ensure doorstep delivery of rations is designed to automatically include all 7.16 million beneficiaries of the public distribution system in the capital, unless they choose to opt out. To that end, the food department has started sending text messages to ration card holders alerting them about the scheme and offering them the choice to opt out, said a senior government official.Not responding to the message within 10 days of receipt means that the beneficiary is automatically included in the scheme. This, food rights activists say, will only confuse people. They argue that the government should have given people the choice to “opt in” rather than out.“The government has started sending text messages to ration card holders from January 2, asking if they want to opt out of the scheme. People who do not respond to the message within 10 days will automatically qualify for doorstep delivery of monthly rations. Those who want to opt out can also approach the district office concerned of the food and civil supplies department in later stages,” said a senior official of the food department who did not wish to be identified.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on January 25, had said that the long-awaited scheme will be launched in March.Delhi has 1.75 million ration card holders – which translates to 7.16 million beneficiaries. Of the total ration card holders, 1.51 million are covered under priority household category of the National Food Security Act, 2013, while 0.17 million are covered under priority state household category, and the remaining 0.07 million come under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana, show government records.While those under the first two categories are entitled to 5 kilos of food grains a month, those under the third category are entitled to 25kg wheat, 10kg rice and 1kg sugar every month. These items are distributed to them from 2,010 fair price shops that are currently functional across the city.The project was cleared by the Delhi cabinet in March 2018 but could not be rolled out because of several administrative issues, some of which even led to stand-offs between the elected government led by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and officials in charge of the department. Some of the administrative issues pertained to legal provisions under the food security law, which took more than one year to be resolved, said a senior government official.The project was given a fresh push ahead of the assembly polls in Delhi in February 2020 and a pilot run for three months was conducted in five municipal wards of north Delhi. In July 2020, the new cabinet gave fresh approval to the project.Shailendra Kumar, president of Delhi public distribution system welfare association, said: “People should have been given the choice of opting in rather than out. People need more time to understand the scheme. Many of them will choose not to respond to the text messages despite having apprehensions about inclusion.”Saurabh Garg, secretary of the Delhi-based sarkari ration dealer sangh, echoed similar concerns. He said, “Nearly 30% of the phone numbers registered for ration in the city are non-functional. The record updating process is yet not complete. Also, disclosure of mobile number for availing of rations is voluntary. It is uncertain what would happen to such beneficiaries.”The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, a city-based collective led by activists such as Anjali Bhardwaj, Annie Raja and Sipa Sinha, that works on food rights, has raised concerns about the implementation of the scheme and flagged those concerns through a letter sent to Kejriwal last month.“The text messages sent to ration cardholders show that the government is making a presumption of consent for the home delivery of rations as it requires only those who do not want to avail of it to send a response message. As the proposed policy is going to significantly impact how people access their food grain entitlement under the National Food Security Act, it is important that people are given comprehensive information about the delivery mechanism and then be able to choose the preferred system,” said the letter, further highlighting concerns about “lack of transparency” in the process and more room for “corruption”.Delhi government spokespersons refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doorstep-delivery-of-rations-govt-smses-offer-people-a-chance-to-opt-out-of-scheme-101613153007948.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Police probe links between Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana||Delhi Police are investigating the links between actor Deep Sidhu, who was arrested for his alleged role in the January 26 Red Fort violence, and alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana, after the latter recently released a video on social media , seeking support for Sidhu and others arrested and demanding their release.Delhi police have not announced any reward for Sidhana’s arrest, but have said that his role is also being probed for the violence during January 26. Police had announced a reward on eight suspects, which does not include Sidhu. Police have not specified Sidhana’s alleged role, but had on January 27 said that Sidhana too was under probe.A total of 143 people, including actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, have been arrested in as many as 44 cases registered in connection with the Republic Day’s violence during a tractor rally by farmers, who have been camping against the three contentious farm laws at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders for the past 80 days. At least seven of the arrested persons have already been released on bail.Among the eight key suspects wanted in the Red Fort violence case, Sidhu was arrested on Monday night from Karnal Bypass in Haryana by Delhi Police’s special cell team while he was waiting for a car arranged by his friend to meet his wife in Bihar’s Purnea. He was evading arrest since a case was registered at the Kotwali police station on January 27. Two more suspects, Iqbal Singh and Sukhdev Singh (both among the eight suspects) have also been arrested.After Sidhu’s arrest, the Delhi Police had claimed that he had played a key role in instigating protesters and has even congratulated the man who hoisted flags at the Red Fort apart from doing a Facebook live from the iconic fort.A police officer, associated with the probe, said on the condition of anonymity that Sidhu was present at the Singhu border protest site on January 25 and had even delivered a “provocative speech”. “Technical investigation reveals that Sidhana’s location was also at the Singhu border at that time. Ascertaining the links between the duo is part of the ongoing probe,” the officer said.In his social media video, Sidhana has supported Sidhu and can also be heard asking people (farm leaders) to demand the release of Sidhu before resuming dialogues with the government over the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-probe-links-between-deep-sidhu-and-gangster-turned-activist-lakha-sidhana-101613153007380.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||100 ex-employees of Lufthansa stage a protest, want to be reinstated||Around 100 former crew members of Lufthansa Airline, whose services were terminated on February 2, staged a protest at the company’s office in Aerocity on Friday, demanding they be reinstated.Shalini Sharma, general secretary of the employee’s union, said the Lufthansa Cabin Crew Union had been in talks with the airline management since April 2020 and had been agreed to pay cuts.“The union even agreed for two years of unpaid leave, but the breaking point was no job assurance. On February 2, we received a mail informing us that 103 crew members had been sacked... Our demand is that the company reinstates all of us,” she said.She said they have also sought the Centre’s intervention.But in a detailed statement, a Lufthansa Airline spokesperson said the airline had signed an agreement with the airline union’s India wing, providing for two years of unpaid leave, with the airline continuing to pay for the local health insurance — even for enrolled family members.“Lufthansa was also willing to absorb all associated premiums during this period. Moreover, an offer for voluntary separation packages enabling eligible colleagues to leave the company on mutual terms was also part of the agreement. Unfortunately, consent to the agreement was revoked by the union on 31 December,” the airline said.It said, however, not being able to reach an agreement for cabin crew, the airline decided not extend these contracts as part of an inevitable restructuring“It should be noted that this restructuring (including personnel-related measures) is not limited to key international markets like India but affects all Lufthansa worldwide markets and to a great extent includes its home markets, especially Germany. However, there the Lufthansa was able to reach initial agreements with unions to help weather the crisis,” Lufthansa said.Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said some employees of the airline had gathered but the situation throughout remained peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/100-ex-employees-of-lufthansa-stage-a-protest-want-to-be-reinstated-101613152769052.html
13-02-2021||Other||New orders imposing prohibitions on protests in force: Delhi Police to HC||The Delhi Police on Friday told the Delhi high court that the earlier order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority ( DDMA) imposing prohibition on protests due to COVID-19 have now ceased to exist and fresh orders have come in force.Justice Prathiba M Singh noted the submissions of advocate Gautam Narayan, representing the Delhi police, and asked them to decide within seven days on an application by a social activist seeking permission to conduct a protest at Jantar Mantar.Gorana, an activist fighting for the rights of bonded labour, had moved court challenging the order of the DDMA which had imposed restrictions on gatherings in wake of COVID-19. He had moved to the court challenging the order due to which the Delhi police had denied him permission to protest at Jantar Mantar.Advocate Narayan on Friday told the court that the earlier notifications issued by the Delhi government’s Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) brought to contain the spread of Covid-19 is no longer in force and new notifications have come in operation.Narayan, also said that other notifications under section144 of CrPC are in place for some areas.He said that the petitioner can file a fresh application to the city police to seek permission on the protest.Following the submission of the Delhi police, the court disposed of the plea and asked them to decide it in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/order-banning-protest-has-been-withdrawn-cops-tell-hc-101613152768101.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC halts tendering process in maintaining parks by DDA||The Delhi high court on Friday stayed the awarding of tenders by the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA’s) horticulture department in maintaining over 700 parks across the city, indicting the agency for alleged corruption and malpractices.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli also called upon the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) to examine the matter and inform whether a full-fledged probe was required against the erring officials.The court also said that the actions could not have taken place without the blessings of local inspectors and other staff of the DDA, pointing to their connivance with contractors.The bench stayed the process of finalising all the tenders that have not been awarded yet. It also added that the ones which have been awarded after filing of the petition, would remain subject to further orders of the present matter.The court also issued notice to the Central Vigilance Commission to look into the matter while asking Kanwaljeet Arora, secretary, Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), to give suggestions as to how the process could be improved.“The ways the tenders are structured and awarded, it is evident that there are serious malpractices and corruption,” the court said.The order comes while hearing a plea by a contractor Sanjay Sharma, who had sought to cancel or recall a tender issued by the horticulture department, Dwarka in October, 2020, for the maintenance of park area, lawns, tree plantations, sweeping of paths in the Sector 19 district park, Dwarka.The petition, filed through advocate Mohit Gupta, had said that due to the faulty clause of taking the minimum wages in structuring a tender for maintaining parks, the bidders had ended up quoting the same amounts. It had said that since the number of workers wanted are seven, the price is coming as same for all the contractors.It had said that the clauses were framed without factoring the service charges, labour cess, bonus component, wages payable to skilled supervisors and other expenses in terms of the tender.The plea had also sought that cost of logistics borne by a contractor is also taken in account while finalizing the successful bids. Earlier the DDA had submitted that bidders and contractors apply for small tenders incurring losses to gain experience.The counsel contended that corruption to the tune of crores is taking place due to the consideration of bids on the basis of minimum wages, as the final bidder is chosen on the basis of draw of lots, after the bids are common. It has said that since the clause for all the tenders is the same, this would have a bearing on several people.On November 27 last year, the court had stayed the land owning agency from issuing the Letter of Acceptance in the said tender.On Friday, senior advocate Sudhanshu Batra, appearing for the contractor, told the court that 300 tenders for maintaining the parks have been floated since April 2020 while quoting the minimum wages leading to the same bidding amount.He also said that 40 tenders alone were floated even after the November 27, 2020 order of staying the tender to maintain the park at Dwarka, Sector-19.Senior advocate Rajiv Bansal, appearing for the DDA, told the court that the agency is conscious of the malpractices ongoing in the tender process. He said that the vice chairman of DDA has taken note of the problem and every effort would be made to rectify this.However, the court said that the DDA should have been vigilant and pulled up the agency for not acting on the corrupt practices despite knowing.The DDA spokesperson refused to comment on the issue despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-halts-tendering-process-in-maintaining-parks-by-dda-suggests-cvc-enquiry-101613152767325.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||4k health workers in line to get second Covid-19 vaccine shot today||As part of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, officials on Friday reached out to 4,319 people scheduled to get their second vaccine dose on Saturday in Delhi.The beneficiaries include healthcare workers who received their first dose on January 16, when the vaccination drive began across the country. Delhi deployed Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccines.“After the first shot, the beneficiaries were given a card with details of their next dose. The Co-WIN portal also sends out an automatic message on their phones. However, we are not taking any chances. We asked all 81 vaccination centres (involved on the first vaccination day) to call the beneficiaries and inform them that they are due for the next dose,” said a senior official from Northeast Delhi district. The district consistently reported 100% coverage and its officials attributed it to this rigorous mechanism they followed.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageHT found a similar mechanism in place at other districts too. Co-WIN is a central government portal developed to track vaccination drive and their beneficiaries.Beneficiaries are slated to receive the second dose at the same centres where they received the first.“For now, there is no option for people to change their centre or the date. However, if people do miss their vaccination, they may be given another chance in another four to six weeks,” said the above-mentioned district official.But the protocol for the second attempt at a shot is yet to be finalised.“So far, we have not received any protocol for what to do if people miss their second vaccine dose. This will be decided after tomorrow (Saturday), but these beneficiaries need to get the vaccine within a certain period, as per the vaccination protocol,” said another official.The government plans to increase the number of vaccination centres. According to government data, the city has been vaccinating over 12,000 people each day for the last four days, up from the 4,000 on the first day. On Thursday, the government had increased centres from 183 to 265.Currently, all the vaccination sites are at hospitals – both government and private – where any adverse reactions can be handled. The new centres are expected to be at government dispensaries.Experts call for uniform messagingBoth vaccines deployed in India are two-dose vaccine with each dose spaced 28 days apart. But some data suggest that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine AZD1222 (the Indian variant is Covishield) gave better protection at 12 weeks apart. This, experts said, could lead to people giving the second dose a miss.“There is a lot of confusion among doctors and other healthcare workers on this. Some may miss their second dose and trying to delay it for as long as possible (believing it would be better to get it at 12 weeks). However, with just one dose, the seroconversion (production of antibodies) will not be proper and they will not be protected against the disease,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College.Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said, “There is a lot of confusion with the data currently available. However, what we know for sure is that one dose will not protect you against the disease. But whether the second dose should be given 28 days apart or 12 weeks is not clear. In general, for other vaccines, once the T cell (part of the immune system) response is primed they need to be boosted quickly for better response.”Both experts encouraged people not to miss the second dose even for minor adverse reactions. “Except those who suffered anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction), the others should get the vaccine and be prepared for minor side effects like fever, giddiness etc,” said Dr Broor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/districts-call-up-beneficiaries-for-second-vaccine-dose-101613152707961.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||SC dismisses review petition terming Shaheen Bagh protests illegal||The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, the Supreme Court said in an order, dismissing a review petition filed by 12 activists challenging an October 2020 ruling of the top court terming the anti-citizenship law protests held at Shaheen Bagh to be illegal.A three-judge bench of Justices SK Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari stuck by its previous ruling that protests were meant to be held in designated places and the police will be within its rights to remove persons holding protest outside designated places.Dismissing the review petitions in chambers on February 9, the three judges held, “The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere. There may be some spontaneous protests, but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting rights of others.” The order was put out in public domain on Friday.The court dismissed the petition filed by Kaniz Fatima and 11 others and declined the request made in the review petition to list the matter in open court.The October ruling came in the context of the protests held against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA conducted at south Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area. The protests started on December 15, 2019 and ended only after a lockdown imposed by the Central government on March 24 last year in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 came into force. The protests threw traffic out of gear in Shaheen Bagh, prompting one Amit Sahni, a resident of Delhi, to file a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Apex court, resulting in the October 7 decision.The top court had ruled, “We have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely. Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.”Since the protest at Shaheen Bagh blocked one of the key thoroughfares to Noida, the protest was held to be illegal.The review petition under Article 137 of the Constitution had raised five grounds to challenge the October order. The main ground for review was the vast powers the judgment conferred on police, leaving scope for its abuse.The petitioners stated, “Prima facie the order under review appears to be giving way to an unrestricted sanction to the police to take action by misusing these observations…. Such observations may prove to be a license in the hands of the police to commit atrocities on legitimate voice of protest, especially protesters coming from vulnerable sections of the social strata.”Further, it argued that the observation of the court that protests could be held at ‘designated places alone’ went against the five-judge bench decision of the Supreme Court in Himat Lal Shah case decided in September 1972. This decision upheld the right of a citizen to hold public meetings on public streets. The petitioners complained that before altering this principle, the apex bench did not hear the protestors.Considering all questions raised in the review petition, the review order said, “We have considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded our opinion that the Constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties.”The review petitioners had submitted that the judgment of the top court would lead to a situation where the administration would never engage in dialogue with protestors but would instead take action against them including their prosecution. “The order takes away the constitutional protection guaranteed to peaceful protestors….to put any curbs on this freedom to show dissent (towards government policies, legislations and other acts and omissions) leaves the citizens with no resort whatsoever to voice their concerns,” Fatima and others stated in their petition filed by advocate Kabir Dixit.The bench having gone through the review petition and record of its earlier order said, “We are convinced that the order of which review has been sought, does not suffer from any error apparent warranting its reconsideration.” The review petitions were dismissed on this count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-dismisses-review-petition-terming-shaheen-bagh-protests-illegal-says-protests-cannot-be-anytime-and-everywhere-101613152707261.html
13-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi education department to enhance its social media presence||As schools in the city open up after being shut for more than a year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government has decided to engage an agency to ensure increased social media presence of the education department and enhance community outreach for policies that concern schools and education, said a senior government official on Friday.The initiative, said the official, will help the government improve communication and outreach on social media where several students and their parents have active presence.Schools in Delhi were closed for 10 months in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, with in-person classes for Class 10 and 12 students starting on January 18. The schools have been asked only to call students with the consent of the parents and follow all the Covid-19 precautions. On February 5, schools were opened for classes 9 and 11.“The agency will be entrusted with spreading information through social media platforms, manage the social media handles, profiles and pages for the education department, digital media management, writing and posting blogs about schools, colleges and education policies, do info-graphics, generate videos, design social media campaigns, and engage in fact-checks and generate content against any kind of misinformation,” said the senior official, who did not wish to be identified.The official further said, “The agency will also be entrusted with using social and digital media to engage with stakeholders on policies apart from aiming to enhance community outreach. The agency should have a good understanding and experience of engaging with citizens groups, civil social groups and the youth. Schools are reopening after the Covid-19 pandemic and the government needs impactful strategies on the front of communication.”The Delhi government had floated a tender in this regard on February 5 and the bidding process for the same will close on February 26, read the tender document, which HT has seen.“The team should have familiarity with keyword placement and other social media best practices, including Twitter trends, hashtags, Lives on Facebook and Twitter and other evolving trends,” the tender document read.The document further said that the objectives of the project would include ensuring awareness about education policies, real-time response on queries flagged on social media accounts after due consultation with the department, publishing “success stories” concerning the department and government schools, and increasing transparency.Delhi’s education minister Manish Sisodia said, “We have to equip our students with 21st century skills. These days even teachers use social media in many ways to learn things from across the globe and implement that in the classroom. Using social media for better communication and outreach is essential at this stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-education-department-to-enhance-its-social-media-presence-101613152648002.html
13-02-2021||Pune||Student turnout on the rise as safety measures win confidence of parents||On Friday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recorded 29.31 per cent student turnout in class 5 to 8 across the city. As schools reopened on February 1, the student turnout has been on a steady rise. Parents and school management noted that all safety measures are being taken against Covid-19 to ensure safety of students. Parents also shared that students are happy as schools are now offline. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC said that initially the turnout of students was less and gradually it is increasing. “We have seen this rise for class nine to 12 as well. Parents are hesitant initially but gradually give permission to students to attend school. The turnout of the students is slowly increasing,” said Jagtap. Speaking about the reopening, Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Apte Prashala said that the turnout is increasing. “The student turnout has improved since day one. We have alternate classes in our school, for example, if class 5 is coming to school today, class 6 will be attending school tomorrow. We sanitize the whole premise for the safety of our children. Also, children on the premises and under the supervision of our teachers adhere to social distancing and wear masks compulsorily,” said Sinnarkar. She further added that students now understand the importance of hand hygiene and social distancing. “They are very cautious about not forming a big group, maintaining proper distance and wearing masks at all times. Students also frequently use sanitizers,” said Sinnarkar. A city-based parent Asmita Patil noted that her daughter is very happy to be back in offline school. “The school is her happy place. She is in class 6th and is happy to go back to school. Online school was a little monotonous for her. She likes to step outside and now she even gets to meet her friends but in the past few months, she has understood the importance of wearing masks and hand hygiene. She follows it ardently in school as well,” said Patil. Box The turnout so far Feb 12-- 29.31%Feb 11-- 28.37% Feb 10--27.29% Feb 9--25.04% Feb 3-- 22.27% Feb 2--14.43% Source: PMC **Total schools in PMC limits that are opened for class 5 to 8-- 920||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/student-turnout-on-the-rise-as-safety-measures-win-confidence-of-parents-101613144846828.html
13-02-2021||Pune||Pune colleges set to begin offline lectures from Feb 15||Colleges and universities in the state are reopening from February 15, and a circular on the lines has also been issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday. The higher educational institutes in the city have begun preparations as per the Covid protocol and are eagerly awaiting the return of students to campus after a hiatus of over 10 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Vidya Yeravdekar, pro-chancellor of Symbiosis International (deemed university) and principal director, Symbiosis said, “We are eagerly waiting for the students to come back. We have set up a committee to look into the details of health and safety of our students. Social distancing will be maintained. Students are requested to get RT-PCR test done before they come to the campus. We are opening from February 15 but have given a window until February 28 as many of our students come from faraway places. We will be calling them in batches and only 50 per cent can attend in class. We will have 50 per cent students in labs so we will have to juggle with the timetable. The placement teams are already here and coordinating with the industries for placements and internships.” NT Rao, vice chancellor of MIT World Peace University said, “With the recent government announcement of colleges and universities being allowed to re-open in Maharashtra, we, at MIT World Peace University (MIT-WPU) are equally enthusiastic like our students and look forward to welcoming them back on campus. At the same time, we as a responsible institution, are adequately sensitive to the concern of parents towards their wards and have made conscious efforts to create a safe and conducive space for our students to pursue their academic goals in this new normal.” According to Rao, cleaning and regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces such as, doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, chairs, benches, washroom fixtures has been made mandatory in all classrooms, laboratories, parking areas and other common areas before the beginning of classes and at the end of the day. “Teaching materials, computers, laptops and printers shall also be regularly disinfected. Sitting places in classes, laboratories, computer labs, libraries will be clearly marked, keeping in view the norms of physical distancing,” he said. Aftab Anwar Shaikh, principal of Poona College of Arts, Commerce and Science said, “We are following the Covid guidelines for starting up of the colleges, but 90 per cent of our students come from public transport buses and some of them from slum areas. Along with safety precautions inside the colleges, it is also necessary to provide students a safe travelling mode. As schools and colleges resume, thousands of students will travel across the city. We will be checking and doing thermal scanning inside the college but at the same time it is necessary to have their travelling exposure to infection secure.” Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College said, “We are taking extra precaution about arrangements to start the college, social distancing to be maintained properly. Also the consent from parents to send their children to college is also important, as without consent students won’t be allowed to attend the classroom lectures. Once we complete the Covid testing of all our faculties and get permission from PMC, the college will start.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-universities-and-colleges-set-to-begin-offline-lectures-from-feb-15-101613144786826.html
