14-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai civic body permits 20 private hospitals to vaccinate its staff||Twenty private hospitals across south Mumbai have now been permitted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to start vaccination centres for coronavirus, to inoculate their healthcare staff. These vaccination centres at the selected private hospitals will not be open for any other walk-in beneficiaries or the general public, as per the decision taken by the civic body. These hospitals will start vaccination centres for their staff either from Tuesday or Wednesday.BMC is currently vaccinating healthcare workers as part of phase one of the vaccination drive that began on January 16, and frontline workers as part of phase two of the drive, which began on February 4.Until Saturday, 114,207 beneficiaries have been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine across 23 hospitals and jumbo Covid-19 facilities in the city. Of these 90,034 are healthcare workers, and 24,173 are frontline workers. BMC will start administering the second dose of the vaccine to healthcare workers on Monday, which marks 28 days from the day they started receiving their first dose.On Sunday, a team of officers from the civic public health department conducted inspections of 20 private hospitals across south Mumbai, to check if they qualify to become vaccination centres for their healthcare staff.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the public health department said, “All 20 private hospitals have qualified. We invited their staff for training sessions on how to administer the vaccine. Five staffers per booth, per hospital, will be trained by BMC. Whosoever comes up, can attend the training. After which, they can start the vaccination centres.”Two training sessions have been organised, one on Monday afternoon and another on Tuesday morning. Those who can attend Monday’s session will be able to start the vaccination centres at the respective hospitals from Tuesday, and those who attend Tuesday’s training session will start the vaccination centres at their respective hospitals from Wednesday.Global Hospital, SL Raheja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital, Kokilaben hospital, Bombay Hospital, Jaslok Hospital, ESIC Hospital, are among the private hospitals permitted after Sunday’s inspection drive. Space, technical manpower and storage capacity for vaccine vials were the main criteria for the qualification of these hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-mumbai-civic-body-permits-20-private-hospitals-to-vaccinate-its-staff-101613327265658.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Uttarakhand floods may affect water supply in south, east and north-east Delhi||Water supply in parts of south, east and north-east Delhi is likely to be affected in the coming days as two water treatment plants of Delhi Jal Board were operating at a reduced capacity, Raghav Chadha vice chairperson of Delhi Jal Board said on Sunday.In a series of tweets, Chadha said that turbidity in raw water collected from Delhi’s Upper Ganga Canal had increased to an “unprecedented level of 8000 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) because of the recent Uttarakhand floods.”Water supply is parts of South, East and North East Delhi is likely to be affected. We urge citizens to use water judiciously. Water tankers etc. in adequate numbers are being deployed and all possible efforts being made to reduce turbidity. (2/3)“Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plants are currently operating at reduced capacity due to the increased turbidity in water,” he said.Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. Turbidity is measured in Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). High turbidity can be caused by debris, silt, mud, algae, plant pieces, melting glaciers, sawdust, wood ashes or chemicals in the water.“The Delhi Jal Board urge citizens to use water judiciously. Water tankers inadequate numbers are being deployed and all possible efforts being made to reduce turbidity,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uttarakhand-floods-may-affected-water-supply-in-south-east-and-north-east-delhi-101613326963220.html
14-02-2021||City||Six elephants die of bacterial disease in Odisha, highest in any sanctuary||Even as two more female elephants in Odisha's Karlapat wildlife sanctuary of Kalahandi district succumbed to bacterial disease in last two days, wildlife veterinarians on Sunday confirmed that all the six animals died of haemorrhagic septicaemia or Pasteurellosis.While four female elephants were found dead in the Karalapat Wildlife Sanctuary of Kalahandi between February 1 and 12, two more died in last two days taking the death toll to six.The veterinary experts from the Centre of Wildlife Health in Odisha University of Agriculture Technology, Bhubaneswar, conducted tests on the viscera of the carcasses. The experts also carried out molecular tests and confirmed that the deaths were due to haemorrhagic septicaemia or Pasteurellosis. The disease affects mainly water buffaloes, cattle, and bison in tropical areas of southeast Asia where the population of water buffaloes is high. Acute infection can persist up to three days and less often 5 days. The disease and is characterised by high fever ranging 104°–106°F, restlessness and reluctance to move, hypersalivation and nasal discharge."Our tests confirmed that the elephants were infected by a bacteria called Pasteurella multocida, that resides mostly as a commensal in the nasopharynx of animals. It's a disease that affects the respiratory and digestive tracts of the affected animals. However, we are yet to pinpoint the source of the bacteria. There are 4-5 villages located inside the sanctuary with domestic cattle population that may have spread the bacteria," said Dr Niranjan Sahu, head of the College of Veterinary Sciences, who had conducted the tests.Also read: JeM planned terror attacks in Delhi, says J-K DGPSahu confirmed that this is the first case of haemorrhagic septicaemia in the wild in Odisha. "There have been some cases of haemorrhagic septicaemia in India and the rest of the world. But not in Odisha," he said. He said no case of death due to haemorrhagic septicaemia have been reported from any of the livestock in Karlapat wildlife sanctuary so far.Divisional Forest Officer, Kalahandi (south), T Ashok Kumar said of the 17 elephants in the sanctuary, the dead elephants were part of a 7-member herd. "The male elephant of the herd is fine. The other male elephants in the sanctuary are also doing fine. We believe the elephants have developed an immunity. We have separated the other elephants and started vaccination of the livestock across the 4-5 villages of the sanctuary. We have also disinfected the water bodies in the area over fears of possible contamination," he said.Renowned wildlife veterinary expert Arun Zachariah from Kerala said that the death of six elephants due to haemorrhagic septicaemia could be the largest ever in Indian forests. "There have been sporadic deaths of elephants due to haemorrhagic septicaemia, but never a case of mass deaths. The animals developing haemorrhagic septicaemia can die of pneumonia. But there are various other symptoms. The Odisha deaths could be the single largest case of deaths due to haemorrhagic septicaemia," said Zachariah.In 2020-21, so far, 61 elephants have died in Odisha of which 28 were due to unnatural causes. While 10 elephants have been either poached or poisoned to death, more than a half a dozen were been electrocuted.In August and September 2019, five elephant calves in Nandankanan zoo and adjoining Chandaka elephant sanctuary had succumbed to elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus. It was the first reported case of EEHV-related deaths in an Indian zoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-elephants-die-of-bacterial-disease-in-odisha-highest-in-any-sanctuary-101613326853653.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 4,000 new Covid cases first time since January 6||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,092 Covid-19 infections, first in excess of 4,000 since January 6, taking its tally to 2,064,278. The 39-day high came after the state averaged around 3,500 new cases for the past four days.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported over 600 cases after 31 days with 645 fresh infections. The city last saw over 600 cases in a day on January 14. The rise is particularly noticeable in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), and it is being attributed to resumption in local train services, lifting of most curbs and laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour.As of Sunday, there were 35,965 active cases in the state. The positivity rate in the state has been over 13% for the past 18 days, data showed. Mumbai’s total tally rose to 314,076, while the city’s active cases count stood at 4,193.The state reported 40 fatalities on Sunday, taking the toll to 51,529. Mumbai reported four deaths, taking its tally to 11,419. Of the 40 deaths reported, 15 occurred in the past 48 hours and seven in the past week. The remaining 18 deaths were from the period before last week.Cases in MMR, including Mumbai and cities like Nagpur, Nashik and Pune, have witnessed a spurt in cases over the past two weeks. Daily caseload of MMR touched 1,141, on February 14, up from 592 on February 1. The rise in these two weeks in Pune (353 from 102), Nashik (122 from 45) and Nagpur (437 from 200), too, was sharp.Health experts, who are also on state government panels and task forces, have attributed the rise in cases to increased movement of people post unlocking, resumption of trains in Mumbai and MMR, and Covid fatigue in wearing masks and sanitising.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state government on Covid-19 and former director-general of health services, said that he was “warning” of a possible surge in daily cases. He said, “I was warning about it for the past few days. The daily cases that we were seeing for the past few weeks fluctuated. But there was no declining trend week-on-week. Now we are seeing an upward trend.”Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid task force in the state, said, “Kerala and Maharashtra are outliers. And it has coincided with three things, full unlocking, gram panchayat elections, and some degree of schools and colleges. All these three things have a significant role. In geographies like Mumbai, MMR, the floating population of trains is increasing. These are the reasons that are propping up the cases and needs to be looked at urgently.”Salunkhe added that resumption in local train services could be a danger for Mumbai if people remain lax in following Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Mumbai could get into trouble with local trains starting and flow of people from its surrounding areas. The numbers were expected to rise as people are lax in Covid-appropriate behaviour. We are seeing a similar rise in Pune district as well as people are behaving as the pandemic has passed,” Salunkhe said.Dr Joshi added that the train traffic has gone up from 2 million to 3.4 million after the general public was allowed to use trains from February 1. “We definitely need to remain on a red alert and should avoid complacency,” said Joshi.The experts added that increased public awareness is a key factor in preventing the spike to turn into a surge. Besides that, they said the administration needs to ramp up community testing and tracking. “Community testing has gone down drastically. We need to restart it and tell people that it is their responsibility to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. There is Covid fatigue that is set in for lack of masking. It should be told to the people that if they do not want another lockdown, they have to start stringent Covid appropriate behaviour and remain on guard,” said Joshi.Salunkhe added that the vaccination drive is progressing slowly and it will take time for herd immunity to build after inoculation. He said, “The vaccination is happening at a slow pace. The inoculation of the general public (above age 50, and with comorbidities) will start only next month. Till that period at least, people have to remain vigilant.”For Mumbai, Dr Joshi said that the population that was thus far unexposed to the virus could be getting affected. He suggested that areas should be relooked and put them on “red alert”. “Covid is going to become endemic in Mumbai. We will routinely see cases between 400 and 600 daily. But it should not drastically spike. The exposed population could have been herd immunity, but the unexposed population, which is getting hurt now. For example, children who never stepped out earlier are now going to schools. We might see a spurt in these cases. We need to relook local geographical spots and put them on red alert. Increase testing, tracking and isolation,” Dr Joshi said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra will start administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers from Monday. Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said that those healthcare workers who got their first vaccination shot on January 16 will be given their second dose on Monday.On the first day, 18,582 healthcare workers had taken the vaccine in Maharashtra, including 1,926 from Mumbai. The second dose of the vaccine is supposed to be given at a minimum interval of 28 days after the first dose.“We will start the second shot for healthcare workers. The sessions [on the Co-WIN] have been created, they have been intimated via SMS,” said Dr Patil. The state has so far not planned to increase the vaccination centres so far, Dr Patil said. He said that they would see the response of HCWs and accordingly centres will be increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-4-000-new-covid-cases-first-time-since-january-6-101613327145514.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set to implement World Bank-funded STARS project||Maharashtra state education department will implement the ‘Strengthening Teaching- Learning And Results for States’ (STARS) initiative in order to improve the overall teaching learning process in schools across the state. The STARS initiative is a USD 500-million project funded by the World Bank to improve the quality of learning in schools across six states in India — Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan. The state cabinet recently approved its implementation, following which a government resolution was issued to that effect. The implementation of the project will take place in a phased manner over the next five years. The initiative will work on strengthening the pre-primary education system in the state with special emphasis on aanganwadis by providing them with quality infrastructure, training teachers etc. The department will also set up an independent teacher training platform and will issue certifications after completion of training modules. There will also be efforts to reduce dropouts, improve learning outcomes and extend counselling and guidance sessions to students. The STARS project will be implemented under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. A seven-member committee will overlook the working of the initiative across districts in the state. “The total cost of the project will be ₹976 crore, of which ₹390 crore will be provided by the state government and ₹586 crore by the Central government,” said an official from the state education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-to-implement-world-bank-funded-stars-project-101613327091585.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor-businessman Sachiin Joshi arrested in money-laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday arrested businessman and actor Sachiin Joshi, 36, for his alleged involvement in laundering ₹100 crore in the business activities of Omkar Developers, one of the key builders in Mumbai, said sources. The ED has been questioning Joshi for two consecutive days and he has been charged under relevant sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He will be produced in the PMLA court on Monday. Recently, income-tax officials raided Joshi’s house in Mumbai, however, the agency did not reveal the details of its ongoing probe. The money laundering case against Omkar Group is based on the FIR registered by Aurangabad Police in March 2020 for alleged cheating and criminal breach of trust. The ED has stated that Omkar Realtors and Developers Pvt Ltd and its directors had bought a firm Surana Construction, which had slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) rights for redevelopment of Anand Nagar SRA Cooperative Housing Society, Wadala, Mumbai. Omkar and its promoters did not pay back the due amount to seller and also mortgaged future FSI of the said SRA project and took huge amounts of loans. ED officials state they diverted ₹410 crore taken in loans. Omkar Group’s spokesperson had previously said that the Omkar Group is not in violation of any lending norms and slum approvals. Previously, promoters of Omkar Group – Babulal Varma, 50, and Kamal Kishore Gupta, 62, were arrested on January 27 under the provisions of the PMLA. Joshi was also in the news for buying fugitive offender Vijay Mallya’s Kingfisher Villa for ₹73.01 crore. Joshi’s website describes him as “the man behind the Viiking Mission, entrepreneur, businessman, actor, sports enthusiast, franchise and team owner and movie producer”. Actor and producer Joshi is known for his works in Tollywood and Bollywood. Joshi has done number of films in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu languages. He was also a lead in the 2013 film Jackpot, in which he starred opposite Sunny Leone and Naseeruddin Shah. His most recent film is ‘Amavas’, which he self-financed and co-stars Nagris Fakhri. In October 2020, the Cyberabad police in Hyderabad had registered a cheating and Trademark Act violation case against Joshi and his father for allegedly running a gutkha manufacturing unit at Gaganpahad on Hyderabad’s outskirts. Joshi also owns the Dambulla franchise of the Lanka Premier League (LPL) called as Dambulla Viikings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-actor-businessman-sachiin-joshi-arrested-in-money-laundering-case-101613327026017.html
14-02-2021||Other||Now, Bhangel elevated road project to get complete by end of this year||NOIDA: The deadline of 5.5km elevated road project, which is being built over Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road to facilitate commuting between Noida and Greater Noida, has been reduced by one year, officials of the Noida authority said on Sunday. About 35% work on the ₹467-crore project has been completed and it will be completed by the end of December this year, they said.The UP State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC), the state agency that is building the road, had started work on the project in June last year with a deadline of December 2022, said the officials.The proposed six-lane elevated road will start from Sector 39/43 crossing and end at Sector 82 T-point. Once developed, the elevated road will decongest major traffic in Noida’s Barola, Bhangel, and sectors 49, 45, 47 and 46, among other areas.On Sunday, UPSBC joint managing director Asheesh Srivastav and Noida authority chief general manager Rajiv Tyagi revised the completion schedule after conducting an inspection at the construction site. “Since the work is in full swing and one year ahead of its actual deadline, the two agencies revised the deadline on papers today after the joint inspection. We have directed the agency to carry out work day and night so that it gets completed by end of December this year. So far, we have finished 35% of work on this project,” said Tyagi.The elevated road will ease traffic pangs at DSC road which begins from Delhi-Noida border and ends at Dadri town that is located on GT road. The Noida authority is building the elevated stretch to ensure that the thousands of commuters, who travel from Delhi to offices in Noida’s Phase 2 industrial areas, do not face traffic congestion. This project will immensely benefit the residents in Noida and Greater Noida as it is likely to cut travel time between the two cities by 20 minutes, said the officials. The Noida authority is funding this project.“We have instructed strictly to finish the work on time and also deliver quality construction on this project,” said Srivastav of UPSBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-bhangel-elevated-road-project-to-get-complete-by-end-of-this-year-101613326967498.html
14-02-2021||Other||Noida: Farmers get residential plots after nine years||NOIDA: After a delay of more than nine years, the Noida authority on Saturday allotted developed residential plots to 644 eligible farmers whose land was acquired for urbanisation prior to 1997. The authority allotted these plots through a lucky draw under a scheme launched in July 2011, officials said. The draw event at Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra started at 9pm and went on till 1am, the officials said, adding that many farmers stayed at the centre till late night. “We followed all laid down rules to organise the lucky draw and allotted the plots to those farmers, who were found eligible,” said Santosh Upadhyay, officer on special duty, Noida authority.The authority could not allot the plots in the past nine years due to objections from farmers with regard to plot rate and dispute over the eligibility criteria. The authority finally decided to allot the 644 plots (each having an area of 162 square metres) at a rate of ₹29,000 per sqm and farmers agreed, the officials said.The authority had come up with the scheme after farmers’ consistent demands for the same. “The Noida authority allotted 5% (of total land acquired) residential plots to those farmers, whose land was acquired after 1997 following an order of the Allahabad high court. Subsequently, those farmers whose land was acquired between 1976 and 1997 started demanding plots. So, the authority had come up with the plot scheme,” said a Noida authority official, not authorized to speak to media.A total of 3,788 farmers had applied for the plots in 2011. Subsequently, 1,904 farmers were found to be eligible for the scheme. “We organised the lucky draw for 1,904 farmers and selected successful allottees for 644 plots,” said Upadhyay.The farmers who could not get the plots after the lucky draw said that they should also be given the plots. “We kept demanding a rate less than the market rate but nothing happened. The authority should have provided plots to all the eligible farmers, including their heir after death of an original land owner,” said Raghuraj Singh, a farmer leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-farmers-get-residential-plots-after-nine-years-101613326904788.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor Koshyari meets Amit Shah in Delhi post aircraft controversy||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari reportedly met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi in an unscheduled visit to New Delhi, on Sunday. He met Shah in the morning in a closed-door meeting before leaving for Mumbai in the afternoon. The details of the meeting are still under wraps. The Governor returned to the city in the evening after a gap of three days.The move is significant in the backdrop of the controversy over denial of the state’s six-seater Cessna Citation XLS airplane, to travel to Dehradun by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Koshyari, who was expected to return to the city on Saturday, changed his plans and reached Delhi on a commercial flight the same day. The Governor is locked in a bitter tussle with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which is now deepening with new issues.The Governor had to face an embarrassment on Thursday as he went to the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSMIA) and boarded a state’s aircraft for travelling to Dehradun but had to deplane and take a commercial flight since the chief minister’s office (CMO) had not approved the use of state’s plane.The incident led to a blame game between the Raj Bhavan and CMO as the latter has said the former should have ensured that they had permission to use the aircraft before the Governor departed from his official residence. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said the state government will also seek a report from the Governor’s office over the incident following the directive of the chief minister. The report will be sought from the secretary to Governor Santosh Kumar by the state general administration department.Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, in its editorial on Saturday, termed it as a personal tour. “The Governor was informed a day before his scheduled departure that he cannot be permitted to use the aircraft as his tour was a personal trip. Despite that, he went to the airport out of his stubbornness. He should maintain the honour and dignity of the post he is holding. He is being used as a ‘puppet’ and it’s an ‘insult’ to the nation,” the editorial stated.On Friday, Thackeray also avoided reacting to the controversy and remarked that the government is developing an airstrip at Palghar so that everyone’s aircraft can be landed there. He was responding to a question about the incident. Thackeray further chose to use a helipad at Mahalaxmi racecourse instead of the one at Raj Bhavan (Governor house at Malabar Hill) following the aircraft controversy, the officials said.He was on a visit to Palghar district where he reviewed the development schemes and basic infrastructure.Koshyari attended the 122th IAS induction program at the Lal Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie on Friday. He also met Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and discussed the ongoing rescue operation following the glacier disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-koshyari-meets-amit-shah-in-delhi-post-aircraft-controversy-101613326846070.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Fog effect: Six injured as heavy vehicles collide on Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dankaur||Noida: As many as six persons were injured after five to six heavy vehicles collided on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dankaur on Sunday morning.The incident took place around 8:30 am due to low visibility amid dense fog in the area, police said. The collision between the vehicles led to a heavy traffic jam in the morning. According to officials, a police team removed the damaged vehicle from the accident site, using cranes, around 9 am.Senior sub-inspector Firoz Khan, Dankaur police station, said that a truck hit a mini truck from behind near Dadopur village in Uttar Pradesh. “The two vehicles were travelling from Ghaziabad to Palwal. The mini truck was damaged in the collision, and other trucks moving in the same direction collided with the stationary vehicles later,” Khan said.“We found one damaged canter at the spot. A few people suffered minor injuries, but they did not need hospitalisation,” he added.However, a video of the accident, in which five to six damaged vehicles could be seen on the expressway, was circulated on social media platforms on Sunday.On Saturday, 12 passengers of a private bus were injured after six vehicles piled up on the Yamuna Expressway around 7 am, amid dense fog. The vehicles had collided with a broken truck at approximately 11 kilometre from the zero point.Meanwhile, the weather department has said that dense fog will continue to envelope Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida for the next two days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), New Delhi, said, “Delhi will witness moderate to dense fog, while areas like Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar will remain engulfed in dense to very dense fog. The visibility is likely to fall below 100 metre. The condition would prevail between 6 am and 10 am and is likely to improve from Tuesday.”Traffic inspector (Noida) Ashutosh Singh said, “We issue advisories during November-December, and conduct intensive campaigns on road safety. We also paste reflector tapes on vehicles. Moreover, we keep advising people to drive slow during fog and inclement weather conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fog-effect-six-injured-as-heavy-vehicles-collide-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway-in-dankaur-101613326844809.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC issues notice to American embassy for New Jersey resident in a murder appeal||The Bombay high court (HC), on February 9, directed the court registry to issue notice to the American embassy and directed the state to send the nonbailable warrant (NBW) issued against an accused residing in New Jersey, the United States, to the embassy. The court has sought a report from the state within two weeks. The court has also directed commissioner of police, Thane to execute the NBW against another accused residing in Baroda. The directions came after the court was informed that both the accused, who were acquitted of a 2003 murder case, were not appearing for the hearing of the appeal against their acquittal filed by the state in 2004. The court also directed issuance of a lookout notice against both the accused and to circulate the same to all airports to ensure their presence for the hearing of the appeal. On February 9, a division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing an appeal filed by the state of Maharashtra against the acquittal, was informed that the state wanted to adduce further evidence in the case, and hence the appeal against the acquittal should be heard. The appeal was filed in 2004 wherein both the persons had been represented by their respective lawyers. In an earlier hearing on February 4, the court was informed by advocate Nitin Sejpal, for the second respondent who lives at Baroda, that his client had not responded to the notice of final hearing of the appeal despite being repeatedly informed of the same and that the respondent had blocked all communication from the advocate. With regards to the first respondent, the court was informed by additional public prosecutor PP Shinde that as per the trial court records, he was residing in New Jersey, US and no advocate represented him for the hearing of the appeal. The court took cognisance of the submissions and directed for the issuance of an NBW against the two acquitted persons. While directing the registry to issue notice to the American Embassy, the court directed the state to send the NBW to the embassy to ensure that the first respondent was present for the hearing of the appeal. The court also directed the commissioner of police, Thane to communicate with the commissioner of police, Baroda to ensure the presence of the second respondent and to personally look into the matter and make every possible effort to get the NBW executed. The matter has been posted for hearing on March 9. Advocate Ashraf Ahmed Shaikh said that as per section 105 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), reciprocal arrangements were made by the Central government with foreign governments, and in light of this the ministry of home affairs on February 11, 2009 issued comprehensive guidelines with regards to the service of summons/warrants/judicial processes. “As per the guidelines, the service of nonbailable arrest warrants amounts to the extradition of the individual and such requests are to be forwarded to the ministry of external affairs, New Delhi,” said Shaikh. He added that the NBW issued by the Bombay HC was enforceable on the first respondent living in New Jersey, but it had to be done based on certain legal procedures contained in applicable treaties negotiated on the basis of the International Principle of Extradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-issues-notice-to-american-embassy-for-new-jersey-resident-in-a-murder-appeal-101613326785482.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Protesting farmers light candles on second anniversary of Pulwama terror attack||Ghaziabad: The protesting farmers at the UP Gate on Sunday evening carried out a candlelight march in memory of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans killed in the Pulwama terror attack on February 14 in 2019. The farmers said that the event was held to symbolise that “jawan” (soldier) and “kisan” (farmer) are together and come from the same families. The event was also organised to express solidarity with families of the farmers who died during the ongoing agitation, farmer leaders said. “The candle march was held at the UP Gate for one hour in remembrance of our soldiers who got martyred during the Pulwama attack and also in remembrance of over 200 farmers who have died during the ongoing agitation. It is to show that farmers and soldiers are not different but sons of same families,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand who is also member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. Forty CPRF personnel had lost their lives during the Pulwama attack. Meanwhile, some farmer leaders also carried out their rallies to garner support in Haryana. The Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson, Rakesh Tikait, held a meeting with farmers at Indri in Karnal on Sunday. Tikait said that they will not let the government sit in peace till the demands of farmers are met. “They will have to decide our issues while talking to our committee members. Till that time, we will not let the government sit in peace. The government has to give a guarantee of purchase on MSP as well as repeal the three new laws,” Tikait told the gathering while also claiming that the new laws will finish the public distribution system. “Farmers should concentrate on their organisation and believe in the ‘gathbandhan’ (core committee of farmers talking to the government). There is not a single weak link in the core committee, which will decide our issues and farmers will abide by its decisions,” he said, adding that the panchayats will also be held in states like Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. While returning to the UP Gate site, Tikait stopped at the Panipat toll plaza where he lit candles in memory of the Pulwama martyrs and also the farmers who died during the ongoing agitation. “This is to remember our soldiers who got martyred on February 14 (2019) in Pulwama and also our farmers who died and got ‘martyred’ during the ongoing agitation and even those farmers who died during earlier agitations anywhere. It is to remember jawan and kisan as both come from same house,” Tikait said. The farmers led by Rakesh Tikait are camping at the UP Gate since November 28 last year to press for repeal of three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. The last talks between the leaders of farmers’ unions and the government were held on January 22 and thereafter no talks are scheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/protesting-farmers-light-candles-on-second-anniversary-of-pulwama-terror-attack-101613326664904.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Six held for snatching money from people returning from ATMs||Noida: Five suspects were arrested on Saturday night for allegedly robbing people after they withdrew money from a local ATM in Mamoora village in Noida Phase 3. A 16-year-old boy was also apprehended in connection with the case, police said on Sunday.According to police, the suspects used to station themselves outside the ATM kiosk and spot vulnerable people visiting the kiosk. Once a person withdrew money, they used to follow him and snatch the cash at deserted locations. Police have also recovered three mobile phones and three knives from their possession.Jitendra Deekhit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station, said that a police team received information that the gang members were gathering near an ATM kiosk in Mamoora. The police team reached the spot and sent a decoy near the suspects to hear their conversation. “They were saying that as soon as a person withdraws money from the ATM, they would send the juvenile to strike a conversation with the victim. Then the other gang members would surround the victim and snatch money,” said sub-inspector Ikram Khan in the police complaint. The police team then conducted a raid and arrested three suspects -- Mohit Kumar, Aman Khan, and Shahrukh Khan -- all residents of Khoda colony in Ghaziabad, from a parked Wagon-R. The other three suspects -- Ankit Gupta, Vikas Sharma and the juvenile -- all residents of Mamoora village, were apprehended from an autorickshaw that was also parked at the same spot. The police have seized the two vehicles. Police said that the gang members may have committed at least 10 such crimes in the past six months in Noida. The police team is further investigating their crime records. Phase 3 police have registered a case against them under Section 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. “The five suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, while the minor was sent to the juvenile home,” Deekhit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-six-held-for-snatching-money-from-people-returning-from-atms-101613326604785.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Control room fields queries about vaccine effects, dispels fears||NOIDA: It was a hectic weekend for the Integrated Control Room (ICR) at HCL premises in Noida Sector 59. All 30 phone lines attached to the helpline 18004192211 (extension number 6) at the vaccination cell of the ICR received calls every 10th minute for three hours, starting 2 pm, on Sunday.A Border Security Force (BSF) personnel, called to ask: “I tested positive for Covid-19 last month and was admitted to the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) referral hospital at Lakhnawali camp in Greater Noida. While being discharged from the hospital, the doctors had told me that since I’ve developed antibodies to fight the viral infection, there is no need to take the jab unnecessarily.”Set up on January 27 to provide solutions to the pre and post-inoculation queries of beneficiaries, the vaccination cell has received over 1,000 calls in the last 18 days. A team of four doctors is led by Dr Lalit Kumar, the additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and the in-charge of ICR, besides Dr Akanksha Kanoujia, Dr Naina Gupta, Dr Nitin Kumar and Dr Akash Kumar, work in three shifts 24x7 – 8am to 2pm, 2pm to 8pm and 8pm to 8am.The ACMO said the vaccination cell here receives several calls these days.“While beneficiaries who have received their vaccine dose ask about the medication and precautions to be taken in the post-vaccination days, the listed frontline workers often want to know what is the accuracy and efficiency of the vaccine whether it should be taken or not. There is another lot of callers who want to know the difference between the two types of vaccines being administered here,” he said. The vaccination cell also has seven support staff for each shift.“They (mostly teachers from government schools) support us in making and receiving the calls and forwarding it to doctors. The support staff also work in shifts. These days, we are making calls to beneficiaries who were left out in the first phase of the vaccination drive, for the mop-up round on February 15. Besides, we are also calling beneficiaries who had taken their first dose on January 16 to come to their respective booths for the second dose on February 15,” the ACMO said. Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, who was present at the vaccination cell of ICR, located inside the premises of in HCL Technologies, Sunday, said the district health department is leaving no stone unturned to try for a 100% turnout during the vaccination. “Eighty vaccination booths at 26 hospitals in the district have been for the mop-up round and the second dose of the vaccination in the district on Monday,” he said. “Those who have been vaccinated are being asked to motivate others. Video messages of vaccination ambassadors are also being circulated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-control-room-fields-queries-about-vaccine-effects-dispels-fears-101613326545417.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Police look for suspect in 4-yr-old’s abduction, murder case||Greater Noida: The Surajpur police have launched a search for a suspect in the abduction and murder case of a four-year-old boy. The victim had gone missing on January 24. His body was recovered after 20 days. So far one suspect – Anil (24) – has been arrested, while another suspect Vijay, 25, is on the run. According to police, the two suspects had allegedly strangled the child to death and dumped the body at an isolated location.The victim’s father runs a grocery shop. He also delivers grocery items to retailers. According to his brother, the boy’s father had gone to deliver some products while his wife was inside the room when the victim went missing at 10:30am. “My brother lives with his wife, a daughter and two sons. We had informed the police the same day when the boy went missing,” he said. He said that on January 13, Vijay and his wife had shifted to their neighbourhood. A few days later, Anil also shifted to Vijay’s place. The suspects used to play marbles with the victim, he alleged. “It appears they kidnapped my nephew to extort money, believing my brother had applied for a loan of ₹8 lakh which was under process,” he said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the suspects, both residents of Kannauj, lived in a rented accommodation. “The suspects killed the boy and dumped the body but could not muster the courage to make extortion calls,” he said.Ajay Kumar, station house officer, Surajpur said that the police found that the two suspects, who had shifted to Greater Noida recently, had allegedly been absconding from their rented accommodation since the incident. “Anil and Vijay had fled the spot the same night while Vijay’s wife fled two days later. This led us to suspect their role in this case. Their door was also open and the police team found some kanche (marbles) from their room,” the SHO said. On Saturday, the police team conducted a search and arrested Anil from Surajpur area. Police said he allegedly admitted his involvement in the murder along with Vijay. Based on his interrogation details, the police team conducted a search and recovered the child’s body from a boggy behind a closed factory in Site B.A case has been registered against both suspects under Section 364 (abduction), and Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-look-for-suspect-in-4-yr-old-s-abduction-murder-case-101613326544833.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: One dead, one hurt in road mishap; truck driver booked||One person died and another got injured in a road accident on Western Express Highway near Andheri on Saturday evening. Their bike allegedly hit a truck, which was double parked, and fell. The truck driver has been booked. According to the police, Pramod Kalekar, 42, and his friend Mukesh Mishra, 28, were on their way towards Byculla when they hit the truck. The truck was unloading paver blocks without taking any measures to ensure safety of vehicles passing by. Eye witnesses said that after the accident when a crowd started to gather, the truck driver fled the spot, said a police officer.A passer by called the police emergency number, following which the two were taken to a hospital. Kalekar was declared dead on arrival. Mishra is undergoing treatment for severe injuries at Sir JJ Hospital.The police said that a case of death due to negligence has been registered against the driver under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code. “We are scanning the CCTV of the highway and trying to find out the identity of the driver who fled the scene without taking the injured to the hospital or providing medical assistance,” said an officer from Andheri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-one-dead-one-hurt-in-road-mishap-truck-driver-booked-101613326485710.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Poor turnout in Ghaziabad resulting in wastage of Covid-19 vaccine||Ghaziabad: Each vaccine vial contains several doses. Once opened, the doses have to be administered within about four-five hours, after which the medicine, if any left, has to be thrown away. With the dwindling turnout for the vaccination drive against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Ghaziabad resulting in wastage of myriad unused doses, district health department officials have said they are now “taking steps to save the doses”.Since January 16, the officials have administered Covishield and Covaxin doses to beneficiaries in eight rounds in Ghaziabad.In the district, about 8-9% Covishield vaccines and about 19-20% Covaxin vaccines are being wasted, they said, adding that each vial of Covishield makes up for 10 doses, and a Covaxin vial for 20 doses.“The wastage is especially due to the low vaccination coverage. We can’t store the leftover doses, we have to dispose of them. Covaxin wastage is higher as a single vial has more doses. We can’t deny vaccination even if there’s only one beneficiary in a room. So, the remaining doses go to waste,” said Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta.At each centre, each session room has a target of 100 beneficiaries.The district, according to official records, has received about 49,000 Covishield doses and 14,500 Covaxin doses so far. Total 18,501 Covishield doses and 3,101 Covaxin doses have been administered to beneficiaries so far in the district, the officials said.The first six rounds, held on January 16, 22, 28 and 29, February 4 and 5 were for only for healthcare workers. However, 1,037 frontline workers were also included in the drive held February 5. The sessions held February 11 and 12 were only for frontline workers. “Since the turnout among frontline workers has dipped considerably, as compared to healthcare workers in the previous sessions, due to which the vaccine wastage is likely to increase. Only four or five beneficiaries come to get the shot per session. If the downward trend in vaccination turnout remains so, we will see more wastage,” the chief medical officer added.To remedy this, the CMO said they are now going to make sure each vial opened is exhausted before the next one is opened. “We have decided that all the session rooms in a centre will first exhaust one vial by providing doses to all beneficiaries, only after which the second vial will be opened. This will reduce the wastage. We are also trying to increase awareness among frontline workers to improve the turnout,” he said. The department used Covaxin during two rounds on February 11 and 12.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls for a comment on the issue.HOW THE NUMBERS STACK UPOn Day 1, 94.75% (379 of 400) beneficiaries received vaccine shots. On January 22, the turnout dropped to 81.28% (3,251 of 4,000); it was 71.91% (4,095 of 5,695) on January 28, 72.69% (4,190 of 5,764) on January 29, 70.05% (3,557 of 5,078) on February 4, 63.74% (3,129 of 4,909) on February 5; 45.33% (1,559 of 3439) on February 11; and 39.41% (1,555 of 3,946) on February 12.At the end of eight vaccination sessions, from January 16 to February 12, the overall coverage in the district stood at 65.35%, with 21,715 beneficiaries out of 33,231 receiving the shots. The remaining healthcare workers, who were not vaccinated during the previous rounds, will get a chance to receive the shots during the mop-up round on Monday, officials said. It will cover 62 centres across the district.“Beneficiaries who took vaccine shots on Day 1 (January 16) should come to the centres for the second dose on Monday, for the mop up round,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/poor-turnout-in-ghaziabad-resulting-in-wastage-of-covid-19-vaccine-101613326424822.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||At ₹95.21 for a litre, petrol price reaches all-time high in Mumbai||Prices of petrol and diesel increased for the sixth consecutive day and reached an all-time high in Mumbai on Sunday. The price of one litre of petrol was ₹95.21 while that of diesel was ₹86.04. This is the highest rise in fuel prices in the city till date. Citizens and transporters have reacted strongly on the constant rise in prices and urged the Central government to reduce excise duty on petroleum products. They have also asked the Maharashtra government to intervene and reduce Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to give them some relief from skyrocketing prices.Earlier, the highest rise in fuel prices was witnessed in 2018 when the price of petrol and diesel crossed ₹90 and ₹80, respectively. The highest price of petrol was recorded at ₹91.34 for one litre back then.Following the constant rise in fuel prices, the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), an apex body of transporters, on Saturday gave a 14-day ultimatum to the Central government, demanding immediate reduction in central taxes in diesel and to issue advisory to the states to bring down VAT on fuel prices.“The road transport fraternity, in its general council meeting, vented out their resentment at the deteriorating conditions of the road transport sector and the government’s apathy towards it. We demand immediate reduction of diesel prices by bringing down central taxes. We want the Centre to issue an advisory to states to cut down VAT, bring uniformity of diesel prices across the country and its quarterly revision etc.,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.“We also demand immediate resolution of issues related to e-way bills, rationalisation of presumptive tax and discussion on scrapping the policy of vehicles with the transport fraternity before its roll-out. We have given a 14-day notice to the Centre for implementation, else we will declare complete suspension of transport services across the country,” he added.Residents have also urged the state government to intervene by reducing VAT on petroleum products in the state. “VAT can be reduced directly by the state government which will bring immediate relief to the people. Petrol has crossed ₹95 a litre and it is becoming more expensive with each passing day. Other state governments are reducing VAT. Maharashtra government should also reduce it,” said Ajay Rathore, a Parel resident.On Saturday, one litre of petrol was available at ₹94.93 and one litre of diesel at ₹85.70. On Friday, it was ₹94.64 and ₹85.32 for each litre of petrol and diesel, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-95-21-for-a-litre-petrol-price-reaches-all-time-high-in-mumbai-101613326245637.html
14-02-2021||Other||Tuition teacher booked for giving saline jabs to his students for ‘boosting memory’||New Delhi: The police have booked a 20-year-old college student for allegedly giving normal saline injections to students of classes 6-9 who used to take tuitions from him in east Delhi’s Mandawali. The suspect told the police during questioning that he did so to boost memory of his students. He said picked up the idea from videos on the internet, said an officer who is associated with the probe. The suspect has been detained for “detailed investigation” and booked under section 336 of the IPC for acts endangering human life or personal safety of others.Police said so far none of the parents of the suspect’s students have reported any medical complications to their children because of the injections. They are all, however, being medically examined, the police said. Another investigator said the matter was reported on Saturday when one of the students, a resident of the same neighbourhood, returned home with the injection after telling the suspect that he would take it from a doctor known to his parents. The child showed the injection to his parents and told them that they were getting the jab at the coaching centre to boost their memory, the investigator said quoting information given by the suspect.The parents of the child reported the matter to the police. They handed over the fluid to a team from Mandawali police station. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said during initial examination it was found that the liquid was NS solution (normal sodium chloride). “We also found that the tuition teacher is a second year gradation student. He told police that he saw on YouTube that the memory of the children improves if NS solution is administered to them. He was booked under section 336 of the IPC for acts endangering human life or personal safety of others,” Yadav said. The DCP said tuition teacher was yet to be formally arrested. “The matter is being probed from all possible angles,” he said.Normal saline is a prescription medicine used for fluid and electrolyte replenishment for intravenous administration. Faster heart beat, fever and rashes are among are its probable side effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tuition-teacher-booked-for-giving-saline-jabs-to-his-students-for-boosting-memory-101613326065995.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Admin of chat group arrested for rape in Navi Mumbai||Belapur police on Saturday arrested a social activist for allegedly raping a woman from Navi Mumbai whom he met through a social messaging group. The accused was the admin of the group formed for social causes, while the woman was a member of the group. The accused has been identified as Bapu Patil, 39, a Solapur resident and admin head of World Maratha Organisation. He met the complainant two years ago and asked her to handle group activities in Navi Mumbai. The two were in constant touch over different activities of their group.A police officer said, “During the lockdown, he shared his financial problem with the complainant, following which she lent him ₹72,000. In January, the accused asked her to meet in a hotel in Belapur to return her money. He also asked her to attend a conference in the hotel to enhance her business skill. When the woman went to the hotel room, he allegedly raped her, clicked her pictures in compromising state, and threatened to circulate it if she complains against him.” Senior inspector Anil Patil confirmed that Patil has been arrested under section 376 (sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/admin-of-chat-group-arrested-for-rape-in-navi-mumbai-101613326005461.html
14-02-2021||Other||Water supply in south, east and north-east Delhi to be hit||New Delhi: Water supply in parts of south, east and north-east Delhi is likely to be affected in the coming days as two water treatment plants of Delhi Jal Board were operating at a reduced capacity, Raghav Chadha vice chairperson of Delhi Jal Board said on Sunday. In a series of tweets, Chadha said that turbidity in raw water collected from Delhi’s Upper Ganga Canal had increased to an “unprecedented level of 8000 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) because of the recent Uttarakhand floods.” “Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plants are currently operating at reduced capacity due to the increased turbidity in water,” he said. Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. Turbidity is measured in Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). High turbidity can be caused by debris, silt, mud, algae, plant pieces, melting glaciers, sawdust, wood ashes or chemicals in the water. “The Delhi Jal Board urge citizens to use water judiciously. Water tankers inadequate numbers are being deployed and all possible efforts being made to reduce turbidity,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-supply-in-south-east-and-north-east-delhi-to-be-hit-101613325946244.html
14-02-2021||Other||Farmers hold torchlight march in honour of fallen Pulwama soldiers||New DelhiTo remember 40 security personnel who lost their lives in the Pulwama attack two years ago, farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders took out a ‘mashal juloos’ (torchlight march) on Sunday. The farmers, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), also called for candelight marches across the country in remembrance of the fallen soldiers of Pulwama. On Sunday evening, hundreds of farmers gathered at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghaziabad borders lighting candles to mark the event. Farmers at the main stage also sat with roses in their hands to spread the message of peace, even as agitators raised slogans of “jai jawaan and jai kisan” at the spot. Balwinder Singh, 46, a farmer from Moga district in Punjab, said, “Farmers fighting for their rights were branded as anti-nationals by the government and some media outlets. They forgot the fact that every protesting farmer here has relatives or knows someone who is a jawan (soldier). We observe this to honour the martyred soldiers and their families.” During the event, farmer leaders also saluted the “sacrifice of the protesting farmers” who died during the agitation. “Along with remembering the martyred CRPF personnel, we also remember the farmers who laid down their lives while protesting for their rights here at Delhi’s borders,” said farmer leader Jagjeet Singh Dallewal. “The true tribute to the fallen farmers would be to continue the fight to repeal the laws,” he added. Farmer leader Darshan Pal also remembered the sacrifice of “jawans and kisans” at the kisan mahapanchayat in Indri of Karnal. SKM also condemned the government for not acknowledging the death of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. “…The government is unashamedly admitting in the parliament that it has no data of the farmers who sacrificed their lives in the ongoing movement. SKM is maintaining a blog site where such data is readily available if the government cares,” they said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-hold-torchlight-march-in-honour-of-fallen-pulwama-soldiers-101613325944982.html
14-02-2021||Other||Despite clearing NEET, why government school students set to reappear for test again||New Delhi: Even though 569 students from Delhi government schools cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) last year, data compiled by the government shows that only around 10% scored the cut-off necessary for admission to government medical colleges. With private institutions charging exorbitant fees, and a majority of students in Delhi government schools from low-income backgrounds, a majority have been forced to reappear for the tests, in the hopes of securing a seat in a public medical institution.As per data analysed by Hindustan Times, only 18 students scored 580 or above, out of 720, the usual cut-off for admissions to government medical colleges under the so-called general category. Nineteen others eligible under the reserved categories were ranked below 10,000, the usual cut-off trend for admission to government colleges.Experts added that the cut-off for reserved seats mostly ranges between ranks 10,000-20,000 for Other Backward Classes (OBC), 50,000-60,000 for Scheduled Castes (SC), and 80,000-90,000 rank for Scheduled Tribes (ST) category in government colleges. Students with ranks below this can also secure admission if seats are not filled.Around 1.35 millions aspirants had appeared for NEET last year for around 80,000 MBBS seats. In Delhi, approximately around 1,100 seats are available in eight government colleges. “This is the usual trend. It can fluctuate to a certain degree at times depending on the availability of seats,” said Mahesh Verma, vice-chancellor of Delhi’s Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, which has five undergraduate medical colleges affiliated to it.According to preliminary data from Delhi’s education department, 29 students of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Molarband cleared the medical exams. However, only two were able to get admitted to undergraduate medical courses, said the school’s principal Sujata Tamta.“The updated numbers show that 42 students from our school cleared the tests. Two got admitted to government medical colleges in Delhi and two more enrolled in other medical professional courses. Most the others are preparing to reappear for the entrance exam. Since most of our students come for low-income backgrounds, these students could not get admitted to private medical institutes, where the fees are exponentially higher than government colleges,” she said.The scenario was similar in Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Okhla’s Noor Nagar, where none of the 23 girls who qualified for NEET 2020 could opt for a degree in medicine in any college this year owing to financial constraints. For instance, 17-year-old Areeba Naeem, whose father works as an electrician in the neighbourhood, was eligible for multiple private institutes but the cheapest fee among these was ₹75 lakh, which was far beyond their means to pay.“We are a family of five, and only one is an earning member. So I decided to take a drop year and prepare again,” said Naeem, adding that she was disappointed with her rank, because she knew she wouldn’t be eligible to get admitted to a government college. School authorities said only one student among the 23 took admission in a pharmacy course at a polytechnic college.Head of the school Mudasir Jahan said, “Our students are children of drivers, hotel staffers, vegetable vendors, cloth-sellers, among others. They could not take admission in private colleges where the fees are very high. We reached out to non-governmental organisations and civil society members to arrange for coaching classes for these students. A former principal of our school sponsored two students and Jamia Cooperative Bank sponsored 10 others for classes at a private coaching institute. The remaining have also been engaged with other coaching institutes at a nominal fee,” she said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said students seeking admission could opt for the Delhi government’s financial assistance programmes. “It’s good that our students are confident they will score better marks and make another attempt at NEET. It is significant that so many students are passing this exam. However we have loans and scholarships for students who are in need of financial support,” he said.Several government schools are in constant touch with the aspirants and provide them with learning materials and guidance necessary to reappear for NEET this year, which is usually held in April-May.Anurag Tiwari, national academic director (medical) at Aakash Institute with nearly two decades of experience in the area, said, “The range of cut-offs varies across states, but students need to score at least 625 for admission government medical colleges in Delhi under the general category. Students scoring 580 or above can seek admission in government colleges across India under general category. This is the usual trend.”Tiwari explained that qualifying NEET only means that the students will be eligible for medical counselling. “Students getting 150 out of 720 will also be considered among those who have cleared the tests. This means that they are eligible to participate in counselling. While their chances of getting into medical programmes in government colleges are low, these students can seek admission under management quota in private colleges.”IP University vice-chancellor Mahesh Verma said, “Though there are over 800,000 eligible aspirants for nearly 100,000 medical seats, around 900 seats are still vacant across deemed universities because of the high fees. There should be a mechanism to regulate the fee and put a cap so that meritorious students who cannot seek admission in government colleges have a chance to opt at private colleges.”Apart from the fees charged by private institutions, the cost of living in another city is one that most students of Delhi government schools can barely afford.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, said, “Many students also want to get admitted to institutions in Delhi so that they don’t incur additional living expenses that come with living in another city. So students often take a drop year and prepare again. The results have, however, have motivated students. While they have qualified this year, we believe many will secure admission in government colleges next year.”In November, the Delhi government had asked schools to arrange for sessions where those who cracked competitive exams like NEET and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to motivate their juniors and be their “role models”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-clearing-neet-why-government-school-students-set-to-reappear-for-test-again-101613325884710.html
14-02-2021||Other||DMRC plans for QR Code, other digital payments in post pandemic world||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation — in the post pandemic world — has decided to introduce Quick Response Code (QR Code) and other digital payment-based systems on its entire network to make ticketing cashless and contactless.For this, the Metro has invited Expression of Interest (EOI) from private firms to upgrade its existing Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) system to enable QR code, bank account and RuPay based ticketing facility on its network.Currently, the QR code-based ticketing system is available only on Delhi Metro’s airport express line. The tickets on the airport express line are issued using a mobile application and the commuters have to scan the QR code ticket, which is sent on the user’s mobile phone, at the AFC gate at the station. Apart from the QR code facility, the airport Metro also allows the use of National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December last year.In the QR code system, users have to register on the mobile application, Ridlr, using mobile number and email ID and buy QR tickets by selecting the starting point, the destination station and the number of passengers who will travel. At a time, a maximum of six tickets can be purchased. Metro users can use their credit or debit card (new cards which have NCMC facility) while travelling on Metro’s airport express.The Metro now plans to make the QR code system available on its nine corridors, spread over 314 kilometres, and 245 stations by 2022. DMRC official said that this is being done following the National Common Mobility Card standard model specified by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. The DMRC’s average daily ridership is 2.86 million and it served 100 crore riders in the financial year 2019-20.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “DMRC has invited expression of interest for implementation of QR code, EMV (enabled Account Based Ticketing (Master/VISA), and RuPay based ticketing.”The expression of interest also includes upgrading and maintenance of the existing AFC technology. Currently, Metro users have to swipe the Metro travel card or token against the AFC gates to gain entry.DMRC officials said that the entry AFC system on all corridors developed in Phase I, II and III will have to be upgraded. “There is a need for comprehensive maintenance of the AFC system of our Phase I, II and III stations. The existing AFC technology and infrastructure (hardware and software) needs to be updated. The key dates for delivery and commissioning will be detailed out in the Request for Proposal document,” said Dayal.As per the expression of interest document, the work will be awarded for a period of almost 11.5 years, including five years of operation and maintenance, from the date of commencement.While DMRC has been planning to upgrade its ticketing system to become cashless for a while, the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has now only made the need for such technology a necessity.The NCMC will allow passengers with RuPay debit cards, issued in the last 20 months by nearly 23 banks, to be swiped for Metro travel.”It is currently available only on the airport express line. The NCMC will enable seamless travel in different modes of public transport across the country besides shopping and purchases, said the official.The Covid pandemic has severely impacted the public transport system across the country and contactless ticketing is the need of the hour, say experts.Metro services were closed for a period of 169 days last year due to the pandemic. The Centre had allowed Metro operations to resume in September but in a graded manner and with social distancing inside trains and on stations. As part of preventive measures, the DMRC has stopped the sale of tokens at its counters on Metro stations. Currently, metro users have to use DMRC’s travel card while commuting.While Metro trains continue to operate on 50% occupancy, transport and health experts say, contactless ticketing will have long term benefits for different reasons.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “This is a good move. In the next few years, there will be different modes of transportation — such as RRTS — will be available. While infrastructure integration is already being done by various agencies to provide seamless travel to commuters, common mobility card will be an added benefit. In the long run it will help in collecting data about passenger movement which will prove beneficial in improving the public transport services. But this facility should also be extended to feeder system.”Public health experts say that while the vaccine will soon be available for the public at large, people will have to continue to observe social distancing, hand hygiene and other basic precautions. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department community medicine, Safdarjung hospital, said, “QR code ticketing will help in ensuring public safety. But hygiene in public transport and other preventive measure should continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrc-plans-for-qr-code-other-digital-payments-in-post-pandemic-world-101613325885292.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Four held in Faridabad for robbing cab driver of cash||Four men were arrested on Saturday night for allegedly robbing a cab driver of his wallet and ₹12,000 at gunpoint on Mathura Road. The arrested men were identified as Krishna alias Pakoda, Nitin Kumar, Shahrukh alias Lala, and Mayur, of Faridabad. One countrymade pistol, an automatic knife and a stolen car were recovered from them, the police said. Vimal Rai, inspector Faridabad police, said, “We have arrested four suspects who were also planning to rob more commuters and drivers. We are currently interrogating them and also trying to find their involvement in other cases.” The police said they confessed to their crime during questioning.Late Friday, the suspects had booked a cab using a cab aggregator service from a prominent five-star hotel on Delhi-Mathura Road. After moving for a few kilometres, they are alleged to have held the driver at gunpoint, thrashed him with iron rods and sticks and snatched his wallet that contained ₹12,000. According to the police, the suspects allegedly asked the driver to sit on the rear seat of the car, and they began travelling towards Delhi. After reaching an isolated stretch near the Delhi border, they left the driver in the car and fled.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 392, 365 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Faridabad police station on Saturday. They were produced before a court on Saturday and lodged in police custody. OP Singh, Faridabad’s commissioner of police, said that they have deployed teams at different stretches and have directed them to reduce street crime. “The suspects are history sheeters and have been jailed. They wanted to target other victims, when they were caught,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-in-faridabad-for-robbing-cab-driver-of-cash-101613325587803.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Restaurant owner attacked, threatened for shifting location||A restaurant owner was assaulted, his life threatened and the furniture in his restaurant damaged, following which the police registered a case. The restaurant owner, Nobel Malik, who recently shifted his operations to a vacant space in the Sector 56 Huda market, has alleged that the owner of the space he vacated was upset with him and attacked him.Pawan Kumar, station house officer of Sector 56 police station said that Malik was in the restaurant around 8pm, when his former landlord visited him in an inebriated state and started abusing him. “He said that when he objected and asked him to leave, he started throwing the furniture, which was set up outside for the customers. He suffered injuries and was admitted to a private hospital,” he said. Kumar said they have registered a case against the suspect and are conducting an investigation. Malik also stated in his complaint that the suspect had threatened him with dire consequences if he did not shut his operations. The police said that during the confrontation, Malik had also pushed the suspect on to the ground. The police have recorded statements of neighbouring shopkeepers, who have also alleged that the suspect intentionally created ruckus and thrashed Malik. A case under sections 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the suspect at the Sector 56 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/restaurant-owner-attacked-threatened-for-shifting-location-101613325587306.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Farmers hold candle march to remember soldiers who died in Pulwama attack||Farmers protesting at various sites across the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Sunday carried out candle marches to remember the sacrifices of soldiers who died during the Pulwama attack two years ago. Besides marking the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack, protesting farmers also recalled the sacrifices of farmers who had died during the course of the farmers’ agitation and raised slogans calling for the unity of farmers and workers. Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders, and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers believed in the slogan, “Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan” and had honoured their sacrifices through the march on Sunday. “Around 7pm in the evening, we started our march with candles and torches to honour soldiers who laid their life during the Pulwama attack. From the protest site, we marched till the highway and returned. Farmers also pledged their support for the continuation of the agitation,” said Madhav. Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. He added that the agitation was gaining steam in Rajasthan with a number of farmers mahapanchayats slated to take place in the region. “We will continue our fight against the three laws till the laws are rolled back. A number of mahapanchayats are taking place in Haryana and Rajasthan due to which mobilisation is increasing in both villages and cities,” said Madhav. Maulana Arshad Meel, who is spearheading the Haryana-Rajasthan Mewati Kisan Andalon (movement) protest at Sunehra-Junehra, said that farmers marched from Jurehra till the protest site with candles. “Around 7pm, we started our march and covered over a kilometre to remember the sacrifices of soldiers who lost their lives in the attack,” said Meel. Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said that besides the candle marches that were undertaken at protest sites, residents in various villages also took out marches. “Even at the village level, marches were taken out. This shows that the message of protesting farmers is reaching a wider audience,” said Sohlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-hold-candle-march-to-remember-soldiers-who-died-in-pulwama-attack-101613325586507.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Duo snatches gold chain from pedestrian in South City-2||A 35-year-old woman was targeted by two robbers on a bike, who allegedly snatched her gold chain on Saturday afternoon in South City-2. A case has been registered in this regard at the Sector 50 police station.The woman, in her complaint to the police, said that she was walking to her house in Block D from Block B when two miscreants on a speeding motorbike snatched her gold chain, which, according to her, is worth ₹80,000. The police said that the incident took place when the woman was near a gate of a private school in the vicinity. A case under sections 379A (snatching) and 34 (common intentions) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 50 police station on Saturday. Amit Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 50 police station, said that they have recovered CCTV footage from the two spots but are yet to identify the suspects. “Most of the suspects use stolen motorbikes or change the registration number plate of the two-wheeler to escape police arrest. We are conducting an investigation and they will be identified at the earliest,” he said. The police said they have launched several initiatives to reduce street crime and that cases have come down in the last few months, with the last incident of snatching being reported four months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/duo-snatches-gold-chain-from-pedestrian-in-south-city2-101613325585237.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Kherki Daula toll plaza to go 100% digital from Tuesday, jams expected||Commuters on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway should brace for congestion and traffic jams at the Kherki Daula toll plaza for next few days, as the government has made electronic toll payment through FASTags mandatory from Monday midnight. The move to implement digital payments will effectively come into force from Tuesday morning, but is expected to cause heavy congestion at the toll plaza as almost 20% of the vehicles, on an average, still make cash payments, said officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Another issue that is likely to cause congestion is that the volume of traffic on the highway has increased significantly over the last week. The number of toll-paying vehicles, which stood at around 65,000 passenger car units (PCUs) on an average till last week has increased to 80,000 PCUs, said an official of the concessionaire, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL). The recent decision to do away with the minimum balance in FASTag accounts has also not been implemented fully yet, the official said. Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI, however, remained upbeat and said that all steps have been taken to ensure smooth movement of traffic at the toll plaza. “New RFID tag readers have been installed recently, more traffic marshals have been deployed and multiple stalls for the sale of FASTags have been set up at the toll plaza to ensure vehicle owners can buy these,” said Bhushan, adding that drive to implement digital payments has been going on for quite some time. Bhushan, however, said that full implementation of electronic payments could lead to traffic congestion initially because the penetration of FASTags is still at 80%. “Around 20% of vehicles still make cash payment but hopefully, in the next few days, they will also get tags installed,” he said. NHAI officials also said that vehicles entering the lanes without valid tags would have to pay double the fees. An MCEPL official, meanwhile, said that given the recent spurt in traffic, there could be heavy jams at the plaza. “We request all commuters to get FASTags installed on Monday itself and keep the minimum balance so that vehicles don’t get stuck in lanes. We are prepared for the situation but it could get difficult,” the official said. The mandatory digital payment was to be implemented from January 1 but the date was extended to February 15. The FASTags are operated through Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology to collect toll. The stickers are fixed on windshield and these are detected at the toll plaza by the readers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kherki-daula-toll-plaza-to-go-100-digital-from-tuesday-jams-expected-101613325584686.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Residents of housing project in Sector 66 hold protest against developer for withholding funds||Residents of Emaar Palm Drive project in Sector 66 held a protest on Sunday against the developer, demanding that their deposit of interest for maintenance and security of around ₹40 crore has not been transferred to the residents’ welfare association(RWA) despite repeated requests. The residents also alleged that the developer has also failed to handover the books of accounts, files of residents, and other legal documents to the office after the new RWA took over. The residents on Sunday gathered inside the condominium and sat on a protest with placards against the company. Emaar Palm Drive was launched in 2007 and the apartments were handed over between 2015 to 2020, an RWA member said. Dhiraj Batra, president of RWA, said that they have already complained to the authorities in this matter and they will now approach the economic offences wing, if the developer refuses to release their funds and share the relevant documents. “Non-availability of books and files is causing a lot of inconvenience to the RWA in the recovery of dues from its residents. It is also limiting the efforts of RWA to file legal returns with GST, income tax and registrar,” said wing commander (retd) Baljeet Singh Ahluwalia, a resident.The residents said that they have also filed a complaint with department of country and town planning(DTCP) on January 4 to look into this matter of misappropriation funds. “There are also lot of deficiencies in the project and pending facilities, which were promised in writing at the time of booking, A golf range, a squash court and a bowling alley are some facilities that remain undelivered even today,” said another resident. A spokesperson from Emaar said, “ We are in discussion with all the members of the RWA of Palm Drive regarding their issues and concerns. Modalities are being worked upon. Few meetings have already been held on the matter, and we are working towards arriving at an amicable solution soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-of-housing-project-in-sector-66-hold-protest-against-developer-for-withholding-funds-101613325525306.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Fewer than 10% of projects approved by MCG last year executed||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has completed fewer than 10% if the engineering projects that were approved, on basis of the agendas, in last year’s House meetings, civic body officials said on Sunday.Overall, agendas for 159 engineering projects were approved during MCG House meetings last year. Work on 15 of these projects has been completed so far, while work on 33 projects is underway, with no development with regard to 111 projects.Engineering officials of the MCG and municipal councillors cited several reasons for the delay.“We were informed that several projects are facing litigations issues; some are interdepartmental or involve multiple public bodies and thus, paperwork and approval are taking a lot of time. Further, in a large number of projects, estimates have either been prepared incorrectly or are yet to be completed,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG.Azad said that with most projects stuck in administrative approvals, letters have been written to all MCG officials concerned, interdepartmental heads and officials concerned with other public bodies.“Projects being stuck for administrative approvals just show that the MCG officials aren’t taking the House meetings seriously and there is serious laxity on part of the engineering wing. As the mayor and the head of the MCG, I have written to all officials concerned for expediting the works and directed both the additional commissioners to take further review meetings with engineering officials regarding all the incomplete projects within their respective zones,” said Azad.Azad said that a few projects are yet to be sent to the departments concerned, such as the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB), for approval.Last week, the MCG had a review meeting at the PWD rest house regarding the status of all the agendas that were approved in MCG House meetings last year. As part of the review process, the engineering wing gave a presentation to MCG councillors regarding the status of all engineering wing projects and discussed the issues hindering many of them.According to MCG officials privy to the matter, the 15 projects which were completed were local, ward-wise projects. Among the important projects that have not witnessed any progress since their approval during MCG House meetings is the long drainage line, covering multiple wards along the Khandsa Road.The drain is aimed at resolving the waterlogging issue in areas located next to the Badshahpur drain during monsoon.“I had joined MCG only earlier this month. Next week, I have directed officials in my department to both submit and give a detailed explanation on all of the projects concerned. We will be reviewing the matter at our internal level as well and subsequently, fast track all projects,” said TL Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fewer-than-10-of-projects-approved-by-mcg-last-year-executed-101613325524700.html
14-02-2021||Dehradun||Matri Sadan to resume agitation for closure of hydropower projects on Ganga||By Sandeep RawatMatri Sadan ashram which, has been the flagbearer of agitations against hydropower projects in Garhwal Himalayas, has decided to resume its agitation post-Chamoli glacial breach tragedy.From February 23, a seer of the Matri Sadan ashram will go on an agitation (which they call tapasya or acetic practice) demanding scrapping of all hydropower projects being constructed or in the pipeline on river Ganga and its sub tributaries in Uttarakhand.Swami Shivanand Saraswati, a spiritual ideologue of the Matri Sadan ashram, on Sunday re-asserted the commitment of the ashram for the cause of holy Ganga and the ecology.Citing the 2013 Kedarnath flash flood and the recent Rishiganga and Dhauliganga area glacier breach, Swami Shivanand linked the two disasters due to haphazard, unplanned construction of hydropower projects in the eco-sensitive Himalayan belt."Without scientific, environmental evaluation and impact assessment, dozens of hydropower projects have been built in the upper reaches of Garhwal on the Ganga and its adjacent tributaries. After 8 years, nature has again shown the ill effects of these hydro projects as well as rampant construction activities in the eco-sensitive zone," said Swami Shivanand SaraswatiHe further added that either he or any other seer will stage the silent mode of agitation from February 23 to draw attention to the negative bearing of these project activities on the environment.Also read: Taliban chief Haibatullah Akhundzada killed in Pakistan ‘months ago’ - ReportsFrom February 23, a seer, who will be decided by next week, from the ashram will start an indefinite agitation on four demands.The demands include the closure of all hydropower projects on Ganga, prohibition on stone crusher units within 5-kilometre periphery of Ganga river bed, total prohibition on quarrying from Raiwala till Bhogpur and formation of Ganga council to look into issues related to the sacred river.Brahmachari Dayanand, a disciple of Matri Sadan, said that every seer associated with Matri Sadan is ready to opt for the agitation and give his life too for the cause of sacred Ganga.This is not the first time when seers associated with Matri Sadan have started agitations for the cause of Ganga. In January last year, Uttarakhand police forcibly lifted 24-year-old Ganga activist Sadhvi Padmavati from Matri Sadan ashram premises in Haridwar where she had been on a fast unto death for 48 days.In 2019, 22-year-old Brahamchari Atmabodhanand, hailing from Kerala, and a computer science graduate had undertaken a 194-days-long fast unto death for the same cause.In 2018, Gyan Swarup Sanand, a former Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) professor, whose original name was Professor GD Agarwal, died in AIIMS Rishikesh on the 112th day of his hunger strike on October 11, 2018. After his demise, Sant Gopal Das had announced to carry forward the agitation.However, within 10 hours of his announcement, a team of the district administration, along with doctors, reached Matri Sadan ashram and lifted the seer during the night on a stretcher and took him to AIIMS Rishikesh in an ambulance. Earlier on June 13, 2011, after 114 days of an indefinite fast unto death at Matri Sadan ashram on same demands, young Swami Nigmanand had died in suspicious circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/matri-sadan-to-resume-agitation-for-closure-of-hydropower-projects-on-ganga-101613324523369.html
14-02-2021||Bangalore||More than 20 Congress MLAs ready to join BJP, claims Karnataka minister||Karnataka Irrigation Minister and BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi on Sunday stated that more than 20 MLAs including other leaders from the Congress party are waiting to join BJP.While talking to media, Jarkiholi said, "The former chief minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah is still our leader, there no question about it, I speak to Siddaramaih every day at least twice, there are many more leaders who are in the frontline of the Congress who are ready to join the BJP at any point of time."There are some front-line leaders who are not happy with the Congress and they just want to leave the party as soon as possible and looking for the opportunity to join the BJP. They sacrificed many years in congress but got nothing, said Jarakiholi in Belagavi.Jarkiholi clearly stated once again that he's not even thinking of going back to Congress but he is waiting for the chance to bring those MLAs who are ready to leave Congress.He further added, "Some people told that we 17 MLAs who joined BJP will go back to Congress and JDS, which is utter false, we will never think about going back."Jarkiholi also praised the BJP leadership under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah along with the party senior leaders. He said, "We can meet leaders at any point of time and talk about any issues related to the party and the department." He alleged that this kind of chances was never given in Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/more-than-20-congress-mlas-ready-to-join-bjp-claims-karnataka-minister-101613323351600.html
14-02-2021||Noida||Three new Covid-19 cases in Noida, recovery rate 99.47 per cent||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded three new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday that pushed the district's infection tally to 25,433, official data showed.The number of active cases in the district came down to 42 from 48 the previous day, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.Another nine patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 25,300, the fifth highest in the state.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The recovery rate of novel coronavirus patients reached 99.47 per cent, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP came down to 3,040 from 3,098 on Saturday while overall recoveries reached 5,90,448 and the death toll climbed to 8,702 on Sunday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-new-covid-19-cases-in-noida-recovery-rate-99-47-per-cent-101613323040585.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||'PM Modi’s andolanjeevi remark is insult to freedom movement': Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his 'andolanjeevi' remark in the Parliament and said that it was an insult to India's freedom movement. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column ‘RokhThok’, said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not have reached this level in the country had it not been for its various agitations, including the Ram temple movement, the removal of Article 370 and agitation against inflation.Sena also accused PM Modi of ridiculing protesters including the farmers agitating against the three farm laws.“Prime Minister Modi has made fun of the country's agitations. The BJP continued its agitation from the emergency to the Ayodhya movement, from inflation to the removal of Article 370. Had the Ram movement not happened, the BJP would not have been seen today. When PM Modi of that BJP ridicules protesters as 'andolanjeevi', the freedom movement is also insulted,” Raut wrote in the column published in party's editorial mouthpiece Saamana on Sunday.Also read: Taliban chief Haibatullah Akhundzada killed in Pakistan ‘months ago’ - Reports﻿He added that the country has a history of agitations and Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar were the biggest 'andolanjeevi'. “Several statues are instants in the Parliament complex and all of them have a history of agitation. All the statues are now saying, ‘You are sitting on the throne because of our agitation.’“The Prime Minister has ridiculed the activists who took to the road by mentioning the word 'andolanjeevi'. Not only farmers who have been protesting against the agricultural law for three months but those who protested for the country's independence were also ridiculed with his remark,” it said.The Shiv Sena parliamentarian also took a jibe at BJP saying that Jana Sangh leaders including its founder Shyama Prasad Mukherjee have had held protests. Mukherjee led an agitation against the revocation of Article 370 and now his sacrifice is being called 'andolanjeevi'.“What should the agitations by the BJP be called? The party held many agitations. Then they were done for political interests and to gain power, that is to say. The abrogation of Article 370 was the biggest movement of the BJP. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee did protest to revoke Article 370. Mukherjee's sacrifice is now called 'andolanjeevi'. When revolutionaries come to power, they take the sacrifice of ideals of revolutionaries first. This is happening in our country,” Raut wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-s-andolanjeevi-remark-is-insult-to-freedom-movement-shiv-sena-101613322622288.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Mangolpuri murder: Large number of people gather to condole Rinku Sharma's death||A large number of people gathered in Mangolpuri here on Sunday to condole the death of Rinku Sharma, with leaders of saffron organisations demanding that his killers be hanged.Sharma, aged 25, was stabbed to death by a group of men after a quarrel at a birthday party on Wednesday.Addressing the condolence meeting at near Sharma's house in Mangolpuri, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) working president Alok Kumar demanded trial of the murder case and hanging of the culprits.He also demanded renaming the a nearby 'chowk' after Rinku Sharma.Sharma's mother also attended the condolence meeting in which leaders of the Delhi BJP and various other organisations were present.Mahant Navaldas, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, party MP Hans Raj Hans, MLA Vijender Gupta, VHP Delhi unit president Kapil Khanna and many others were also present in the meeting.Bajrang Dal members claimed that condolence meetings were also held across the country by them and other saffron outfits.The saffron outfit leaders have claimed that Sharma was killed for participating in collection of donation for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.However, the Delhi Police has denied any communal angle to the murder.Four accused have been arrested and the case has been transferred to the crime branch of Delhi Police.Sharma worked as a lab technician and since the incident, additional police force have been deployed in the locality to avoid any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mangolpuri-murder-large-number-of-people-gather-to-condole-rinku-sharma-s-death-101613322706097.html
14-02-2021||Lucknow||Criminals committing crime under patronage of BJP: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit out at the ruling BJP over the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that criminals are coming crime under its patronage.In a statement issued here, Yadav also accused the government of disrupting the harmony in society, instead of punishing those involved in criminal activities."The criminals are openly committing crime in the state under the patronage of the ruling party. The confidence of the criminals is high because of the working style of the government. The height of poor law and order is that even policemen are being attacked," the SP chief alleged."The aim of the government should be to punish those indulging in crime and anarchy. But when the agenda of the BJP government is to disrupt the harmony in society, then how will the rule of law be established," he added.Yadav also claimed that the anger among the public against the BJP is building and people are ready for a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/criminals-committing-crime-under-patronage-of-bjp-akhilesh-yadav-101613321989132.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Recoveries from Covid-19 in Delhi exceed cases logged during the week||Delhi added 911 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from February 8 till February 14. As many as 150 people were detected positive on February 14 (Sunday), which pushed the overall tally to nearly 637,000, according to the health department’s bulletin. The death toll stands at 10,891 while recoveries are more than 625,000, the bulletin showed. Nearly 190,000 people have been administered the first vaccine doses till now and they are turning up to receive their second dose.Delhi has been witnessing a significant decline in its daily cases since the beginning of this year. On January 27, only 96 coronavirus disease cases had been added, which have been the lowest in more than nine months. No deaths were recorded—first on February 9 and then on February 13. Schools had opened for Classes 9 and 11 on February 5 after they had opened for Classes 10 and 12 on January 18. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on February 2 that the arrival of vaccines had kindled hope of schools being reopened soon.Also Read| WHO’s Wuhan probe found signs of much wider Covid-19 outbreak in 2019: ReportAfter reporting the highest ever single-day spike of 6,725 cases on November 3 last year, the overall situation is currently improving in Delhi.Here is a look at how the Capital fared during the week:1. The highest cases (150) and recoveries (158) from the coronavirus disease were seen on February 14. The lowest cases were on February 9 (100) and the lowest recoveries were on February 10 (131).2. On February 8 and February 12, three Covid-19 related deaths were added which have been the highest this week. No deaths were seen on February 9 and February 13.3. This week, the recoveries (980) overtook the number of Covid-19 cases (911). However, the recoveries were less than the cases on February 11 and February 12. On February 11, 142 cases and 135 recoveries were added. While on February 12, 141 cases and 136 recoveries were added.4. The highest coronavirus disease tests (66,803) were conducted on February 10 when 127 people were detected positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/recoveries-from-covid-19-in-delhi-exceed-cases-logged-during-the-week-101613317694184.html
14-02-2021||City||Dissidence in Nagaland BJP, 9 district chiefs seek removal of state party chief||Dissidence within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party'S (BJP) Nagaland state unit became apparent with nine district and organisational presidents seeking to remove incumbent BJP Nagaland president. They have threatened to resign if the central party leadership fails to intervene in the crisis within the state unit by February end.In a letter addressed to BJP national president JP Nadda on February 12, the nine party functionaries alleged state president Temjen Imna Along of carrying out "arbitrary and duplicitous" functioning with 'his henchmen'".They accused Along, who is also the state minister of higher education and tribal affairs, of resorting to undemocratic practices at all levels of the party organisation "to cover up his mismanagements and failings" which they said is bogging down the functioning of the BJP at the organisational level and damaging its image.The leaders also appealed to implement the party's ‘One Man, One Post’ principle in Nagaland as the incumbent state president is a legislator and minister with many important portfolios to look after and "cannot provide time to our party Karyakartas from all levels".Reminding Nadda that they had petitioned the central leadership on the same issue several times in 2020 as well, the dissidents further expressed apprehension of having to face the next Nagaland assembly elections in 2023 under the present leadership as they felt BJP’s historical tally of 12 MLAs in the current assembly would be reduced to a single digit.Asserting that they were genuinely concerned about the party's image, the nine functionaries stated that in the event the central leadership failing to urgently intervene in the crisis by the end of February 2021, they would be compelled to put up their resignations even though they would continue to serve as loyal party Karyakartas (functionaries).While the party officials did not wish to comment on the issue, a close aide of the state president said the matter was an internal party issue. He said the central leadership was aware of the dissidence of the district leaders but had made it clear that the incumbent president would continue and complete his tenure in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dissidence-in-nagaland-bjp-9-district-chiefs-seek-removal-of-state-party-prez-101613316828837.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Consumer forum directs bank to pay ₹40,000 to retired army officer for delay in breaking open locker||Pune: The Pune district consumer redressal forum has directed the Union Bank of India to pay compensation of ₹40,000 to a retired army officer towards mental and physical agony caused for delay in breaking open the locker in his name. Brigadier Vijay Kumar Arora (retired), 71, lodged a consumer complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, alleging deficiency in service from the bank. In the complaint lodged on December 21, 2017, the complainant sought relief of ₹60,000 towards denial of the locker facility at the rate of ₹15,000 per month for four months after discounting the demonisation period. He also sought relief of ₹3.45 lakh towards compensation of demonetised currency notes which could not be exchanged by the due end date of December 2016.Arora, along with his wife Rekha Arora (64), had jointly hired a locker in the bank since January 2011. Unfortunately, the locker key got misplaced by the couple. Arora wrote to the bank on November 4, informing about the loss of locker key and requested for breaking open the locker. The bank admitted that the said referred letter was duly received by them on the same date. Despite numerous visits, the locker was finally broken only on March 22, 2017. The bank took about 10- 12 days for getting the locker opened as informed by the bank when the letter was given as they had to coordinate with Godrej company (suppliers of locker) for breaking open the locker, the complaint stated.However, the bank took more than four months (137 days) from November 4, 2016 to March 22, 2017 for breaking open the locker. Even after allowing 26 days of November 2016 when the bank was busy with other urgent official works due to demonetisation, they still took 112 days from December 1, 2016 to March 22 to get the locker opened. Hence, the complainant’s wife could not take out any jewellery kept in the locker and had to suffer embarrassment at social gatherings as she had no ornaments to wear. They also could not exchange ₹3.45 lakh kept in the locker in demonetised currency notes, according to the complainant. The locker was broken open on March 22, 2017 and emptied of its contents, including demonetised currency notes, in the presence of Himani Jain, bank official and incharge of the locker room, and a Godrej technician. When the complainant approached the bank to compensate them for denying the locker facility for a long time, vide their email dated March 23, 2017, the bank blamed the complainant by stating that the latter never expressed the urgency for breaking open the locker and also that he did not respond to the several telephone calls made by the bank.The bank filed its response in written on April 1, 2018. The complainant denied the bank’s allegations. “The bank did not admit that it took more than four months for breaking open the locker as it was busy with demonetisation work from December 1, 2016 to March 22, 2017 and took 112 days to break open the locker. It also denied that they have denied locker facility for a long period and the bank issued an email on March 23, 2017 to that regard (denying facility of locker) is not true. It is not true that the complainant did not express the urgency for breaking open the locker in spite of several telephone calls made by the bank. It is pertinent to note that, after incident of loss of key, the complainant did not apply for new locker facility so that to prove how much the complainant is a diligent customer. On these main grounds, the bank prayed that the complaint may be dismissed with compensatory costs,” the complainant stated.After hearing the bank’s response, the forum directed the manager, Union Bank of India, BT Kawade road branch, to pay to the complainant ₹40,000 by way of compensation towards mental and physical agony and for being late in breaking open the bank locker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/consumer-forum-directs-bank-to-pay-rs-40-000-to-retired-army-officer-for-delay-in-breaking-open-locker-101613315864081.html
14-02-2021||Jaipur||Narcotics cases in Rajasthan increased by 45.32% in 3 years: Govt data||In the last three years, the number of narcotics cases has increased by 45.42 per cent in Rajasthan. However, the government claims that high numbers of cases were detected due to their pro-activeness, the official data tables in Rajasthan Assembly revealed.In 2018, as many as 1,878 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act), which increased to 2,589 in 2019 and 2,731 in 2020 despite the Covid-19 lockdown.“There has been an increase in the action against illegal drug trade in the state. In the year 2018, 1,878 cases were registered in the, 2,589 in the year 2019, and 2,731 in the year 2020. It cannot be said that there has been an increase in the illegal drug trade in the state,” reads the reply stated by the government in assembly.The reply added that it cannot be said that drug addiction has led to an increase in crime due to opium or poppy addiction.Also read: Will energise India’s growth trajectory - PM Modi launches projects in KeralaInterestingly, the highest number of cases were registered in Sri Ganganagar district which shares its border with Punjab which is infamous for drugs consumption. Following Sri Ganganagar were Hanumangarh, Chittorgarh, Jodhpur rural and Bikaner.In 2018, 180 cases of the NDPS were registered by Sri Ganganagar police followed by 254 in 2019 and 296 in 2020.Similarly, in Hanumangarh, a total of 538 NDPS cases were registered between 2018 and 2020, 486 in Chittorgarh, 377 cases in Jodhpur rural and 280 cases in Bikaner.“Effective action is being taken by border police stations to stop the patrolling and blockade to prevent illicit drug trade. Social Justice and Empowerment Department is running drug-free India campaign to stop substance abuse in the state,” the reply read.A senior police official said that Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh not only share a border with Punjab but are highly influenced by both positive and negatives characters of the neighbouring state.“Youngsters are falling into the grip of substance abuse,” the police official said.He added that large consignments of drugs in the form of tablets like Tramadol and Alprozone are consumed illegally by youngsters. “These tablets are restricted under the NDPS Act and are also illegally sold at medical shops, leading to drug addiction in youngsters,” the official said.Even during the lockdown last year, smugglers were carrying out their illegal activities.“During the lockdown, the government had allowed the movement of trucks to maintain an uninterrupted supply of essential goods. These smugglers took advantage of this relief and instead of transporting vegetables and fruits, created special hidden compartments in their trucks so that nobody could catch them,” the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/narcotics-cases-in-rajasthan-increased-by-45-32-in-3-years-govt-data-101613310989728.html
14-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP workers protest in Kolkata against removal of leader from party post||A group of BJP workers on Sunday demonstrated in front of a party office here, protesting against the removal of a leader from its local committee in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district.They staged the protest in Hastings area in the presence of BJP MP from Hooghly Locket Chatterjee.The saffron party had removed Shubhankar Dutta Majumdar, a leader in Sonarpur area, from the local committee."The BJP is a big family. They have come here to air their grievances. It is not an issue. All are working for the party and we will sort out the problem," Chatterjee said.Recently, two groups of BJP activists clashed at the party's Purba Bardhaman district office when a meeting of the saffron camp was in progress.During an organisational meeting at a BJP party office in Asansol in Paschim Bardhaman district, two factions of the saffron camp got involved in a scuffle in the presence of Union Minister and local MP Babul Supriyo. PTI BSM BDC BDC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-workers-protest-in-kolkata-against-removal-of-leader-from-party-post-101613310740281.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police hold 3-hour drive to enforce law, nab offenders||A combing and law enforcement exercise carried out across Mumbai by the police between Saturday and Sunday led to the arrest of several criminals, seizure of contraband and arms, as well as imposition of penalties on vehicles, officials said.The 'All Out Operation' started at 11pm on Saturday and ended at 2am on Sunday, with personnel from all 93 police stations in the metropolis being deployed on the streets, they added.A senior official said 259 places were checked, 1,278 people accused of various offences were rounded up, 39 wanted accused nabbed, 88 people booked under the NDPS Act and 37 people held with illegal arms."We managed to check 11,881 vehicles, and owners of 3,141 were penalised under various Acts, and 31 were held for drunk driving. We took action against 71 people who were conducting illegal activities in 42 of the 951 lodges, hotels and such establishments we searched during the operation," he informed.The official said 37 people who were externed but found in city limits and 176 against whom there were warrants were caught, while 135 hawkers and 50 beggars were penalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-hold-3-hour-drive-to-enforce-law-nab-offenders-101613310128674.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to soon start facilitating registration of e-autos: Kailash Gahlot||The Delhi government will soon start facilitating registration of e-autos that can save up to ₹29,000 as compared to their CNG equivalents, Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday.Under its 'Switch Delhi' campaign, the Delhi government will now focus on adoption of electric three-wheelers, including e-autos, e-rickshaws, and e-carts "The Delhi government has led the way in promoting e-rickshaws for the last few years by giving subsidy of ₹30,000. After the EV policy, the same subsidy has been extended to e-carts and e-autos. Scrapping incentives of up to ₹7,500 are also available on it," Gahlot said.Under Delhi's electric vehicle policy, 177 three-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives.The Switch Delhi campaign is an eight-week electric vehicle mass awareness campaign to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles. The second week of the campaign focuses on the outreach for electric three-wheelers and aims to sensitise, inform, and encourage Delhiites to adopt electric three-wheelers in the national capital, said a Delhi government statement.Three-wheelers are one of the major contributors to vehicular emissions in Delhi and the policy lays special focus on incentivising the transition of this segment to electric. "Two and three-wheelers contribute to two-thirds of the pollution in Delhi. Three wheelers run on the road for 12-16 hours everyday. The focus of Delhi EV policy on this segment to enable their transition to electric will greatly benefit Delhi's air quality," Gahlot said on the occasion of launching the next leg of the Switch Delhi campaign. While e-rickshaws have a top speed not exceeding 25 kmph, e-autos are comparable to CNG autos and have top speed of around 50-60 kmph and can travel longer distances, he said."E-autos can complement e-rickshaws in providing zero pollution last mile connectivity in Delhi. The Delhi government will soon bring out a scheme to facilitate easy registration of e-autos in Delhi," said Gahlot.Road tax and registration fees will also be waived for all electric three-wheelers, he said."Subsidies provided by the Delhi government under the EV policy, on electric autos reduce their total cost by up to 26 per cent. By switching to electric auto, an individual can save about ₹29,000 annually," the minister said.The subsidy provided on e-rickshaw under the EV policy reduces the total cost of ownership by up to 33 per cent, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-soon-start-facilitating-registration-of-e-autos-kailash-gahlot-101613309664871.html
14-02-2021||Lucknow||Govt working with religious leaders for development of Braj region: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the government is working with religious leaders for the modern development of the place during his visit to Mathura on Sunday.UP Chief Minister addressed the saints present in the third meeting of "Braj Pilgrim Development Council"."We are working with various religious leaders for the modern development of the place with such a cultural and spiritual heritage. A committee is created to implement the policies of development also," Adityanath said.While addressing the meet, Adityanath said, many political parties made government in the state with several development works but the important thing is that the feelings and beliefs of the saints should be respected."Vrindavan and the entire Teerth city should get the respect that it deserves," he added.He offered prayers at the Thakur Bankebihari temple during his visit to Mathura. He met the saints and seers at the Swami Gyanananda's ashram where he served them food."Prayagraj Kumbh Mela was a grand and divine event, with proper security and sanitation which became an example of development in the religious tourism sector," Adityanath added.He also reviewed the projects of the Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad while highlighting the state administration's efforts to make the government schemes available to all people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-working-with-religious-leaders-for-development-of-braj-region-up-cm-101613305661149.html
14-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli tragedy: After 7 days, 12 more bodies recovered including 5 from Tapovan||A week after the rescue operation was started in the 1.7 kilometre-long main tunnel of the NTPC's hydel power project, the rescue agencies recovered five bodies inside the tunnel till Sunday afternoon. It also recovered seven other bodies from various places taking the total confirmed death toll to 50. About 154 people are still missing.The five bodies in the tunnel were recovered after the rescue workers cleared the muck inside at a distance of about 130 metres. They are among the 35 workers trapped inside the tunnel, including about 30 workers trapped in another smaller underground tunnels beneath the main one.District magistrate Chamoli, Swati S Bhadauria, said, "In the morning, two bodies were first recovered inside the tunnel after clearing the muck at a distance of about 125-130 metres. Following that, three more bodies were recovered till Sunday afternoon."Also read: Will energise India’s growth trajectory - PM Modi launches projects in KeralaBhadauria said, "The administration has kept seven ambulances and a chopper on standby in case any of the workers is found alive from the tunnel."On the vertical drilling being done by another team of rescue workers to reach out to the smaller tunnel to rescue about 30 workers trapped inside, she said, "On Saturday, the rescue workers finished drilling vertically in the main tunnel to reach out to a small underground tunnel beneath at a depth of 12.7 metres. They, however, hit slush after drilling the required depth which they have been pumping out to get inside to search the workers trapped inside it."Meanwhile, the rescue workers recovered seven other bodies, including six from Raini village near the Rishi Ganga hydel power project which was the first one to be hit by the flash floods in Sunday's disaster. The remaining body was recovered from Rudraprayag district in the Alaknanda river.Nilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general (law & order), said that of the total 50 bodies recovered, 25 have been identified while the remaining 25 are yet to be identified."Of the 50 bodies, 41 were recovered from Chamoli district, seven from Rudraprayag and one each from Tehri Garhwal and Pauri Garhwal districts," said Bharne.He said, "Apart from the bodies, the rescue workers also recovered 23 human body parts. DNA samples of all the body parts and dead bodies have been collected to ascertain their identities."The police officer informed that the rescue workers have so far "cremated 32 bodies and 11 human body parts with complete rituals and respect. The rescue agencies have also videographed and photographed the jewellery, tattoo and other identity marks of the bodies found.""The rescue workers are working tirelessly to recover the remaining bodies. The family members can call on the helpline numbers- 01372-251487 and 9084127503 for any queries or assistance," said Bharne.Earlier on Saturday night, the eight-member team of the SDRF, which had gone on foot to gather information about the glacier lake about 8 kilometres above Raini village in Rishi Ganga, also returned to Tapovan. The team had reached there on Friday after trekking for about 14 hours. They said that the 350-metre lake is posing no threat of any flash floods as enough water is continuously draining from there in the form of a stream.The SDRF, which had gone there with seven labourers, also created a makeshift helipad near the glacial lake to enable a chopper land there, if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-tragedy-after-7-days-rescuers-recover-5-bodies-from-tunnel-death-toll-at-50-101613303378350.html
14-02-2021||Lucknow||SBSP chief claims Jat farmers have 'left' BJP in 18 districts of UP||Accusing the BJP of eyeing eastern Uttar Pradesh only to garner votes ahead of the panchayat elections, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Omprakash Rajbhar on Sunday claimed that the Jat farmers have left the party in the state."In the coming days, the panchayat and the assembly elections will be held. The Jat farmers in 18 districts have left them (the BJP). So, now they have turned towards the eastern part of the state, and are focusing on this area, which has a sizable Rajbhar voters. Their sole aim is to garner votes," he told PTI in an interview.Hitting out at the BJP, the former ally of the saffron party said, "They name Mughalsarai station after Deen Dayal Upadhyay, write Sardar Vallabhai Patel at the statue of Sardar Patel and also write Prithviraj Chauhan, we have no problems with that. Why do they have a problem in writing the name of Rajbhar after Suheldev."The BJP should start liking the name Rajbhar while writing the name of Maharaja Suheldev, who is said to have killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in the early 11th century.The former Uttar Pradesh minister also claimed that owing to the intense hardwork of SBSP workers over the past few decades, almost all the political parties in the country, the Centre and state governments are celebrating the birth anniversary of Suheldev Rajbhar.At present, the SBSP has four MLAs in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly.On February 11, the Uttar Pradesh government released the reservation policy for the upcoming three-tier panchayat polls in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sbsp-chief-claims-jat-farmers-have-left-bjp-in-18-districts-of-up-101613303389437.html
14-02-2021||Other||Fleecing of consumers by authorized automobile centres needs to stop||The comparison may sound a little incongruous, but I must say that authorized automobile service centres are like private hospitals. They make every effort to jack up your bill through unwarranted services and procedures.After utilizing the first few free services offered by the manufacturer, you get ready for the paid service and hand over your car to the company’s authorized service station. The manufacturer’s manual tells you the maintenance requirements and their website gives you a rough estimate of how much it costs. However, when you get the bill, you realize that it is two to three times the costing given by the manufacturer. When you protest, you are told that the company’s website from which you picked up the estimate is outdated!A consumer recently complained about how he had specifically told the service centre that they should not go beyond what is prescribed by the manufacturer in the service manual. Yet, when he got the bill, there was an additional amount of ₹2000 for engine decarbonizing. He says he protested not only because it was not required –the car had done only 20,000 kms- but also because it had not been authorized by him, but eventually paid up. In fact there are many complaints about service centres undertaking (or claiming) engine decarbonization - a process to remove carbon deposits on the cylinder head, piston and other working components of the engine- when it’s not even required. In one case, the car had barely run 3,500 kms, yet the bill included decarbonization! Since there cannot be carbon deposits on the engine after such short run, the service centre obviously just added that in the bill! Like private hospitals that suggest unnecessary tests just to put to good use the diagnostic equipment that they have invested in, authorized service centres add wheel balancing to the work required to be carried out and charge a steep price for it. Here again, there are complaints of extracting payment for wheel balancing, without actually undertaking the work.Another trick is to call the customer after she or he has left the car for servicing and say that the vehicle requires additional work not provided in the earlier estimate. Since most car owners are not automobile engineers and want their car to run without any trouble, they agree. Ironically, Covid is also being used by some service providers to their advantage- they blame the steep bill on the additional services required to get the car into order after a long spell of inactivity or low use!.This kind of fleecing of consumers by authorized centres has to stop and that can only happen if automobile manufacturers exercise stringent control over them and not have a mutualistic relationship. This requires regular auditing of the work of authorized centres and it should include consumer feedback and also regular consumer surveys. Those who indulge in unfair practices should lose their authorization. Manufacturers in fact need to remember that they can also be held liable for the unfair trade practices of their authorized centres.The service centers on their part, should respect the consumer’s right to information, informed choice and maintain complete transparency in respect of their work and billing. In this age of digital communication, it does not take much effort to Whatsapp a picture of the part being changed or a service being undertaken, to the customer. Returning the replaced parts is also a must.. So also an independent customer complaint redress system.I am not aware of consumers going to consumer court on some of these issues, but it’s time they did. In this context, I must refer to an interesting case quoted in the Australian consumer magazine-Choice, about a service centre found guilty of making false representation to the consumer and fined $ 5000. The service centre had told the customer, who had taken his car for servicing, that it required new break pads and discs at a cost of $798. A subsequent independent inspection of the vehicle found both unnecessary!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fleecing-of-consumers-by-authorized-automobile-centres-needs-to-stop-101613303262855.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Are flyovers in Pune a problem or solution to traffic woes?||Pune: In one of its documents published on Smart City project around five years ago, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had stated that the city “aspires to become global urban centre”. The document also had a footnote that mentioned citizens of Pune enjoy “safe” and “liveable” environment with good connectivity. The situation on ground suggests that the city is witnessing an alarming rise in traffic jams, resulting in deterioration in air quality and increasing noise pollution. The reality, citizens say, is grim. To deal with the “grim” situation, politicians have a pet answer. That is to build flyovers. Pune along with Pimpri-Chinchwad currently has over 50 flyovers with another 10 either under construction or proposed. The latest addition to this list is a flyover at Katraj junction and its construction will begin within a month. PMC had earlier proposed to build a flyover at Katraj junction to resolve the traffic woes at the spot, where two highways intersect and the stretch is also an entry point for the city. As the civic body could not take up the work due to fund shortage, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to finance it. Once complete, the flyover will supplement the six-lane Katraj-Navale bridge stretch, work for which is underway. But that was not the only flyover announcement by Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari during his visit to the city on Saturday (February 13) when he also reviewed another flyover in the making at Pune’s western front of Chandani chowk. During the visit, the minister also proposed a 45-kilometre triple decker 16-lane road on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway. Most of the flyovers operational in the city have often been a source of relief from traffic woes. However, the benefit is temporary for vehicle users and people residing in suburbs. If bottlenecks at intersections have often led to traffic jams, flyovers constructed to decongest the city have merely shifted congestion from one point to another. So, those coming from areas as far as Wagholi or Kharadi on eastern parts to Ambegaon and Warje on the south and west may look at flyovers an easy way to enter into the central parts of the city. For those living in central areas, these structures have become an eyesore as it has resulted in streets of older parts getting further crowded, a common grumble of citizens. So, it is interesting when Deccan residents oppose PMC’s proposal of internal lane widening project tooth and nail. They have cited the heavy crowd on main streets adjoining these bylanes. The traffic scenario that the city is witnessing is no exception to what other places are going through. In Pune, the civic body and other bodies are merely following the global path where planning and development authorities have only fetishised the flyover as panacea for traffic mess. As putative symbols of modernity or technological advancement, these flyovers have often helped lawmakers get votes. These structures have often pushed addition of new private vehicles in urban spaces that are already congested by growing population. So, the newly made flyover attracts more traffic, which in turn forces authorities to look for more flyovers as solution. Such goes the vicious cycle. With over 500 square kilometre area (post merger of 23 villages) and population above 50 lakh, Pune’s civic limits will see more vehicular traffic, and road congestions. In Pune, there is another problem too – flyovers with faulty design. Be it the now demolished University junction flyover or one at Wakad, they have only added chaos. To build a flyover and demolish it within 14 years was not a “smart thing” that the city is aspiring to be. To be really “‘smart”, Pune needs a robust public transport with flyovers as a complementary mean instead of the other way round. Globally, flyovers are being demolished to make way for spaces. Locally, we may need flyovers, but not at the cost of creating a situation where they have become problem than solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-are-flyovers-in-pune-a-problem-or-solution-to-traffic-woes-101613303142935.html
14-02-2021||Other||No magic: Late night advertisements offering supernatural cure are illegal, must be curbed||If you surf television channels a little late in the night, you will come across advertisements that shock you for their brazen violation of the laws of the land, for the crude vulgarity of the messages, and most of all, for the blatant lies that they convey. And yes, despite laws against them, these advertisements continue to proliferate and exploit the vulnerable.The Advertising Code formulated under the Cable Television Network Rules says that “ No advertisement shall contain references which are likely to lead the public to infer that the product advertised or any of its ingredients has some special or miraculous or supernatural property or quality, which is difficult of being proved”. Yet, you will see innumerable advertisements of so-called ayurvedic formulations promising miracles!The Code also says that “Advertising carried in the cable service shall be so designed as to conform to the laws of the country and should not offend morality, decency and religious susceptibilities of the subscribers”. Yet there are advertisements that exploit religious beliefs or sentiments to peddle lies! The recent Bombay High Court order prohibiting the advertisements of ‘Hanuman Chalisa Yantra’ and similar products befooling consumers with promises of magical powers is a case in point. The Order, which came in response to a complaint filed in 2015 against such advertisements telecast on four channels, said not only the advertisers and sellers of the product, but also TV channels that telecast them were liable under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013. The Yantra, in the form of a pendant and costing ₹4,900, was touted to have extraordinary powers – it guaranteed huge profits to businessmen suffering losses, jobs to the unemployed, marriage to those looking for a life partner, good health to those suffering from diseases! What was even more shocking was the endorsement of such falsehood by celebrities!The high court order of January 5 in fact draws attention to the poor implementation of laws meant to prevent such advertisements. In this case, the detailed reference to the provisions of the Black Magic Act in the high court’s order, also shows that besides the central laws, some of the states have equipped themselves with additional laws, yet have failed to effectively tackle the menace.In fact most of the advertisements promising miracles or magical cures violate the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act. The law prohibits not only misleading advertisements pertaining to drugs, but also advertisements of drugs and magical cures for a number of diseases and disorders specified in the law. Contravention is punishable with six months imprisonment and fine However states have a poor record of enforcing this law.Now the government has armed the Central Consumer Protection Authority, constituted under the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, with powers to regulate false and misleading advertisements. In addition to imposition of hefty fines on endorsers and advertisers, the law also seeks to punish manufacturers or service providers guilty of issuing false or misleading advertisements with imprisonment extending to two years for the first offence. However, for all these laws to be effective, what is most crucial is the monitoring of the media to detect violations of the laws pertaining to advertisements. And this is where the efforts are lacking, particularly by the state governments, which are required to set up monitoring committees at the state and the district levels to prevent infringement of the Programme and Advertising Codes under the Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act and Rules. The Information and Broadcasting ministry, in a communication sent to all the states in 2017, had lamented that monitoring committees had only been set up in 19 states, five union territories and 327 districts, and even where they were set up, not every one of them was active.Better monitoring, better coordination between the centre and the states and quick action against advertisements and advertisers contravening the law are the need of the hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-magic-late-night-advertisements-offering-supernatural-cure-are-illegal-must-be-curbed-101613302842866.html
14-02-2021||Kolkata||Partha Chatterjee slams Dinesh Trivedi for leaving TMC||Taking a veiled dig at latest rebel Dinesh Trivedi, Trinamool Congress (TMC) West Bengal Secretary General Partha Chatterjee on Sunday that even swimmers fail to stay underwater if they are feeling suffocated."How come (Trivedi) stayed so long if (he) was feeling suffocated? Even swimmers also fail to do so," said Chatterjee while addressing a press conference here."He has chosen to resign on the floor of Rajya Sabha. Whether it is a correct process or not, the party functionaries of All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) have taken up the issue and they will see to it that if it. If it is not done in accordance with the law then we will say it is not done in accordance with the law," he added.Amid election fervour in the state, the latest stroke to AITC came from Dinesh Trivedi, a senior MP in Rajya Sabha, after he announced his resignation from the Upper House of Parliament citing "suffocation" with the functioning as the reason behind it.At the time when the old guards are leaving TMC's ship, the party inducted new troops from opponent BJP's West Bengal SC Morcha.BJP West Bengal SC Morcha Vice President Dipak Roy and party member Subrata Roy were inducted in TMC in presence of Chatterjee today.West Bengal is gearing up for the upcoming Assembly Election for 294 seats this year. The tenure of the current government led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the state is coming to an end on May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/partha-chatterjee-slams-dinesh-trivedi-for-leaving-tmc-101613301366795.html
14-02-2021||Kolkata||72-year-old Assam woman, others nabbed in Kolkata with drugs worth ₹17.5 cr||The Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police on Saturday busted an inter-state drug-running operation and seized heroin and Amphetamine tablets, commonly called Yaba, in the Cossipore area.Five alleged drug dealers, three of whom are based in Assam and Manipur, were arrested during the operation, said a senior STF officer. Two vehicles were seized.The Assam-based accused is a 72-year-old woman identified as Pravati Devi alias Pabitri Devi Jaiswal from Bokajan in Karbi district.Also read: PM Modi catches 'fleeting view' of India-England test match during Chennai visitThe Bengal-based accused have been identified as Piyarul Islam, 40, and Sadikul Sk, 31, residents of Suti in Murshidabad district.The remaining two are Kartik Naidu, 27, and Rakesh Thapa, 26, from Moreh in Manipur’s Tengnoupal district.STF officials said heroin and Yaba pills seized from their possession and from inside the vehicles are worth about ₹17.5 crore in the international grey market. The Yaba pills weighed 17.25 kilograms.The accused were produced before the court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/72yearold-assam-woman-others-nabbed-in-kolkata-with-drugs-worth-rs-17-5-cr-101613301120247.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab civic body polls: Farmers protest against farm laws in Amritsar||Amritsar (Punjab) [India], February 14 (ANI): Farmers on Sunday raised slogans and protested against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the new farm laws as the polling for the civic body elections in Punjab were underway in Ward number 37 of Amritsar.Polling for 117 local bodies including eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats is underway in Punjab.Sonu Mahal, a farmer present during the protests said, "Today, during the local body elections in Amritsar, we are protesting against the BJP. A large number of our farmer brothers are riding on bikes and arriving in ward number 37 to participate in the protests.""The BJP government is not taking back the new farm laws. So today we will not allow the BJP booths to be set up on election day and we shall oppose wherever the party's booths are installed," he added.Meanwhile, Congress MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria who had arrived to cast his vote at a polling booth said, "Even the British are opposing the BJP because the farmers are the backbone of our economy and the whole country is with the farmers. The Congress stands in solidarity with the farmers."The polling for Punjab civic body elections began at 8 am and will continue till 4 pm.Bathinda recorded the highest voters' turnout with 48.42% polling till 12 pm on Sunday.Ludhiana's Sahiwal Nagar witnessed 20% voter's turnout till 10 am while the polling percentage in Ludhiana's Jagraon was 13%.The voters' turnout in Ludhiana' Payal was recorded at 14.6% till 10 am.The voting trend at Jalandhar Municipal Corporation was 14% while it was 22.62% in Nihal Singh Wala in Moga district.The counting of votes will take place on February 17 while the results of the polls will be declared on February 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-civic-body-polls-farmers-protest-against-farm-laws-in-amritsar-101613299486554.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Toll collection will continue on Pune-Satara road: Gadkari||Though National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will fund the Pune-Satara road project, citizens will have to pay road toll, said Nitin Gadkari, union minister for road transport and highways, on Saturday.Gadkari said, “I instructed NHAI to fund the incomplete project and finish the work in a maximum of six months. If citizens want good quality roads, they will have to pay for it.”When asked why NHAI is funding the Pune-Satara road project instead of Reliance, Gadkari said, “The project got delayed due to a controversy between bank and contractor. As the bank was not giving toll collection money to the contractor, they were not able to carry out the work. Termination and all legal process would take a long time. To avoid all this, I instructed the NHAI to fund the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/toll-collection-will-continue-on-pune-satara-road-gadkari-101613300266082.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Intensive cyclones due to warmer sea temperature: IITM study||Pune:Warmer sea surface temperatures (SST) and subsurface temperatures are responsible for the rapid intensification of cyclones that India has witnessed in the recent past, revealed research done by scientists at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). Recently, we have seen that in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, the temperature of the ocean has been warmer, said scientists. The paper was recently published in Scientific Reports, published by Nature. Scientists Vineet Kumar Singh, MK Roxy and Medha Deshpande were part of the study. The paper stated that the north Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, accounts for about 6% of the global tropical cyclones. Speaking about the study, Vineet Kumar Singh, scientist at IITM who also worked on the paper, said that ocean surface temperatures have been warmer than normal. “The sea temperature has been around 30 degrees Celsius which is warmer than normal. This warm water further fuels the intensification of cyclones. Cyclone Fani which hit the coast of Orissa and intensified in the Bay of Bengal had a lifespan of eight days. On an average, cyclones have a lifespan of four days. This increased time span is due to the warmer SST. We have seen recently that the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea, both are experiencing record warm sea surface temperature. High SST provides more energy to cyclones,” said Singh. In recent years, India has seen super cyclones like Maha, Amphan and Nisarga. Scientists are now attributing the intensity of these cyclones to the warmer SST. Even on the coast of Maharashtra, cyclone Nisarga was seen to intensify in just 24 hours. “In the future as well, we are likely to witness more such cyclones as the SST and sub-surface temperatures are warmer. Though, the number of cyclones that India experiences every year may not increase, but their intensity will certainly see an increase. This can be harmful for life and property along the coast,” said Singh. The cyclone frequency in this region varies between one and three in the pre-monsoon (March–May), to two to five cyclones in the post-monsoon (October–December) season. Studies show that there is an increase in the intensity of pre-monsoon cyclones in the Bay of Bengal during recent decades. He further added that multiple studies across the world have reflected that high SST fuels the cyclones. Singh further said that Arabian Sea, earlier, had less conducive conditions for cyclones. “But, in the last 10 years, there are more cyclones in the Arabian Sea. Due to the rotation axis of the Earth, the cyclones tend to take a path towards the Yemen and Oman coast. Nonetheless, their intensity and frequency has increased. Nisarga is one such example which hit the coast of Maharashtra and Gujarat in 2020,” Singh added. What the study claims *Cyclone Fani is the strongest pre-monsoon cyclone to form in the Bay of Bengal after 1994. *This is the second fastest rapid intensification in 24 hours among all the pre-monsoon cyclones in the Bay of Bengal during the period 1990–2019. *Cyclone Fani is the strongest pre-monsoon (March–May) Bay of Bengal cyclone after 1994. *The average SST prior to the genesis of cyclone Fani was 30.4 °C. This is the highest SST observed at the genesis centre prior to genesis of any cyclone in April in the Bay of Bengal during the period 1990–2019. Source: Scientific Reports, Nature Warm January The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) which is based in the USA noted that the January global land and ocean surface temperature were 0.80 of a degree Celsius warmer than normal. This makes January the seventh warmest January in the 142-year climate record for earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/intensive-cyclones-due-to-warmer-sea-temperature-iitm-study-101613300262869.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Petrol with additives cross ₹100 mark in Maharashtra's Parbhani district||The rate of petrol with additives has crossed the ₹100 mark for a litre in Maharashtra's Parbhani district on Sunday morning, an office bearer of a petrol dealers' association said.After a 28 paise rise on Sunday morning, the per-litre rate of petrol with additives for retail sale crossed ₹100.Parbhani District Petrol Dealers' Association President Amol Bhedsurkar told PTI, "The rates of petrol with additives in Parbhani has reached to 100.16 rupees for one litre. The cost of unleaded petrol is 97.38 here."The cost of petrol in Parbhani is one of the costliest in Maharashtra. The cost is higher due to longer distance of transportation.Fuel in Parbhani comes from Manmad in the Nashik district, which is at a distance of 340 km."We need ₹3,000 extra for every tanker if prices go up by 10 paise. Hence, the investment in buying fuel has also gone up," Bhedsurkar said.The transportation cost for fuel stands at nearly 21 paise a litre now, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-with-additives-cross-rs-100-mark-in-maharashtra-s-parbhani-district-101613297717546.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Fadnavis seeks suo-motu action by Maha cops over woman's 'suicide'||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said the Maharashtra Police should take suo-motu action over the alleged suicide of a 23-year-old woman in Pune, and questioned whether the police are under some kind of pressure in connection with the case.Some social media posts have claimed that the woman, who died after falling from a building in Pune's Hadapsar area on February 8, was in a relationship with a cabinet minister in the state.According to Wanwadi police, who have registered a case of accidental death, there was no suicide note.Earlier, Fadnavis on Friday said his office received 12 clips of conversation between two persons linked to the woman's death, and he had forwarded them to the Director General of Police.Talking to reporters at the Nagpur airport on Sunday, Fadnavis said he feels the police action in the case is "not as serious as it should have been".Hence, the question arises whether the police are under some kind of pressure, he said.The clips related to this case are very clear and on the basis of these clips, the police should take sou-motu (on their own) action, he said."The voice in the clip is very easily recognisable by all, and police should also reveal whose voice is there in that clip which is being hidden by the police," the former state chief minister said without taking any name.An offence should be registered and truth should come out before people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fadnavis-seeks-suo-motu-action-by-maha-cops-over-woman-s-suicide-101613297229035.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police announce reward for information on whereabouts of Lakha Sidhana||The Delhi Police on Sunday announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information on the whereabouts of gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana. Various teams of Delhi Police, along with the special cell, are conducting search operations across Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR, news agency ANI reported.Cops are probing Sidhana's role in instigating violence during the tractor rally on January 26 and his relationship with actor Deep Sidhu who was arrested earlier by Delhi Police.Sidhana came into focus once more after he released a video on social media demanding the release of Sidhu and was also seen asking the representatives of farmers unions to demand his release before holding another round of discussions with the government.Earlier this week, the special cell of the Delhi Police had arrested Iqbal Singh and sent him seven-day police custody by a local court. Cops said that he was among the main conspirators of the Republic Day violence.143 people along with, actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, have been arrested in as many as 44 cases registered in connection with the Republic Day’s violence during a tractor rally by farmers, who have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 for almost three months at Delhi’s borders.The violence during the tractor rally had led to the loss of life of one protesting farmer and resulted in injuries of 10 farmers and more than 300 police officers. A police officer familiar with the developments told HT on Saturday that Sidhu was present at Singhu border protest site on January 25 and also delivered a “provocative speech”. The official also further added that technical investigation revealed the presence of Lakha Sidhana at Tikri on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-announce-reward-for-information-on-whereabouts-of-lakha-sidhana-101613293600911.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||JNU allows final-year PhD scholars to return to campus||As part of its eighth and ninth phase of reopening, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has allowed final-year PhD students to return to the campus.While the "9B students" (day-scholars), who have to submit their theses on or before June 30, are allowed to enter the campus from Monday, PhD scholars residing in the hostels will be allowed to return from February 22, a notification dated February 12 said.The university has also allowed the reopening of the library canteen with immediate effect.The B and C gates of the campus towards Saraswati Puram will also be opened for central school students and their parents during the school opening and closing times, it said.Also read| Chhattisgarh schools for classes 9th to 12th to resume from Feb 15Earlier, JNU had allowed fourth semester M.Phil and M.Tech students of its science school and special centre, as well as final semester MBA students, both day-scholars and hostel residents, to return to campus in the seventh phase of reopening.The B R Ambedkar Central Library of the university has also partially resumed services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-allows-final-year-phd-scholars-to-return-to-campus-101613290609661.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to implement STARs project to improve learning in schools||The Maharashtra state education department will implement the ‘Strengthening Teaching- Learning And Results for States’ (STARS) initiative to improve the overall teaching and learning process in schools across the state.The STARS initiative is a $500 million project funded by the World Bank to improve the quality of learning in schools across six states - Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan. The Maharashtra cabinet recently approved its implementation following which a government resolution was issued to that effect. The implementation will take place in a phased manner over the next five years, said officials.Strengthening the pre-primary education in the state through anganwadis with special emphasis on quality infrastructure, teachers training etc is part of the initiative. The education department will also set up an independent teacher training platform and issue certifications after completion of the training modules. There will also be efforts to reduce dropouts, improve learning outcomes and extend counselling and guidance sessions for students.The STAR project will be implemented under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. A seven-member committee will overlook the working of the initiative across districts in the state. “The total cost of the project will be ₹976 crore, of which, ₹390 crore will be spent by the state government and ₹586 crore will be provided by the central government," said an official from the state education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-implement-stars-project-to-improve-learning-in-schools-101613291202632.html
14-02-2021||Patna||Bihar gets its act together for Paddy procurement after Nitish Kumar’s warning||Days before the deadline for paddy procurement in Bihar expires on February 21, the state’s cooperative as well as food and consumer protection departments clarified Saturday that the farmers wanting to sell their produce on minimum support price (MSP) through Primary Agriculture Credit Society (PACS) need to register only on the agriculture department’s website, said officials.This year, there are 6,478 notified PACS in the state, as against 6,086 on February 13, 2020. The number of working PACS last year in February was 4,598, which has now risen to 6,179.The clarification came after chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Friday that farmers only needed to register on the agriculture department’s portal to sell their paddy produce through PACS.“I had said this earlier also, but despite this if farmers were registering at two places, action would be taken against the erring officials,” he had said.There was no distress sale of paddy by farmers in Bihar this kharif season owing to several corrective measures, claimed a senior government official. “The target of paddy procurement has been increased from 30 to 45 lakh metric tonnes,” said Bandana Preyashi, secretary (cooperative department) on Saturday.Compared to last year, there has been a 132.22% increase in registrations by farmers for procurement of paddy, she said. “This is the result of direct contact we established with them through various means, including kisan salahkar (farmers’ advisers). The window for paddy procurement has been reduced so that middlemen don’t take undue benefit,” she said.In February last year, paddy procurement was 4.64 lakh metric tonnes, which has increased to 29.40 lakh metric tonnes till February 13 this year.Also Read: Bihar health secy says huge discrepancies found in Covid-19 test dataVinay Kumar, secretary, food and consumer protection department said Bihar had achieved self-sufficiency in paddy production this year. “We have stopped taking rice from Food Corporation of India (FCI) and started supplying beneficiaries in the state from our production only,” he said.For the rabi crop, the window in the agriculture department portal would be opened early, he said.Kumar said while the credit limit of PACS was 40% last year, it had been increased to 60% this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-gets-its-act-together-for-paddy-procurement-after-nitish-kumar-s-warning-101613282359350.html
14-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand law to levy water tax on hydropower projects in state held valid||Uttarakhand high court has upheld the constitutional validity of 2012 legislation enacted by Uttarakhand government to levy water tax on hydro power projects of more than 5 MW capacity in the state on water drawn for power generation at the rates decided by the state government, as per the order. The court dismissed a bunch of writ petitions filed by hydro power project companies challenging the law.The HC ruled, “There is no prohibition in the Constitution that the State legislature cannot enact any law for the imposition of tax on water for non-consumptive use in the State of Uttarakhand, therefore, in absence of any provision in this regard, no fault can be attached to the act in question”.The court order stated that a bare reading of the 2012 act reveals the nature of impugned tax is not on “generation of electricity” but on the “use of water”’ or say “water drawn for the generation of electricity”.The HC noted that since Uttarakhand is mainly a hilly, cash-starved state with limited revenue resources, therefore, a uniform tax has been introduced on all who use the water of the state rivers- Bhagirathi and Alaknanda-- in order to give sustenance to its economy. It stated that the act on water tax does not infringe upon the fundamental right of the petitioners in any way.The court also vacated an interim order issued by a coordinate bench of Uttarakhand HC in 2016 directing authorities concerned not to take coercive measures for recovery of the water tax demand from the petitioners.The 87-page order, delivered by the single bench of justice Lok Pal Singh on Friday was made available on Saturday. HT has a copy of the order.The petitions, challenging the constitutional validity of the Uttarakhand Water Tax on Electricity Generation Act, 2012 and the notices issued to them for realisation of due water tax, were filed by companies including Alaknanda Hydro Power Co. Ltd (2020), THDC India Ltd (2016), National Hydro Power Corporation (2016), Swasti Power Pvt. Ltd (2016), Bhilangana Hydro Power Ltd (2016), Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd (2017).Petitioners had alleged that their fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution were violated by the state under the 2012 act. They also claimed that authorities neither installed any flow measuring device within the dam premises nor they adopted any alternative method to measure the quantity of water used.Also Read: 2 bodies found in Tapovan tunnel, 164 missing amid good news on glacial lakeThe petitioners also claimed that the tax on the generation of electricity falls under List I (Union List) and, therefore, the state legislature was incompetent to levy tax under the act. They also argued that Entry 17 of List II (State List) does not authorise or empower a state to levy any such tax on the use of water.While dismissing the petitions, the court order also stated it has been informed that the nodal officer of the Uttarakhand government had made a provisional assessment of water drawn by petitioner companies and the tax due from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-law-to-levy-water-tax-on-hydropower-projects-in-state-held-valid-101613279792379.html
14-02-2021||Lucknow||4 killed, 6 injured in a collision in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh||Four persons were killed and six others were injured in a collision between a Tata magic minivan and a truck loaded with sand in Azamgarh district in the early hours on Sunday, police said.The accident took place near Bagahidand bridge in Jiyanpur police station area of the district. Around a dozen people on board the minivan were travelling from Gorakhpur to Azamgarh. As the van reached near Keshwapur village in Azamgarh district, a truck loaded with sand coming from the opposite direction collided with the van, killing four daily-wage labourers and injuring six others. Two of the injured were residents of Varanasi, said police. It added that the truck turned turtle after the accident.Also Read: 14 killed, 4 injured in van-truck collision at highway in Andhra's KurnoolThe injured have been admitted to the district hospital in Azamgarh. Kin of the deceased have been informed about the incident, said Nand Kumar Tiwari, Station house officer, Jiyanpur.In another devastating accident on Sunday, at least 14 people were killed and four others were critically injured, when a tempo traveller van which they were travelling in collided with a truck on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway (NH-44) in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district in the early hours, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-killed-6-injured-in-a-collision-in-uttar-pradesh-s-azamgarh-101613277680629.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena says PM's 'andolanjeevi' jibe also insults freedom movement||Shiv Sena on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ridiculing protesters including farmers agitating against the three farm laws and those who fought for India's independence after he used word 'andolanjeevi' (one who thrives on protests).The editorial of Shiv Sena's mouthpiece Saamana pointed out that the BJP would not have witnessed such a meteoric rise if it had not held protests on several issues, including the Ram temple movement and inflation."Prime Minister Modi has made fun of the country's agitations. The BJP continued its agitation from the emergency to the Ayodhya movement, from inflation to the removal of Article-370 from Kashmir. Had the Ram movement not happened, the BJP would not have been seen today. When PM Modi of that BJP ridicules protesters as 'andolanjeevi', the freedom movement is also insulted," it said."Stop protests in the country. Protest means conspiracy of foreign powers. Some people are only living on the movements. The Prime Minister has ridiculed the activists who took to the road by mentioning the word 'andolanjeevi'. Not only farmers who have been protesting against the agricultural law for three months, those who protested for the country's independence were also ridiculed with his remark," it said.The Shiv Sena also took a jibe at BJP saying that Jana Sangh founder Shyama Prasad Mukherjee protested against the revocation of Article 370 and now his sacrifice is being called 'andolanjeevi'."What should the agitations by BJP be called? BJP held many agitations. Then they were done for political interests and to gain power, that is to say. The abrogation of Article 370 from Kashmir was the biggest movement of BJP's life. Syama Prasad Mukherjee did protest to revoke Article 370. Mukherjee's sacrifice is now called 'andolanjeevi'. When revolutionaries come to power, they take the sacrifice of ideals of revolutionaries first. This is happening in our country," read the editorial.PM Modi first mentioned 'andolanjeevi' word while replying to the motion of thanks on President's address in Rajya Sabha on February 8.He had said a new community has come up in the country - 'andolanjeevi' -- who can be spotted in every protest and are parasite for the nation."We are well aware of some terms like 'Shram Jivi' and 'Buddhi Jivi'. But, I am seeing that from some time a new entity has come up in this country- 'Andolan Jivi'. This community can be spotted wherever there is a protest, be it agitation by lawyers, students, or labourers, sometimes at the forefront and sometimes from behind. They cannot live without protests. We have to identify such people and protect the nation from them. They are parasites," the Prime Minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-says-pm-s-andolanjeevi-jibe-also-insults-freedom-movement-101613275921125.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||As farmers’ stir enters day 81, several Delhi borders remain closed||As farmers continue their agitation against the Centre's agricultural laws, several borders of Delhi remained shut on Sunday, leading to traffic jams and disruption in the national capital. The Delhi Police has advised commuters to take alternative routes.Ghazipur border that connects Delhi with Uttar Pradesh, one of the key borders where protesting farmers have been camping for the past 81 days, continues to be closed. “Gazipur border is closed both carriage way Traffic going Ghaziabad through Murga mandi & Gazipur R/A,road no. 56, Vikas marg, Aanand Vihar IP extention, NH 24. Pl commute from other borders,” the Delhi Police said in a tweet.Follow latest updates on farm stir hereIn another post on the microblogging site, the police informed that Tikri, Dhansa and Jharoda Border are also closed for traffic on both carriageways. Singhu, Piau Maniyari,Harevli, and Mungeshpur borders - all connecting Haryana with the national Capital - also continue to be shut for vehicular movement, according to Delhi Police.“Auchandi, Saboli, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open,” the police wrote in a post on Twitter.Agitators have been camping at Delhi borders for over two and a half months now to demand the repeal of three farm laws enacted by the government in September last year. Security at the borders was intensified following the violence in the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and central Delhi, on Republic Day during the tractor rally called by farmers. Several arrests have been made in connection with the clashes on January 26, in which one protester died while several were injured on both sides.While the central leadership has ruled out a complete rollback of the legislation, it has again offered to hold talks with farm union leaders. On the other hand, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the demonstration may go on for an indefinite period. "Farmers' protest will go on for an indefinite period as there is no plan currently. It might continue till October," he told news agency ANI earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-farmers-stir-enters-day-81-several-delhi-borders-remain-closed-101613272499208.html
14-02-2021||Patna||People like Jagdanand reason behind my father's ill health, alleges Tej Pratap||The friction between senior leadership of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has come to the fore with MLA and party patriarch Lalu Prasad’s eldest son, Tej Pratap Yadav hitting out at RJD state president Jagdanand Singh for his working style and for allegedly ill-treating him. A miffed Tej Pratap even went on to say that ‘people like Singh’ were responsible for his father’s ill-health.“I've come here but Jagadanand Singh is sitting in his chamber. He has not written 'Azadi Patra'. People like him are the reason behind my father's ill health,” said Yadav.Azaadi Patra is a post card campaign launched by the Hasanpur MLA seeking his father, Lalu Prasad’s release from the prison, where the former Bihar chief minister is serving term in three fodder scam cases since December 23, 2017. Jagdanand Singh, party leaders said, did not participate in the campaign, inviting Tej Pratap’s ire. Lalu Prasad has been suffering from multiple ailments and was airlifted to Delhi for treatment on January 23.Tej Pratap Yadav went on to allege that ever Singh took charge, the party has weakened. “He does not meet MLAs. Party workers and leaders are angry with him. One has to take appointment to meet him,” charged Yadav.Also Read: Tej Pratap Yadav bombards President with postcards seeking Lalu's releaseThe Hasanpur MLA was also sore over the way the state president allegedly treats him. “Whenever I come to office, I am not welcomed. Jagdanand Singh also doesn’t meet me. Not only that, whenever, I organise a function, he (Singh) distances himself,” he alleged.Responding to Yadav’s allegations, Singh said, “All Azadi Patra can't be written in a day, it's being done. If anyone is concerned about party, it's right. This is an internal matter of the party. I wasn't aware that he is visiting the party office."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/people-like-jagdanand-reason-behind-my-father-s-ill-health-alleges-tej-pratap-101613268571652.html
14-02-2021||Kolkata||Bengal tea garden workers want connecting road, say won't vote if demand not met||Workers of a tea garden in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district on Saturday said that they would not cast their votes in the upcoming assembly elections if their demand for a metalled road connecting the garden with National Highway 31 is not met.The tea garden workers under the banners of 'Trinamool Congress Cha Mazdoor Union', and the Adivasi Vikas Parishad's 'Sramik Sanghatan' marched on the kuchcha road from the New Glencoe tea garden to NH-31, raising the slogan, "No road no vote".The workers said that they have been assured a number of times of a pucca road which never materialised.Therefore, they have decided not to cast their votes until they get a proper metalled road, they said.New Glencoe tea garden falls within the jurisdiction of Rangamati gram panchayat."Roads leading to all other tea gardens in this gram panchayat have become metalled. Only one is left," the Pradhan of the gram panchayat, Ashok Chikboraik, said.The local MLA has taken up the matter and it was reported to the chairman of the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority, he said."We are trying our best to get the work done," Chikboraik said. The Block Development Officer (BDO) of Mal block, Biman Chandra Das, said that no written application was sent to his office regarding the problem.The BDO said that people should not mix up their demand with their democratic right."We will go and try to convince the people there," Das said.Assembly election is due in the state in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-tea-garden-workers-want-connecting-road-say-won-t-vote-if-demand-not-met-101613262837567.html
14-02-2021||Patna||Bihar health secy says huge discrepancies found in Covid-19 test data||Bihar's principal health secretary Pratyay Amrit on Saturday stated that "serious discrepancies" in Covid-19 test data has been found in Jamui's Barhat and Sikandra. He also said action has been initiated against concerned officials.While addressing a press conference, Pratyay Amrit, Principal Secretary Health, Bihar said, "We have found serious discrepancies in COVID test data in Jamui's Barhat and Sikandra."Taking note of the findings, he further said that action has been initiated against concerned officials. Apart from that, at many places, we have been able to trace persons but they gave their phone numbers as ten zeroes, he added.After RJD MP Manoj Jha asked for a high-level inquiry into fudging of COVID-19 testing data in Bihar, state Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said the state administration is looking into the matter and action will be taken against people found guilty."I just came to know about the matter after somebody raised it in Rajya Sabha. I had a word with the Principal Secretary of the state about it, and he said the matter has been investigated. A total of 22 districts have already been looked into. This was seen at one location and action is being taken," Kumar said."However, I review the data on testing every day. The daily figures show we have tested heavily. I will look into the details of the matter tomorrow and if somebody is found guilty, action will be taken against the person. The Principal Secretary said he will review all the districts today and give me the report by tomorrow," the Chief Minister said.RJD MP in Rajya Sabha cited a leading English daily and said the COVID-19 testing data is being fudged in Bihar and demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter. He said that according to state records the testing figures in Bihar increased at a very fast pace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-health-secy-says-huge-discrepancies-found-in-covid-19-test-data-101613261781021.html
14-02-2021||Kolkata||Para teachers continue hunger strike in Kolkata, demand equal pay||Protesting para teachers forum in poll-bound West Bengal has warned the State Government to continue their hunger strike if their demands of equal pay scale on a par with regular teachers are not fulfilled.Para teachers have been sitting on a demonstration outside Bikash Bhawan in Kolkata since December 8 last year."We are continuing hunger strike for the past eight days. The protest has completed 58 days but we have not got any assurance from the State Government. The para teachers had also marched to the state secretariat with the demand," Amol Roy, a para teacher told to ANI."Since elections are right at the corner, we have been given assurances by the government. But all went in vain. Despite working the same as regular teachers, para teachers do not get the benefits and salaries they should," said another para teacher Mohammad Osman.We are on a continuous hunger strike but the State Education Minister did not take any cognisance. We only want our pay scale demands to get accepted," added Osman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/para-teachers-continue-hunger-strike-in-kolkata-demand-equal-pay-101613261181356.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Garden Tourism Festival 2021 to be three weeks long this year!||Ready to welcome spring? Gardening enthusiasts are in for a treat as one of the city’s biggest flower show is coming back with a bang! The 34th Garden Tourism Festival 2021, at Garden of Five Senses, will not be a usual three-day affair; it will be a three weeks long extravaganza! Organised by Delhi Tourism, in association with the Government of Delhi, the festival will enthral denizens to indulge in a wide array of flowering and non-flowers plants. The gardening enthusiasts can revel in the theme of #ColoursOfNature at the 22 acre huge venue with over fifty thousand flowering plants! The huge space also aims to make it a vibrant and refreshing yet socially distanced experience for the visitors. An exquisite display of some of the choicest plants, hanging baskets, bonsai and many more variety of seasonal and exclusive flowers will be a delight for Nature lovers. In addition to this, the organisers will also hold an annual Garden Bazaar, and horticulture workshops for those with a green thumb. The bazaar will have sale of flowers, plants, organic items, medicinal plants, gardening accessories, etc. The event will also have competitions in various categories, accompanied by cultural programs to provide a wholesome experience to the visitors. A host of food stalls will also be put up, and will have delicacies from across the country, as you soak in the colourful surroundings. Those planning to visit, can avail the free shuttle service from the nearest metro station. Catch It LiveWhat: 34th Garden Tourism Festival Where: Garden of Five Senses, Said-ul-Ajaib Village, Western Marg When: February 19 to March 13 Timing: 11am-6pm (weekdays); 11am to 7.30pm (weekends) Nearest Metro Station: Saket on the Yellow Line (free shuttle service to the venue is available )Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/garden-tourism-festival-2021-to-be-three-weeks-long-this-year-101613257540305.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab civic polls: Video of spat between ex-Akali MLA and SHO goes viral||A day before the civic body polls in Punjab, two clips purportedly showing a spat between former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and Bhikhiwind station house officer started doing the rounds of social media. The incident reportedly took place at SAD candidate Manjit Singh’s residence in Bhikhiwind on Friday, the last day of campaigning.In the video, Bhikhiwind SHO Sarabjit Singh and a few cops are seen standing on the ground floor while the former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha, who is also the party’s district president, is on the first floor. Valtoha is heard accusing the cops of threatening the party’s candidates at the behest of the ruling party. Reacting to him, the SHO is heard saying that the party’s leaders were violating the model code of conduct. The SHO is seen telling Valtoha that people from outside were gathering in the area and that some weapon-wielding people had fled after seeing the police team. To this, Valtoha tells him that the SHO himself is responsible for “allowing goons to resort to firing” on Akali workers. He also asked the SHO to “cast down his eyes” when the latter asked the former to “come down”.Bhikhiwind is a hyper-sensitive polling station where SAD and Congress workers had resorted to firing on the second last day of filing of nominations.Talking to HT, Valtoha said, “On February 2, the returning officer had given our candidates time to file the nominations, but the Congress workers in collusion with the police, headed by the SHO, had laid several obstructions. Our candidates were attacked with sticks, sharp-edged weapons and firearms. Even after this, the SHO had registered a case of attempt to murder against SAD candidates only.”He added, “After getting interim bail, our candidates started campaigning from February 10, and since then the SHO had been threatening our candidates by sending police teams to their houses.”He said on Friday at around 2 pm, he had given time to the local media for a press conference. “I was addressing a press conference when I heard some commotion outside. When I went outside, the SHO was threatening our workers,” he said.The SHO, on the other hand, said, “I had gone there to stop the gathering of outsiders. There were some people who were possessing firearms. They fled from the spot after seeing the police team.”Congress MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar had earlier stated that February 2 incident was a result of instigation by SAD workers. On Friday, tehsildar of Bhikhiwind, Lakhwinder Singh, former returning officer, was suspended by the state election commission for remaining absent from the election duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-civic-polls-video-of-spat-between-ex-akali-mla-and-sho-goes-viral-101613245593862.html
14-02-2021||Other||Amid aircraft row, Maharashtra Governor makes unexpected visit to Delhi||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is locked in a bitter tussle with the state government, made an unscheduled visit to New Delhi on Saturday instead of returning to Mumbai from Dehradun. Koshyari was to travel back to Mumbai on Saturday after attending the 122nd induction training programme of IAS officers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri Academy of Administration at Mussoorie, held on Thursday. He, however, changed his plan and reached the national Capital on a commercial flight from Uttarakhand. Koshyari’s secretariat did not reveal about his scheduled visits. He will now return on Sunday evening. According to central government officials, Koshyari may meet authorities in Delhi amid the controversy over the denial of the state aircraft by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray for the Governor’s Dehradun visit on Thursday. “There is no official meeting scheduled, but there could be meeting on Sunday in relation to this entire episode,” an official said. The governor is also expected to report the entire episode to the Union home ministry. In an embarrassing instance, Koshyari had to deplane after he was told that the CM’s office had not approved a request sent by the governor’s secretariat for the government-owned aircraft to travel to Dehradun. Koshyari took a commercial flight after the incident. This led to a row once again between the governor and the Uddhav Thackeray-led government.The state government’s attempt to turn the table on Raj Bhavan by issuing a statement on action against the secretariat officials, seeking a report from them and the Saamana’s editorial terming the tour as “private” is believed to have been taken seriously by the Raj Bhavan. The state has not sought any formal report from the Raj Bhavan yet. “We have not asked for any report formally so far. If honourable CM instructs us to do so, we will write for such report,” said Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary, Maharashtra. Meanwhile, there was no statement from the Raj Bhavan over the reports on Thursday’s incident.An official from the Mantralaya said, “It’s a matter of interpretation whether the tour was official or not, as he was invited at IAS academy as the Maharashtra governor. It cannot be termed as his personal visit just because the academy is in Dehradun [Koshyari hails from Uttarakhand]. Also, the aircraft was procured to fly VVIPs — with Governor being on the top in the list — after permission from CM. As the head of the state, the governor does not need the permission, but only needs to intimate the government. He boarded the flight assuming that the permission will come last minute, as usual.”The official said all other technical permissions for the flying were in place. The official said Koshyari had asked for the state government’s aircraft for the first time to go to Dehradun. The Saamana editorial stated, “The governor was informed a day before his scheduled departure that he cannot be given permission to use the aircraft as it was a personal trip. Despite it, he went to the airport out because of his stubbornness. He should maintain the honour and dignity of the post he is holding. He is being used as a puppet and that’s an insult to the nation.” It added that the governor has not appointed the 12 members recommended by the state government to the legislative Council from his quota because he “follows the orders from Delhi”. “The appointment has been stalled at the behest of the BJP,” the editorial had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-aircraft-row-maharashtra-governor-makes-unexpected-visit-to-delhi-101613245115679.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Martyr Sukhdev’s Ludhiana house in a shambles despite govt promises||Ludhiana Three years after Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced ₹1 crore grant for beautification of ancestral house of martyr Sukhdev Thapar at Naughara Mohalla in Chaura Bazaar area of the city, the historic land mark continues to be a dilapidated state. The government has also committed to provide a direct approach to the house, but has failed to deliver. Sukhdev Thapar, referred to mostly as Sukhdev, was executed along with Bhagat Singh and Rajguru on March 23, 1931, by the British colonial government. Now, walls of the house have also been damaged due to leaking water pipes and the house is in urgent need of repair/renovation. Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust president Ashok Thapar said in 2013, the Centre had announced a grant of ₹81 lakh for the maintenance of the house and providing a direct approach after their trust moved the Punjab and Haryana high court. “Even after this, only ₹12 lakh was spent and the rest of the fund lapsed. We have been running from pillar to post seeking a direct approach to the house from the Chaura Bazaar area since 2012, so that more people visit this historical landmark of the city. As of today, people have to negotiate narrow lanes to reach the house. Authorities have to acquire only a small piece of land for this purpose, but the process has been delayed for long.” “Authorities have failed to maintain a landmark to preserve the memory of a martyr. The damaged walls do not give a good impression. The building will lose its strength with passage of time. Now, authorities have told us that the process has been initiated and the project will be started. Hope something concrete emerges this time,” said Thapar.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have received the file of the case from the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office around a week ago. The MC has to take permission from the local bodies department before starting the land acquisition process. A land acquisition officer has to be deputed by the state government. The building branch officials have been directed to ensure that there is no delay in the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/martyr-sukhdev-s-ludhiana-house-in-a-shambles-despite-govt-promises-101613245113853.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||117 Punjab civic bodies go to the polls today||The polling for 117 urban local bodies, including eight high-stake municipal corporations, will be held in Punjab on Sunday with 9,222 candidates in the fray. Tight security arrangements are place as nearly 18,000 police personnel have been deployed to conduct free and fair elections, senior officials said. The voting will take place from 8am to 4pm through electronic voting machines (EVMs). Keeping in view the incidents of violence during the election campaigning in various civic bodies, the state election commission has instructed the police to keep an extra vigil at sensitive polling stations. Special security cover, though temporary, has been provided to the BJP leaders and candidates in some sensitive areas as the party is facing anger of the farmer unions in the wake of protests. Of the 2,569 polling stations declared and sensitive (1,708) and hyper-sensitive (861), most are in the Majha and Malwa regions. In the municipal corporations and A and B-grade councils, 2,037 candidates of the Congress, 1,606 of the principal opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), 1,569 of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), and 1,003 nominees of the BJP are in the fray. Elections at the C-level councils are being held without party symbols. Even as the electioneering ended on Friday evening, the parties were seen making last-ditch attempts to woo the voters even on Saturday with the candidates and their supporters trying to reach out to residents through door-to-door canvassing. The state election commission’s official spokesperson said 30 IAS/PCS officers have been deputed as poll observers. Also, the commission has deputed IG/DIG-rank officers, including Mukhwinder Singh Chinna for SAS Nagar, Rupnagar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts; Surjit Singh for Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts; Baljit Singh Rathore for Bathinda, Mansa and Faridkot districts; Surinder Kumar Kalia for Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and SBS Nagar districts, as police observers. Harbaz Singh is observer for Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga and Fazilka while Gurinder Singh Dhillon is deputed as one for Patiala, Ludhiana, Barnala and Sangrur districts, said the official spokesperson. “More than 20,500 employees are on election duty. Only those who enter the polling station before 4pm can cast their vote. February 14 and 17 have been declared as dry days. The counting of votes will start at 9 am on February 17,” he added. BOX: Municipal corporations: 8 Municipal councils: 109 Total candidates: 9,222 Polling stations: 4,102 Sensitive polling stations: 1,708 Hyper-sensitive polling stations: 861 Police personnel deployed: 18,000 Male voters: 20,49,777 Female voters: 18,65,354 Transgender voters: 149||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/117-punjab-civic-bodies-go-to-the-polls-today-101613244633838.html
14-02-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body plans to utilise footpaths for food hubs||In a bid to create food hubs by setting up food trucks and stalls across the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is considering to open up locations such as Marine Drive, Chowpatty, Worli sea face and Madh Island. The BMC plans to utilise the footpaths at these locations as food hubs between 6pm and 11 pm every day. BMC said the traffic movement on smaller streets will be diverted on alternate streets during the operational hours of these food trucks and stalls, if required. However, experts claimed that in a city like Mumbai, BMC should ensure that footpaths are not encroached further for such projects. BMC identified 65 locations to accommodate 3,331 vendors operating food trucks or stalls. The plan is an extension of BMC’s proposal to have food trucks across the city, for which it had prepared a draft policy last year. For the purpose, the BMC has reserved ₹200 crore for creating food hubs, beautification of footpaths and space below flyovers etc, in its 2021-22budget. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray has also pushed for the idea and had announced that food trucks can boost the city’s tourism. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “We are not looking at congested streets but at Marine Drive, Mahim Beach, Manori Beach and Carter Road, where people gather to hangout. As per our policy, 10-12 trucks can sell different cuisines between 6pm and 11pm on the last lane near footpaths, only where the streets are big such as at Marine Drive. We will issue detailed standard operating procedures for this. Also, no traffic movement will be hindered as these food stalls will not be on the streets but on footpaths. This is just to provide people an option to eat and come quickly, and I do not think there should be any problem.” Alternatively, several wards in the city are looking at small streets which the BMC can afford to shut between 6pm and 11pm. During this period, traffic will be diverted to alternate routes. A ward officer from the western suburbs said, “Each ward is trying to have at least two locations, one on the east and the other on the west. We are also exploring spaces on smaller streets where traffic can be diverted daily for five hours, considering in suburbs it will be difficult to find streets where everything can coexist.” Interestingly, BMC has in the past spoken about following the ‘pedestrian first’ policy. In the past three financial budgets, BMC has been allocating Rs50 crore-Rs100 crore for the beautifications and improvisation of footpaths in the city. Experts said the plan is ideal but BMC should ensure that it does not come at the cost of the pedestrians’ walking space. Dr Rohit Shinkre, from the Rachna Sansad Academy of Architecture, said, “I say we should welcome it if it serves the purpose of the unorganised sector who are street food vendors or stall owners. Considering 68% of the city’s workforce is in the unorganised sector, we need to have urban planning for them%. But it should also not be at the cost of pedestrians. We all know that MCGM (Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai) is an expert in the engineering aspect of infrastructure, but such policies will need better regulation of public space use and better understanding of socioeconomic significance of the informal sector. I am not saying we should not try new things, but the execution should be such that everything is accommodated. “ Vivek Pai, an urban transport planner, said the pedestrians should be consulted first before coming up with such plans. “The plan is definitely good and we need such plans. But I feel BMC should involve all stakeholders including pedestrians, activists and corporators from all the wards before going ahead with the plan. Pedestrians should be the first involved because they will be the first one to be hit,” said Pai. Meanwhile, Mahendra Hemdev, a Marine Drive resident said, “It is a welcome move considering the fact that we hope that the food will be affordable and there is no littering around or nuisance in the form of traffic jams at Marine Drive. Today, Marine Drive is one of the cleanest locations because it is hawker-free, and we hope its status remains the same, if there are any food hubs planned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-plans-to-utilise-footpaths-for-food-hubs-101613244454512.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol crosses ₹85/litre mark in Chandigarh||A litre of petrol breached ₹85 mark for the first time while diesel went past ₹78 mark in Chandigarh on Saturday.Fuel prices have been on the rise in the city since the beginning of this year, with new records being set every passing day. The rise in prices of both fuels is nearly ₹5 since January 1, when petrol was available for ₹80.35 per litre and diesel for ₹73.58 per litre. Petrol now costs ₹85.11 and diesel is available for ₹78.45.A similar trend is being seen in the neighbouring cities of Mohali and Panchkula. Fuel in Mohali remains the costliest, with petrol at ₹90.38 per litre and diesel at ₹81.28 per litre. In Panchkula, prices stand at ₹86.27 and ₹79.13, respectively.The fuel hike is affecting the common man and has a cascading effect on prices of other commodities, said Arjan Singh, president of the Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association. “Earlier, two-wheeler riders used to usually buy petrol for at least ₹100 at a time, but now they are not spending more than ₹50, highlighting how much they are stretching their budget to meet the expenses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-crosses-85-litre-mark-in-chandigarh-101613244334420.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity buzz: Tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Yamraj promotes road safety in Chandigarh To drive home the message of road safety, Chandigarh Traffic Police took the help of Yamraj, the lord of death. Artistes from Navyug Ramlila and Dusshera Committee, Sector 7, were roped in to generate awareness about traffic rules at busy intersections, including the ISBT at Sector 17, as part of the National Road Safety Month. Yamraj was seen asking people not to park on the zebra crossing at traffic signals besides urging two-wheeler riders to don the helmet and requesting cyclists to stay in their track for their own safety. Inspector Gurjit Kaur of the traffic police said the aim was to make city roads safe for all. 8 months and waiting for UT finance secretary It’s been eight months and the post of UT finance secretary has been vacant. Punjab-cadre IAS officer AK Sinha completed his three-year tenure in August last year and the UT administration forwarded a panel of three names to the Union home ministry in the same month. The Chandigarh administration could be in for a tricky situation if the Centre delays the appointment any further. At present, UT home secretary Arun Gupta has been given the additional charge of finance secretary, but his three-year term ends in May. Insiders say while routine and urgent matters of the UT finance department are being taken care of, important policy decisions are pending and await the new finance secretary. Sukhbir takes a dig at former mayor Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal took a jibe at Mohali’s former mayor Kulwant Singh, who was earlier with his party but is now contesting Sunday’s municipal corporation as head of the Azad Group. Addressing a rally at Sohana on Friday, Sukhbir said, “A mayor is nothing, he just supervises the cleaning work in a city. Whatever he (Kulwant) is today is because of the SAD.” Having parted ways with the SAD, Kulwant Singh floated the Azad Group on January 21 and fielded 50 candidates. Post-lockdown, thieves prefer cycles Bicycles have caught the fancy of thieves in Chandigarh. Police say on an average, they get at least one complaint of a cycle being stolen daily. The rise in the number of cycle thefts is being seen as a fallout of the growing trend of cycling ever since the Covid-19 induced lockdown was lifted. Advocating a cause at district courts With the decline in footfall in Covid-19 times, Chandigarh’s district courts have become a point to support a cause. It’s either a venue to collect funds for the Ram Temple at Ayodhya or a site to support the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. One can see banners in support of the agitation and advocates taking time out to express solidarity with the farmers. A few metres away, another banner of the Ram Temple is put up with people collecting donation for the project. Take the shot to fight Covid-19 To encourage health and frontline workers to undergo vaccination against Covid-19, the Chandigarh health department has installed a selfie corner where one can strike a proud pose with a certificate after taking the shot. The message at the selfie corner says, “I have done my bit. Have you? Vaccination is the only way to fight Covid-19. Get your shot.” The health authorities are trying innovative ways to remove the hesitancy for the Covid-19 vaccine among priority groups. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-buzz-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101613244214616.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Hazare Trophy: Coach confident of Chandigarh’s good show||For the head coach of the Chandigarh team, VRV Singh, the upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy will bring in a new challenge.Chandigarh has been placed in the Elite group this time, with formidable teams like Bengal, Services, Jammu & Kashmir, Saurashtra and Haryana. Although the Chandigarh team has not had much time to prepare for the tournament as the Board for Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) announced the Vijay Hazare Trophy schedule quite late, Singh is confident of his team doing well.Team remained unbeaten in T20VRV’s confidence can also be attributed to the fact that the Chandigarh team led by Manan Vohra remained unbeaten in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy in the Plate group. They could not finish as table-toppers as their game against Nagaland was abandoned due to wet conditions.“Chandigarh team did a fine job in the T20 tournament winning all games except one that was abandoned. We always aspired to be in the Elite group and show mettle. Fortunately, this time we have been placed alongside strong teams. It would be challenging to play against seasoned teams and test our skills. We would like to give our best and leave a mark,” said Singh, a former fast bowler who has played five test and two ODIs for India.The Vijay Hazare Trophy will take place from February 20 to March 14 and Chandigarh will play their matches in Kolkata.In the recently-held T20 trophy, Shivam Bhambri and Manan Vohra stood out in the batting department for Chandigarh, scoring 198 runs and 154 runs in four games each, respectively. In the bowling line-up, left-arm spinner Bipul Sharma and off-spinner Gaurav Gambhir did well. ‘Players will deliver again’“We have some good players waiting for a chance. Manan, Shivam and Ankit Kaushik did well recently and I am hoping they will deliver again along with Arslan Khan in batting. Bipul is an asset to the team and does the all-rounder’s job pretty well. Medium-pacers Shresth Nirmohi, Jagjit Singh and Mandeep along with left-arm spinner Gurinder Singh are talented too. They can have an impact and win matches for Chandigarh,” said Singh, who is taking a preparatory camp at the Sector-16 stadium.Singh, who quit cricket in 2019, became Chandigarh team’s head coach in their debut season. Enjoying his stint as a coach after a long career as a cricketer, Singh believes Chandigarh cricket is going to rise in the coming years as there is abundance of talent and the UT Cricket Association (UTCA) is making all efforts to provide them with the right platform.“Chandigarh teams made a great impact last season in all age groups. In the coming years, Chandigarh cricket is going to grab more attention. Despite limited resources, UTCA is working in the right direction and making sure players get the best facilities and tournaments. As far as senior men’s cricket is concerned, it’s the best time to show our mettle and garner attention. It will do a great deal for the confidence of the team. The players are hungry to do well,” shared the 36-year-old coach.The league phase of the competition will run from February 20 till March 1. After reaching Kolkata, Chandigarh team will undergo three Covid tests, on February 13, 15 and 17, with practice allowed on February 18 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-hazare-trophy-coach-confident-of-chandigarh-s-good-show-101613244094667.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Valentine’s Day sales in Chandigarh unaffected despite pandemic||With residents lining up at shops to purchase Valentine’s Day gifts, traders in the city say the Covid pandemic has had little to no effect on sales this year. Diwakar Sahoonja, proprietor of Dewsuns in Sector 11, said sales at his shop were at par with previous years. “Valentine’s Day cards with matching masks are selling like hot cakes. Their starting price is ₹299. Cards with embedded LED lights are a new addition this time. These start from ₹499,” he saidWith many outstation students of the city at their native places this year, newly-wed and married couples are the major contributors to the sales, Sahoonja added.Other shopkeepers have also incorporated Covid-themed gifts. Naveen Rajpal, who owns a gift shop in Sector 46, said they are selling coffee mugs for couples which also come with matching face masks. Elante Mall has created a Venetian Bridge theme and also come up with a “love lock” initiative, in which couples can put locks with their names on it on special installations at the mall. These will be displayed in various locations throughout the mall even after Valentine’s Day.Chocolate sales riseChocolate sales in the city saw a steep rise as well. Sahoonja said they had heart-shaped chocolates made specially for the occasion, and most of them have been sold. Many major bakeries in the city have also reported high demand.Rohit Kumar, proprietor of Ovenfresh, said, “The week before Valentine’s day, our sales start to pick up every year, especially for chocolates and other confectionary items. However, the Valentine’s Day tradition in the city has changed. Around a decade back, it was mostly celebrated by younger couples, but it has become a family affair now. With Valentine’s Day on a Sunday this time, we expect more families to show up than couples.”Flower sales dwindleHowever, florists say there has been a dip in sales. Rajesh Bhatia, proprietor of Mehak Florists in Sector 35, said, “Mostly youngsters studying in college and living in PGs gift flowers. But, many of them are at their native places this year. With “Flower Day” and Valentine’s Day both on a Sunday, the enthusiasm faded further, and sales are down by over 50%.”He added that flowers in the city are mostly procured from Ghazipur, where the supply has been cut off due to the farmers’ protest. Most florists are also facing a shortage of stock and suppliers are charging inflated prices, he said.Police to maintain vigilPolice have also made preparations to maintain decorum on the roads on Sunday. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP traffic central), Palak Goel said, “Traffic police personnel will be deployed with teams of local police along the “geri route” to take action against those violating traffic norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/valentines-day-sales-in-chandigarh-unaffected-despite-pandemic-101613243977105.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Attendance not mandatory for odd semesters||Panjab University has suspended the condition of mandatory attendance for the students of odd semesters in the wake of the pandemic.The relief has been provided by the varsity to the students of its teaching departments, affiliated colleges and constituent colleges. The final decision came after it was recommended by a committee headed by the dean university instructions (DUI).To appear in the semester exams, 75% attendance is mandatory for students. Since the classes were held online for the first semester of the 2020-21 session, students had raised concerns. Many students had said that they were even facing technical issues during the online classes.In a circular, the varsity said, “Keeping in view the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic situation and looking at the problems of students, the mandatory condition of attendance is suspended for odd semester for classes of teaching departments as well as all the affiliated and constituent colleges for this session only, and this should not be made as a precedent in future.”However, PU teachers have been asked to submit the attendance records to the departments concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-attendance-not-mandatory-for-odd-semesters-101613243915798.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula has most people vaccinated per session in Haryana||The Panchkula district has emerged on top in Haryana state in the category of “average beneficiaries vaccinated per session”.As per information shared by Dr Mankirat of the district health department, Panchkula topped with an average of 81 beneficiaries per session, followed by Charkhi Dadri at 65.To date, 8,162 persons including 4,114 health-care workers and 4,048 frontline workers have been vaccinated.“We had a target of total 6878 healthcare workers, out of which 4114 have been vaccinated. Apart from this, there is a target of 8162 front line workers, of which 4048 have been given the vaccine,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, Panchkula.Dr Sasan said: “We plan in advance and personally call all the people. With time, people are becoming less reluctant.” She added that from Monday onwards, a second dose will be given to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-has-most-people-vaccinated-per-session-in-haryana-101613243914300.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Only 54% turn up for second dose in Chandigarh||Only 54% of those vaccinated once for the Covid-19 in the city turned up for the second dose on Saturday.Of the eligible 265 persons, who had taken the first dose at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 and its allied hospitals and dispensaries, and at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, only 143 were inoculated again.The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where 109 persons were inoculated on the first day, has deferred the plan for the second dose to next week.“All the people who received the first jab were voluntarily invited for the second dose as well. The participation will increase as there is a window period of upto six weeks to take the second dose,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director of the UT health department.A total of 2,523 persons were invited for the first jab, but only 786 turned up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-54-turn-up-for-second-dose-in-chandigarh-101613243858724.html
14-02-2021||Other||52% of Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries are women: Mumbai civic data||As Mumbai crossed the 100,000-mark for Covid-19 vaccination two days ago, data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revealed that of the 107,725 vaccine beneficiaries, 52% are women, while 48% are men. The vaccination is voluntary and undertaken after BMC shortlists the healthcare and frontline workers.Of the total beneficiaries, 87,416 are health workers, while 20,309 are frontline workers. Data of the 23 vaccine centres reveals that the highest – 13,804 – were vaccinated at BYL Nair Hospital, followed by 13,576 at Rajawadi Hospital and 13,234 at KEM Hospital. Of all the beneficiaries, 106,895 received Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while 830 were given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.On Saturday, BMC vaccinated 6,482 beneficiaries (2,618 health workers and 3,864 frontline workers). None of the beneficiaries were found to have any serious adverse effect, said BMC in a statement issued on Saturday.Additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are vaccinating the maximum possible beneficiaries, and starting Monday, we are planning to administer the second dosage for those who got the shot in the first week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/52-of-covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries-are-women-mumbai-civic-data-101613243856667.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: More than 78K vaccinated in Thane district||More than 78,000 health and frontline workers in Thane district have got vaccinated so far. The health workers comprise 66 per cent of the total beneficiaries vaccinated so far.Out of the targetted 94,602 health workers, 62,963 have been vaccinated.In the frontline workers category, for which the vaccination began on February 4, a total of 15,447 vaccinations have been done among the targeted 22,533 beneficiaries, which is 68 per cent. The vaccination is being carried out in 72 vaccination centres across Thane rural, Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivli-Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, Navi Mumbai and Mira-Bhayandar. Out of the total vaccinations done, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has the highest at 18,340, crossing the target of 18,250 in the health workers category.The civic body has managed to achieve a 100 per cent target in this category. While in the frontline workers category also, it has crossed the target, the civic body has vaccinated 4,835 frontline workers while the target was 3.400. Following TMC, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has managed to vaccinate 78 per cent of the health workers, which is 6,664 out of the target 8,500. In the frontline workers category, the civic body has vaccinated 974 workers out of 1,100 beneficiaries.“The Thane Municipal Corporation has been doing well in the vaccination as it has already achieved the target for the health workers. The vaccination of frontline workers is also carried out rigorously.Overall, the vaccination programme in the district has been carried out with a good response. However, we will press the need to have more and more workers to come forward and get their dose,” said Rajesh Narvekar, collector, Thane.In the first batch, the district received 1.3 lakh vaccines while the second batch has also arrived.“The list of beneficiaries keeps on updating and so do the targets for each day. We received 1.3 lakh vaccines in the first batch, while the second batch of vaccines has also arrived. We will soon begin the second dose for those who have already taken the first dose of the vaccine,” said Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-more-than-78k-vaccinated-in-thane-district-101613243314242.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic chief urges all health workers to get vaccinated as turnout is poor||After the turnout of healthcare workers for vaccination goes down, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner has written to all the doctors asking to sensitise their staff to get vaccinated.The lowest turnout till date was on Thursday with 29 per cent followed by 35 per cent on Friday. As opposed to this, the turnout of the frontline workers in the city is overwhelming with more than 101 per cent turnout of frontline workers on Friday.On Saturday, the turnout of health care workers was 29 per cent while that of frontline workers was 92 per cent. Till date, a total of 58% health care workers and 92% frontline workers have got vaccinated.On January 16, when the phase I of vaccination started with the health care workers, the turnout was 78 per cent, which increased to 86 per cent a week later. On February 1, the turnout came down to 71 per cent, which further went down to 56 per cent on February 4. On February 7 and 8, the turnout went down to 40 per cent.Meanwhile, from February 3, the first day of the second phase, the turnout was 65 per cent, it increased to 72 per cent% on the second day and since then it kept increasing to 98 per cent by February 10. On Friday, 101 per cent front line workers were vaccinated wherein 784 were vaccinated while the target was 780.The NMMC chief, Abhijit Bangar, said, “There seems to be less acceptability among the health care workers for vaccination, which is surprising. There is a good response from the frontline workers. Hence, we have written to all the doctors asking to sensitise the staff about the vaccination drive and why it is important to take the shot while fighting against the virus. Explicitly, there has been no specific reason given behind the less turn out. In order to motivate the health care workers, we are releasing many videos of the people who have taken the vaccination and sharing it via social media and WhatsApp groups.He added that even as taking the vaccination was not compulsory, sensitisation is important. “We have also asked each one of them to mention the reasons for not taking the vaccination. Some of them who received vaccination have felt mild symptoms of dizziness and fever, which is a signal that the vaccine is working and the body is responding to it. It is not necessary that all will face it and if faced, there is nothing to worry. This misconception needs to be cleared,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-chief-urges-all-health-workers-to-get-vaccinated-as-turnout-is-poor-101613243135225.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Three trapped after fire breaks out in vessel off Mumbai coast||A crew member of an offshore supply vessel sustained burn injuries and three others were reported trapped in engine room after a fire broke out in Greatship Rohini on Saturday.The ship was 92 nautical miles off Mumbai coast when the fire broke out, near the NQO platform of Mumbai High. The injured crew member was evacuated and brought ashore for medical treatment, said Indian Coast Guard (ICG) officials.ICG operation centre received information about the fire, following which offshore patrol vessel Samarth was diverted to provide help. Meanwhile, a Dornier aircraft was launched for assessment of the situation.Soon after the incident, MV Albatross-5, which was in the vicinity, reached out to help, tied up a hawser from forecastle of Greatship Rohini and pulled her out to safe location from NQO platform rig, stated a release issued by ICG.Communication with Greatship Rohini is broken. A total of 18 crew members were on-board the vessel at the time of the incident. The fire started in the engine room. One officer identified as Gurbeender Singh, who works as electro-technological officer, sustained burn injuries and was evacuated in a chopper and shifted to hospital, added the officer.Samarth reached the spot at 1.30pm and controlled the situation. Fire has been doused but the engine room is full of smoke and boundary cooling operation is going on, said ICG officers.ICG ship Samarth with its advanced external fire-fighting system, offshore vessel Priya 27, and several other boats are involved in rescue and boundary cooling operation, added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-trapped-after-fire-breaks-out-in-vessel-off-mumbai-coast-101613242713601.html
14-02-2021||Other||4,503 students get FYJC seats in Mumbai Metropolitan Region colleges after final round||Over 4,500 students were admitted in the final admission round for first-year junior colleges (FYJC). The second first come first served (FCFS) round, which was organised by the state education department, concluded on Saturday evening. Of the 4,909 students who were allotted seats in junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 4,503 confirmed their admissions within the deadline. Under FCFS round, students can claim seats against vacancies shown in the portal on the designated date and time. Once students claim the seat and proceed for admission, they can confirm their seat in the given college. More than 97,000 seats in colleges across MMR are vacant after the end of seven admission rounds. As per the data on FYJC admission portal, over 36,000 students from MMR have still not got a seat after all the rounds. The education department said there will be no admissions later after the round that concluded on Saturday. However, students who might still be without a seat can secure admission against vacant seats at the college level. Officials said the number of students without seats also included those who had secured admissions in other courses or other regions. “Some students took admission in diploma courses and in regions other than MMR and their names still reflect in the portal as they have not withdrawn their registration,” said an official from the education department. Colleges in MMR began their new academic year in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4503-students-get-fyjc-seats-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-colleges-after-final-round-101613242594923.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||BJP demands resignation and probe against Sena minister in suicide case||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday demanded the resignation of Maharashtra forest minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, and sought to file a case against him in the case of a 23-year-old Pune woman’s alleged death by suicide.The deceased, a popular figure on social media, died by suicide in Pune on February 8. The police registered a case of accidental death, ruling out foul play. She did not leave a suicide note. The episode came to the fore when 11 audio clips of a person allegedly talking with a Sena worker about the woman went viral. The BJP alleged that one of the persons in the audio clip is Rathod. BJP leader Chitra Wagh alleged that the audio clips point to Rathod’s connection to the case. “The audio clips clearly showed that the woman was forced to commit suicide. The audio clips and pictures in the social media clearly indicate this. The police department should file a suo motu offence of manslaughter against him. But this requires political will,” said Wagh. She said it was time for chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh to show that they will not tolerate atrocities against women. CM Thackeray told the media that a detailed investigation would be held in this matter. “We will first have a detailed investigation in this case and based on this we will take action,” said Thackeray. “We have been witnessing such type of cases in recent time and people need to take appropriate steps. The truth will come before the people and we will take appropriate action,” he added.Former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has written a letter to Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale demanding a probe in the matter. Rathod hails from Yavatmal and is considered a key Sena figure in the Vidarbha region. Rathod was not available for comment on the allegations against him. Both his phones were out of reach for the whole of Saturday. Shiv Sena, however, called it an attempt by the Opposition to politicise the death. “There is no sign of foul play in the preliminary investigation. The opposition parties are seeking to destabilise the state government,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-demands-resignation-and-probe-against-sena-minister-in-suicide-case-101613242593628.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur, Amravati impose Covid-19 curbs again||The number of Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Amravati, which accounted for a larger share of the state’s daily caseload during the peak of the pandemic, has been witnessing a steady spike over the past few days. Now, the local administrations in these cities have ordered its citizens to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, even as Nagpur and Amravati have started imposing restrictions on gatherings and postponing the reopening of educational institutions in order to contain the spread. For a fourth consecutive day on Saturday, Maharashtra reported more than 3,000 fresh infections and Mumbai saw more than 500 cases, a mark which had not been breached for at least two weeks. With the addition of 3,611 new cases and 38 deaths, the state’s case tally touched 2,060,186 and the toll went up to 51,489.Mumbai’s tally after 529 cases were reported on Saturday stood at 313,431, while the death toll touched 11,415 with six more deaths. Cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai, cities like Nagpur, Nashik and Pune, have witnessed a spurt in cases over the past ten days. Daily caseload of MMR touched 1,016 on February 12, up from 627 on February 2, while in Mumbai it was 599, up from 334. The rise in these ten days in Pune (266 from 188), Nashik (158 from 61) and Nagpur (392 from 161), too, was sharp.Pune, Nashik and Nagpur city reported 342, 143 and 436 new cases respectively. Positivity rate rose to 6.76% on Saturday as 3,611 cases found positive from 53,410 tests. State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.5%.“We have deferred the opening of schools and colleges to February 28, from the earlier plan of opening them from February 15. The restrictions on social, cultural gatherings and wedding ceremonies have been imposed again amid the rise in the cases. We have formed special squads for the tracing of contacts and their testing and also for the strict implementation of the Covid-appropriate behaviour. A few samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing,” said Shelesh Nawal, Amravati collector.The Nagpur commissionerate too has put restrictions on gatherings and has increased the number of tests. Nagpur municipal commissioner Radhakrishan B said after they found huge gatherings at the wedding ceremonies, they have started taking action over violation of the government orders. “We have also identified 8-10 areas with high number of cases and have been aggressively tracing contacts. We are focusing on superspreaders such as vegetable, milk venders and domestic helps via regular check-ups and testing to contain the spread,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope said although cases in some districts and corporation areas are on the rise, the situation is totally under control. “Districts and corporations with high cases have been instructed to get their act together and increase testing by aggressively tracing the contacts. The testing has to be increased where positivity rate is high. There would not be any lockdown, but the people will have to continue following protocol by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” he said.“The rise in cases is majorly because of the unlocking of activities, including schools-colleges, along with local trains, that have contributed to the spurt in the cases. Hundreds of people crowd at wedding ceremonies and cultural-political functions violating the norms of the lockdown,” said an official from the state health department.Meanwhile, the percentage of daily vaccination beneficiaries dropped to 46.21%, as 31,976 healthcare and frontline workers were inoculated at 692 vaccination centres. A day before, 40,000 or 50.25% beneficiaries of the daily target were vaccinated on Friday. The number of healthcare workers (HCWs) to be inoculated against the frontline workers was too low as 18,686 frontline workers and 13,290 HCWs were vaccinated on Saturday. Maharashtra has 1,054,822 HCWs and 691,222 frontline workers registered for the vaccination on CoWIN app. Of them 5,49,105 HCWs and 133,899 frontline workers have been vaccinated. Mumbai saw the highest number, 6,482, beneficiaries taking their shots, followed by Thane (3,655), Pune (3,266) on Saturday. The state government has announced it will begin giving the second dose for HCWs from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-amravati-impose-covid-19-curbs-again-101613242115233.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Dense fog in morning gives way to a warm day, air quality remains very poor||Dense fog prevailed in parts of the city on Saturday morning, while the air quality continued in the very poor zone for the second consecutive day. As per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, dense fog is expected in some areas on Sunday too.VK Soni, head of the IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI is expected to continue in a similar range for the next two to three days. “Surface winds were low and atmospheric conditions are stable, due to which dense fog prevailed on Saturday. On Sunday too, there is a forecast of dense fog,” said Soni.While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Saturday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 26.7 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s Palam observatory in Delhi, the minimum temperature on Saturday stood at 13.1 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to hover around 11 and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday.Experts said that the temperature is expected to increase gradually, marking the onset of spring, with winter coming to an end. “Temperature is going to increase in the coming days. The winter season is in retreat and fresh cold conditions are not expected,” said Soni.On Saturday, Gurugram recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 310 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. This was a slight improvement from Friday’s AQI reading, of 347, which was also in the very poor category.“Due to dense fog, there is some condensation and the pollutants settled down. The AQI will remain in the lower range of very poor category for the next two to three days,” said Soni.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the lower range of the very poor category over the next five days.The concentration of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 404.67 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Saturday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 388.42µg/m3 on Saturday. The PM 2.5 concentration at Gwal Pahari stood at 241.29 µg/m3. The safe limit of PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³.As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) forecast, the ventilation is likely to stay in the same range and no significant change in AQI is expecting for the next couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dense-fog-in-morning-gives-way-to-a-warm-day-air-quality-remains-very-poor-101613241693528.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Depression, sleep disorder common among road crash victims and families||At a time when discussion on mental health is gaining prominence, a survey revealed that 40.2% of road crash victims or their family members from low-income households in Maharashtra suffered from depression after the accident. Around 24.4% of those surveyed in the state also said they had sleeping disorders post the incident.The report — Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society — released on Saturday by the World Bank Group along with SaveLIFE Foundation (SLF) looks at the socioeconomic realities of road crashes in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The study categorises households in low-income and high-income groups. Overall, around half of the low-income households (48%) stated that the family members suffered from depression, while about 26% from high-income groups stated the same.For Maharashtra, the study also states that 22% of the victims from low-income groups admitted that their family/ household members developed health problems after the crash, while the figure stood at 24.1% for high-income households. In Maharashtra, a total of 528 respondents (victims and household members) participated in the survey, of which 113 belonged to high-income groups and 415 in low-income groups.At the release of the report, Union minister for road transport and highways as well as micro, small and medium enterprise, Nitin Gadkari, said, “This report highlights the link between poverty and impact of road crashes. I urge all state governments to effectively implement the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 and work together to mitigate the effects of road crashes on poor and disadvantaged sections of the population.”With 27,286 road crashes and 14,608 road crash deaths in 2019, Maharashtra was the second-highest in road crash deaths in the country that year. While India accounts for 1% of the world’s vehicles, it accounts for 11% of road crash deaths.The report recommends making health infrastructure and coverage more accessible and inclusive, providing social security net for crash victims from low-income households through state support, creating an accessible legal framework for availing insurance and compensation for road crash victims.Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder of SaveLIFE Foundation, said, “The findings of the report identify the areas that require immediate improvements such as efforts towards post-crash emergency care and protocols, insurance and compensation systems. It also presents an opportunity for development agencies, policymakers and respective state governments to prioritise a complete policy overhaul of the existing system and implement sustainable solution-oriented, inclusive measures to improve their performance on road safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/depression-sleep-disorder-common-among-road-crash-victims-and-families-101613241637052.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Health department to begin administering second dose of Covid-19 vaccine next week||The district health department will begin administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine from next week onwards to people who took the jab 28 days ago when the drive was launched. The senior state administration officials said that they have given a go-ahead to districts to begin the inoculation. “The Co-Win portal is now open for administering the second dose to healthcare workers, who took the shot 28 days ago. From our side, we have given a go-ahead to begin the process,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, state health department. On Saturday, at least five districts, Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, Kurukshetra and Kaithal, started the second dose of inoculation. The district health department in Gurugram has, however, planned for weekly large-scale vaccination drive on February 15 to cover more than 5,000 front-line workers, before starting the second dose.“Inoculation of the second dose will begin from next week onwards. The final date for the drive is yet to be confirmed as there is a window period of four to six weeks to take the second shot. The department will go ahead with the mega vaccination drive on Monday and will plan for the second dose drive in a couple of days,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. The administration of the first dose started on January 16 with the vaccine launch – Covaxin and Covishield. Since both vaccines require double dose, the second dose has to be given 28 days after the first dose. “Based on the list of people who have taken the first shot, messages and personal calls will be made to the people. The plan is yet to be prepared,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. Decline in turnoutMeanwhile the vaccination of front-line workers continued on Saturday. Only 33% front-line and healthcare staff took the Covid-19 vaccine shot — a sharp decline from the 54% coverage reported on Thursday. Over 420 people out of the 1,250 targeted in different government departments took the vaccine shot. The health department held 13 vaccination sites to cover the staff members of police department, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Rapid Action Force (RAF) and healthcare workers. According to the data available with the health department, the police department recorded the lowest footfall of only 62 people out of the 500. At MCG vaccination site, at least 116 employees turned up among the 500 targeted for the day. About 62 health workers also took the jab. “A good response has been seen at the vaccination sites set up for RAF personnel who were deployed at borders for farmers’ movement. Out of the 200 staff, at least 177 took the vaccine shot,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-department-to-begin-administering-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-next-week-101613241635861.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Committee will take call on steps to resolve waterlogging near Najafgarh drain: Khattar||To resolve the waterlogging issue on the agriculture land around the Najafgarh drain, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that affected farmers should form a committee and coordinate with the state government to take steps to prevent the same. “A committee of five to 11 people should be formed by the affected farmers, whose land gets inundated with drain water. A couple of suggestions by the state government will be given to the committee. The suggestion approved by the committee will be implemented to permanently resolve the issue,” said Khattar, who has been in the city for the last two days for multiple programmes. Badshahpur member of legislative assemble (MLA) Rakesh Daulatabad raised the issue with Khattar on Saturday. Nearly 5,600 acres of agriculture land at the Delhi-Gurugram border along the Najafgarh drain get waterlogged. Last year, farmers from eight villages near the Najafgarh drain submitted a memorandum to the MLA asking for a dam to prevent the overflow from inundating their agricultural land. As reported by HT earlier, around 388 million litres of sewage discharge from Gurugram meets Najafgarh drain through Badshahpur drain, creating a lake around the year. The CM also laid the foundation stone for the Institute of Business Management and Agripreneurship in Daulatabad to promote agriculture in the area. The institute, which will be under Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, will help in selling and management of agriculture produce by applying new methods, said Khattar.“To fulfil the demand and increase the supply of vegetables, fruits, milk and fish in the Delhi-NCR, having a population of more than four crores (40 million), farmers in the Haryana region are being motivated to adopt peri-urban agriculture,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/committee-will-take-call-on-steps-to-resolve-waterlogging-near-najafgarh-drain-khattar-101613241633510.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Landowners voice grievances on land acquired by HSIIDC||Landowners of five villages, whose land was acquired in 2006 by Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), held a panchayat on Saturday in Ghadoli Khurd village and demanded the formation of a committee comprising all stakeholders to decide on their grievances. The villagers want the government to allot them residential and commercial plots, give jobs and stipends to youth as per the policy of HSIIDC, which acquired the land. The panchayat also criticised the authorities for allegedly evicting an activist representing them from the monthly grievance meeting on Friday.“After the land was acquired, the farmers should have got the promised plots, jobs and stipend within the next few years as per policy but nothing has happened in the last 14 years. Our land was bought at ₹37 lakh per acre but the plots are being offered at a rate of ₹15 crore per acre, which is beyond the means of farmers to pay for,” said Dr Ravi Dutt, spokesperson, Kisan Panchayat Gurugram, who was evicted from the grievance meeting. The farmers said that HSIIDC had sought applications for plots in 2007 and 2010 but these were cancelled. In 2016, the HSIIDC again sought applications for plots but fixed the rate at ₹37,200 per square metre, which is ten times the rate of acquisition, they said.“We submitted that rate of plots should be fixed at the market rate of 2010 but this contention was rejected. As such, we have approached the court to seek relief but the matter has remained stuck despite depositing 10 percent deposit money for the cost of plots,” said Kanwal Singh, numberdar (a person who assigns plot numbers), Ghadoli Khurd.The farmers also said that policies of HSIIDC regarding allotment of plots is confusing as different rates are being offered under different policies. “We are farmers and not a part of the market. Government should not treat our rehabilitation as business,” said Dutt, who added that incident during grievance meeting happened in the heat of moment and he had no intention to create commotion. The farmers also said that they were law-abiding citizens, who would hold discussions with government and approach the court for relief. A senior official in Haryana chief minister’s office when asked about the matter, said that the chief minister on Friday had already said eligible applicants will be allotted plots by HSIIDC and jobs will be also given as per the policy. Khattar, while interacting with media on Friday, said that a proposal to allot plots has already been sent to the HSIIDC board for approval. “Plots and jobs to eligible applicants shall be given,” he said. An HSIIDC spokesperson said that plots have already been allotted to several farmers, who deposited money within the given time. “A proposal for condoning the delay of farmers who deposited the money late has also been sent to the board. A committee has been formed to review the rates as demanded by farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/landowners-voice-grievances-on-land-acquired-by-hsiidc-101613241634083.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Advisory board to oversee developmental works in Manesar||The newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) will have a 21-member advisory board to oversee developmental projects of the civic body and assist officials with the creation of municipal wards, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said during a programme organized at the HSIIDC auditorium in IMT Manesar on Saturday.Khattar said that the advisory board will operate until municipal elections are held in Manesarits first set of councillors is elected. The MCM was formed in December last year.“MCM has been formed by incorporating 29 villages of the Manesar region. Now, wards for this municipal corporation will be formed and subsequently, elections will be held,” said Khattar. “This is the first municipal corporation formed during the tenure of the present government and till its election, the administrative work will be looked after by MCM commissioner Munish Sharma and an advisory board of 21 members will be formed to support him in the development of Manesar,” Khattar said.He said that the board will include the MLAs of Pataudi and Badshahpur, the chairman of Gurugram block committee, a few members of industrial associations and village leaders, among others.Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) who attended the meeting said that the advisory board will also include block pramukhs and zila pramukhs. They said that the advisory board will play a similar role to the one executed by councillors in Gurugram — to oversee all new demands or projects that will be carried out for the development of Manesar.Khattar said that there will be an overall improvement in facilities such as sewerage, drainage, streetlights, roads, parks, traffic system, horticulture-related works, drinking water arrangements, among others, now that the MCM has been formed. He said that tenders for solid waste management will be floated, an ID for each property will be created and its value will also be added along with it, to assign the collector rate.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, who had the additional charge of MCM till earlier this month, said that survey work for property ID has started and counters in this regard will be installed in tehsils from Monday.Khattar said that the state government has approved a ₹61-crore scheme to provide drinking water supply to 24 villages and nine dhanis (settlements) in MCM area. He also said that water will be provided to 73 villages and 17 settlements in the next year.In addition to drinking water, he emphasised that the government is also focussing on recycling water. Khattar said that only canal-based water will be used in households, while for horticulture and industries, only treated water will be used.The CM also assured attendees that there will be no shortage of funds for development works in the MCM area.“The Haryana CM gave an example of the MCG having a deposit of more than ₹1,000 crore in various banks of Gurugram and said that it is the only civic body in the state which is self-reliant, in terms of funds. He said that the MCM region is even more affluent than the MCG as there are more industrial units and high-rises in the area and in such a situation, higher revenue can be generated. He said MCM would not be dependent on the government for its cash flow,” said an MCG official, who had attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/advisory-board-to-oversee-developmental-works-in-manesar-101613241573455.html
14-02-2021||Gurugram||Kherki Daula toll plaza to be shifted in six months: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that the Kherki Daula toll plaza will be shifted in six months, much to the relief of residents and owners of factories based in Manesar. Khattar made the announcement while interacting with citizens during an event in Manesar and reiterated the same during an interaction with factory owners later.“The land that has been earmarked for construction of a new toll plaza will be transferred to the agency concerned by February 28. Thereafter, it will take three to four months to construct the toll plaza and shift it,” said Khattar, while interacting with factory owners in Manesar, adding that the process will be completed within six months.As per the government’s plan, the Kherki Daula toll plaza will be shifted to Panchgaon on Delhi-Jaipur highway. Due to litigation, there has been a considerable delay in handing over the land, but officials privy to the matter said that the transfer of land has been worked out.During the meeting, Khattar also said that there is a plan to connect Manesar with Bawal through Metro rail. The Metro rail project is being developed by Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation, at the cost of around ₹8,000 crore. This, he said, will improve connectivity across south Haryana.Removal of the Kherki Daula toll plaza and better connectivity between Gurugram and Manesar has been a longstanding demand of city residents, especially those in the newer sectors, and factory owners and workers in both municipal areas.In 2017, union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had announced that the toll plaza will be shifted if the state government makes land available for the same to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). However, the proposal has remained stuck as land first identified at Sehrawan near Manesar and later at Panchgaon came under litigation. The concessionaire of the project has also approached the Delhi high court in this matter.Earlier on Tuesday, Gurugram member of Parliament, Rao Inderjit Singh, had also met Gadkari and raised the issue of shifting the Kherki Daula toll plaza, citing jams and pollution.On Saturday, Khattar also announced setting up a new hospital in Manesar, increase in Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for industrial plots from 125 to 200, increase in height limit for fire NoC from 15 metres to 18 metres and setting up of a women’s police station in the industrial township.The announcements made by the chief minister on Saturday enthused the Manesar-based factory owners, who said that freeing the highway from toll was the need of the hour and easing the estate management norms necessary for industries to survive.“The toll should be shifted at the earliest and the decision related to plots and providing streetlights and other basics will boost industry in a big way,” said Pawan Yadav, president IMT Industrial Association, Manesar.Manoj Tyagi, an industrialist based in Manesar, said that setting up a new municipal corporation would ensure basic civic services to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kherki-daula-toll-plaza-to-be-shifted-in-six-months-khattar-101613241574004.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||MSEDCL arrears at ₹71K crore; appeals to consumers to pay bills||With mounting arrears, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) on Saturday appealed to consumers to co-operate with the agency and pay their bills on time. According to MSEDCL, around 8 million consumers in the state, which includes 4.1 million residential consumers, have not paid even a single month’s bill in the past 10 months, between April 2020 and January 2021.The state discom said it was under severe stress with arrears to the tune of ₹71,506 crore. The arrears stood at ₹51,146 crore in March 2020, before the lockdown was imposed.“Every month, 80-85% of power purchase is done via the revenue generated. During the lockdown, we did not disconnect the power supply for any consumer category. However, now we have started to temporary disconnect [supply] since the past one month, after giving several warnings to consumers,” a senior MSEDCL official said.On Saturday, the discom also stated that of the 980,499 complaints that it has received, 933,324 have been resolved. “We are in the final stages of resolving the rest of the complaints too. Looking at the financial status of the discom, we appeal to consumers to pay their bills on time,” MSEDCL said in a statement. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharastra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had earlier promised relief after a public outcry over consumers receiving hefty bills during lockdown. However, state energy minister Nitin Raut, on November 17, said the state cannot provide any relief and consumers have to pay their bills.In January 2021, MSEDCL, which supplies power to over 20 million consumers in the state, had also warned consumers of disconnecting power supply if they do not pay bills on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msedcl-arrears-at-71k-crore-appeals-to-consumers-to-pay-bills-101613241454280.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Blast at pharma unit in Boisar near Mumbai, 2 injured||A blast took place at the pharma unit of Bajaj Healthcare Limited in Tarapur MIDC on Saturday afternoon. Two workers were injured, of whom one is admitted at Tungha Hospital at Boisar.“The fire was reported at around 12.15pm. We rushed two tenders and controlled the fire in an hour. One worker named Nilesh Vilas Borse, 29, suffered injuries and was first admitted in Tungha Hospital in Boisar, but was later shifted to National Burns Centre Hospital, Airoli as he has suffered 90% burns. Blood pressure of another worker shot up and he was given medical treatment,” said Manish Sawant, fire officer, Boisar MIDC fire brigade.An officer from Boisar MIDC police station said, “Prima facie, it appears that there was a spark in the reactor due to static electricity which led to the blast and subsequent fire. We are waiting for the report of the directorate of industrial safety and health (DISH), Vasai. We have registered a case of accident and are probing further.”The pharma unit, set up in 1993, manufactures bulk drugs, hydroxychloroquine, intermediates used in pharma, nutraceutical and food industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/blast-at-pharma-unit-in-boisar-near-mumbai-2-injured-101613241274255.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Amid tussle with Thackeray govt over airplane fiasco, Guv visits Delhi||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is locked in a bitter tussle with the Maharashtra government, made an unscheduled visit to New Delhi by changing his plan to return to Mumbai from Dehradun on Saturday.According to information, Koshyari may meet some central authorities in the backdrop of the controversy over denial of the government aircraft by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for his visit to Dehradun on Thursday. In an embarrassing instance, Koshyari had to deplane after boarding the state's plane when he was told that the CMO had not approved a request sent by his secretariat for the six-seater plane to travel to Dehradun. Koshyari then took a commercial flight to travel to his destination.He was expected to return to Mumbai on Saturday after attending 122nd induction training program of IAS officers at Lal Bahadur Shastri Academy of Administration at Mussoorie on Thursday. He, however, changed his plan and reached Delhi on Saturday by a commercial flight from Uttarakhand. He will be staying at Maharashtra Sadan (state's guest house in Delhi) on Sunday, though his secretariat did not reveal any scheduled visits by him. He will now return on Sunday evening.Also read: Delhi records no deaths from Covid-19 in last 24 hours, second time this monthAccording to the officials in Delhi, Koshyari may meet some officials from Central government in the backdrop of the airplane row. “The Governor generally meets leaders from Delhi and Uttarakhand whenever he is in the capital. There is no official meeting scheduled but there could be a meeting on Sunday regarding this entire episode,” the official said.State government’s attempt to turn the table on Raj Bhavan, by issuing a statement about action against officials in Governor secretariat, seeking report from them and the Saamana’s editorial terming the tour as ‘private’, is believed to have been taken seriously by the Raj Bhavan. The Governor is also expected to report the entire episode to the Union home ministry.On Thursday, the state government denied the use of government-owned Cessna Citation XLS aircraft for Governors’ visit to Uttarakhand. This led to a row bringing the differences between the Governor and the Udhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to the fore again.Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', in its editorial on Saturday, termed it as a personal tour. “The Governor was informed a day before his scheduled departure that he cannot be permitted to use the aircraft as his tour was a personal trip. Despite that, he went to the airport out of his stubbornness. He should maintain the honour and dignity of the post he is holding. He is being used as a ‘puppet’ and its an ‘insult’ to the nation,” the editorial stated.“It is the matter of interpretation if the tour was official or not, as he was invited at the IAS academy as the Governor of Maharashtra. It cannot be termed as his personal visit just because the academy is in Dehradun. Secondly, the six-seater Cesna was procured for the flying of VVIPs including the Governor, the chief minister and other ministers with the permission from the CM. As head of the state, the Governor does not need permission for flying but just intimate the government. He boarded the flight assuming that the permission will come at last minute as usual,” an official from the Mantralaya said.He said that all other technical permissions for flying were in place, barring the official nod from the government. The official said that it was his first visit to which he asked for the state government’s aircraft.Though the state government has said that they will seek a report from the Raj Bhavan, no such formal letter has yet been sent. “We have not asked for any report formally so far. If honourable chief minister instructs us to do so, we will write for such report,” said Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary, Maharashtra.Saamana editorial has also said that the Governor has not appointed 12 members to the legislative council on the recommendation by the government because he follows the orders from Delhi. The appointment has been stalled at the behest of the BJP, it stated.Meanwhile, there was no statement or clarification from Raj Bhavan over the reports on Thursday's incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-tussle-with-thackeray-govt-over-airplane-fiasco-guv-visits-delhi-101613240705907.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||No Covid-19 deaths in the Capital for second day in a week||For the second day in a week, the national capital reported no deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 24 hours, according to the state government’s daily health bulletin. There were no deaths on Monday – as reported a day later on February 9 – for the first time since May 11, much before Delhi saw the first surge in the cases of the viral infection.So far, the most single-day deaths were recorded on November 18, when 131 were reported to have succumbed to the illness as Delhi dealt with the third and most brutal surge in the number of cases.Delhi, which was one of the earliest Covid-19 hot spots in India, is the only region in the country that has reported three distinct waves of infections.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“Today again within a week no death has been reported due to Covid infection. Please continue to take all precautions,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted.So far, 10,889 people have died of the viral infection since the first death, of a 69-year-old woman – the mother of a Janakpuri resident who had travelled to Japan, Italy and Switzerland – was reported on March 13.New deaths usually reflect infections that took place three-four weeks ago.As per the government data, the infection has affected 636,796 people in the city. However, many more cases remain undetected as shown by the seroprevalence in January that showed 56% or over 11 million Delhiites had been exposed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-19-deaths-in-the-capital-for-2nd-day-in-a-week-101613238753699.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Around 43% in Delhi get second dose of Covid-19 vaccines||Less than half of the health care workers in Delhi who were scheduled to receive their second dose of the coronavirus vaccine turned up to get the jab on Saturday, even as the 43% turnout rate in the Capital far exceeded the overall turnout across the country on the day.Across India, only 4% of those who received the shot on January 16, when the inoculation drive kicked off, turned up for the second shot on Saturday, according to provisional data shared by the Union health ministry.With 1,856 people getting the second shot, Delhi accounted for over 24% of the 7,668 second doses administered, as per the provisional data.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageEven then, administration officials in the city attributed the low turnout in Delhi to the weekend, and the fact that hospitals were open only for half the day.“Today, fewer vaccinations happened in total at the centre, largely because it is a Saturday, when many of our employees have their weekly off or leave the hospital by mid-day,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, where 247 people received the shot in comparison to 319 the day before.Dr Rana himself missed his second dose of the vaccine as he was in a kidney transplant surgery.“It is a very delicate surgery and I did not want to take the vaccine before it, because of the slightest possibility that I might develop a fever or any other side effects. By the time I was done with the surgery the vaccination centre had closed,” he said.The number of people who receive the second dose of the vaccine is likely to go up Monday onwards.Among those who did receive the second shot of the vaccine on Saturday was 34-year-old Manish Kumar, a sanitation worker from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, who the first person in the Capital to get a jab of a Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read | Only 4% beneficiaries turn up for second vaccine shot: Centre“When I had gone to the vaccination centre on the first day, everybody I spoke to wanted to wait for Dr Randeep Guleria (the AIIMS director) to get the shot. But I went ahead and said I would like to get it first, if possible. That’s why the staff at the vaccination centre was surprised that I turned up very late at about 4pm for my second dose; my shift was from 1pm, so I decided to come in late,” said Kumar. He also urged all eligible people to get the vaccine, and said the jab had no side-effects on him.Dr Sandeep Nayyar, head of the centre for chest medicine at BL Kapur hospital, was first in line to get his second shot of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. “I experienced no adverse events after either shot and continued my day as usual. I will urge everyone to get the vaccine so that we do not have to go through what we did in 2020. However, getting the vaccine does not mean that people stop following the precautions as it will still take a long time to immunise everyone,” he said.On Saturday, in addition to the 1,856 people who received the second dose of the vaccine, 11,912 people received their first shots. The total, 13,768, is slightly less than the 14,843 people who were vaccinated yesterday and 15,807 the day before that.Among those who received the first shot of the vaccine, around 30% were health care workers, while the rest were those classified as “frontline workers”. In North district, no healthcare worker received their first shot on Saturday and only five healthcare workers in Northeast district got a jab of the vaccines.As per the centre’s directions, the immunisation of healthcare workers will end on February 20 and that of frontline workers on March 1. Five days after each deadline will be allotted for mop up to give the shots to those who might have missed it. After this, immunisation of those over the age of 50 will begin.“There is a lot of messages going around among doctors and other healthcare workers that the immune response is better when the doses are given 12 weeks apart. This is the reason many might want to wait till the six week cut-off to get the shot. Some might be scared of adverse reactions as there could be more reactogenecity during the second dose,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College.No adverse events following immunisation(AEFI) were reported in people who got their second shot on Saturday and six AEFI were reported among those who got the first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/around-43-in-delhi-get-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccines-101613238753167.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Mangolpuri murder case transferred to crime branch||The Delhi Police on Saturday said that the murder case of Mangolpuri resident 25-year-old Rinku Sharma has been transferred to their crime branch that will look into the allegations levelled by his family members and the local police’s theory that the crime was a result of personal enmity.Sharma, who worked as a lab technician at a private hospital, was stabbed while returning home from a birthday party on Wednesday night.The murder of the 25-year-old had taken communal colours on Friday, with some leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stating on social media that Sharma was collecting money for construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.The tension that has gripped the neighbourhood since, continued on Saturday with a group of people allegedly attacking the house of one of the suspects despite deployment of extra security personnel to prevent any untoward incidents.The family of Sharma on Saturday also refuted Delhi Police’s theory of the murder having happened over personal enmity, and stated that Sharma had a tiff with the arrested persons last year because of his links with Hindu groups. Sharma’s brother, Mannu Sharma said that his brother was associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal.Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer) Sudhanshu Dhama did not comment on Saturday’s mob attack at the suspect’s house despite multiple attempts.Five persons, identified as Mohammad Danish,36, Mohammad Islam,45, Zahid,26, Mohammad Mehtab,20, and Tajuddin,39, have been arrested in the case, even as Sharma’s family members have alleged that five-six more persons were involved in the killing.“We are happy that the case has been transferred to the crime branch. Local police cooperated with us but they could not have solved this case. At least a dozen people were involved in my brother’s (Rinku) murder, but only five were arrested. We hope that the crime branch will do a fair investigation” said Mannu Sharma.On Saturday, a crime branch team, along with forensic experts, visited the crime scene, lifted evidence, and met Sharma’s family members. According to Mannu, the crime branch officials took names of the persons involved in his brother’s murder from his family members.A police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that the crime branch team will look into all angles related to Sharma’s murder and will once again record the statements of his family members, eyewitnesses, and other people related to the case. It will also examine all the video footage pertaining to the crime.On Friday, the police had said that Sharma and the accused were known to each other for a long time, and had got into a fight at a party over the shutting down of a mutual friend’s restaurant. The row escalated and Sharma was stabbed on Wednesday night. Sharma’s family members have, however, maintained that some of the accused had fought with him last August because of his links with Hindu groups.Some leaders from the BJP — including Kapil Mishra and Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta — had said on social media on Friday that Sharma was collecting money for construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Mishra even linked the killing to the collection drive, as posts demanding “justice” for Sharma gained traction through the day. Gupta and party MP Hans Raj Hans also visited Sharma’s house, as did AAP MLA Rakhi Birla.A fundraiser has also been started to support Sharma’s family. On Saturday morning, Mishra tweeted that R35 lakh had been raised for Sharma’s family. Mishra also mentioned that he will be meeting Sharma’s family on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mangolpuri-murder-case-transferred-to-crime-branch-101613238696082.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||AAP demands Amit Shah’s resignation over Mangolpuri killing||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday condemned the murder of 25-year old lab assistant Rinku Sharma in Mangolpuri and demanded the resignation of Union home minister Amit Shah over the deteriorating law and order situation in DelhiAddressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said even the Hindus are now not safe under the BJP-ruled Central government. “Union home minister Amit Shah should take responsibility for the murder of Rinku Sharma and immediately resign. Earlier only Muslims used to feel threatened under the BJP, but now Dalits, Sikhs and Hindus also feel threatened. The BJP and Shah are conspiring atrocities against the Hindus for their political benefits and AAP condemns such mentality,” said Bhardwaj.Also Read | Mangolpuri murder: Delhi Police transfers case to crime branchHe said that under Shah, the Red Fort was vandalised, and Rahul Rajput was murdered a few months ago. And now, there’s a murder in Mangolpuri case. He said the AAP also demands stringent punishment for those responsible for Rinku Sharma’s murder.“On behalf of the AAP, I want to make it very clear that the Union home minister is responsible for these heinous crimes which are taking place in the national capital of India. These crimes and murders are taking place in Delhi and the Delhi Police is completely failing to protect the citizens,” he said.The Union ministry of home affairs did not comment on the matter.The Delhi BJP, on the other hand, questioned the silence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal over the brutal murders and riots in Delhi which have taken place over the past few years. “People of Delhi have seen that the AAP leadership first tries to ignore such murders or communal riots killings by a minority community but mildly condemns the killings when the public and BJP pressure mounts,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“People of Delhi very well know that AAP politically stands behind a minority community of youths involved in the killings of Hindu youths. The biggest proof is that the AAP has till date not expelled the alleged February 2020 riots conspirator AAP councilor Tahir Hussain. AAP in-fact stands by Tahir Hussain and other conspirators, Sharjeel Imam, Umar Khalid and Pinjda Tod members,” Kapoor said.Sharma’s murder on Wednesday night by five men, supposedly known to him, took a communal turn on Friday with many leaders, such as Kapil Mishra, linking Sharma’s killing to a donation collection drive for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Delhi BJP cheif Adesh Gupta had said that Sharma was collecting donations for the temple. On Friday, posts on social media demanding justice for Sharma gained traction throughout the day.While Delhi police maintained that the killing was a result of personal enmity over losses after a restaurant owned by Sharma’s friend shut down, his family members refuted police’s theory and said that Sharma had a tiff with the arrested persons last year because of his links with Hindu groups. Sharma’s brother, Mannu Sharma said that his brother was associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal. On Friday many leaders from AAP and BJP had also visited Sharma’s family in Rohini. The leaders of the BJP, AAP and Congress have sought harshest punishment for the arrested persons and a speedy trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-demands-amit-shah-s-resignation-over-mangolpuri-killing-101613238694400.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Two elderly men nabbed for Republic Day violence make bail||Two elderly men from Punjab — Gurkmukh Singh,80, and Jeet Singh, 70 — who had been arrested by Delhi Police for assaulting security personnel during the Republic Day violence, were granted bail by a city court on Friday.The two are the eldest, among the 146 persons arrested for the violence on January 26, so far. The court while granting the bail took into account the age of the two men, the fact that they had no criminal past and the fact that they had served in the defence forces.Friday’s bail for the elderly duo also meant that the number of people who had received bail after being arrested for their alleged involvement in the Republic Day violence so far jumped to six. Papers seen by Hindustan Times, show that in these six cases, the courts observed that the men had no criminal record and were merely picked up from the spots of violence. In one case, where three men were arrested, the court noted that police are yet to connect them directly with the violence.To be sure, the six are only out on bail and are yet to be cleared of the charges. As part of the probe and legal process, police will gather evidence against the six men and present it in their charge sheet. The court will then start trial against the six men. The courts have directed the six men to not leave the country without permission and not to threaten or influence witnesses or complainants.Sample this observation by a city court in FIR 50 registered by the Baba Haridas Nagar police. Police had arrested three men for allegedly assaulting police personnel when they were asked not to deviate from the pre-approved route of the farmers tractor rally.The court observed that the alleged rioters Jaswinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh and Ramdeep Singh, were on a motorcycle at the spot of the violence on January 26 but police are yet to link them to the violence. “...It is observed by the court that nowhere in the reply, it has been averred as to what was the role of the accused/applicant...The court has also observed that there is no specific involvement of the accused/applicant in any violence or breaking of the barricade in the present case,” the court said, while granting bail to the three men. The court also observed that the three did not have a criminal record.Jaswinder, Lovepreet and Ramandeep were the first to get bail on February 8.In another case, related to the violence in Uttam Nagar, police had arrested Sandeep Kumar. Delhi police had alleged that Kumar was part of an unlawful assembly that indulged in riots and caused injuries to nine persons. Police also said that the mob, of which Kumar was a part, damaged public property. The court while granting Kumar bail observed that the police report was “conspicuously silent” about the role of Kumar’s criminal antecedents. Kumar’s lawyers had said that he was a bystander who owns an iron rods shop where the violence happened. The court observed that because police had not given any report of Kumar’s antecedents, there was no reason to his submission that he had clear antecedents. The court during the hearing also observed that in the same case, another accused person was released by the police after issuing a notice, but Kumar was arrested.In response to the release of the six men on bail, former MLA and president of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said, “Delhi police have arrested many innocent farmers for the violence that day. The DSGMC is working with a panel of lawyers and offering pro-bono services to ensure that all innocent people arrested are released on bail at the earliest.”While Delhi police spokesperson DCP Chinmoy Biswal was not available for a response, a senior Delhi police officer who did not wish to be named, said, “Bail is a legal process and the right of the accused. We have arrested 143 persons. We have evidence, which is why the courts have not given bail in other cases. There are more than 100 people arrested for the violence. The circumstances of the arrest of each person and their specific crime are bound to be different, even if the main allegation is of rioting. There are also prominent people, like Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, against whom we have concrete evidence. We have presented the evidence gathered (so far) against him in court. Also, we have arrest only 143 persons, when the mob comprised of a larger number. We arrest only those who were violent that day. Further investigations are on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-elderly-men-nabbed-for-r-day-violence-make-bail-101613238693813.html
14-02-2021||Other||Curtain call: Time to cut it out||There has been a rising demand for the need to censor content on the OTT platforms, now more than ever as consumption on these platforms has increased. A few years ago the censor board was in the news (again) because of the antics of Mr. Nihlani and also because of the controversy the roast video of the now disbanded All India Bakchod had created. I had begun questioning the need to “censor” anything. Those feelings resurfaced after I read the news that there might be a regulatory body for OTT platforms. I recently had a funny experience with the film censor board during the screening of a biopic I have co-written and directed. I was very confident that there is nothing objectionable in my film and was pretty relaxed when the board members were watching it. I was surprised when they raised a concern after the screening. A scene in my film shows an eminent personality having a drink. (The reason why I am not taking any names here is not self-censorship, but because I do not want to divulge the details of my film before it is released.) They asked me to get a letter of no objection from the personality’s family in order to get the censor certificate. I was taken aback because the scene showed the person merely having that drink. He was not misbehaving because of it nor was he presented in any undignified light. In fact, we did not even show alcohol! In the scene, he transfers the liquid in question from a metal flask to a metal container. And it is also public knowledge that this personality used to have a drink or two in real life. I mentioned all this to the board members, but to no avail. I was told that if I wanted my film to have a censor certificate with that scene intact, I had no choice but to get that letter of no objection. I can now laugh about all this because eventually we were able to get the letter in time and the family was also gracious to praise the film and the depiction of their father in the letter. Why couldn’t the board members see this? To equate smoking or alcohol with something negative doesn’t need any intelligence. A computer program could have identified this and given this result. To have a minute-long advertisement before the start of the film and also immediately after the interval to prevent tobacco use is also something that doesn’t make sense to me. It is included in the length of the film! I have always believed that the job of a censor board should not be to remove, or to object to, the content, but to certify it. They should mention who the content is suitable for. Based on that, the audience should make a choice whether they want to give their time or money to this. People in our country get influenced by films and film stars. True. They emulate their stars - their fashion, their styles, their behavior, everything. Films might play a major role in the prevalence of a sexist society too. It is easy and unfair to blame only art forms for this. We have enough political and moral censorships to deal with anyway. Depicting real-life personalities is always very tricky. And in a country like ours, you never know why some people might get offended. I wonder if that should stop a person from telling stories. Criticism or such reactions are part and parcel of this profession. I was happy when OTT platforms entered India and started producing content for and by Indians. I enjoyed the freedom and range of topics it offered to the creators. I may not agree with everything that is shown, but then I stop watching it and shift to something else just by pressing a button on the remote. It is that simple! Yes, there will be some hiccups, but people and their choices will dictate what will get produced in the long run. There is no need for a middle-man to dictate that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/curtain-call-time-to-cut-it-out-101613236473586.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Suicide case: Pune police to question deceased woman’s flatmates||The Pune police will question the two men with whom the 23-year-old woman, who died by suicide recently, was living with in Mohammadwadi, Pune, according to officials. Earlier on Thursday, BJP sought probe into woman’s death after some audio clips indicating her association with a minister in Maharashtra cabinet went viral. Meanwhile, the National Commissioner of Women (NCW) has written to the regional additional commissioner of police to file a report in the incident. “When the incident happened, it was not the right time to push the family members to talk about it. The initial statements of the two men were recorded. However, we have called them again for a detailed statement. We have also informed the family members to record a statement. We will get it done in the course of the investigation,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5, Pune police. The 23-year-old woman, who is believed to have been in Pune for a spoken English course, enjoyed a mini-celebrity status on a social media application with 166,000 followers. The woman had posted on her profile on the day she was reported to have died by suicide. Her posts indicated that she felt helpless and suffocated. When asked about the post mortem report, senior police inspector Deepak Lagad of Wanowrie police station said, “The initial doctor’s opinion has only informed us about the cause of death - head and spinal injury due to the fall. Her family members have said that she had issues like psoriasis.” The girl’s sister took to Facebook to speak out against social media posts about her sister and the allegations surrounding the cause of her death. Social media platforms are rife with posts about the recordings of the alleged minister with one of the boys that the girl was living with. The veracity of those recordings is yet to be verified. However, the issue has gained traction after multiple leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made multiple posts about the woman. “The National Commission for Women (NCW) has been tagged in a Twitter Post wherein the Commission has been requested to take cognisance of the alleged suicide of a girl named PS in Pune on February 7. The Commission has taken cognisance of the matter. Chairperson Ms Rekha Sharma has written to Director General of Police, Maharashtra seeking appropriate action. The Commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter at the earliest. A copy of the letter has also been sent to additional commissioner of police, East Region, Pune, Maharashtra,” read a statement by the NCW. Even though the opposition BJP party has mounted pressure on the Pune police to register a case in the matter, the police are investigating the initial accidental death report which was registered on February 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suicide-case-police-to-question-deceased-woman-s-flatmates-101613236472989.html
14-02-2021||Other||World Radio Day : Vintage radios on display have Punekars go ga-ga||On the occasion of World Radio Day, Punekars witnessed a treasure of vintage radio. Various old and rare models were exhibited at the Muktangan Science Exploratory Centre, Model Colony, by radio collector Shripad Kulkarni on Saturday. Radio models from the 1960s-70s to the current era were on display. Approximately, 45-50 models were exhibited. Shrirang Gokhale inaugurated the exhibition. A radio festival was also jointly organised by the Marathi Vigyan Parishad, Amateur Radio Licence Holders, Muktangan Science Exploratory Centre, the Institute of Electronics and Telecommunications Engineers, and Padmini Electronics at the Muktangan Science Exploratory Centre in Model Colony. At this radio festival, along with the radio exhibition, lectures by experts and a quiz competition on the radio were organised. Deputy director from the All India Radio (AIR), Chitrarekha Kulkarni, gave a presentation on AIR’s new broadcasting technology “DRM”. Vilas Rabade from Pune gave information about the Ham radios. Vishwas Kale spoke on ‘Radio: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow’, and Dr Vishwas Udpikar spoke on Design and Development of SDR Radio. Dilip Bapat demonstrated “Listening to Radio is My Hobby”. Anant Bhide, director of Muktangan Science Exploratory Centre and Rajendra Kumar Saraf, president of the Marathi Vigyan Parishad were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-radio-day-vintage-radios-on-display-have-punekars-go-gaga-101613236414883.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Six held for vandalising multiple vehicles in Wanowrie, Pune||The Pune police arrested six people on Saturday for vandalising multiple vehicles in Wanowrie late on Friday night. Among the vandalised vehicles is a car, two-wheelers and auto rickshaws. The vandalism was in reaction to the police action of invoking the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against the brother of one of the arrested men. The arrested men were identified as Shubham Harivansh Tiwari (19), Aniket Raju Vaydande (22), Omkar Gorakh Waghmare (20), Swapnil alias Rishab Mahendra Hivale (24), Magdum Shaikh (27), and Aslam Popat Shaikh (23), according to the police. “Six people have been arrested. They will be produced in court tomorrow,” said senior police inspector Deepak Lagad of Wanowrie police station. The seven men who were booked under MCOCA were identified as Girish alias Sunny Mahendra Hiwale (21), Akash Santosh Bharti (20), Chetan Pandurang Dhebe (22), Aniket alias Monty Sharad Mane (20), Kajal Madhukar Wadkar (21), Ambika Arjun Misal (21), and Suraj Mahadev Navgire (19), according to police. MCOCA was invoked on the order of Additional Commissioner of Police, West Region, Namdev Chavan. The stringent law was invoked in a case of attempted murder registered against the seven people including two women. The seven people were booked for assaulting a man named Pandharinath Misal with the intention of killing him on January 17. The complainant states that one of the accused, Ambika Misal, was asked to not talk with one of the other accused - Aniket Mane. Mane then said that Pandharinath’s brother was instrumental in the murder of one of his friends and fired two shots at him. However, the shots were misfired and were followed by an attack with swords and wooden rods, according to the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-held-for-vandalising-multiple-vehicles-in-wanowrie-101613236413726.html
14-02-2021||Other||YourSpace: Pune’s BRTS: a “how not to” civic lesson||PMC’s implementation and execution of BRTS has been the biggest joke played on citizens ever since the Pilot Project in 2006 and then in 2014 with Phase – 1.Basically, PMC never ever complied with laying the BRTS alignments and street furniture according to BRTS Global Concepts and Features. Due to this, Pune became a laughing stock in transportation circles. At best what we have in Pune can be called a mixed transport system. If that is the case, why eat up major portion of the median by laying it there?The state needs to take a courageous call to order PMC to stop constructing and demolishing bits and pieces of the 2006 Pilot BRTS project. and in 2014 for Pune Phase-1. If PMC had used even 10% of the Rs1,400 crore (and counting) spent on this conceptually flawed BRTS, Punekars would have had a world-class bus transport system on the conventional left side. Through the years, because PMC did not prepare the basic documents such as pre-feasibility report, DPR, socio-economic state report, financial feasibility report, the implementation and execution lacked vision. This project just guzzled up public funds which were available through NURM scheme because no one official was made accountable. Historically, funds once received were used for construction in a lackadaisical manner to suit PMC top officials whims and fancies on many stretches, ignoring that public funds must be used with responsibility.Over these years, PMC’s intention was never to ensure a safe, affordable, commuter friendly public transport system, giving way to increase in purchase of private vehicles.Phase 1 - Ahmednagar road-Vishrantwadi-Sangamwadi: (i) railings at Sangamwadi corridor where there is no bus shelter need to be shifted to the median to streamline rest of traffic in MV lanes. (ii) Ahmednagarnagar Road is a mess as MahaMetro has cannabalised and demolished most of the bus shelters. Corridors remain unused as MahaMetro has taken over large small stretches. (iii) Vishrantwadi is wide enough for football to be played with multiple lanes with markings.Pilot Project – Katraj to Hadapsar via Swargate: (i) no BRTS corridor on 7 kms was constructed in the middle as PMC wrongly assumed that PCB would give permission (ii) BRTS corridor even outside PMPML office at Swargate has been demolished to construct the Jedhe chowk flyover (iii) Hadapsar stretch is a like adventure rides at Disney Land (iv) PMC ignored the 22 corrections pointed out by Creations Engineers and Pavetech Consulting Engineering Services. Successive PMC Commissioners agreed verbally, but bowed to their political bosses. Even now logical suggestions to correct the flaws have been ignored. Feedback that comes in when questioned through the years is that the alignments laid cannot be corrected or shifted because it is through NURM funding. On the other hand, it does not matter to PMC in the least that they did not follow basic documentation, but used the basic premise of have money, use it. As typically the attitude of senior officers has been that let someone else bell the cat. No one builds a public transport system for it’s very basic purpose to be defeated if citizens continue to buy private vehicles.-Qaneez SukhraniA loss of public revenueThe Pune Municipal Corporation introduced the BRTS (Bus Rapid Transit System) and projected it as an ambitious scheme that envisaged the implementation of a high-quality public transport system to put an end to the rising vehicular traffic and the congestion within city limits. Earlier, it was promised the construction and layout of dedicated bus corridors will have facilities like new air-conditioned buses and high-end terminals and stations.The Swargate–Katraj corridor required much-needed repairs which have now been taken care off, but the entire process was messy. For instance, the Katraj to Swargate stretch was un-operational in places as the work of building bus stations along the route was half-done and showed shoddy nature of the administration.The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has time and again said that Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not been able to carry out improvement works on the Katraj-Swargate Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) stretch despite the Pune Mayor demanding that it be commissioned at the earliest.The 5.5km stretch soon still needs essential works of signal synchronisation, CCTV installation which have not been done yet while doors of bus stops are also still not in place. It shows the callous attitude of the PMC towards public transportation projects. Nothing much is expected from the current arrangement as bureaucracy of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is apathetic and controlled by private -money groups who are interested in only squeezing public revenue for private growth and power.-Mitali MankikarNo safety measuresThe work of signal synchronisation and door installation has been done, but safety is not up to the mark in the said corridor. When the project started, it was branded as the first BRTS in the country. However, both Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) have proved to be completely ineffective for not being able to run the projects smoothly. It is seen that the civic body administration has worked smoothly for the private gains of elected representatives and officialdom which has built a very strong nexus in PMC and operates like a lobby group against the wishes of citizens and its criminal behaviour has caused untold suffering to Puneites. The reasons for the BRTS project not working are the ongoing Metro work near BRTS stretches and lack of adequate staff and infrastructure to ensure smooth plying of buses on BRTS stretch between Swargate and Katraj.The police have been saying that the increasing volume of traffic in the city was making it difficult to negotiate the narrower stretch of the roads due to the presence of BRTS. Till Metro work is going on, BRTS will be affected and safety of commuters will always be in question. BRTS has been an absolute failure in Pune city and the very concept is dead and redundant. While the PMC has failed to provide the right infrastructure, PMPML has failed to provide quality buses, frequent service and well-trained staff for manning this mammoth project.- Amardeep DesaiStrict rules neededThe first BRTS in Pune city was operationalised in the Katraj-Swargate stretch as a pilot project and since then citizens have no hope in the administration as it was done to please the political and business interests operating in New Delhi under the protection of UPA government .The PMC carried out road widening and created separate lanes for private vehicles as the flow of traffic increased. The PMC has carried out a safety audit of the road and redeveloping work of the BRTS route from Swargate to Katraj was taken up in 2016, but the work was inordinately delayed due to technical issuesThe PMC started renovation work on the BRTS and since then, the civic body, which is spending approximately ₹100 crore on the project, missed at least four deadlines to reopen the BRTS. The PMC has maintained that it had to undertake renovation to put in place a new design and all this was to deceive the citizens of Pune. Now, the stretch is operational under the watch of the civic body, it is witnessing traffic jams and bottleneck as citizens no longer follow discipline. When they see their representatives and officialdom being unprofessional and corrupt, they no longer fear action from any government body.- Neha SharmaHeavy fines neededEven though the intention of it, BRTS, being the safe and fast roads for passengers, its implementation was not done properly due to improper study and research by the officials. Secondly, controlling the bikers and four -wheelers and encroaching the lane led to a number of fatal accidents in the past. Having spent crores of rupees on the project in the past and then dismantling it, led to a lot of confusion. It was a waste of public money.Laws were not implemented strictly by the security guards with heavy fines for those drivers cutting and entering the BRTS lane.- Nitin Bokey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yourspace-brts-joke-not-funny-anymore-101613236354291.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Sanas ground closure impacting city athletes’ performance: Experts||City athlete Abhar Datta won the bronze medal in the high jump event during the 36th National Junior Athletics concluded in Guwahati recently but believes “regular practice” could have given him the gold. Datta is one among many athletes who are missing their regular training as Baburao Sanas Ground is still not made available for athletes by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The entry at the ground was restricted after PMC built a Covid Care Centre in March and it was shut on December 27, 2020. Sanas ground is the hub of athletics training in Pune, there are around 500 athletes from the city who used to train daily. Now, in post-Covid these athletes are hopping between different grounds and also going to Taljai hills for practice. “The maintenance work (cutting of grass, cleaning work) is still going on, once it is done the ground will be reopened for athletes”, said Kishori Shinde, assistant municipal commissioner, sports department. With all the grounds in the city being available for training of other sports, parents and coaches are visiting the PMC office for regular inquiries but no written assurances are given by the PMC. “We were told that the ground will open from February 1 but when our children went to the ground, officials at the ground denied them permission. After that, there has been no new date given by PMC,” said a parent from Prerna Palak Sang – a parents’ body of athletes. A spot visit from HT confirmed that ground maintenance work is still not completed. “It’s been more than one month since PMC is still not able to finish the work. Our athletes have to travel more, and synthetic tracks are not available everywhere which is making things harder for training and impacting their performance,” said Atul Sharma, parent. Arvind Chavan, coach of Datta said, high jump needs regular practice. “Abhar only had three days of practice after reaching Guwahati other than that he was doing only fitness training. The color of the medal could have been different if he was in regular practice. With all these circumstances I am happy with his performance,” Chavan said. Chavan who runs the Pune athletics club is taking his athletes to Taljai hills, Kataria high school ground, and Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi for practice. “We are left with no options since Sanas ground is still not available for practice. Travelling is impacting the practice schedule of athletes,” said Chavan. Refurbishment of track still pending? On February 4, 2019, ₹3.73 crore tender was floated by the PMC for the refurbishment of the existing track, and even after 24 months the work at the Sanas Ground has not started. “The work will start soon by PMC Building department. Currently, we will open ground for athletes after maintenance work is completed,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sanas-ground-closure-impacting-city-athletes-performance-experts-101613231192516.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports three Covid deaths in 24 hours, 621 new cases reported||Pune district reported three deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours by the state health department on Saturday while 621 new cases were reported in the district. The Covid-19 toll reached 3.94 lakh while 3.80 lakh have been declared as recovered. A total of 8,055 were declared dead by the infection and 5,633 patients continued to remain active as patients undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation. The city has reported 342 new Covid-19 cases which took the final count to 2,01,041 while one more death was reported taking the death toll to 4,555. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 117 new cases which reached the count to 98,379 while the death toll stood at 1,320 as no new deaths were reported. Pune rural reported 162 new Covid-19 cases which took the final count to 94,626 while the death toll stood at 2,135 as two new deaths were reported. The department reported that 1,773 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.74 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.83 per cent. Also, 3,611 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.60 lakh. In addition, 38 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,669. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.5 per cent. Of the 1,52,72,826 laboratory samples 20,60,186 have been tested positive (13.49 per cent) for Covid-19 until today. Currently, 1,75,418 people are in-home quarantine and 1,746 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-three-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-621-new-cases-reported-101613231193257.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Registered beneficiaries not willing to be vaccinated: PCMC health chief||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has been reporting less than 50 per cent Covid-19 vaccination on multiple occasions in the past one week which has brought down the district’s overall Covid-19 vaccination percentage. The PCMC has been calling upon the registered Covid-19 beneficiaries who are refusing to come up for vaccination said the health chief. The civic body has also not increased its session sites which continue to remain the lowest at just eight sites The PCMC which led the vaccination drive reporting the highest percentage in the initial days of the drive now has a difficult time getting the registered beneficiaries on board for the vaccination. On Friday, while the PCMC reported 59 per cent while the district reported 61% vaccination, on Thursday this stood at 41 per cent while the district’s average percentage was 51 per cent and on Wednesday the PCMC reported only 32 per cent of the target beneficiaries being vaccinated which pulled down the district’s average vaccination percentage to 52 per cent. Dr Pavan Salve, chief medical officer at PCMC states that the reason for a low turnout is the refusal of the registered beneficiaries which is bringing down the daily vaccination percentage at PCMC. He said, “We have been calling up the registered beneficiaries to come up, but they seem to refuse to come up for vaccination. While on the other side we also have beneficiaries, who did not register but now want to take up the jab. However, we cannot register them now. We are following up with the registered beneficiaries to come up with the vaccination, but they give various reasons. We have about 30 thousand registered health care workers and frontline workers.” As of Friday, Pune rural had 23 session sites and Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) has 24 sites, PCMC has only eight session sites. According to the state health department, the Pune district has vaccinated a total of 59621 beneficiaries including 55,001 health care workers and 4,620 frontline workers until Friday. Indian Medical Association (IMA) hospital board chairman for Pune chapter Dr Sanjay Patil said, “In the PCMC area there is hesitancy it seems and also there is a fear of efficacy among health care workers. There must be a positive awareness drive conducted by the administration. The IMA’s stand is to encourage its members to take the vaccine. The members I spoke to also have questions about whether there would be enough supply for the second dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/registered-beneficiaries-not-willing-to-be-vaccinated-pcmc-health-chief-101613231133875.html
14-02-2021||Pune||IIT to review safety audit report of accident-prone Katraj-Narhe stretch||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Saturday instructed officials of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to send the safety audit report of accident-prone Katraj-Narhe stretch to experts like Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) and take their suggestions.Gadkari reviewed various road development projects in the city after which he held meetings with officials of NHAI, defence, public works department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and police.During the meeting, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh raised safety concerns between Katraj and Narhe stretch.Deshmukh said, “The Navale bridge stretch has become an accident spot. We carried out the safety audit of the stretch with the help of an independent agency and submitted the report to the NHAI.”NHAI officials confirmed that they got the report and some minor suggestions had been made in it like marking and putting boards on the stretch. They denied any gradient or slope issue, which the locals have claimed.Gadkar said, “Instead of denying the problems, we should take the opinion of experts like IIT or other agency. Recruit any such agency and check if there is any problem related to construction or others.”Recently, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule had also raised the safety issue near Narhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iit-to-review-safety-audit-report-of-accident-prone-katraj-narhe-stretch-101613231073860.html
14-02-2021||Pune||3-deck track on Wagholi-Shikrapur route to solve traffic woes on Ahmednagar road||To ease traffic on the Ahmednagar road, a 50 km three-deck transport structure will be built from Wagholi to Shikrapur, at a cost of ₹6,000 crore.The project got a nod from Nitin Gadkari, union minister for road transport and highways, who was in the city on Saturday to review various development projects.Gadkari had recently instructed the officials of the public works department of Maharashtra to prepare a design for the same. Vinaykumar Deshpande, secretary to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), public works department, gave a presentation on the project.Deshpande said, “The three-deck track will be undertaken on the Wagholi to Shikrapur stretch. First will be ground level, the second level would be for short-distance travel and at eight places, vehicles will be able to enter and exit from the highway. The third level would be for vehicles which will travel for long-distance.”Gadkari instructed the administration to make corrections in the proposed design and hire experts for the same. “While undertaking the project, NHAI will do the ground-level work,” he said.Earlier, the public works department said that the budget for this 50 km flyover would go up to Rs5,000 crore.Gadkari also instructed the administration that before finalising the plan, discuss with local elected MLAs and take their suggestions and try to incorporate them.He said, “In future, this route will go up to Aurangabad.”Ground breaking ceremony of Palkhi routes to be held in MarchGadkari instructed the NHAI to conduct the groundbreaking ceremony of Palkhi routes in March.“Work on Chardham and Palkhi routes are close to my heart. I have great faith in Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram. Latest technology will be used on these routes and we will put “Abhang”(devotional poetry sung in praise of God) on the sides of the highway,” he said while adding that citizens should give suggestions to the NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3deck-track-on-wagholi-shikrapur-route-to-solve-traffic-woes-on-ahmednagar-road-101613231072580.html
14-02-2021||Pune||Gadkari directs NHAI to expedite Chandani chowk flyover work; bids invited for Katraj flyover||Union minister for road development and transport Nitin Gadkari has asked the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to expedite Chandani chowk flyover work and also cleared a proposal for another flyover at Katraj.Gadkari on Saturday reviewed the long-pending flyover work at Chandani chowk and other NHAI projects in the city following which he interacted with media.The minister said bids have been invited for the Katraj flyover.Earlier, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had proposed to build a flyover at Katraj junction to resolve the traffic woes in the area, where two highways intersect and which is also an entry point for the city. As the civic body couldn’t take up the work due to shortage of funds, NHAI decided to fund it.Once complete, the flyover will supplement the six-lane Katraj-Navale bridge stretch, work for which is currently underway.“We have invited tenders and work for the flyover at Katraj will begin in a month. The work for six-laning of Katraj-Navale bridge stretch has also started and will complete soon,” said Gadkari.A total of ₹169 crore has been sanctioned for the flyover which will be 1.3 kilometres in length with service road on both sides.“I have already signed the papers for the contract,” said Gadkari.Part of the flyover will also pass through Rajiv Gandhi zoological park for which national zoo authority has given permission, said PMC officials.Vijaykumar Deshpande, secretary to national highways, public works department (PWD), said that the central PWD has got permission from national zoo authority for erecting two pillars inside the Katraj zoo premises.“Now there are no hurdles and the work will be carried out smoothly,” he said.The minister, meanwhile, also asked the officials from NHAI and PMC to prepare a plan to the expedite the work for Chandani chowk flyover in the next one year though the expected completion period ends in January 2023.Gadkari said, “Given that this stretch attracts extremely heavy traffic, work needs to be completed on time. I have asked NHAI to ensure the new deadline can be advanced by a year as there has already been a delay due to various reasons including land acquisition process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gadkari-directs-nhai-to-expedite-chandani-chowk-flyover-work-bids-invited-for-katraj-flyover-101613231073290.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak wrestling arena firing: Day on, accused nabbed from Delhi||A day after five persons were shot dead and two others, including a three-year-old child, were grievously injured in a firing incident in the wrestling arena of Rohtak’s Jat College, a joint team of the Delhi police and Rohtak police arrested the accused, Sukhvinder Singh from Samaypur Badli area in Delhi.Earlier in the day, police had announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information on the accused, who is a resident of Baroda village in Sonepat and a certified coach from Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala.Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma said, “We had formed six teams to arrest the accused. He was caught from Samaypur Badli area in Delhi in a joint operation by Rohtak and Delhi police. We will bring him to Rohtak on production warrant and seek his remand.” “Prima facie it appears that the incident took place due to rivalry between the accused and head coach Manoj Kumar. We are collecting CCTV footage from the Jat College and nearby areas. The victims’ bodies have been handed over to their family members,” the SP added.On Friday evening, coach Manoj Kumar of Sonepat, his wife Sakshi, two NIS-certified coaches Satish Dalal of Jhajjar and Pardeep Malik of Rohtak, were shot dead along with national-level wrestler Pooja on the campus. Manoj’s three-year-old son Sartaj is in the intensive care unit (ICU) at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, while the other injured, coach Amarjeet Singh, is undergoing treatment at Medanta hospital in Gurugram. Deceased couple belonged to a family of sportspersons Talking to Hindustan Times at the PGIMS mortuary, coach Manoj Kumar’s younger brother Parmoj Kumar, a commonwealth medalist in boxing, said his brother, Manoj, and sister-in-law, Sakshi, were national-level players. He added that their family had cordial relations with the accused. “Sukhvinder was working as a wrestling coach at the Jat College akhara. My brother, who was the head of the akhara, had asked Sukhvinder to leave the college after Pooja filed a complaint against him. Sukhvinder had strained relations with his wife and had started harassing Pooja. He had even asked Pooja to marry him following which she complained about him,” said Parmoj.Jat college principal Sangeeta Dalal, however, refuted claims that Sukhvinder worked at the institute. “Manoj Kumar was a coach at our institute but Sukhvinder was not on the rolls. He was a former student of the college. He may have visited our akhara for practice but he was not a coach here,” she maintained.An employee of the college, on the condition of anonymity, said that Manoj had barred Sukhvinder from visiting the akhara after Pooja filed a complaint against him.Meanwhile Pooja’s father, Ram Gopal, said his daughter had become a victim of rivalry between coaches. “My daughter was to return home to Mathura on Saturday. She had won two medals at national-level events. She had moved to Rohtak with an aim of becoming an international-level player. Despite financial constraints at home, I had ensured that my daughter’s practice never suffered. Unfortunately, she was caught in the rivalry between two coaches,” said Gopal. An NIS coach at Patiala, pleading anonymity, said the accused, Sukvinder, had obtained a diploma in coaching from NIS in 2017. “Satish Dalal was also in his batch and the two were good friends. While Dalal was a sincere person, Sukhvinder had behavioural issues,” he said, adding that Sukhvinder held grudges against Amarjeet (injured) as he had got him expelled from his previous akhara in Rohtak. Akhara sealed, players practice affected Meanwhile, the police have sealed the akhara where the firing took place. Over 100 players, including 20 national-level players, train here. The players said that the incident took place when the victims were having a meeting with Sukhvinder to sort out their differences. “We came to know about the incident when we heard Manoj Kumar’s son, Sartaj, screaming. After shooting at the victims, Sukhvinder had locked the doors of the meeting room and fled the spot,” said the players. They added that the incident had left them shocked, and their families were asking them to return home. PROFILES THE DECEASED: Manoj Kumar, 39, director of physical education (DPE), Sonepat He was a national-level player before being appointed the director of physical education at Jat College, Rohtak. Before joining the college, he had been recruited as a constable in the Haryana police. The recruitments had taken place when the Indian National Lok Dal was in power in Haryana. Later, when the Congress government came to power, it had sacked the constables, citing irregularities. Kumar later became the head coach of the Jat College akhara, where over 100 wrestlers came for training. Sakshi Malik, 32, Manoj’s wife, employed as clerk with the Railways A national-level athlete, she was employed as a clerk by the Railways. She had joined the service four years ago. Satish Dalal, 28, NIS certified coach, Jhajjar He was an NIS-certified wrestling coach and used to train budding wrestlers. He obtained a diploma in coaching from NIS, Patiala, in the year 2016-17 and was a friend and batch-mate of the accused, Sukhvinder. Pradeep Malik, 30, coach, Rohtak Malik was also a certified wrestling coach and he hailed from Mokhra village in the district. He was a national-level player and used to coach wrestlers. Pooja, 17, national-level player, Uttar Pradesh A two-time national-level medallist, the 17-year-old wrestler had shifted to Rohtak from Mathura two years ago, impressed by the facilities here. She aspired to represent India at the international-level. ACCUSEDSukhvinder, 29, NIS certified coach, Sonepat He was a national-level player before receiving certification in coaching from NIS, Patiala in 2016-17. His father had allegedly evicted him from his house, and his wife had moved back to her parents’ house due to frequent domestic quarrels. The other coaches had barred him visiting the akhara at Jat College after a player filed a complaint against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-wrestling-arena-firing-cops-announce-rs-1-lakh-bounty-on-accused-coach-101613224712533.html
